 SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
1
SHAFT
SINKERS
SHAFT SINKERS
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2
GROUP OVERVIEW
HIGHLIGHTS 1
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 4
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT 6
BUSINESS REVIEW
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 8
FINANCIAL REVIEW 10
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND  
RISK MANAGEMENT 17
2010 KPIS 20
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (SAFETY, HEALTH, 
ENVIRONMENT, QUALITY AND TRAINING) 21
CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT 23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW 24
DIRECTORS’ REPORT –  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 28
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – REMUNERATION  35
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’  
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE  
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 40
FINANICIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 41
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF  
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 42
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF  
FINANCIAL POSITION 43
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF  
FINANCIAL POSITION 44
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT  
OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 45
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT  
OF CASH FLOWS  46
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47
INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 85
CORPORATE INFORMATION 86
FINANCIAL CALENDAR FOR 2011 87
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 88
PROXY FORM FOR ANNUAL  
GENERAL MEETING 91 SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
1
Highlights
Revenue up 24% 
Earnings per share up 27% 
Year end net cash  
and cash equivalents of GBP11.1 million
Listed on the London Stock Exchange 23 December 2010 
Award of Styldrift contract 
Extension to Moab contract 
Increased tender activity towards end of year 
3,000,000 fatality free shifts SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
2
Board of Directors
AMRE YOUNESS 
Non-executive Chairman, Age 48
Mr. Youness joined the board as Non-executive 
Chairman in November 2010 having been Non-
executive Chairman of Capstone (the Group’ s 
former South African holding company) since 
2008. He is the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of IMR 
Management Services Limited, and also Chairman 
of Samancor Chrome (an IMR investee company). 
He was previously in private equity. He is a Board 
member of various charitable organisations involved 
in Sub-Saharan Africa. Mr. Youness is a US citizen.
ALON DAVIDOV 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Age 36
Mr. Davidov joined the board as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer in November 2010 having been a director 
of Shaft Sinkers (Pty) since 2007. He had previously 
worked for IMR in its business development function 
since 2003 . As IMR’ s South African representative, 
he was responsible for IMR’ s original investment 
in the Group in 2007 and oversight of the Group’ s 
subsequent development on behalf of IMR. He 
was previously Finance Director of Bateman Litwin 
Kazakhstan from 2003 to 2005. He is a ﬂuent Russian 
speaker and is also a Non-executive Director of 
Samancor Chrome. Mr. Davidov has dual citizenship 
in South Africa and Israel.
ROBERT SCHRODER 
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, Age 41
Mr. Schroder joined the board as Chief Operating 
Ofﬁcer in November 2010. He originally joined 
the Group in 2004 as Commercial General 
Manager, and was promoted to Managing 
Director of Shaft Sinkers (Pty), the Group’s 
principal operating subsidiary, in February 2008. 
He had previously set up and run his own project 
services consultancy practice in mining and 
heavy engineering for three years and had been 
a partner at Venn and Milford PQS (Quantity 
Surveyor, specialising in mining and heavy 
engineering) for three years. Mr. Schroder has 
dual citizenship in South Africa and the UK.
CHRISTOPHER HALL 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Age 51
Mr. Hall joined the board in November 2010 
as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. He originally joined 
the Group in 2007 as the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
following three years as the Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer of JSE-listed Excellerate Holdings. He has 
over 13 years’ experience in the oil industry and 
was previously Finance Director of Total South 
Africa, during which time he spent seven years in 
France. He qualiﬁed as a Chartered Accountant 
and spent four years post-qualiﬁcation at 
PricewaterhouseCoopers and Ernst & Young. Mr. 
Hall is a South African citizen.
STEPHEN OKE 
Independent Non-executive Director, Age 56
Mr. Oke joined the board in November 2010. He 
is the Senior Independent Director and chairs 
the Remuneration Committee. He holds a BSc 
Honours degree in Geology from the University of 
Southampton and an MBA from the University of 
the Witwatersrand Graduate School of Business. 
He has 35 years’ experience in the mining and 
metals industry of which some 12 years were spent 
in various operational management positions for 
the National Coal Board, Anglovaal Ltd, BPCoal 
and Johannesburg Consolidated Investment 
Company Limited. Subsequently he has held 
senior positions in the investment banking industry 
for Smith New Court, Merrill Lynch, NM Rothschild 
and Sons and Standard Bank, specialising in the 
metals and mining sector, where he advised on 
a number of transactions and equity capital fund 
raisings worldwide. He is a non executive director 
of International Ferro Metals Limited and African 
Mining & Exploration plc and was previously on 
the boards of Nikanor plc, Katanga Mining Limited 
and Kazakhgold Group Limited. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
3
IAN WATSON 
Independent Non-executive Director, Age 67
Mr. Watson joined the board in November 2010 
and chairs the Safety Committee. He is a qualiﬁed 
mining engineer with over 45 years’ experience 
of the mining industry. He joined Gold Fields 
of South Africa Ltd in 1962 and after working at 
various gold mines became Mine Manager at, 
successively, the West Driefontein gold mine, the 
Kloof Gold Mining Company and the Northam 
Platinum Ltd platinum mine and then Consulting 
Engineer from 1992 - 1998. He subsequently 
worked as Managing Director of Northam 
Platinum Ltd from 1998 - 2002, as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer of International Ferro Metals (SA) (Pty) 
Ltd from 2003 - 2005 and as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer of Boynton Investments (Pty) Ltd until 
his retirement in 2009. He is a Professional 
Engineer (Engineering Council of South Africa) 
and holds a National Diploma in Mining from 
the Witwatersrand Technical College, a Mine 
Manager’s Certiﬁcate of Competency from the 
South African College of Mining and has been 
a participant on the 34 General Management 
Programme at Henley Management College in 
the UK. He is currently executive Chairman of 
Galaxy Gold, a private company.
ROGER WILLIAMS 
Independent Non-executive Director, Age 47
Mr. Williams joined the board in November 2010 
and chairs the Audit Committee. He is a UK and 
South African chartered accountant with over 
20 years’ international experience in mining 
ﬁnance. After graduating from the University 
of Southampton with an honours degree in 
French and Spanish, he qualiﬁed as a chartered 
accountant with Touche Ross and joined the 
ﬁnance department of Carlton Paper. In 1997 he 
joined Randgold Resources working on its London 
Stock Exchange listing and its later secondary 
listing on NASDAQ and was appointed Group 
Finance Director in 2002. During 2002 - 2007 he 
was part of the management team that oversaw 
its expansion raising debt ﬁnance, managing 
its treasury operations and assisting on M&A 
and new business. He was subsequently Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer of JSE-listed AECI Limited and 
BSG Resources Limited, a private company, both 
involved in the mining industry. He is a UK citizen. 
Each of the Directors can be contacted at the 
registered ofﬁce of the Company at 18 Athol 
Street, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 1JA. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
4
Chairman’s Statement
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS
I AM DELIGHTED TO REPORT A 
STRONG PERFORMANCE BY THE 
GROUP IN 2010 WITH SIGNIFICANT 
FINANCIAL, STRATEGIC AND 
OPERATIONAL PROGRESS.  
UNFORTUNATELY, JUXTAPOSED 
AGAINST THIS ARE THE SAD EVENTS 
MARKED BY THE DEATH OF OUR 
EMPLOYEES, MR. MOJALEFA LEKORO 
AND MR. SANSAO MACAMO. THEIR 
LOSS IS A STARK REMINDER OF 
THE DANGERS INHERENT IN OUR 
BUSINESS AND HAVING COME AFTER 
ACHIEVING 3 MILLION FATALITY 
FREE SHIFTS IN SOUTH AFRICA. WE 
REMEMBER THESE TWO  
EMPLOYEES AND WILL CONTINUE 
TO REINFORCE THE IMPORTANCE 
OF OUR OPERATIONAL SAFETY 
PROCEDURES AS WELL AS TO STRIVE 
FOR ZERO FATALITIES.
Financial results
Revenue for the year grew 24% to GBP183.1 
million (2009:  GBP147.9 million).  Proﬁt before 
Income Tax grew 34% to GBP16.7 million (2009:  
GBP12.5 million) and basic Earnings per Share 
grew 27% to 30p (2009:  24p).  The results are 
stated after including a GBP3.8 million contract 
recovery against an earlier impairment and one-
off income less charges of GBP0.7 million.
The Group ended the year in a strong ﬁnancial position 
with net Cash and Cash Equivalents of GBP11.1 million 
(2009: net borrowings of GBP6.6 million).
Dividends
In line with the dividend policy set out in our 
Listing Prospectus, the Board is not proposing a 
ﬁnal dividend for 2010.  We continue to expect, 
in the absence of unforeseen circumstances, to 
commence payment of dividends later this year.
Strategy
Admission of our shares to trading on the London 
Stock Exchange Main List at the end of 2010 
was a major step forward in positioning us to 
achieve our strategic objectives. I would like to 
congratulate management on their hard work in 
achieving this milestone.
Our strategy remains as set out in our Prospectus.  
We intend to maintain and build on our existing 
strategic and technical strengths, to expand 
further into the CIS and India and to diversify our 
offering into additional end-market applications.  
We will also remain alert to selective acquisition 
opportunities with the potential to add value to 
our operations.
Management has done well to secure a new tender 
in Styldrift. We are pleased to have expanded 
our client base  with the Styldrift Joint Venture 
as it indirectly exposes us to two more clients 
in Anglo Platinum and Royal Bafokeng Nation. 
Whilst Management has encountered technical  5
difﬁculties on some of the projects such as Impala 
16, Management is redoubling its efforts and 
there are improvements.  Eurochem, our largest 
single contract, is slowly starting to catch up with 
early delays. A combination of technical and 
administrative issues was, and continuously is, 
being proactively addressed by the management 
which culminated in some good progress and 
recommencement of the sinking process. 
We have sold our stake in the Eureka gold mine 
in Zimbabwe and with that ends a chapter in the 
company  owning equity in projects. This strategy 
has not worked and, in fact, was creating drag 
in terms of management time and effort; so I 
welcome this divestment. 
I would like to congratulate Alon Davidov on 
his appointment as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. 
Alon is well placed to spearhead Shaft Sinkers’ 
expansion into new territories; in particular the 
former Soviet Union with which he is very familiar. 
I would also like to thank the other executive 
colleagues for their efforts. Rob Schroder, Chief 
Operating Ofﬁcer has worked hard to improve 
the safety, operations and service delivery across 
the business. Chris Hall, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, 
has been instrumental in improving the ﬁnancial 
strength of the company and ultimately readying 
the Group for listing.
I would like to welcome Messrs Stephen Oke, 
Ian Watson and Roger Williams to our board as 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. Stephen 
Oke is the Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director and will chair the Remuneration 
Committee. Stephen serves on several listed 
company boards in the mining industry and I look 
forward to working closely with him.  Ian Watson, 
who is himself a shaft sinker, will make a valuable 
contribution as Chairman of our Safety Committee, 
and Roger Williams will bring his considerable 
experience in executive ﬁnancial roles to bear as 
Chairman of our Audit Committee.
Outlook
In 2010 we saw a signiﬁcant upturn in the mining 
industry across the globe. Gold has reached new 
record highs, whilst platinum has surged. Base 
metals prices have also performed well, giving 
encouragement to the sometimes deceptive 
global recovery. 
With a record year end committed order book 
and the potential to win further new contract 
awards both in South Africa and elsewhere, 
the Directors believe that Shaft Sinkers is well 
positioned to capitalise fully on the coming 
recovery.  We have established a solid footing 
for 2011 and are performing in line with 
expectations. We remain conﬁdent of the Group’s 
prospects both for 2011 and beyond.
Finally I would like to welcome all our 
stakeholders to the Shaft Sinkers family. We are a 
South African mining institution having turned 50 
years old this year. In today’s instantaneous world, 
this is a rare milestone which speaks volumes. 
Shaft Sinkers has successfully developed into a 
world leader in its ﬁeld and now has the platform 
and the resources to grow internationally and 
achieve its full potential. So, welcome to the Shaft 
Sinkers family. 
Amre Youness
Chairman
13 April 2011 SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
6
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Statement
I AM PLEASED TO REPORT THAT THE 
GROUP HAS EXCEEDED OUR PLAN 
FOR THE 2010 FINANCIAL YEAR. 
TURNOVER HAS GROWN BY 24% 
WITH PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS 
INCREASING BY 25%. 
Despite some one-off items, the Group’s 
net proﬁt after tax  for the year increased by 
approximately 27%. This year marked a new 
chapter in Shaft Sinkers’ history when on  
23 December the Group was admitted to trading 
on to the main board of the London Stock 
Exchange. In line with management’s strategy 
to expand internationally and acquire a basis for 
funding the future growth of the business, this 
listing is seen as a crucial step forward. 
South African Operations
South African operations beneﬁted from 
additional work and one-off items. The Group’s 
new contract at Styldrift is an important step in 
diversifying the groups’ client base with Anglo 
Platinum and Royal Bafokeng Nation becoming 
important new clients through a joint venture 
that owns the Styldrift mine. Lonmin’s Hossy and 
Saffy shafts, despite the predicted termination 
of labour supply contracts, extended our scope 
of work and we achieved strong performance 
from our operations at those shafts contributing 
to the group’s stronger results. Our contracts at 
AngloGold Ashanti’s Moab shaft have performed 
well and will be extended in 2011. Our project 
at Impala’s 16 shaft continues to be a low margin 
contract and some technical difﬁculties were 
encountered there. In contrast, our project at 
Impala’s 17 shaft which is one of the largest 
shaft systems being sunk anywhere in the world, 
is progressing on track again despite some 
difﬁculties with winders and ground conditions 
encountered. In early 2010 an important contract 
was signed with Hernic Ferrochrome at their 
Bokfontein mine. This cost plus contract for two 
decline shafts includes a toll mining element. 
The project will grow signiﬁcantly with the future 
expansion of the mine. In line with the Group’s 
policy for toll mining contracts,the risks of cost 
escalation will be carefully controlled. 
The one-off items that improved results in 2010 
culminated after management took actions to 
redress its contract with Kalagadi Manganese in 
2009. In 2010 we reached an amicable settlement 
for the recovery of outstanding amounts with 
Kalagadi Manganese.  Delta Gold Zimbabwe, 
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alpha Resources, 
which owns the Eureka gold mine in Zimbabwe 
and which has been Shaft Sinkers’ only investment 
in a mining operation (to the extent of 25%) had 
been struggling for several years since the political 
and ﬁnancial situation deteriorated in Zimbabwe. 
The situation caused the Eureka gold mine to 
suffer ﬁnancial losses and was a signiﬁcant drain 
on management time and focus. We had resolved 
to divest from Eureka in 2009, and achieved in 
the second half of 2010, we have recouped some 
GBP1.8 million (ZAR20 million) of our investment. 
More importantly Shaft Sinkers can now focus on 
its core skill of being a shaft sinking contractor.
We have also commenced the preparatory work 
(pre-sink) for a major shaft complex for an existing 
customer. Negotiations are still under way to 
secure the main sink for the main and vent shaft.
International Operations 
Despite a stronger Rand against the US Dollar 
and Sterling and approximately half of the 
Group’s margin being generated in US Dollars, 
the Groups’ international business showed a 
strong performance. Eurochem, our ﬂagship 
Russian contract is a technically challenging 
assignment to sink an 1100m shaft into a 
potash deposit in Kotelnikovo, 300km from 
Volgograd. The project team has faced various 
challenges ranging from technical and logistical 
to administrative. The project team together 
with management has learned some invaluable 
lessons from these challenges, which will 
contribute to the future progress of Shaft Sinkers 
in this and similar territories. Towards the end of  7
2010 the project overcame some technical as well 
as administrative hurdles and sinking operations 
resumed. The project is facing a delay and we 
are constantly seeking ways to proactively resolve 
issues as they arise and shorten the delays. In 
2011 in my new role as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
I will be focusing on this project and building 
an even stronger relationship with the client. 
Eurochem is a key strategic client for us in Russia 
and through our strong relationship we should be 
well-placed to secure long term prospects on the 
current project as well as others. 
In India our Teesta project has progressed well. 
We have almost completed the ﬁrst surge tunnel 
and work has advanced on the second tunnel. 
Our Mining Engineering and Technical Services 
(METS) division continues to outperform targets 
by signing more Engineering, Procurement, 
Construction and consulting contracts. The outlook 
is positive for Shaft Sinkers and the industry as a 
whole. More projects are being prepared for and 
are drawing closer to commencement.
In terms of safety, the company is working hard 
to maintain high standards culminating with Shaft 
Sinkers achieving 3 million fatality free shifts for the 
ﬁrst time in its history. In November we experienced 
a fatality at our Styldrift project and lost one of our 
colleagues Mr. Mojalefa Lekoro and recently in 
April 2011 lost Mr. Sansao Macamo at our Karee 3 
operations. These are stark reminders of the perils 
of our business and the importance of maintaining 
high standards and constant vigilance at every level 
of the organisation.
One of the main challenges facing the group is 
skills shortage. This is an industry-wide problem. 
Shaft Sinkers has developed in-house learner-
ship and training programs in order to assuage 
this shortage. We will also be looking to ﬁnd 
appropriate skills in other territories. We are 
actively searching for skills in the territories we 
are operating in, especially Russia. Furthermore, 
we review the level of earnings of our key people 
by comparison to industry averages and we look 
at incentives that will keep our business ahead of 
the industry so that we can attract and retain the 
skills the business needs.
For the year ahead, the group will experience 
a period of initially settling into the new 
environment of a listed entity and at the same 
time we expect to build on its strengths, 
namely people, safety and experience to start 
growing the business organically. In 2011 the 
strategic focus will be on further improving the 
performances of the South African operations 
and continuing the expansion of Shaft Sinkers 
internationally. It is our intention to strategically 
position the company to undertake new projects 
and, as we stated in our listing prospectus, we 
will use some of the listing proceeds to refurbish 
key plant which is in our Rand Yard. Winders are 
long lead items which can take up to 24 months 
to manufacture. Shaft Sinkers has over the years 
accumulated a signiﬁcant inventory of winders 
which we will selectively recondition in order to 
be strategically well positioned for taking on new 
sinking contracts. Signiﬁcant ground work has 
been laid both in South Africa and beyond for the 
award of new contracts.  
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
our former shareholders Mmakau Mining and 
Holgoun for their past contribution to the 
development of Shaft Sinkers as an  
international company.  
In 2011 Shaft Sinkers turned ﬁfty. This is a 
remarkable achievement and a testament to the 
quality of the company.  Going forward as a public 
and international company the main challenge 
is to preserve the quality and standards that 
characterised the company for the last ﬁfty years 
whilst we pursue new opportunities in South Africa 
and abroad. Combining our unique South African 
skills with the rigour and transparency of being a 
UK listed company will assist us to deliver value to 
our investors, employees and stake holders.
Alon Davidov
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
8
Operational Review
MARKET AND OVERVIEW
In general, for the 2010 ﬁnancial year we slightly 
exceeded our plans. As expected towards the 
end of 2010 there was a noticeable increase in 
the tendering and enquiry activity. While most of 
these enquiries seemed to be used to complete 
bankable feasibility studies, should the demand for 
metals continue to rise, some of the projects may 
be implemented in the short to medium term.
Within the entire Group we subscribe to our culture 
of safety, quality, integrity, people and performance, 
which we fondly refer to as “SQIPP”.
SAFETY
While the Group continues to place considerable 
emphasis on its strong safety record and always 
strive for zero harm, regrettably, on 18 November 
2010, Mr. Lekoro of Shaft Sinkers (Pty) Limited was 
fatally injured during cleaning operations involving 
a mechanical loader at the Styldrift Main Shaft. 
We had achieved 3 million fatality free shifts in July 
2010 prior to the fatality. We will once again strive 
for zero harm after this unfortunate event. We 
had a Lost Time Injury frequency rate of 4.88 per 
million shifts. 
While this is short of our benchmark rate of 3.6 
and disappointing for us when compared to 
the 2009 overall rate of 3.34, a number of our 
operations achieved some of their milestones 
and others far exceeded benchmarks set.  We will 
continue with our Behavioural Based Systems and 
ongoing commitment to safety as well as looking 
at other external motivational roadshows to strive 
for improvement in 2011. 
During 2011, while our LTI rate has improved to 
below 3.69, we have unfortunately had another 
fatality on 8 April 2011 at our Karee 3 operations. 
Mr. Sansao Macamo, a construction man, fell 
down an ore pass.
OPERATIONS
In our 2010 ﬁnancial year we exceeded our 
budgeted contribution from operations and 
established a solid footing to continue in 2011.  
Our stoping operations at Lonmin’s Saffy and 
Hossy shafts continued for longer than expected 
and thus increased contribution. However, this 
was offset in the delays we experienced in 
commissioning the underground belt at Lonmin’s 
Karee 3, which resulted in lower than budgeted 
contribution.  The belt has now been installed 
and we expect production to increase in 2011.  
The capital development for both Saffy and Hossy 
was in line with budget.
Our deep level development sections at 
AngloGold Ashanti’s Moab Khotsong shaft showed 
an improvement in safety and while doing so, also 
showed a slight increase in contribution due to a 
small increase in labour and scope. 
The several temporary set-backs on our Impala 
16 and 17 projects during the ﬁrst half of the year 
were generally rectiﬁed, although some additional 
time due to late raise boring and the replacement 
of shaft components due to excessive rust was 
experienced at our Impala 16 shaft operations, 
which caused additional costs and delays. The 
problems with client-supplied winders at Impala 
17 Shaft continued into the second half, resulting 
in inefﬁcient time,  limiting our ability to realise 
a full margin.  Emphasis has been placed on  9
resolving this issue and the project which is one of 
the largest shaft systems being sunk anywhere in 
the world, is now progressing on track.  While the 
Impala 16 shaft will continue to have challenges 
until 3Q when the equipping phase commences, 
these have generally been mitigated.
We commenced with the Styldrift complex (joint 
venture between Anglo Platinum and Royal 
Bafokeng Nation) in the second half of 2010 and 
expect to commence the changeover to main sink 
in 2Q.  While pre-sink cycles are slightly slower 
than budgeted due to a change in methodology, 
contribution remains slightly ahead of budget due 
to efﬁciencies in site establishment expenditure.
We rented kibble winders to Kalagadi Manganese 
which was not forecast in 2010 and thus the entire 
contribution is additional compared to budget.  
Hernic’s Bokfontein project contribution was 
slightly less than forecast due to a delay in the 
increase in labour required by the client.  2011 
will see a small increase in the labour required by 
the client.
At our project for EuroChem in Russia we 
completed the changeover from pre-sink to main 
sink and cementation has commenced.  Some 
challenges are still being experienced with 
lengthy delays at customs for strategic equipment 
and cementation materials that are impacting 
on the programme.  Our client is aware of these 
delays and assisting us wherever possible.
Our project for Teesta in India continued well 
during 2010 with some delays due to shortages  
of client-supplied material and labour.  All delays 
were recovered from the client and the ﬁrst 
pressure shaft is scheduled to  hole in the ﬁrst 
quarter of 2011.  The remaining shaft should be 
completed by the end of 2011. 
Our METS (Mining engineering Technical 
Services) Department also showed some growth 
in the latter half of 2010, speciﬁcally in enquiries 
and potential projects in Peru and India.
During 2011 we will continue to strive to improve 
safety with various initiatives, develop our 
learnership candidates and continue with the 
research and development required to keep us 
at the forefront of new innovations. We will also 
implement our recently developed mechanical 
kibble moving in the shaft bottom and mechanical 
kibble tipping in the headgear. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
10
Financial Review
BASIS OF PREPARATION
The ﬁnancial information presented has been 
prepared on a basis consistent with that used in 
the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements for the 
2009 ﬁnancial year and the ﬁnancial information 
at 30 June 2010 presented in the Prospectus. 
There have been no changes in accounting policy 
or new standards applied which have had an 
effect on reported performance in comparison to 
the prior year.
In connection with the Company’s listing, the 
Group was restructured and a new Isle of Man 
holding company introduced.  We have used the 
common control method of accounting for the 
business restructuring in order to present Group 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
OVERVIEW
The 2010 ﬁnancial year has largely been in line 
with our plans to continue to expand the business 
in pursuit of additional contracts and despite 
some one-off items we have come out a little 
ahead of our budgeted results.
The successful admission to the Premium Listing 
Segment of the London Stock Exchange at 
124p per share, has placed the Group in a new 
dynamic position to take advantage of growth 
opportunities and has raised the status of the 
ﬁnancial image of the Group. This achievement 
bodes well for the future evolution of the Shaft 
Sinkers business.
The Group remains ﬁnancially sound and has 
proven to be resilient to the economic recession 
felt throughout the world since 2008.
The Group has improved its cash position 
signiﬁcantly and is on a sure path to improved 
proﬁtability provided the operational challenges 
of skills and safety can continue to be met. The 
Group is therefore likely to be in a position to pay 
dividends after its interim results in 2011.
ANALYSIS OF RESULTS
Income Statement
Proﬁts for the year have increased by 26.9%  in 
GBP terms. This is partly due to a strengthening 
of the ZAR against the GBP from an average 
of ZAR13.14 per GBP in 2009 to ZAR11.34 in 
2010. In ZAR terms proﬁts have increased by 
approximately 9%. The increase in proﬁts is 
largely attributable to a one-off item amounting 
to GBP3.8 million in 2010. This arose due to 
the reversal of an impairment of debtors where 
a settlement agreement was reached with one 
of our clients for payment of debts that we had 
impaired in 2009.
Revenue
Revenues grew by 23.8% in GBP terms in 2010, 
from GBP147.9 million in 2009 to GBP183.1 
million. GBP25.0 million, representing 16.9% out 
of the 23.8% increase, is the ZAR/GBP exchange 
rate mentioned above. Revenues increased 
by 6.9% in ZAR terms from ZAR1,942.9 million 
in 2009 to ZAR2,077.3 million in 2010. This is 
mainly attributable to higher revenues at our 
various Impala projects from additional scope in 
work, as well as increases in revenues relating to 
our international projects, including Eurochem 
and Teesta. The latter increased as a result of 
revenue in advance being released during the 
2010 ﬁnancial year due to the commissioning 
of winders on the project. Revenue was further 
increased as a result of the newly awarded 
Styldrift contract. These increases in revenue were 
offset by the absence of revenue in 2010 from the 
Leeuwkop, Kalagadi and Mali projects that came 
to an end during the 2009 ﬁnancial year. 11
Gross proﬁt
Gross proﬁt decreased by 5.1% in ZAR terms from 
ZAR348.8 million in 2009 to ZAR331.0 million 
in 2010, although it increased by 9.9% in GBP 
terms from GBP26.5 million in 2009 to GBP29.2 
million in 2010. This decrease in ZAR terms can 
be ascribed to the following factors:
 Manganese contract in 2009;
 our winder for Impala’s Leeukop project which 
had previously been deferred.;
 and 17 shaft projects due to some one-off 
incidents relating to client-supplied winders 
and a defective winder rope;
offset by:
 project with Anglo Platinum and Royal 
Bafokeng Nation;
 project due to it being a cost plus ﬁxed-fee 
contract with less revenues being billed 
having passed the initial capital expenditure 
cycle of the project, and;
 as the deferred revenues relating to the 
provision of our winders started to be brought 
into account following the commissioning of 
the winders.
Margins in 2010 averaged around 15.9% 
compared to 18.0% in 2009. 
Operating income
Operating income increased in GBP terms by 
9.7% in 2010 but in ZAR  terms decreased by 
5.3% compared to 2009. This decrease was partly 
due to a loss on disposal of plant and equipment  
in 2010 relating to the lapsed Kalagadi 
Manganese contract where plant was sold at less 
than book value to the client. (see below, contract 
provision and settlement).
Operating expense
Operating expenses increased by GBP8.6 million 
due to the following factors:
 million (discussed in more detail below);
 expenses;
 overheads not included in direct costs;
 the GBP when translating from the ZAR 
functional currency, and
 versus foreign exchange losses in 2009.
Contract provision and settlement
In 2009 the Group’s contract with Kalagadi 
Manganese lapsed  and there remained amounts 
of approximately GBP3.0 million owing to 
the Group. In addition, plant and equipment 
belonging to the Group with a carrying value of 
approximately GBP2.5 million remained in the 
custody of the client. At the end of the 2009 
ﬁnancial year the Group considered it prudent 
to raise an impairment provision against the 
outstanding receivable as well as the plant and 
equipment at site. In April 2010 we reached an 
amicable settlement with Kalagadi Manganese to 
recover a portion of the outstanding debt. Some 
of the plant and equipment items were sold to 
the client and the remaining plant and equipment 
that was not sold to the client was returned to 
the Group. These events lead to a reversal of 
the impairment in 2010 to the extent of GBP3.8 
million. In view of their size the impairment and 
reversal thereof are disclosed separately in the 
statement of comprehensive income. 12
Finance income and costs
With GBP15.1 million cash ﬂow generated from 
operations and a lower capital expenditure of 
GBP12.1 million in 2010 as compared to GBP15.1 
million in 2009, the Group managed to reduce 
its interest burden in ZAR terms from ZAR 23.7 
million in 2009 to ZAR14.6 million in 2010, an 
improvement of ZAR9.1 million. The effect of 
the exchange rate on translation to GBP had a 
negative impact, reducing the beneﬁt in GBP 
terms to only GBP0.5 million from GBP1.8 million 
in 2009 to GBP1.3 million in 2010. Interest rates 
lowered in South Africa with the prime interest 
rate in 2010 averaging about 10% compared to 
about 12% in 2009.
Taxation and VAT
In 2009 certain VAT related items that had 
previously been claimed were disallowed by the 
authorities. Provision was made for approximately 
ZAR10.5 million (GBP0.9 million) in 2009 and a 
further ZAR11.2 million (GBP0.9 million) in 2010. 
Management consider these provisions which 
are included under operating expenses, to be 
conservative. 
The South African tax rate remains unchanged 
in 2010 from 2009 at 28%. The Secondary Tax 
on Companies (STC) in South Africa is charged 
at a rate of 10% of dividends paid to persons 
outside of the South African group. In theory this 
gives an effective company tax rate of 34.56% if 
all current proﬁts after tax were to be declared 
as a dividend. Effective from 1 April 2012, the 
Secondary Tax on Companies will be replaced by 
a dividend withholding tax of 10%.
In 2010 the Group’s effective tax rate was 24.4% 
reﬂecting the beneﬁt of GBP1.8 million of non-
taxable income which was a partial recoupment 
of its loan account to Delta Gold Zimbabwe, a 
wholly owned subsidiary of Alpha Resources. In 
2009 the effective tax rate was 20.1% reﬂecting 
the Group’s write back of over-provisions in prior 
years of GBP1.0 million.
Effect of exchange difference on translation 
from functional to presentation currency
The Group reports in GBP while the functional 
currency of the main operating subsidiaries of 
the Group is ZAR. The average rate of exchange 
for 2010 was ZAR11.34 to the GBP and in 2009 
was ZAR13.14. The spot rate at 31 December 
strengthened even further to ZAR10.23 in 2010 
compared to ZAR11.81 in 2009. The translation 
of income statement items at the average rate 
for the year, monetary items in the balance sheet 
at the closing spot rate and historical items at 
historical rates, gives rise to these differences 
resulting in a gain of GBP4.7 million in 2010 and 
GBP2.5 million in 2009.
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation 
were GBP25.2 million in 2010 compared to 
GBP18.3 million in 2009, an increase of 37.5%. 
Part of the increase was due to the stronger ZAR 
against the GBP and in ZAR terms the increase 
was 18.7% from ZAR240.6 million in 2009 to 
ZAR285.6 million in 2010. 
Earnings per share
Earnings per share was calculated on a theoretical 
number of shares in issue for the 2009 and 2010 
ﬁnancial years, on the basis of a common control 
transaction. The actual shares that were issued on 
23 December 2010 which were not intended to 
raise additional cash for the company, but rather to 
reﬂect the number of shares that had been issued 
to replace the former holdings of International 
Mineral Resources and the former minority 
shareholders in the Group, were used as a basis for  SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
13
the calculation. Added to that was the weighted 
average number of shares issued on 23 December 
2010 to raise additional cash for the company, 
weighted for a period of 9 days in the year.
Earnings per share increased from 24 pence in 
2009 to 30 pence in 2010, an increase of 26.5%. 
The effect of awarding incentive shares to the 
executive directors of the Company reﬂects a 
diluted earnings per share of 26 pence, taking 
into account the share price of 150 pence at 31 
December 2010 and comparing it to the target 
growth in price of at least 13% per annum for LTIP 
shares to vest each year.
Dividend policy
The Group intends to adopt a progressive 
dividend policy with dividends moving broadly 
in line with earnings over time. Dividends are 
expected to be paid semi-annually in respect of 
each year with an interim dividend for each year 
paid in September and a ﬁnal dividend paid in 
May of the following year in each case subject to 
the satisfaction of the Solvency Test. 
Interim dividends are expected to represent 
around one third and ﬁnal dividends around 
two thirds of the full year dividend for each year. 
Annual dividends per share are expected to be 
covered some 2.5–3.0 times by earnings per 
share. In the absence of unforeseen circumstances, 
the Company expects to pay its ﬁrst dividend in 
September 2011 out of its 2011 earnings.
FINANCIAL POSITION
Total assets increased from GBP100.6 million in 
2009 to GBP162.1 million in 2010 and net assets 
from GBP21.3 million to GBP46.5 million.
Interest-bearing debt to equity has decreased 
from 70.8% in 2009 to 52.5% in 2010. The new 
and increased facilities granted to the Group 
by The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited 
has given the Group the ﬁnancial ability to take 
on more projects as the Group plans to expand 
organically. Each new project requires a degree of 
investment in working capital. While the Group’s 
business model is for its clients to fund the capital 
equipment costs of a project, there is invariably 
growth in working capital required to fund the 
additional labour and consumable materials that 
are required for new projects.
The Group has gone from net debt (deﬁned as 
interest bearing debt minus net cash) in 2009 
of GBP6.6 million, an effective gearing ratio of 
31.3%, to net cash of GBP11.1 million in 2010. 
This was largely due to cash from advances from 
clients and cash raised by the issue of shares and 
partly due to cash generated from operations.
The Group has gone from net current liabilities in 
2009 of GBP10.1 million to net current assets of 
GBP24.6 million in 2010. This is mainly attributable 
to an increase in cash of GBP27.2 million and 
an increase in trade and other receivables of 
GBP21.0 million, with Trade payables increasing by 
GBP8.8 million and short-term revenue received in 
advance increasing by GBP7.1 million.
PPE
New additions to plant and equipment amounted 
to GBP10.4 million in 2010 compared to GBP14.9 
million in 2009. This was largely as a result of 
major plant and equipment being procured on 
the Russian Eurochem project in 2009 and in 
2010 on the Styldrift project which commenced 
towards the last quarter of the year. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
14
Disposals of plant and equipment in 2010 were 
GBP6.8 million, relating mostly to the lapsed 
Kalagadi Manganese project compared to GBP1.8 
million in 2009.
Finance lease receivables
The increase in ﬁnance lease receivables 
represents the procurement and sale of additional 
motor vehicles to site managers during the year. 
This increase was partly due to the start-up of the 
new Styldrift project and partly due to renewal of 
motor vehicles to site managers on other projects.
Trade and other receivables, order book
Trade and other receivables increased by 
GBP21.0 million in 2010 to GBP50.1 million, from 
GBP29.1 million in 2009. In South Africa, the start 
up of the new Styldrift project accounted for a 
large portion of this increase as did the additional 
revenues from Impala. In the Rest of the World 
segment, the Eurochem project and the Teesta 
project also saw a large increase in receivables.
The Group’s order book at ﬁnancial reporting 
period is calculated to represent the total value 
of estimated outstanding project revenues for 
contractually committed projects, excluding 
any escalation which is typically built into the 
contracts. The order book at 31 December 
2010 amounted to GBP488.2 million, which 
represents 2.67 years’ revenue based on 2010 
revenues. The order book at 30 June 2010 was 
calculated as GBP474.1 million. The projected 
order book has changed as a result of the closing 
ZAR/GBP exchange rate at 31 December 2010 
improving the ﬁgure to the extent of GBP55.1 
million when compared to the listing prospectus 
and the absence of the 2nd half of 2010 in the 
calculation which amounted to GBP85.6 million. 
Furthermore, the order book increased due to the 
extension of the Moab Khotsong contract with 
AngloGold Ashanti.
Cash
The Group ended the 2010 year with a favourable 
cash balance of GBP35.6 million compared to 
GBP8.4 million in 2009. The source of the increase 
of GBP27.2 million was primarily GBP15.1 million 
net cash from operating activities, a net of GBP6.4 
million from increased borrowing facilities from 
the Group’ s bankers, GBP4.9 million from the 
issue of new shares, GBP3.4 million contributed 
by former minority shareholders towards listing 
expenses and the IPO bonus to be paid in 2011 and 
GBP1.8m recouped from the sale of the Group’ s 
equity investment in Delta Gold Zimbabwe. Net 
investment in property, plant and equipment 
(after proceeds from sale of assets to Kalagadi 
Manganese) amounted to GBP5.6 million and other 
ﬁnancing activities amounted to GBP0.2 million 
net outﬂow. The stronger ZAR/GBP exchange rate 
accounted for GBP1.4 million of the increase. 15
At 31 December 2010 the Group held its cash in 
the following currencies:
  (GBP2.2 million)
  (GBP0.02 million)
 
 Emirates Dirham AED0.1 million 
  (GBP0.02 million)
  (GBP0.1 million)
  (GBP25.1 million)
Share capital and common control reserve
The Company was admitted to trading on the 
London Stock Exchange under the Premium 
Listing regime on 23 December 2010. Although 
the Company was established in the Isle of Man 
in October 2010, the Shaft Sinkers Group is 
considered to have remained under common 
control since its acquisition by International 
Mineral Resources BV (IMR) as major shareholder in 
November 2007 until its listing became effective.
For the purpose of presenting Group 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the 
restructuring of the Group with the newly-formed 
Isle of Man Company as the Holding Company, 
 it was considered appropriate to use the 
common control method of accounting for  
the business restructuring.
Under this method, the equity at the earliest date 
of the comparative information is restated to 
reﬂect the shares that would have been in issue 
had the restructuring taken place at that date. 
In this case, it is assumed that the 22,817,524 
shares which were issued on 23 December 2010 
to reﬂect the holding of IMR and the 19,437,150 
shares issued to buy out the former minority 
shareholders, were issued retrospectively at 1 
January 2009. The additional shares that were 
issued by the Company to raise cash for the 
business are treated as a new share issue from 23 
December 2010.
As the comparative balance sheet is presented 
without further alteration besides equity, the 
difference between the lower original share 
capital at 1 January 2009 and the higher restated 
share capital gives rise to a debit reserve for 
common control, effectively arriving at the same 
net balance. The GBP3.4 million reduction on 
the reserve from 2009 to 2010 arises due to the 
contribution made by former minority shareholders 
in December 2010 towards the IPO bonus of an 
estimated GBP4.3 million to be paid in 2011 and a 
share in some of the listing expenses.
Capitalised IPO expenses
Listing expenses, excluding the IPO bonus to be 
paid and fully accounted for in 2011, amounted 
to approximately GBP3.4 million. Of these 
expenses GBP2.3 million were capitalised as a 
charge to equity and the remaining GBP1.1 million 
were expensed against proﬁts. The basis for the 
capitalisation was a prorated 52% of costs related 
to the listing of shares other than the IMR shares 
and the full brokers commission on those shares.  SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
16
Deferred revenue
Deferred revenue represents the revenues 
received in advance from clients in accordance 
with the Groups contracting model. Clients are 
generally required to fund the procurement of 
capital expenditures necessary for a project in 
advance of the Group procuring those assets. 
These revenues received in advance are deferred 
for recognition as and when the plant and 
equipment is brought into use on the project and 
amortised to revenue over the remaining life of 
the project.
The other expenditures on projects such as labour 
and consumable materials are billed to clients 
monthly and are generally paid within 30 days  
of billing.
Deferred revenues increased in 2010 by GBP2.4 
million from GBP21.0 million in 2009 to GBP23.4 
million, primarily as a result of deferred revenues 
relating to the Styldrift project that was entered 
into during 2010.
Interest bearing borrowings
In December 2010 the Group drew down on new 
facilities afforded by The Standard Bank of South 
Africa Limited, including term debt of ZAR250.0 
million (GBP24.4 million). These proceeds were 
used to pay down existing term debt that was 
owed to ABSA Bank Limited. Part of the net 
proceeds will be used to fund expenditures on 
the refurbishing of winders and part will be used 
for growth in working capital.
The new loans with Standard Bank are subject 
to a cash sweep of an amount similar to any 
dividend distribution made by the South African 
subsidiaries to shareholders.
Interest-free advances from clients
Interest-free advances from clients relate to 
advances received for the funding of project 
expenditures. In Russia, the Eurochem project 
is based on the model of cost plus a ﬁxed fee. 
The logistics involved in shipping plant and 
equipment to Russia from South Africa and 
the business environment in Russia where the 
norm is for suppliers to demand payment in 
advance, gave rise to the need for Eurochem 
to make advances to the Group prior to the 
ﬁnalisation of the regular monthly billing. These 
advances are commercial loans for the purpose 
of the project itself and are repaid to the client 
over predetermined times, basically over the 
remaining life of the project.
USE OF PROCEEDS FROM IPO
Of the gross amount of GBP6.5 million raised 
for the Company on admission to trading on the 
London Stock Exchange, GBP3.4 million went 
towards paying for listing expenses and the 
remaining GBP3.1 million plus the remainder of the 
contribution by former minorities towards these 
expenses will be utilised to refurbish some winders 
to enable the Group to be prepared to take up 
potential new contracts with minimum delay and to 
go towards the growth in working capital that would 
be accompanied with any new contract. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
17
Internal controls and risk management
Introduction
This section explains the Group’s internal control 
environment, the process for assessing its 
effectiveness and the way in which risk is evaluated 
and managed within the Group. There is also a 
brief discussion of the principal risks identiﬁed by 
the Group and the mitigating strategies adopted.
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Group’s internal control system comprising 
the policies, procedures and work methods that 
combine to ensure an effective and efﬁcient 
operation. They are intended to allow the business 
to respond appropriately to signiﬁcant operational, 
ﬁnancial, compliance and other business risks 
facing the Group on a daily basis. This includes 
stringent safety procedures, procedures for the 
safeguarding of assets against loss and fraud, 
and managing exposure to liabilities where 
possible so as to ensure the sustainability of the 
Group’s ongoing business. The Group’s systems 
of information ﬂow are critical to ensure that 
no unnecessary risks arise from lack of or poor 
communication. The Group is vigilant to ensure 
it complies with applicable laws and regulations 
and keeps abreast of  developments in these 
areas. The Group monitors the effectiveness of 
the systems of internal control on a regular basis 
through its internal audit function, the external 
audit function, an annual review of risk approved 
by the board and through ongoing reconciliations 
and reviews of ﬁnancial transactions on a regular 
monthly basis
The Group has complied with the provisions 
of the Combined Code and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code on internal controls and the 
relevant parts of the Turnbull guidance for the 
ﬁnancial periods under review. Internal controls 
form an integral part of the Group’s culture. While 
the system of internal control mitigates, it cannot 
eliminate the possibility of poor judgement in 
decision-making; human error; control processes 
being deliberately circumvented by employees 
and others; management overriding controls; and 
the occurrence of unforeseeable circumstances. 
It can only therefore provide reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance that the control objectives 
are met, it cannot provide guaranteed protection 
against the Group failing to meet its business 
objectives or avoiding all material errors, losses, 
fraud, or breaches of laws or regulations.
Responsibilities
The board of directors acknowledges its 
responsibility for the Group’s system of internal 
control. It has set appropriate policies on internal 
control and seeks regular assurance that the 
system is functioning effectively. The board 
endeavours to ensure that the system of internal 
control is effective in managing risks in the 
manner which it has approved.
The board considers the following factors in 
determining the adequacy of the Group’s system 
of internal control:

Group;
 regards as acceptable for the Group to bear;

 and impact on the business of risks that may 
materialise through mitigating strategies; and
 relative to the beneﬁt thereby obtained in 
managing the related risks.
Management implement policies set by the board on 
risk and control. Management identify and evaluate 
the risksfaced by the Group for consideration by the 
board and design, operate and monitor a suitable 
system of internal control which implements the 
policies adopted by the board.
The Group’s employees share the responsibility 
for internal control as part of their accountability 
for achieving objectives. They participate in 
setting and carrying out the Group’s objectives 
and assist in designing the mitigating strategies 
to avoid the risks the Group faces. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
18
Reviewing the effectiveness of  
internal control
The board reviews the effectiveness of internal 
control on a regular annual basis. The board forms 
its own view on the effectiveness of the system 
of internal control after due and careful enquiry 
based on the information and assurances provided 
to it. Management is accountable to the board 
for monitoring the system of internal control and 
provides assurance to the board that it has done 
so. The role of each of the board committees in 
the review process, including that of the audit 
committee, has been set out by the board. The 
various board committees report to the board at 
each quarterly board meeting on the matters set 
out in their respective terms of reference and the 
board carefully considers these reports. The board 
takes responsibility for the disclosures on internal 
control in the annual report and accounts.
Process of preparing consolidated accounts
The consolidation of ﬁnancial performance and 
assets and liabilities is performed on the Group’s 
software systems which have appropriate access 
controls. All signiﬁcant movements and unusual 
items in data which are submitted are reviewed 
by a senior member of the ﬁnance team. Key 
consolidation journals relating to data submitted 
by Group companies are reviewed within the 
ﬁnance department in accordance with their 
signiﬁcance. A reconciliation and analysis of 
consolidation journals is reviewed by the Group 
Financial Reporting Ofﬁcer. Internal ﬁnancial 
reports are produced monthly by the ﬁnance 
department and reviewed by senior members of 
the Group’s ﬁnance and operations teams and 
then distributed to management and the board.
The ﬁnancial department produces quarterly 
instructions and an annual  timetable to be 
followed by Group companies in the preparation 
of monthly and quarterly forecasts and the 
annual budget. The ﬁnance department monitors 
compliance with the instructions and timetable 
and follow up any cases of non-compliance.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant risks 
faced by the Group that has been in place for the 
year under review and up to the date of approval 
of the annual report and accounts. This process 
is regularly reviewed by the board and is in 
accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
Due to the nature of the Group’ s operations, 
a signiﬁcant part of our risk relates to safety. A 
dedicated Safety, Health, Environment, Quality 
and Training department (SHEQT) monitors safety 
statistics and events on a daily basis. Each site has 
a dedicated safety ofﬁcer responsible for managing 
safety matters, including monitoring the progress 
of action plans, reporting on safety incidents and 
ensuring the Group’ s policies in this regard are 
being adhered to. In this way, the Group ensures 
accountability and responsibility for these matters 
remains with the operational management team. 
The Safety Committee of the board meets quarterly 
to review reports from the SHEQT department.
The executive management of the Group conducts 
regular monthly operational reviews for each site 
and for each operational department against 
measurable performance targets, budgets and 
other key performance indicators, to ensure risks 
are being communicated and managed.
Risk assessment
The principal risk faced by the Group are 
considered and formally reviewed by the board 
on an annual basis. The key risks faced by the 
Group are summarised below, without any 
speciﬁc order of ranking.
Strategic risk
The risk of ineffective or poorly executed strategy 
failing to meet shareholder objectives is one of 
the primary risks facing the Group. The board 
gets involved in setting the broad strategic 
objectives and monitors executive management’s 
performance against these annually set goals by 
frequent communication and regular quarterly 
review of ﬁnancial performance. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
19
Safety risk
Safety is one of the cornerstones of the Group’s 
success. As a result, executive management adopt 
a daily monitoring of safety statistics with weekly 
presentations should any incident arise resulting 
in lost time injuries. The Safety Committee reviews 
the performance on a quarterly basis and reports 
to the board with recommendations should 
they be required. A comprehensive set of safety 
procedures are regularly reviewed and updated for 
any new risks identiﬁed. 
Financial risk
The risk of inadequately funding or 
inappropriately managing the funding of the 
business is one of the primary risks that could 
lead to ﬁnancial disaster in an environment where 
the business is in a growth pattern. Regular daily 
reviews of cash management with rolling forecasts 
and strong controls over the management of cash 
are implemented by the executive management. 
The board sets prudent policies for the hedging 
of currency and interest rate risk and the Audit 
and Risk Committee reviews these aspects on a 
quarterly basis. Insurance is taken to protect the 
Group against the risk of fraud or theft of funds.
Other signiﬁcant ﬁnancial risks include the 
safeguarding of assets, inappropriate tendering 
prices that could cause the Group to lose potential 
contracts, corrupt procurement practices resulting 
in excessive costs and mismanagement of 
expenditures. For each of these the Group has 
implemented appropriate policies and procedures 
and executive management regularly reviews 
performance against set targets. The Group is in 
the process of upgrading its information systems to 
further enhance controls, improve the efﬁciency of 
reporting of information and to ensure its tendering 
process has the latest accurate information on costs 
with less time and effort required.
For a further discussion on the Group’s exposure 
to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk, refer 
to notes 26.1, 26.2 and 26.3 to the ﬁnancial 
statements on pages 72 to 77.
External risk
The political, social or economic environment 
in any jurisdiction may change leading to the 
inability to realise the expected results from our 
projects. By diversifying into other industrial 
applications and geographic regions, the board 
has sought to mitigate these risks to the extent 
possible through the strategic direction of the 
business. The Group is aware of the political 
risks in some of the geographies in which it 
operates and has implemented appropriate risk 
mitigating strategies, both on a ﬁnancial and 
legal framework level.
Operational risks
The risk of operating below best industry 
standards could lead to lost contracts in the 
long run or could lead to short-term costs to the 
Group. The contracting models of the Group 
have been established to mitigate some of these 
risks but strong disciplines within the operations 
departments and the focus on attracting and 
retaining key skills is a vital part of the strategy 
of the Group. Regular planning by executive 
management on securing the appropriate resources 
for current and future projects is part of the 
mitigating strategies constantly receiving attention 
at all levels of management and the board.
Internal audit
The Internal Audit function of the Group 
reviews the various business cycles of the 
Group throughout the year on a cyclical basis 
and follows up on all risk mitigating strategies 
identiﬁed for implementation at the annual risk 
planning sessions held by the Group. The Group’s 
Internal Audit Manager has a direct reporting line 
to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 
and also a reporting line to the Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer. Internal Audit has unfettered access to all 
areas of the Group and follow an annual plan set 
by the Audit and Risk Committee. Internal Audit 
encourages employees to make use of a whistle-
blowing facility on an anonymous basis.  SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
20
2010 Key Performance Indicators
Lost time injury frequency rate
3.34
2009 2010
4.88
Revenue £m EPS
147.9 0.24
2009 2009 2010 2010
183.1 0.30
Gross margin % Cash and cash equivalents £m
18.0
8.4
2009 2009 2010 2010
15.9
35.6
EBITDA/revenue Order book £m
12.4
474.1
2009 2009 2010 2010
13.7
488.2 SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
21
Sustainability review
Introduction
T o remain at the forefront of shaft sinking and 
underground development, both in South Africa 
and abroad requires innovative strategies to 
attract and retain the best talent as well as being a 
responsible social partner in order to be sustainable 
over the long term. Investing in our people and the 
communities within which we operate are key pillars 
to ensure sustained success in a highly specialised 
and competitive environment.
Community
The Group has adopted a focussed approach 
since the latter part of 2009 to invest in carefully 
selected initiatives within the communities 
surrounding our operations. The focus is to 
create self sustaining meaningful employment 
opportunities as opposed to “handouts”.
The Group is involved in advanced discussion 
with the Royal Bafokeng Nation to erect a 
pipe factory near to the Styldrift project area 
(Rustenburg area in the North West Province). 
This pipe factory would not only provide much 
needed (new and real) employment opportunities 
within this area, but will also provide Shaft Sinkers 
with top quality pipes for its own operations. The 
overall philosophy with this initiative is, however, 
that the factory must not be dependent on 
Shaft Sinkers for its survival. Once Shaft Sinkers 
has completed the Styldrift project this factory 
must be able to sustain itself with orders from 
surrounding mines. We go to great lengths 
to ensure that the entrepreneur selection and 
training is properly done and have secured the 
services of a professional service provider to 
assist with this function.
Shaft Sinkers has taken a multi- pronged approach 
to the development of the community by also 
investing in micro-sized enterprises. We had 
three fully-equipped food trailers custom built 
with a view to providing our employees access 
to refreshments close to their place of work and 
at the same time providing employment to an 
entrepreneur from the local community. The 
focus is again on sustainability and therefore 
the trailers were built with a view that they can 
be easily towed with a light vehicle which will 
allow the entrepreneur to integrate into the local 
community once Shaft Sinkers has completed its 
project. As with the pipe factory, the selection and 
training of the entrepreneurs for this project was 
professionally conducted through our professional 
service provider tasked with this function.
In keeping with the focus on sustainability, Shaft 
Sinkers invested ZAR 2.2 million (GBP0.2 million) 
in 2010 in enterprise development initiatives 
which included contributing towards the funding 
of seven new businesses for entrepreneur 
development through our professional service 
provider. The types of businesses supported 
were diverse and ranged from waste removal (oil 
recycling) to catering. 
One of our more notable success stories 
relates to Basadi Underground Contractors, a 
business that was developed from an idea with 
no resources to a fully ﬂedged self sustaining 
business in just under two years. What makes 
us particularly proud is that this business is the 
ﬁrst of its kind in South Africa doing wetcrete 
applications for underground operations. The 
young entrepreneurial owner, Zanele Matome, 
has recently secured a long term contract for her 
company with one of our clients. She has also 
undertaken several contracts within Shaft Sinkers 
and is now fully self-sustaining. 22
Investment in our People 
We acknowledge that our people are the core asset 
of the business and we are therefore continuously 
exploring ways of optimising this asset.
Competitive salaries and bonus schemes with 
good quality beneﬁts are minimum requirements 
to ensure good quality skills are obtained and 
retained. The differentiating factors to be the 
employer of choice are often hidden in other 
beneﬁts. 
Recent developments in distinguishing ourselves 
as the employer of choice include initiatives such 
as accommodation for our junior staff. Our junior 
staff are now provided with accommodation on 
site allowing two people to a room and visitors’ 
facilities have been created for the wives of our 
employees, some of whom work far from home.
An employee assistance programme was 
launched in 2010 which provides for the 
debrieﬁng of staff on site by qualiﬁed 
psychologists in the event of a traumatic event. 
Plans are in place to further extend this service 
to include face-to-face counselling for personal 
issues including HIV counselling, professional 
assistance with debt management, etc.
We are exploring a bursary scheme for the 
children of our employees. The focus of this 
scheme would be to invest in tertiary studies in 
scarce-skill areas such as the various engineering 
disciplines.
During 2010 we successfully launched two Adult 
Based Education Training (ABET) centres with two 
full-time ABET facilitators, which provides adult 
basic education to employees after work hours 
at our Impala and Lonmin projects. Both centres 
have been well supported.
At the beginning of 2010 we recruited a further 
11 full-time engineering learners (apprentices) 
in various trades. This was to build on the 21 
learners that had already passed their training. 
We saw 5 learner miners qualify in 2010 in the 
ﬁrst of the new generation 18-month study 
programmes. We will extend our learnership 
programme further in 2011. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
23
Corporate social investment
Shaft Sinkers (Pty) is in the process of 
implementing existing and exploring new 
corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives 
such as a tertiary education bursary scheme 
for children of employees, employment of 
local labour and local skills development.  This 
includes the provision of equipped mobile 
catering trailers which are operated by selected 
historically disadvantaged South African (HDSA) 
entrepreneurs and the establishment of a pipe 
manufacturing facility which will be constructed on 
property identiﬁed by the Royal Bafokeng Nation 
and once complete, operated by the community.
During 2010, the Group spent ZAR2.2 million 
(GBP0.2 million) on enterprise development. 
The Group also partnered with a company called 
Raizcorp to select suitable start up businesses, 
generally with HDSAs and to provide them with 
entrepreneurial training to enable them to become 
self sustainable. 
During 2010, the Group funded seven businesses 
which varied from catering to waste removal 
companies and also assisted an HDSA to start up 
an underground wetcrete application company 
which has recently become an approved sub-
contractor to the Group. 
The Group has budgeted ZAR6 million (GBP0.6 
million) for 2011 in respect of CSR. The Group 
has also commissioned an employee assistance 
programme (EAP) to debrief employees after 
traumatic events and is considering a wider EAP 
programme for 2011.  SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
24
Directors’ report – Business Review
THE DIRECTORS HAVE PLEASURE IN PRESENTING 
THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS OF SHAFT 
SINKERS HOLDINGS PLC (THE ‘COMPANY’ AND, 
TOGETHER WITH ITS SUBSIDIARIES, THE ‘GROUP’) 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010.
Principal activities
The Group is a leading diversiﬁed shaft sinking and underground 
excavation group providing services in the areas of shaft sinking, 
engineering design, tunnelling, large underground storage caverns, 
contract mining and mine operations. Assets are principally located 
in the Republic of South Africa, Russia and India. The Group has two 
main service divisions, shaft sinking and mining engineering technical 
services (METS) and two main segments for reporting purposes: 
South Africa and Rest of World.
Business Review
The Business Review has been prepared to provide the Company’ s 
shareholders and other interested parties with a fair review of the 
business of the Group and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing it. The Business Review incorporates by reference 
into this report the following which collectively contain a discussion 
of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, 
performance and position of the Company’ s business and the strategy 
for the preserving value and strategy for delivering objectives:
Chairman’s Statement on pages 4 and 5
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Statement on pages 6 and 7
Operational Review on pages 8 and 9
Financial Review on pages 10 to 16
Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 17 to 19
2010 Key Performance Indicators on page 20
Sustainability Review on pages 21 and 22
Corporate Social Investment on page 23
The Business Review has been prepared to provide the Company’s 
shareholders with a fair review of the business of the Company and 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing it. It may 
not be relied upon by anyone, including the Company’s shareholders, 
for any other purpose. The Business Review is designed to provide 
shareholders with an understanding of the Company’s business and 
the environment in which it operates, and of necessity only focuses 
on material issues and facts. The omission of reporting on any speciﬁc 
topic should not be taken as implying that it is not being addressed.
The Business Review and other sections of this report contain forward-
looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve 
a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they 
relate to events and / or depend on circumstances that may or may 
not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes 
to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-
looking statements. No assurance can be given that the forward-
looking statements in the Business Review will be realised. Statements 
about the Directors’ expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions 
and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on 
expectations and assumptions as to future events, circumstances and 
other factors which are in some cases outside the Company’s control. 
The information contained in the Business Review has been prepared 
on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors at 
the date of its preparation and the Company does not undertake any 
obligation to update or revise the Business Review during the ﬁnancial 
year ahead. It is believed that the expectations set out in these 
forward-looking statements are reasonable, but they may be affected 
by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or trends 
to differ materially. The forward-looking statements should be read in 
particular in the context of the speciﬁc risk factors for the Company 
identiﬁed in the Business Review. The Company’s shareholders 
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking 
statements. Shareholders should note that the Business Review has not 
been audited or otherwise independently veriﬁed. 
Principal events of the year
The principal events of the year are covered in the Business Review. 
The key events during the year were the listing of the Company on 
the London Stock Exchange on 23 December 2010, the award of the 
Styldrift contract to the Group and the achievement of 3 million fatality-
free shifts.
Dividends
No dividends have been declared during the year. The Company  
will consider the declaration of its ﬁrst dividend during the 2011 
ﬁnancial year.
Annual General Meeting
The ﬁrst Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) will be held on Wednesday 
8 June 2011 in London. Details of the resolutions to be presented at 
the AGM together with explanations appear in the notice of AGM on 
page 88. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
25
Share capital
As at 31 December 2010 the Company’s issued share capital was 
GBP56,563,799 with 47,500,000 ordinary shares of no par value in 
issue. The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s shares, in 
addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in 
the Articles of Association, a copy of which can be obtained from 
the Company’s Registered Agent and the Company Secretary at the 
Company’s Registered Ofﬁce. The holders of ordinary shares are 
entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to attend and speak at 
general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise 
all voting rights and to participate in distributions of income or capital.  
Amendments to the articles of association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a 
special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Major interests in shares
As at 31 March 2011, the following shareholders either notiﬁed the 
Company or the Company is aware of major interests in shares where 
the threshold of 3% of the issued share capital of the Company is 
crossed or reached.
 Number of voting rights % Nature of holding
International Mineral  
Resources BV  22,819,266 48.04 Direct 
JP Morgan Asset  
Management UK Limited 4,189,000 8.82 Indirect
Artemis Investment  
Management LLP 2,298,406 4.84 Direct
Aviva plc & its subsidiaries 1,583,656 3.33 Direct 
Ignis Asset Management 1,580,500 3.33 Indirect
Relationship agreements
International Mineral Resources BV (“IMR”) and the Company 
entered into a relationship agreement on 20 December 2010 (the 
‘‘Relationship Agreement’’) which regulates the ongoing relationship 
between IMR and the Group with a view to ensuring that the Group 
is capable of carrying on its business independently of IMR, and that 
transactions and relationships between the Group and IMR are at 
arm’s length and on a normal commercial basis.
IMR, its direct and indirect beneﬁcial owners and any subsidiary 
(not including the Company) are referred to in this paragraph as its 
‘‘Shareholder Group’’. For the purposes of the Relationship Agreement, 
an “Independent Director” broadly means a Director of the Company 
who is not a current or recent director, ofﬁcer, employee or shareholder 
of, or consultant to, or a person having a relationship, association or 
interest which is material to him with or in, or who has been nominated 
by IMR or any associate (as deﬁned in the Relationship Agreement) of 
IMR or with or in any person having a relationship which is material to it 
or him with IMR or any associate of IMR.
Under the Relationship Agreement, IMR and the Company agree, 
inter alia, that:
(a)   IMR shall not vote on any shareholder resolution that is required 
pursuant to applicable law or regulation to alter the Company’s 
articles or memorandum of association which would be contrary 
to the maintenance of the Company’s ability to manage and run 
its business independently of IMR and the Shareholder Group, 
unless such resolution is supported by the votes of the majority of 
Independent Directors;
(b)   there shall at all times be a majority of Independent Directors on 
the Board, whose number shall not be less than the number of 
directors nominated by IMR. In addition, the number of non-
executive Independent Directors shall not be less than the number 
of non-Independent Directors. IMR shall exercise the voting rights 
attaching to the Ordinary Shares held from time to time, directly 
or indirectly by it and/or by any of its Shareholder Group (and 
shall use reasonable efforts to procure, so far as it is able, that the 
non-Independent Directors shall exercise their voting rights on the 
board) so that if it becomes aware that an Independent Director 
ceases to be an Independent Director of the Company for any 
reason, that Independent Director will (insofar as may be necessary 
to ensure that there continues to be a majority of Independent 
Directors on the Board and that the number of non-executive 
Independent Directors shall not be less than the number of non-
Independent Directors) be replaced or supplemented as the case 
may be by a new executive or non-executive director, as the case 
may be, who is also an Independent Director;
(c)   save to the extent required by law or as otherwise contemplated 
in the Relationship Agreement, they shall exercise their powers 
in a manner which shall not prevent the Company from being 
managed in accordance with the principles and provisions set out 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code;
(d)   they shall, and shall respectively use reasonable efforts to procure 
that all subsidiaries of IMR and the Company respectively shall, 
conduct all transactions and relationships with IMR and all 
subsidiaries of IMR (as the case may be) on arms length terms;
(e)   no material agreement, arrangement or transaction between the 
Group and any associate of the Controlling Shareholder shall be 
entered into, novated, varied, abrogated nor shall any agreement 
be materially amended unless approved by a resolution of the 
Board which has been voted for by a majority of the Independent 
Directors. The Group must enforce the terms of agreements with  SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
26
IMR and associates of IMR unless there is a bona ﬁde commercial 
reason not to do so and such action has been approved by 
resolution of the Board which has been voted for by a majority of 
the Independent Directors;
 (f)   if, within ﬁve years of the date on which the Relationship 
Agreement is executed, IMR is presented with an opportunity to 
develop or acquire a business principally concerned with shaft 
sinking, it will ﬁrst offer to the Company the chance to take up 
such opportunity (and if the Company does not conﬁrm in writing 
within 14 days of being so informed that it wishes to pursue the 
opportunity then it shall be deemed to have declined it); and
(h)   save where the approval of the Board has been given, IMR shall 
not, and shall procure that no other member of its Shareholder 
Group shall, recruit, solicit or entice any senior employee (of the 
Company or any member of its group) with a salary in excess of 
GBP100,000. This prohibition shall not apply where such senior 
employee independently approaches IMR. 
IMR shall have the right to appoint two directors to the board so 
long as it, its group or its Shareholder Group controls 25 per cent. or 
more of the voting rights at general meetings of the Company. Where 
such percentage control is 15 per cent. or more (but less than 25 per 
cent.), the right is to appoint one director. 
At the date of this report the only director appointed by IMR is Mr. 
Amre Youness.
Lock-in agreement
On 20 December 2010, the Company, Arbuthnot and IMR 
entered into a lock-in agreement pursuant to which IMR agreed 
not to dispose of its Ordinary Shares, or any interest in or right to 
them, before the ﬁrst anniversary of admission subject to various 
exceptions. A copy of the Lock-In Agreement can be obtained from 
the Company Secretary.
Relations with shareholders
The Group aims to provide a high level of transparency and 
communication to investors and analysts on a regular and timely 
basis, through announcements, meetings and seminars. The Group 
seeks to develop a regular dialogue with investors and analysts and 
to respond to their challenges and to understand their sentiments 
and concerns.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and raise questions at 
the Company’s Annual General Meeting. The Group aspires to have 
an investor relations programme that meets the aspirations of all of its 
current and potential shareholders and that lends itself to the growth 
of the Group’s business and future sustainability.
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer aim to meet 
all major shareholders at least twice a year and to meet with a 
wide range of shareholders and prospective investors in the United 
Kingdom. These discussions will focus on the results and businesses 
of the Group but will also seek to learn of any concerns amongst 
investors and to gain a deeper understanding of their strategic 
objectives. The Group will also seek to meet with sell-side analysts to 
raise the Group’s proﬁle and to build the research coverage.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors are encouraged to attend 
investor relations meetings or to request meetings with investors 
or analysts independent of the Group’s management. The Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director, Stephen Oke, remains available 
to shareholders and encourages a dialogue between shareholders 
and the Company.
Transactions with Related Parties
Loans to and from related parties are disclosed in note 21 to the 
annual ﬁnancial statements. Loans amounting to ZAR7.4 million  
(GBP0.7 million) previously made by the Group’s subsidiaries Shaft 
Sinkers (Pty) Limited and Capstone 615 (Pty) Limited to Mmakau 
Mining (Pty) Limited for the acquisition of shares in Shaft Sinkers 
(Pty) Limited and for the acquisition of shares in Alpha Resources 
Limited, a previously held investment of the Group, were both repaid 
during the 2010 ﬁnancial year. Loans of ZAR5.0 million (GBP0.5 
million) were made by Shaft Sinkers (Pty) Limited to IMR South Africa 
(Pty) Limited in the 2010 ﬁnancial year prior to admission by the 
Company to trading on the London Stock Exchange. These loans 
have subsequently been repaid in 2011. Loans made by IMR BV 
to Capstone 615 (Pty) Limited  in 2007 for the acquisition of shares 
in Shaft Sinkers (Pty) Limited remained partially outstanding to the 
extent of ZAR4.7 million (GBP0.5 million)  at 31 December 2009 and 
ZAR5.0 million (GBP0.5 million)  at 31 December 2010. These loans 
were subsequently repaid to IMR BV in 2011.
Employees
The Group employed 6,944 people as at the end of the 2010 
ﬁnancial year. Further information about employees is disclosed in the 
Sustainability Review on pages 21 and 22.
Creditor payment policy
The Group’s policy is to agree terms of trading with suppliers in 
advance and to make payment in accordance with these terms. The 
Group does not follow any speciﬁc published code or standard on 
payment practice. Suppliers in Russia often require prepayment while 
the standard terms in South Africa to which the group generally 
adheres are typically 30 days after month-end statement. Creditor 
days outstanding for the Group in 2010 was 34 days compared to 33 
days in 2009. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
27
Post balance sheet events
The directors are not aware of any matter or circumstance arising 
since the end of the ﬁnancial year, not otherwise dealt with in 
the annual ﬁnancial statements, which signiﬁcantly affects the 
ﬁnancial position at 31 December 2010 or the results of the Group’s 
operations or cash ﬂows for the year then ended.
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s ﬁnancial risk management, objectives and 
policies, are described in the Internal Controls and Risk Management 
Report on pages 17 and 19 and in note 26 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements on pages 72 to 77.
Charitable and political donations
No political donations were made during the year and no donations 
were made to any political party, representative or candidate in any 
part of the world. Charitable donations made by the Group during 
the year in South Africa amounted to ZAR50 thousand  (GBP5 
thousand) (2009 – ZAR66 thousand (GBP7 thousand)). During the 
year, the Group funded a number of long term corporate social 
investment projects in South Africa as part of its corporate social 
responsibility programme. The Group’s funding for these projects 
for the year amounted to ZAR2,2million  (GBP0.2 million) (2009 – 
ZAR1.77 million (GBP0.5 million)). Refer also to the Sustainability 
Review which can be found on pages 21 and 22 of this annual report.
Signiﬁcant agreements and other potential legal 
impediments
The following represent signiﬁcant agreements and other potential 
legal impediments which may entitle the counterparties to exercise 
termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the 
Company. The remaining essential contractual arrangements can be 
summarised as follows:

needed to operate the Group’s projects are secured through 
competitive tendering in the open market, the Group in South 
Africa is heavily dependent on Scaw Metals for the supply of 
winder ropes.
 number of bank facilities which we believe could be replaced in 
the open market.
 arrangements essential to the Group’s business in South Africa are 
collective agreements with trade unions representing the majority 
of the Group’s employees, most notably with the National Union 
of Mineworkers in South Africa.
Signiﬁcant Agreements – change of control
A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change 
of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as borrowing 
facilities and contracts with clients. These are deemed to be signiﬁcant 
to the Group’s business. The Group’s banking facilities with The 
Standard Bank of South Africa Limited amounting to ZAR250 million 
(GBP24.4 million) require the approval of Standard Bank in the event 
of a change of ultimate control of its subsidiaries, Shaft Sinkers (Pty) 
Limited or Capstone 615 (Pty) Limited. 
The Group does not have agreements with any Director or employee 
that would provide compensation for loss of ofﬁce or employment 
resulting from a takeover.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors
The Group’s external auditors, KPMG Audit LLC, have indicated their 
willingness to continue in ofﬁce and a resolution seeking to reappoint 
them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. Each of the Directors 
at the date of approval of this report conﬁrms that:
1)   so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and
2)   the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group’s auditors are aware 
of the information.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectations 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the ﬁnancial statements.
The underlying assumptions and considerations in arriving at this 
conclusion include: the Group’s healthy net cash position at 31 
December 2010, the business model adopted by the Group whereby 
clients are required to pay for the major project capital expenditures 
in advance and the policy adopted for several major projects being 
on a cost-plus basis. The controls around cash management referred 
to under Financial Risk on page 19 and the facilities afforded to the 
Group by its bankers as referred to in note 19 on page 67 add further 
support these assumptions. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
28
Directors’ report – Corporate Governance
Compliance with the Code
Shaft Sinkers Holdings plc is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance. This report details how the Company has 
applied the principles and provisions of the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance  2008 which is applicable to the Company in 
2010 and the  UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) which 
was published in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council and 
which will apply to the Company from 1 January 2011. Throughout 
the Company’s reporting period ended 31 December 2010, the 
Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Code 
with the exception of Provision A.3.1, which requires that: ‘The 
Chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set 
out in B.1.1’. The independence criteria in B.1.1 includes, amongst 
other factors, determining whether a director has, or has had within 
the last three years, a material business relationship with the company 
either directly, or as a partner, shareholder, director or senior 
employee of a body that has such a relationship with the company.
Mr, Amre Youness, the Chairman of the Group, is also the Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer of IMR BV, a major shareholder in the Company and 
is therefore not independent. The Board, however, is of the view that 
Mr. Youness possesses the requisite leadership skills and experience 
in the mining industry and that the retention of his expertise is of 
signiﬁcant importance in the Group’s continuing success and growth.  
Therefore the Board considered it unnecessary to engage an external 
search consultancy to search for an independent Chairman.
Role of the Board
The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term success of 
the Company and ensuring that its principal aim is to enhance the 
Company’s long-term value for the beneﬁt of shareholders, whilst 
having regard to the interests of other stakeholders. At its regular 
meetings the Board reviews the Group’s long-term strategic direction, 
capital expenditure and budget plans and monitors on a regular basis 
the Company’s operating and ﬁnancial performance and its approach 
to risk management and Corporate Governance. In addition, it shall 
agree key objectives for the Chief Executive on an annual basis and 
will monitor performance against these. The Board evaluates critically 
on a regular basis its own performance, that of its committees 
and individual Directors. The Board also reviews management 
performance and succession planning and assesses whether the 
Group has the necessary resources in place to meet its objectives. 
The Board has established a formal schedule of matters which are 
reserved for its attention. These include: 
 –  Responsibility for the overall management of the Group. 
 –  Approval of the Group’s long term objectives and commercial 
strategy. 
 –  Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure 
budgets and any material changes to them.
 –  Approval of any speciﬁc key expenditures falling within pre-
approved budget levels.
 – Oversight of the Group’s operations 
 –  Review of performance in the light of the Group’s strategy, 
objectives, business plans and budgets and ensuring that any 
necessary corrective action is taken. 
 –  Extension of the Group’s activities into new business or 
geographic areas.
 –  Any decision to cease to operate all or any material part of 
the Group’s business.
 –  Changes relating to the Group’s capital structure including 
reduction of capital, share issues (except under employee 
share plans), share buy backs (including the use of treasury 
shares).
 – Major changes to the Group’s corporate structure.
 –  Changes to the constitutional documents of the Company or 
any of its subsidiaries.
 – Changes to the Group’s management and control structure.
 –  Any changes to the Company’s (or any other listed or public 
company in the Group) listing or its status as a public company.
 –  Approval of interim and ﬁnal results and any preliminary 
announcement of such results, following the recommendation 
of the audit committee.
 –  Approval of the annual report and accounts, (including the 
corporate governance statement and remuneration report), 
following the recommendation of the audit committee.
 – Approval of the dividend policy. 
 –  Declaration of the interim dividend and recommendation of 
the ﬁnal dividend. 
 –  Approval of any signiﬁcant changes in accounting policies or 
practices following the recommendation of the audit committee.
 –  Approval of treasury policies (including foreign currency 
exposure and the use of ﬁnancial derivatives). SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
29
 –  Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control 
and risk management
 –  Approving an appropriate statement for inclusion in the 
annual report, following the recommendation of the audit 
committee.
 – Major capital projects.
 –  Contracts which are material strategically or by reason of 
size, entered into by the Company (or any subsidiary) in the 
ordinary course of business, for example bank borrowings 
(above a speciﬁed amount) and material acquisitions or 
disposals of ﬁxed assets.
 –  Borrowings by Group companies in excess of two times 
Adjusted Capital and Reserves (deﬁned as the amount of 
paid up share capital plus the amount standing to the credit 
of ;accumulated Group reserves, adjusted in accordance with 
the Articles at the discretion of the board).
 –  Contracts of the Company (or any subsidiary) not in 
the ordinary course of business, for example loans and 
repayments, foreign currency transactions, major acquisitions 
or disposals.
 –  Major investments (including the acquisition or disposal of 
interests of more than 5 percent in the voting shares of any 
company or the making of any takeover offer).
 – Major leasing and rental arrangements. 
 – Major partnership and alliance agreements.
 –  Approval of any related party transactions with any directors 
forming part of such related party abstaining from the 
approval process.
 – Approval of key insurance policies. 
 –  Approval of resolutions and corresponding documentation to 
be put forward to shareholders at a general meeting. 
 –  Approval of all circulars and prospectuses (approval of 
routine documents such as periodic circulars about scrip 
dividend procedures or exercise of conversion rights could be 
delegated to a committee).
 –  Approval of press releases concerning matters decided by 
the Board.
 –  Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, 
following recommendations from the Nomination Committee. 
 –  Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and 
senior management. 
 –  Appointments to the Board, following recommendations by 
the Nomination Committee. 
 –  Appointment of key senior management with family ties to 
shareholders. 
 –  Selection of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive. 
 –  Appointment of the senior independent director.
 –  Ensuring that directors, especially non-executive directors, 
have access to independent professional advice at the 
company’s expense where they judge it necessary in order to 
discharge their responsibilities as directors. 
 –  Ensuring that directors have access to sufﬁcient training 
resources for their development needs (review of which shall be 
undertaken by the Chairman on an individual director basis). 
 –  Terms and conditions of employment of directors and senior 
executives including the reimbursement of director’s expenses.
 –  Membership and Chairmanship of Board committees, 
following recommendations by the Nomination Committee.
 –  Continuation in ofﬁce of directors at the end of their term of 
ofﬁce, when they are due to be re-elected by shareholders 
at the AGM and otherwise as appropriate, following 
recommendations by the Nomination Committee.
 –  Continuation in ofﬁce of any director at any time, including 
the suspension or termination of service of an executive 
director as an employee of the Company, subject to the law 
and their service contract, following recommendations by the 
Nomination Committee.
 –  Appointment or removal of the Company Secretary. 
 –  Appointment, reappointment or removal of the external 
auditor to be put to shareholders for approval, following 
recommendations of the Audit Committee. 
 – Appointments to boards of subsidiaries.
 – The appointment of the Company Secretary.
 –  Approval of the remuneration policy for the directors, 
Company Secretary and other senior executives, following 
recommendations of the Remuneration Committee.
 –  Approval of the remuneration of the non-executive directors, 
subject to the articles of association and shareholder approval 
as appropriate. 
 – Approval of the remuneration of auditors.
 –  The introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes 
to existing plans, to be put to shareholders for approval, 
following recommendations of the Remuneration Committee. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
30
 –  The division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the 
Chief Executive (and, if applicable, other executive directors) 
which should be in writing. 
 – Approval of terms of reference of Board committees. 
 – Receiving reports from Board committees on their activities.
 –  Approval of the delegation of authorities to the executive 
management and to subsidiary boards. 
 –  Undertaking a formal and rigorous review (annually) of its own 
performance, that of its committees and individual directors. 
 – Determining the independence of directors. 
 –  Considering the balance of interests between shareholders, 
employees, customers and the community.
 –  Review of the Group’s overall corporate governance 
arrangements.
 –  Receiving reports on the views of the Company’s 
shareholders. 
 – Approval of signiﬁcant policies 
 –  The making of political donations.
 –  Approval of the appointment of the Group’s principal 
professional advisers.
 –  Prosecution, defence or settlement of litigation (being 
material to the interests of the Group as a whole).
 –  Approval of the overall levels of insurance for the Group 
including Directors’ & Ofﬁcers’ Liability insurance and 
indemniﬁcation of directors.
 –  Approval of the arrangements related to any Group pension 
scheme.
 –  Ensuring that matters requiring an approval of the Company 
in a general meeting are referred to such meeting. 
 – This schedule of matters reserved for Board decisions.
Directors
Details of the current Directors of the Company and their biographies 
are set out on pages 2 and 3.
Current directors were appointed on 19 November 2010 as follows:

 Director


 Under the Company’s Articles of Association, directors retire by 
rotation and all Directors are subject to election at the ﬁrst Annual 
General Meeting after their appointment and to re-election at 
intervals of no more than three years. In accordance with the 
recommendations and requirements of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code of June 2010 published by the Financial Reporting Council (the 
“Code”), all directors should be subject to annual election by the 
shareholders, unless the company is a smaller company below the 
FTSE 350. Accordingly, the board recommends for re-election and 
the Chairman conﬁrms that, although no formal internal performance 
evaluation has as yet been carried out due to the recent composition 
of the board and listing of the Company on the London Stock 
Exchange, each of the current directors’ individual performance 
continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the 
role. Mr Amre Youness, Mr. Stephen Oke, Mr. Roger Williams, Mr. Ian 
Watson, Mr. Alon Davidov, Mr. Robert Schroder and Mr. Christopher 
Hall offer themselves for re-election.
Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance with 
the Articles of Association of the Company and the provisions of 
the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006. The Board believes that each 
director seeking election is an effective member of the Board and 
demonstrates commitment to their respective role. Further details 
and biographical information can be found on pages 2 and 3 of 
this annual report and in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this 
Annual Report and Accounts.
The board considers that Stephen Oke, Roger Williams and Ian Watson 
are independent directors in accordance with the requirements of the 
Code. The terms and conditions of their appointment are available for 
inspection at the Company’s  registered address. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
31
The following former directors were appointed and resigned as follows:
  Appointed Resigned
Talbot Directors Limited  6 October 2010 29 November 2010
Martin Peters  8 October 2010 7 December 2010
Mr Martin Peters is appointed as Company Secretary and was appointed in this role on 6 October 2010. The board has conﬁrmed his 
appointment in this role. Greystone Trust Company Limited was appointed as Registered Agent on 6 October 2010.
Directors’ interests
Directors had no beneﬁcial interest in any of the ordinary shares of the Company at the date of this report. Details of the long term incentive 
plan are dealt with elsewhere in this report showing the award of shares to the Executive Directors which have not yet vested.
Details of the individuals’ skills and experience are contained within the Directors’ biographies on pages 2 and 3.
Directors’ attendance at Board and Committee Meetings during 2010
During the 2010 ﬁnancial year there were two formal scheduled Board meetings of the Company. The attendance of individual Directors at 
these Board meetings and the Board Committee meetings is shown in the table below:
 
 Independent Formal scheduled Audit Remuneration Nominations Safety 
   board meetings  committee Committee Committee Committee 
  attended 2010    
Amre Youness No 2/2 - - - -
Stephen Oke Yes 1/2 - 1 - -
Roger Williams Yes 2/2 - 1 - -
Ian Watson Yes 2/2 - 1 - -
Alon Davidov No 1/2 - - - -
Robert Schroder No 2/2 - - - -
Christopher Hall No 1/2 - - - -
 
As the Company was only formed in October 2010 and admitted to 
trading in December 2010, no formal Committee meetings were held 
in 2010. Instead, all signiﬁcant matters affecting the Committees were 
dealt with at the two formal board meetings of the Company on 19 
November 2010 and 17 December 2010. There were, nonetheless, 
in-depth discussions by the various members of the Committees with 
the board to ensure key governance matters were being properly 
addressed by the Company.
Board responsibility and accountability
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and sets 
the agenda for all board meetings. The Chairman also ensures the 
effectiveness of the board on all aspects of its role. The Non-Executive 
Directors assist in setting the overall strategy of the Group and maintaining 
a sound risk management and internal control systems. The board is 
provided with regular, timely and relevant information in a form that 
enables it to discharge its duties. Board papers are generally distributed 
ﬁve days in advance of meetings to enable directors to obtain a thorough 
understanding of the matters to be discussed. The board meets at least 
quarterly to assess the performance of the Group. All directors have access 
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible 
for advising the board on corporate governance matters and ensuring 
that board procedures and applicable laws and regulations are followed. 
The Company Secretary provides regular updates to the board on the 
legal and regulatory environment and assists in providing any training 
needs of the board. The Company ensures that related party transactions 
are identiﬁed, disclosed and a regular report is presented to the board 
for approval. All directors declare their interests in other businesses 
on appointment to the board and a review of any conﬂicts of interest 
is carried out at each board meeting. On appointment, directors are 
provided with adequate information to ensure that they fully understand 
the business of the Group and their legal and regulatory responsibilities as 
a director of the Company. The board undertakes an annual review of its 
own performance.
The Board has put in place a procedure whereby all Directors 
have access, through the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer or the Company 
Secretary, to independent professional advice at the expense of 
the Company. The Company also maintains an appropriate level of 
Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ liability insurance.  SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
32
Board evaluation
The Board is recently formed and has not yet carried out a formal evaluation of its performance. It has adopted a policy that it shall monitor on 
a regular basis the Group’s performance against an agreed strategy and business plan. In addition, it shall agree key objectives for the Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer on an annual basis and will monitor performance against these.
The Board shall also evaluate critically on a regular basis, commencing in 2011, its own performance, that of its committees and individual Directors.
Board Committees
The Board has established four principal committees as follows:
 Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Safety Committee
Chaired by Amre Youness Stephen Oke Roger Williams Ian Watson
Other members Stephen Oke Roger Williams Stephen Oke Stephen Oke 
 Roger Williams Ian Watson Ian Watson Robert Schroder 
Audit Committee
Each member of the Audit Committee is considered to have extensive 
commercial and business leadership experience. In particular, Roger 
Williams has relevant and recent ﬁnancial skills and experience. 
Under its terms of reference which are available from the Company 
Secretary, the Audit Committee shall consist of at least three 
members all of whom shall be independent non-executive directors. 
The Chairman of the Board shall not be a member of the Committee. 
Only members of the Audit Committee have the right to attend and 
vote at Committee meetings. However, other individuals such as 
the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer, other directors, the head of internal audit and representatives 
from the ﬁnance function may be invited to attend all or part of 
any meeting as and when appropriate.  The external auditors will 
be invited to attend meetings of the Committee on a regular basis.
Appointments to the Committee shall be for a period of up to 
three years, which may be extended for further three year periods, 
provided the director remains independent.
The Company Secretary or their nominee shall act as the secretary 
of the Committee. The Secretary shall also act as a co-ordinating 
intermediary between the Board and the Committee.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee include the 
following:
 systems;
 procedures;
 fraud and bribery and receive reports on non-compliance;
 function;
 and
 External audit
The overall performance of the external auditors is reviewed annually 
by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee is responsible to the 
board for ensuring that the external auditors remain independent of 
the Company in all material respects and that KPMG Audit LLC, as 
external auditors, are adequately resourced so as to enable the delivery 
of an objective audit to the shareholders. The Audit Committee is 
also responsible for making formal recommendations each year to the 
Board in respect of the continuation of the external auditors in ofﬁce. 
KPMG Audit LLC have been the Group’s auditors since 2007 and 
before it was listed on the London Stock Exchange in December 2010. 
The Group underwent a formal tendering process in 2008 and KPMG 
was chosen as the Group’s worldwide auditors.  The Audit Committee 
is satisﬁed with their effectiveness and independence. Accordingly, the 
Audit Committee has not considered it necessary to require the ﬁrm to 
tender for its audit work. The external auditors are required to rotate 
the audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every 
ﬁve years and the current lead partner has been in place for the ﬁrst 
time in this 2010 ﬁnancial year.
The Audit Committee also reviews the level and nature of any non-
audit work to be performed during the year and considers whether it 
is appropriate for this work to be carried out by the external auditors. 
The external auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit 
services that would compromise their independence and objectivity 
or violate any laws or regulations affecting their appointment as 
external auditors. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
33
Internal Audit
The head of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee at each 
of its meetings of the principal subsidiary of the Group and provides 
assurance, independent of the assurance provided by the Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer, that control activities, which have been subject to 
audit by his team, are operating effectively.
The Internal Audit function follows an Internal Audit Charter, 
approved by the Committee and has contributed towards the 
improvement of the Group’s internal control systems. The basis 
of the Internal Audit Charter states that the head of Internal Audit 
is accountable to the Audit Committee and is to provide Group 
management with the objective of providing positive assurance on 
the effectiveness of internal controls in mitigating inherent risks of 
audited processes or signiﬁcant projects or initiatives. The Internal 
Audit function has a whistle-blowing policy which enables employees 
to raise any concerns they may have about workplace fraud or 
mismanagement with local management on a conﬁdential basis. The 
complaint is then investigated in the ﬁrst instance and a decision 
taken about further steps. Feedback is provided to the person 
making the complaint. Written records are kept of all whistle-blowing 
incidents and a regular status report is presented at each Audit 
Committee meeting.
Safety Committee
The Safety Committee is chaired by Ian Watson and its other members 
are Stephen Oke and Rob Schroder. The committee will meet at least 
twice a year and will, with effect from Admission, have responsibility for 
making recommendations to the Board to ensure a safe and healthy 
workplace is created and maintained for all employees.
The role of the Safety Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight 
of the following:
 requirements associated with health, safety, environment and 
training matters;
 and training and monitoring sustainable development; and
 the Annual Report.
Further details of the work of the Safety Committee are set out in the 
Sustainability Review on pages 21 and 22.
Nomination Committee
The Nominations Committee shall consist of not less than three 
members. A majority of the members shall be unconnected with 
the management of the Group and free from any business or other 
relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their 
independent judgment. The Chairman of the Committee shall be 
either the Chairman of the Board or an independent non-executive 
director who shall be appointed by the Board. The Chairman of 
the Board shall not chair the Committee when it is dealing with the 
matter of succession to the chairmanship. Appointments to the 
Committee shall be for a period of up to three years, which may be 
extended for further three year periods, provided the majority of the 
committee remains independent.
Only members of the Committee shall have the right to attend and 
vote at Committee meetings. However, other individuals such as 
the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the Company, the Company’s head 
of human resources and external advisers of the Company may 
be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting as and when 
appropriate. The Committee shall meet at least twice a year and at 
such other times as the Chairman of the Committee shall require.
The main duties of the Nominations Committee include:

of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with 
regard to any changes;
 other senior executives;
 candidates to ﬁll board vacancies as and when they arise;
 experience on the Board and use open advertising or the services 
of external advisers to facilitate the search for new candidates 
when required;

including the time commitment expected;
 that relates to the composition of the board, and;
 regarding the appointments to the various committees.
Remuneration Committee
The role of the Committee is to establish a framework for setting and 
maintaining at appropriate levels the remuneration of the Group’s 
executive directors and senior management in general and for setting 
the remuneration for the executive directors in particular.
The Committee shall be made up of at least three members, all of 
whom shall be independent non-executive directors. The Chairman 
of the Board may also serve on the committee as an additional 
member if he or she was considered independent on appointment as 
Chairman. The Chairman of the Board shall not be chairman of the 
committee. Appointments to the Remuneration Committee shall be  SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
34
for a period of up to three years, which may be extended for further 
three-year periods, provided the director still meets the criteria for 
membership of the committee.
Only members of the Remuneration Committee have the right to 
attend and vote at Committee meetings. However, other individuals 
such as the Chief Executive, the head of human resources and 
external advisers may be invited to attend for all or part of any 
meeting as and when appropriate.
No member of the Board (or of the Remuneration Committee) shall 
attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee where his or her 
own remuneration arrangements are determined.
The duties of the Remuneration Committee includes:
 policy for the remuneration of the Group’s Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer, Chairman, the executive directors, the Company 
Secretary and such other members of the executive management 
as it is designated to consider. The remuneration of non-
executive directors shall be a matter for the Chairman and the 
executive members of the Board;
 Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage 
enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, 
rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the 
Group;
 remuneration policy;
 limits for, any performance related pay schemes operated by the 
Group and approve the total annual payments made under such 
schemes, ensuring that any performance based remuneration 
arrangements are clearly aligned with business strategy and 
objectives, and are regularly reviewed;
 the Board and shareholders. For any such plans, determine each 
year whether awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount 
of such awards, the individual awards to executive directors and 
other senior executives and the performance targets to be used;
 incentive plans operated by the Group are compatible with the 
Group’s risk policies and systems;
 payments made, are fair to the individual, and the Group, that 
failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully 
recognised;
 the Chairman and/or Chief Executive as appropriate, determine 
the total individual remuneration package of each executive 
director, senior executives and other members of the executive 
management including bonuses, incentive payments and share 
options or other share awards;
 Group and have these in mind when setting remuneration policy 
for directors;
 beneﬁts structures throughout the Group;
 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, the Chairman and the other directors;
 including pensions are fulﬁlled;
 criteria, selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference 
for any remuneration consultants who advise the committee;
 in other companies within the same sector, but ensure that 
automatic increases are not implemented and consider relative 
performance, judging the implications carefully.
 levels of remuneration for the Group; 
 remuneration policy;
 performance criteria;
 compensation agreements
 remuneration to be offered to any new executive director; and
 ex-gratia in nature are fully explained, justiﬁed and subject to 
shareholder approval prior to payment.
The section of the Directors’ Report entitled “Directors’ Report – 
Remuneration” on pages 35 to 39 shall constitute a Remuneration 
Report. A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be 
proposed at the forthcoming AGM. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
35
Directors’ report – Remuneration
Introduction
The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report on Directors’ 
remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is a formal committee of the Board. Its 
remit is set out in terms of reference formally adopted by the Board in 
December 2010. The terms of reference are designed to enable the 
Committee to comply with the requirements relating to remuneration 
policy set out in the Code. A copy of the terms of reference can be 
obtained from the Company Secretary.
The principal responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are:
 policy for the remuneration of the Group’s Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
Chairman, the executive directors, the Company Secretary 
and such other members of the executive management as it is 
designated to consider;
 remuneration policy;
 limits for, any performance related pay schemes operated by the 
Group and approve the total annual payments made under such 
schemes, and;
 the Board and shareholders. For any such plans, determine each 
year whether awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount 
of such awards, the individual awards to executive directors and 
other senior executives and the performance targets to be used.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee
The members of the Committee, all of whom are independent non-
executive directors and were appointed on 19 November 2010, are 
as follows:
 The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. The 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and the head of human resources and 
external advisors also attend Committee meetings by invitation, but 
none is present when the Committee discusses issues relating to their 
own remuneration.
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has retained the services of Kepler 
Associates in 2011 to carry out a review of the senior executive 
remuneration and to provide advice in relation to the Long Term 
Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’). Other than as described above, no other 
service was provided by Kepler Associates to the Group during the 
2010 ﬁnancial year. Kepler Associates have no connection with the 
Group other than as consultants.
Remuneration policy
The Group’s remuneration policy is focussed upon providing a level 
of remuneration which attracts, retains and motivates Directors 
and senior executives of sufﬁcient calibre to achieve the Group’s 
strategic goals and enhance shareholder value, whilst ensuring 
that remuneration is consistent with best practice and provides an 
appropriate alignment with personal and business performance. 
The Committee recognises that there is a competitive market for 
successful executives with experience in the mining industry and 
that the provision of appropriate rewards for superior performance is 
important for the continued growth of the business. The Committee’s 
aim in formulating remuneration policy is to assess relevant 
benchmark data from sources such as other companies listed on the 
London Stock Exchange of a similar size and complexity, international 
mining companies and the market generally. In setting remuneration 
within this framework, the Committee aims to give senior executives 
every encouragement to enhance the Group’s performance whilst 
ensuring that they are fairly, but responsibly, rewarded for their 
personal contributions. 
The Committee believes that it is important to benchmark the 
remuneration packages of senior executives. In April 2011, the 
Committee instructed Kepler Associates to carry out a review of 
senior executive remuneration packages and the incentive schemes in 
place for other senior managers. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
36
Components of Executive Directors’ remuneration
Remuneration packages are structured to provide an appropriate 
balance between ﬁxed and variable elements. The main components 
of the three Executive Directors’ remuneration and the percentage of 
each element as part of the total package are detailed below. 
These charts have been calculated on amounts earned in 2010 and 
exclude the once-off IPO bonus conditionally awarded for 2011. The 
LTIP award value is the amount expensed based on a Monte Carlo 
simulation of the value in 2010 for 9 days of the year since its award 
in December 2010. The CEO was formerly employed in a different 
capacity by the Group. From 2011 his remuneration structure will 
fall in line with the other executive directors. . In the future the LTIP 
amount is likely to form a greater proportion of total remuneration.
Salaries
Salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee and take account of 
the relevant benchmark data, pay quantum and structure.
Bonuses
For the year ended 31 December 2010, the performance measures 
for the annual bonus were based on a Group ﬁnancial performance 
target and on personal performance The bonus arising from the 
performance target is up to 75% of annual salary for the Chief 
Operating Ofﬁcer and 50% of annual salary for the Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer with a potential to earn an additional 15% if targets are 
exceeded by 10%. If performance is 10% below target, no target 
performance bonus is paid. In 2010 the targets were exceeded by 
more than 10%. The bonus arising from personal performance is 
up to 15% of annual salary for both the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 
and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. Speciﬁc ﬁnancial targets have not been 
disclosed as they are considered to be commercially conﬁdential 
but they are deemed to be appropriately challenging. The personal 
performance bonus is paid in December of the same year of 
measurement (2010 in this case), while the ﬁnancial performance 
target bonus is deferred for 1 year and paid in December of the 
year following measurement (2011 in this case). The Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer was not part of the bonus scheme up to 31 December 2010 
but shall from 1 January 2011, participate in these bonuses at the 
same rate as the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer.
Provident fund
The Group’s principal subsidiary, Shaft Sinkers (Pty) Limited, 
contributes towards a Provident Fund. The Fund is a deﬁned 
contribution fund. The Group contributes 15% of a base salary for 
each eligible member.
IPO Bonus
Pursuant to admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange, the 
Group declared a bonus (“IPO Bonus”) of ZAR44.5 million (GBP4.4 
million) of which, ZAR13.4 million (GBP1.3 million) will be paid to 
executive directors and senior management and ZAR31.1 million  
(GBP3.2 million) to other employees. These employees will receive 
two cash payments, the ﬁrst to be received six months following 
admission (June 2011) and the second to be received 1 year 
following admission (December 2011), conditional in each such case 
on continued employment by the Group at that date. The executive 
directors shall receive their IPO bonus as follows:
 6 months following 1 year following 
 admission admission Total 
 ZAR ZAR ZAR
Alon Davidov 1,785,308 1,785,308 3,570,616
Robert Schroder 1,785,308 1,785,308 3,570,616
Christopher Hall 1,479,342 1,479,342 2,958,684
Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)
The LTIP allows the Committee to make awards which are 
a conditional right to receive shares in the Company for nil 
consideration. An award will normally vest (i.e become exercisable) 
over a three year period from the date of its grant with a third being 
eligible for vesting each year to the extent that the applicable 
performance conditions have been satisﬁed. Beneﬁts in the LTIP are 
not pensionable.
The initial awards of 2,250,000 ordinary shares in the Company were 
made as to 750,000 to Alon Davidov,750,000 to Robert Schroder and 
750,000 to Christopher Hall. The LTIP consists of a total of 2,500,000 
Ordinary Shares. The Remuneration Committee will determine the 
allocation and offer of awards over the balance of 250,000 Ordinary 
Shares, which will be reserved for allocation to new executives who 
are given key roles in the Group.
The total number of Ordinary Shares issued under the LTIP on 
any date of issue, when aggregated with the number of Ordinary 
Shares issued or issuable under any other share scheme for senior 
employees of the Group in any rolling ten year period, may not 
exceed ﬁve per cent. of the Company’s issued Ordinary Shares.
Salaries and Fees
Provident fund
Benefits 
Bonuses
Value of LTIP award
7%
2%
2% 2%
37%
5%
9% 91%
47%
48%
5%
45%
CEO COO CFO SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
37
If an award is forfeited or becomes incapable of vesting, the Ordinary 
Shares subject to that award may not be reallocated for future awards.
The performance conditions applicable to these initial awards are 
measured in stages over each of the vesting periods and are linked to:
 EPS: In respect of the ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2011 and 
for each of the ﬁnancial years ending 31 December 2012 and 31 
December 2013, the Company will need to achieve growth in EPS of 
at least 20 per cent. per annum in comparison to the previous ﬁnancial 
year for the relevant proportion of awards to be capable of vesting 
in full. Should the Company only achieve between 10-20 per cent. 
per annum growth in EPS in the ﬁnancial year under measurement, 
between 50-100 per cent. of the relevant proportion of awards will 
be capable of vesting on a straight line basis between those two 
growth points. Should the Company not achieve at least 10 per cent. 
per annum growth in EPS in the ﬁnancial year under measurement, 
none of the relevant proportion of awards will be capable of vesting. 
If, however, over the full three years’ vesting periods the Company 
has achieved a compound average growth in EPS of 20 per cent. per 
annum despite not having achieved that growth rate in any particular 
ﬁnancial year, then the EPS performance criteria shall be deemed to 
have been achieved and awards shall be capable of vesting in full.
Share Price: In respect of the ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2011 
and for each of the ﬁnancial years ending 31 December 2012 and 31 
December 2013, the Company will need to achieve a growth in its share 
price of at least 26 per cent. per annum for the relevant proportion of 
awards to be capable of vesting in full. The base share price for the 
ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2011 shall be the Placing Price (124 
pence) and thereafter any increase shall be measured by reference to the 
average of the Company’ s closing share prices for the 30 days following 
the announcement of the Company’ s audited results for each ﬁnancial 
year. Should the Company only achieve between 13-26 per cent. per 
annum growth in its share price in the ﬁnancial year under measurement, 
between 50-100 per cent. of the relevant proportion of awards will be 
capable of vesting on a straight line basis between those two growth 
points. Should the Company not achieve at least 13 per cent. per annum 
growth in share price in the ﬁnancial year under measurement, none of 
the relevant proportion of awards will be capable of vesting. If, however, 
the average of the Company’ s closing share prices over the 30 days 
following announcement of the Company’ s audited results for the year 
ending 31 December 2013 is 100 per cent. or more above the Placing 
Price, despite not having achieved a 26 per cent. growth in its share 
price in any particular year, then the share price performance criteria 
shall be deemed to have been achieved and awards shall be capable of 
vesting in full.
Each award is split into three equal annual tranches. Within each annual 
tranche, vesting of 50 per cent. of that tranche will be subject to the EPS 
performance criteria and 50 per cent. to the share price performance 
criteria. The Remuneration Committee will determine whether and to 
what extent the applicable performance conditions have been satisﬁed 
shortly after the announcement of the Company’ s audited results for 
each of the years ending 31 December 2011, 31 December 2012 and 
31 December 2013 respectively, (and, if applicable, to total EPS or share 
price growth over the full 3 year vesting period).
The Remuneration Committee may, at any time, amend the LTIP in any 
respect provided that the prior approval of the Company in general 
meeting is obtained for amendments to the provisions of the LTIP 
relating to eligibility, the overall limits on the issue of new shares, the 
maximum entitlement for any participant and the basis for determining 
that entitlement where such changes are to the material advantage of 
participants. Shareholder approval is not, however, required for minor 
amendments to beneﬁt the administration of the LTIP , to take account 
of changes in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable taxation or 
regulatory treatment for participants or for any member of the Group.
The grant date fair value of the LTIP was measured based on the 
Monte Carlo Simulation option pricing model. Volatility was based on 
the historical share price data of the constituents of the Oil services 
and equipment sector on the London Stock Exchange. The inputs 
used in the measurement of the fair values at grant date of the LTIP 
were as follows:
Description Value per  Assumed Share price Number Number of Weighted 
 share right vesting date at grant date of days shares average volatility 
 GBP  GBP   
Share price growth shares      
1st tranche 0.63 10 April 2012 1.24 474 375,000 52.51%
2nd tranche 0.52 10 April 2013 1.24 839 375,000 52.51%
3rd tranche 0.72 10 April 2014 1.24 1,204 375,000 52.51% 
EPS shares      
1st tranche 1.22 10 April 2012  474 375,000 52.51%
2nd tranche 1.11 10 April 2013  839 375,000 52.51%
3rd tranche 0.99 10 April 2014  1,204 375,000 52.51%
       SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
38
Long Term Incentive Plan
 Share awards granted during the year Share awards settled during the year Shares awards held at 31 
December 2010
Alon Davidov 750,000 - 750,000
Robert Schroder 750,000 - 750,000
Christopher Hall 750,000 - 750,000
Directors’ remuneration for the period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010
The following table gives details of directors’ remuneration for the period 1 January to 31 December 2010:
 
   Salaries  Provident Beneﬁts Bonuses Value of  
   and fees fund   LTIP award Total 2010 Total 2009 
   GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP
Executive directors         
Alon Davidov   79,383  1,311   6,890  87,584  65,436 
Robert Schroder   153,553  20,093  37,668  193,052  6,890 411,256  365,892 
Christopher Hall   155,397   14,689  143,972  6,890  320,948  274,496 
   388,333  20,093  53,668  337,024  20,670  819,788 705,824 
Non-executive directors              
Amre Youness   25,578     25,578 9,132 
Stephen Oke   12,500     12,500  - 
Roger Williams   10,000     10,000  - 
Ian Watson   10,000     10,000  - 
   58,078 -  -  -  -  58,078  9,132 
Total   446,411  20,093  53,668  337,024  20,670  877,866 714,956 
DIRECTORS’ CONTRACTS
Executive Directors
The executive directors have service agreements which can be 
terminated by either the Group or the executive director giving 
at least 6 months’ notice. Under the terms of the agreements, the 
Group reserves the right, in its absolute discretion, to terminate an 
executive director’s employment by making a payment in lieu of 
notice. In the event of a contract being terminated, the Remuneration 
Committee would determine the level of any compensation to be 
paid, normally by reference to ﬁxed elements of remuneration and 
the notice period. Any annual bonus payment or vesting of shares 
under the LTIP would be dealt with in accordance with the rules of 
the particular scheme. Payments would normally be pro-rated and 
subject to the performance conditions under which the awards were 
granted. The executive directors are subject to restrictive covenants 
which seek to prevent them from soliciting customers or employees 
and/or competing with the Company’s business for six months 
following termination of employment.
Dates of the service agreements are:
Name Date of agreement Notice period
Alon Davidov 20 December 2010 6 months
Robert Schroder 20 December 2010 6 months
Christopher Hall 20 December 2010 6 months
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive directors do not have service agreements with the 
Company, but each has a Letter of Appointment. Details of the 
Letters of Appointment are summarised below.
Name Effective date of appointment Unexpired term
Amre Youness 20 December 2010 3 years
Stephen Oke 20 December 2010 3 years
Roger Williams 20 December 2010 3 years
Ian Watson 20 December 2010 3 years
The unexpired term is subject to re-election at the next AGM of the 
Company. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
39
Copies of all executive directors’ service agreements and the Letters of 
Appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection 
during normal business hours at the ofﬁce of the Company Secretary.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ FEES
The remuneration of the non-executive directors (other than the 
Chairman) is a matter for the Chairman and the executive directors. 
Fees are designed to ensure that the Company attracts and retains 
high calibre individuals. They are reviewed on an annual basis 
and account is taken of the level of fees paid by other companies 
of a similar size and complexity. Non-executive directors do not 
participate in any annual bonus plan, long-term incentive plan 
or pension arrangements. The Company repays the reasonable 
expenses that non-executive directors incur in carrying out their 
duties as directors.
Directors fees on an annual basis are as follows:
Non-executive director Position Annual fees payable 
  GBP
Amre Youness Chairman 90,000
Stephen Oke Senior Independent  
 Non-executive Director 75,000
Roger Williams Independent Non-executive Director 60,000
Ian Watson Independent Non-executive Director 60,000
Annual General Meeting
The Committee Chairman is available at the Company’s AGM to 
answer any questions on the Committee’s activities and shareholders 
will be asked to vote on this Remuneration Report at the AGM. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
40
Statement of directors’ responsibility for the  
annual report and accounts
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors Report and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. In addition, the directors have elected 
to prepare the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards.
The ﬁnancial statements are required to give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of the 
proﬁt or loss of the Company for that period. 
In preparing these ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to:
 consistently;

 International Financial Reporting Standards; and
 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time its 
ﬁnancial position. They have general responsibility for taking such 
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of 
ﬁnancial statements may differ from one jurisdiction to another.
The Directors conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge:
 International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and just 
view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or loss of 
the Company; and
 and performance of the business and position of the Company, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that the Company faces.
By order of the Board
Alon Davidov
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
13 April 2011 SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
41
Independent auditors’ report
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS, KPMG AUDIT 
LLC, TO THE MEMBERS OF SHAFT SINKERS HOLDINGS PLC
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Shaft Sinkers Holdings 
plc for the period ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the 
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent 
Company Statements of Financial Position, the Group Statement 
of Cash Flows and the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and 
the related notes.  The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of ﬁnancial statements that give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting 
estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion on the ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the ﬁnancial statements:
 Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of the Group’s 
proﬁt for the period then ended; and
 KPMG Audit LLC
Chartered Accountants
Heritage Court
41 Athol Street
Douglas
Isle of Man IM99 1HN SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
42
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 2010 
   GROUP
 Note 2010 2009 
  GBP  GBP
Revenue 2  183,127,629  147,865,077 
Direct expenses  (153,944,705)  (121,316,503) 
Gross proﬁt   29,182,924  26,548,574 
Operating income  3,757,264  3,425,588 
Operating expense  (18,764,042)  (10,151,345) 
Contract provision and settlement 3.1 3,819,876  (5,479,452) 
Proﬁt from operations 3 17,996,022  14,343,365 
Share of loss on equity accounted investees 8 -  (78,555) 
Finance income 4 347,778  99,845 
Finance costs 4 (1,634,953)  (1,903,693) 
Proﬁt before income tax  16,708,847  12,460,962 
Income tax 5 (4,075,662)  (2,507,792) 
Proﬁt for the year  12,633,185  9,953,170 
Other comprehensive income    
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 5 459,483  215,770 
Foreign currency translation  
differences for foreign operations  4,650,330  2,494,839 
Income tax on revaluation of  
property, plant and equipment 5 (103,780)  (26,067) 
Other comprehensive income for the year  5,006,033  2,684,542 
Total comprehensive income for the year  17,639,218  12,637,712 
 
Proﬁt for the year attributable to:  12,633,185 9,953,170
Owners of the Company  12,663,185 5,374,712
Non-controlling interests  - 4,578,458
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:  17,639,218 12,637,712
Owners of the Company  17,639,218 6,824,364
Non-controlling interests  - 5,813,348 
  pence pence
Basic earnings per share 18 29.8 23.6 
Diluted earnings per share 18 29.6 23.6
The Directors consider all results derived from continuing activities.
The accompanying notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
43
Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 
at 31 December 2010 
   GROUP
 Note 2010 2009 
  GBP  GBP
Assets   
Non-current assets   64,062,857   56,394,802 
Property, plant and equipment 6  56,499,345   48,559,745 
Goodwill 7  2,663,560   2,306,785 
Other unlisted investment 10  893   774 
Loan to related party 21.1  -   628,502 
Deferred taxation 11  4,407,011   2,451,762 
Finance lease receivables 14  492,048   714,358 
Cash and cash equivalents 15.1  -   1,732,876 
Current assets   98,072,286   44,213,298 
Inventories 12  8,312,403   7,245,556 
Trade and other receivables 13  50,129,962   29,085,172 
Finance lease receivables 14  1,176,329   341,011 
Loan to related party 21.2  489,587   - 
Loans to joint venture partners 9.1  59,213   23,776 
Income taxation   2,215,994   848,153 
Cash and cash equivalents 15.2  35,688,798   6,669,630 
Total assets   162,135,143   100,608,100 
Equity and liabilities   
Equity  46,509,881   21,252,214 
Ordinary share capital 16  56,563,799   28,295,890 
Retained earnings   30,343,814   7,709,500 
Foreign currency translation reserve   7,275,524   2,747,890 
Common control reserve 32  (48,965,631)   (24,861,725) 
Share based payment reserve 29  20,669   - 
Revaluation reserve 17  1,271,706   466,678 
Equity attributable to owners of the Company  46,509,881 14,358,233 
Non-controlling interest  - 6,893,981
Non-current liabilities   42,199,470   25,018,948 
Deferred taxation 11  2,754,152   780,463 
Deferred revenue 24  5,908,356   10,596,275 
Interest bearing borrowings 19.1  19,883,255   11,301,856 
Interest free advances from clients 20.1  13,164,644   1,892,899 
Post retirement beneﬁt obligations 22  489,063   447,455 
Current liabilities   73,425,792   54,336,938 
Trade and other payables including derivatives 23  39,423,020   30,600,515 
Deferred revenue 24  17,510,351   10,418,024 
Income taxation   5,130,618   4,330,843 
Interest bearing borrowings 19.2  4,556,896   3,745,292 
Interest free advances from clients 20.2  6,182,700   4,846,416 
Loan from related party 21.3  493,039   395,848 
Bank overdraft 15.3  129,168   - 
Total equity and liabilities   162,135,143   100,608,100 
The consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
AMRE YOUNESS, Non-executive Chairman CHRISTOPHER HALL, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
The accompanying notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
44
Parent company
Statement of ﬁnancial position 
at 31 December 2010
   Company 
 Note  2010 
   GBP
Assets   
Non-current assets   48,966,019 
Investment in subsidiary 34.1   28,295,890 
Loan to subsidiary 34.2   20,670,129 
Current assets   8,197,373 
Other receivables 35   59,861 
Related party receivable 36   38,590 
Cash and cash equivalents 37   8,098,922 
Total assets   57,163,392 
Equity and liabilities    
Equity   56,712,061 
Ordinary share capital 38   57,261,575 
Retained earnings   (570,182) 
Share based payment reserve   20,669 
Current liabilities   
Other payables 39  451,331 
Total equity and liabilities    57,163,392
The consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
AMRE YOUNESS, Non-executive Chairman CHRISTOPHER HALL, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
The accompanying notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
45
   Foreign 
 Ordinary  currency Common Share based 
 share Retained translation control payment Revaluation Non-controlling  
 capital  earnings reserve reserve reserve reserve interest Total 
 GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP
Balance at 1 January 2009  28,295,890 2,334,788  336,295  (24,861,725)  - 280,994  2,228,260 8,614,502 
Proﬁt for the year   5,374,712       4,578,458 9,953,170 
 
Other comprehensive income         
Revaluation of property,  
plant and equipment      116,516  99,254 215,770 
Deferred taxation on  
revaluation adjustment       (14,076)  (11,991)  (26,067) 
Effect of exchange differences  
on translation from functional  
to presentation currency   2,411,595    83,244    2,494,839 
Total comprehensive  
income for the year  -   5,374,712   2,411,595   -   -  185,684  4,665,721  12,637,712
Balance at 31 December 2009  28,295,890  7,709,500  2,747,890   (24,861,725)   -   466,678  6,893,981  21,252,214 
         
Issue of shares 30,604,111    (24,103,906)     6,500,205 
Capitalised listing expenses (2,336,202)       (2,336,202) 
Share based payment transactions      20,669    20,669 
Acquisition of non-controlling interest
in Capstone 615 (Pty) Limited  6,567,352    326,629 (6,893,981) -
Surplus on acquisition of non-controlling  
interests realised on listing of shares  3,433,777       3,433,777 
Proﬁt for the year  12,633,185        12,633,185 
         
Other comprehensive income         
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment      459,483   459,483 
Deferred taxation on revaluation adjustment      (103,780)    (103,780) 
Effect of exchange differences on  
translation from functional to 
presentation currency    4,527,634    122,696   4,650,330 
Total comprehensive  
income for the year - 12,633,185   4,527,634  - - 478,399  - 17,639,218 
Balance at 31 December 2010  56,563,799  30,343,814  7,275,524  (48,965,631)  20,669   1,271,706  - 46,509,881
Consolidated statement of changes in equity   
for the year ended 31 December 2010  
Foreign currency translation reserve (“FCTR”)
The FCTR comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the 
translation of the ﬁnancial statements of foreign operations.
Common control reserve
The common control reserve arises out of the group restructuring as 
more fully described in note 32.
The accompanying notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
form an integral part of the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements.
Share based payment reserve
The reserve comprises the fair value movement in respect of shares 
awarded in terms of the Group’s long term share incentive scheme as 
per note 29.
Revaluation reserve
The revaluation reserve relates to the revaluation of land and 
buildings to market value. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
46
Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows   
for the year ended 31 December 2010  
   GROUP
 Note 2010 2009 
  GBP  GBP
Cash generated by operating  
activities before working capital changes 31.1  17,991,757   23,580,767 
Decrease/(increase) in inventories  106,895  (3,219,036) 
Increase in trade and other receivables   (11,190,092)   (8,122,875) 
Increase in trade and other payables   3,920,500   2,792,729 
Increase in deferred revenue and advances from clients  9,669,216  5,207,161 
Payment of retirement beneﬁt obligations  (60,304)  (34,218) 
Cash generated by operations   20,437,972   20,204,528  
Interest paid   (1,789,704)   (1,871,664) 
Interest received   285,443   99,845 
Income taxation paid 31.2 (4,917,719)  (4,921,430)
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities   14,015,992   13,511,279 
Cash ﬂows from investing activities    
Property, plant and equipment acquired  (12,093,668) (15,142,983) 
Improvements to land and buildings  (37,630)  (19,114) 
Proceeds on disposal of plant and equipment  6,577,627  3,093,256 
Amount paid by Group to acquire minority interest   (20,670,129)  - 
Decrease in unlisted investments  -  193 
Increase in ﬁnance lease receivables  (405,694)  (948,903) 
Proceeds from disposal of equity accounted investee  1,763,078  - 
Advances to equity accounted investees  -  (78,554) 
Loans granted to related parties  (1,001,772)  - 
Repayments received on related party loans  1,277,086  - 
Net cash outﬂow from investing activities   (24,591,102)  (13,096,105) 
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities   
Funding received on interest bearing  
borrowings entered into by the Group  22,038,470  - 
Repayments made on interest-bearing borrowings   (11,192,402)  (1,617,203) 
Repayments made on ﬁnance lease obligations   (4,472,881)  (1,089,955) 
Proceeds received on issuing of share capital 31.3  30,604,111  -
Listing expenses paid in cash    (2,336,202)  -
(Loans advanced to)/repayment received from joint ventures   (28,647)  342,616 
Cash inﬂow/(outﬂow) from ﬁnancing activities    34,612,449  (2,364,542) 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  24,037,339  (1,949,368) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  8,402,506  9,017,245 
Effect of exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents   3,119,785  1,334,629 
Total cash and cash equivalents at end of year  35,559,630  8,402,506 
The accompanying notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements form an integral part of the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
47
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2010  
1.1 Reporting entity    
 The consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements of Shaft Sinkers Holdings PLC (“the Company”) as at and for the year ended 31 December 2010 
comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as “the Group” and individually as the “Group entities”) and the Group’s 
interest in associates and jointly controlled entities. The Group is primarily involved in shaft sinking, contract mining, mine operation, tunnelling 
and large underground excavations. 
1.2 Basis of preparation       
1.2.1 Statement of compliance    
 The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International 
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations as adopted by the European Union. 
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the listing rules of the London Stock Exchange.  
1.2.2 Basis of measurement    
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following assets and liabilities:   
-      derivative ﬁnancial instruments are measured at fair value   
-      ﬁnancial instruments at fair value through proﬁt or loss are measured at fair value 
-      land and buildings are measured at fair value.     
The methods used to measure fair value are discussed further in note 1.3.18.  
1.2.3 Basis of preparation
Group restructuring    
For the purposes of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the Group restructuring, whereby shareholders in Capstone 615 (Proprietary) 
Limited received shares in the Company, has been treated as a Group restructuring. Common control accounting principles have been applied 
for the Group restructuring, such that the consolidated results of Shaft Sinkers Holdings plc have been prepared on the basis that the current 
Group has been in existence since the inception of common control and therefore the consolidated comparative ﬁgures relate to Capstone 
615 (Proprietary) Limited.
Going concern
 The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis, which assumes that the Group will continue to be able 
to meet its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future. Refer to Directors’ Report on page 24.
Presentation currency
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in British Pounds, and have been rounded to the nearest Pound.  
1.2.4 Use of estimates and judgements     
 The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these 
estimates. 
 Accounting estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.      
 In particular, information about signiﬁcant areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have a 
signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognised in the ﬁnancial statements is supplied in the following notes:   
-       Note 6.2: valuation of land and buildings    
-       Note 6.5: useful lives of property, plant and equipment    
-       Note 22: measurement of post retirement beneﬁt obligations   
-       Note 25.1: lease classiﬁcation    
-       Note 1.3.18: valuation of ﬁnancial instruments    
-       Note 30: contingent liabilities       SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
48
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010  
1.2.5 Change in accounting policies    
IAS 24 - Related party disclosures    
 The Group has chosen early adoption and implementation of the requirements of the revised IAS 24 - Related party disclosures, which only 
becomes effective on 1 January 2011. The application of IAS 24 - Related party disclosures has been applied retrospectively for all annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.    
All related party disclosures have been included in note 27.    
1.3 Signiﬁcant accounting policies    
 The accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all periods presented in these consolidated ﬁnancial statements, 
except as explained in note 1.2.5, which addresses changes in accounting policies.      
1.3.1 Basis of consolidation    
Subsidiaries     
 Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. The accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies 
adopted by the Group.  
Acquisitions from entities under common control    
 Business combinations arising from transfers of interests in entities that are under the control of the shareholder that controls the Group are 
accounted for as if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. The assets and liabilities 
acquired are recognised at the carrying amounts recognised previously in the Group controlling shareholder’s consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements. The components of equity of the acquired entities are added to the same components within Group equity and any gain/loss 
arising is recognised directly in equity. 
Equity accounted investments    
 Associates are those entities in which the Group has signiﬁcant inﬂuence, but no control, over the ﬁnancial and operating policies. Signiﬁcant 
inﬂuence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power of another entity. Joint ventures are 
those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for 
strategic ﬁnancial and operating decisions. 
 Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are 
recognised initially at cost. The Group’s investment includes goodwill identiﬁed on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the Group’s share of the income and expenses and equity movements of equity accounted investees, 
after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that signiﬁcant inﬂuence or joint control commences 
until the date that signiﬁcant inﬂuence or joint control ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted 
investee, the carrying amount of that interest, including any long-term investments, is reduced to nil, and the recognition of further losses is 
discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee.   
Special purpose entities    
 The Shaft Sinkers Employee Share Trust was a conduit for the Company’s subsidiary, Rossal 126 (Proprietary) Limited to house the shares in 
terms of the Group’s share-based payment scheme. The Trustees of the Special Purpose Entity were also directors and key management of 
the subsidiary. The special purpose entity is considered to be controlled by the Group and therefore the ﬁnancial statements are included 
in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group. The trust is in the process of being wound up, as the shares were purchased by the 
subsidiary during the 2007 ﬁnancial year, and the beneﬁciaries’ share and appreciation rights were settled. The Group does not have any direct 
shareholding in this entity. 
Transactions eliminated on consolidation    
 Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees and joint ventures 
are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as 
unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.     SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
49
1.3.2 Foreign currency     
Foreign currency transactions    
 Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary company at the exchange rate at the 
transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated to the functional 
currency at the exchange rate at that date. The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between the amortised cost 
in the functional currency at the beginning of the period, adjusted for effective interest and payments during the period, and the amortised 
cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that their fair 
value was determined. Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in proﬁt or loss. Non-monetary items that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.  
Foreign operations    
 The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to 
British Pound at the exchange rates at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations, excluding foreign operations in 
hyperinﬂationary economics, are translated to British Pound at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income, and presented in the foreign currency translation reserve 
(“translation reserve”) in equity. When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation 
reserve related to that foreign operation is reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal. When the Group disposes of 
only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation while retaining control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative 
amount is re-attributed to non-controlling interests.   
When the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable 
future, foreign exchange gains and losses arising from such monetary item are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign 
operation and are recognised in other comprehensive income.   
1.3.3 Financial instruments    
Non-derivative ﬁnancial assets    
 The Group initially recognises loans and receivables and deposits on the date that they are originated. All other ﬁnancial assets (including assets 
designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss) are recognised initially on the trade date at which the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. 
 The Group derecognises a ﬁnancial asset when the contractual rights to the cash ﬂows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive 
the contractual cash ﬂows on the ﬁnancial asset in a transaction in which substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the ﬁnancial asset are 
transferred. Any interest in transferred ﬁnancial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability. 
 Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of ﬁnancial position when, and only when, 
the Group has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends to either settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.
 The Group has the following non-derivative ﬁnancial assets: ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss and loans and receivables. 
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss    
 A ﬁnancial asset is classiﬁed at fair value through proﬁt or loss if it is classiﬁed as held for trading or is designated as such upon initial recognition. 
Financial assets are designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss if the Group manages such investments and makes purchase and sale decisions 
based on their fair value in accordance with the Group’s risk management and investment strategy. Upon initial recognition, attributable 
transaction costs are recognised in proﬁt or loss as incurred. Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss are measured at fair value, and 
changes therein are recognised in proﬁt or loss.  
Loans and receivables    
 Loans and receivables are ﬁnancial assets with ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Such assets are 
recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition loans and receivables are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. 
 Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, loan to shareholder, loans to related parties and cash and cash equivalents.  
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
50
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits, with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are 
repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents 
for the purpose of the statement of cash ﬂows.    
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities    
 The Group initially recognises debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities on the date that they are originated. All other ﬁnancial 
liabilities (including liabilities designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss) are recognised initially on the trade date at which the Group 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.     
The Group derecognises a ﬁnancial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged or expire. 
 The Group has the following non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities: loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts, and trade and other payables. 
Such ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition 
these ﬁnancial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.    
 Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of 
cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash ﬂows.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments    
 The Group holds derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge its interest rate risk exposure. Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value; attributable 
transaction costs are recognised in proﬁt or loss as incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value and changes in 
the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in proﬁt or loss as they arise.  
Share capital    
Ordinary shares    
 Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognised as a 
deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
 When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including any directly attributable costs, is 
recognised as a deduction from equity.  
1.3.4 Property, plant and equipment    
Recognition and measurement    
 Items of plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.   
 Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of 
materials and direct labour, and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, and the 
costs of dismantling and removing items and restoring the site on which they are located.
 Property, comprising land and buildings, is measured at fair value at the date of revaluation, less, for buildings, accumulated depreciation since 
the date of revaluation. 
 Any revaluation reserve will be realised to retained earnings once the underlying properties are disposed of, rather than realising the reserve 
systematically through usage. 
 When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major 
components) of property, plant and equipment. 
 Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the 
carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, and are recognised net within other income in proﬁt or loss. When revalued assets are sold, 
the amounts included in the revaluation reserve are transferred to retained earnings.
Subsequent costs    
 The cost of replacing a part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that 
the future economic beneﬁts embodied within the part will ﬂow to the Group, and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the 
replaced part is derecognised. The cost of day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in proﬁt or loss as incurred. 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
51
Depreciation    
 Depreciation is calculated over the depreciable amount, which is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its  
residual value. 
 Depreciation is recognised in proﬁt or loss on a straight-line basis, over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant 
and equipment, since this most closely reﬂects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic beneﬁts embodied in the asset. 
Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain 
ownership by the end of the lease term. Land is not depreciated.   
The estimated useful lives are: 2010 2009
Buildings 50 years 50 years
Plant and equipment 1-20 years 3-20 years
Furniture, ﬁttings and ofﬁce equipment 2-6 years 2-6 years
Motor vehicles 4 years 4 years
 Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each ﬁnancial year-end and adjusted if appropriate. Estimates in respect 
of certain items of plant and equipment were revised in 2010 – refer to note 6.      
1.3.5 Intangible assets    
Goodwill    
 Goodwill that arises upon the acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the 
acquisition over the Group’s interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identiﬁable assets and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of the acquirer.     
Subsequent measurement    
 Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses. In respect of equity accounted investees, the carrying amount of goodwill 
is included in the carrying amount of the investment, and an impairment loss on such an investment is not allocated to any asset, including 
goodwill, that forms part of the carrying amount of the equity accounted investee. 
1.3.6 Leased assets    
 Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases. Upon initial 
recognition the leased asset is measured at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, the asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to that asset.
 Other leases are operating leases and, the leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s statement of ﬁnancial position.
1.3.7 Inventories    
 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is based on the ﬁrst-in-ﬁrst-out principle, and 
includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to their 
existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress cost includes an appropriate share of production 
overheads based on normal operating capacity. 
 Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling 
expenses. Obsolete, redundant and slow moving inventories are identiﬁed on a regular basis and are written down to their estimated net 
realisable values.    
1.3.8 Construction work in progress    
 Construction work in progress represents the gross unbilled amount expected to be collected from customers for contract work performed to 
date. It is measured at cost plus proﬁt recognised to date less progress billings and recognises losses. Cost includes all expenditure related 
directly to speciﬁc projects.
 Construction work in progress is presented as part of trade and other receivables in the statement of ﬁnancial position for all contracts in which 
costs incurred plus recognised proﬁts exceed progress billings. If progress billings exceed costs incurred plus recognised proﬁts, then the 
difference is presented as deferred revenue in the statement of ﬁnancial position.
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
52
1.3.9 Impairment    
Financial assets    
 A ﬁnancial asset not measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective 
evidence that it is impaired. A ﬁnancial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition 
of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash ﬂows of that asset that can be estimated reliably. 
Objective evidence that ﬁnancial assets (including equity securities) are impaired include default or delinquency by a debtor, restructuring of an 
amount due to the Group on terms that the Group would not consider otherwise, indications that a debtor or issuer will enter bankruptcy, the 
disappearance of an active market for a security. In addition, for an investment in an equity security, a signiﬁcant or prolonged decline in its fair 
value below its cost is objective evidence of impairment.
The Group considers evidence of impairment for receivables at both speciﬁc asset and collective level. All individually signiﬁcant receivables 
are assessed for speciﬁc impairment. All individually signiﬁcant receivables found not to be speciﬁcally impaired are then collectively assessed 
for any impairment that has been incurred but not yet identiﬁed. Receivables that are not individually signiﬁcant are collectively assessed for 
impairment by grouping together receivables with similar risk characteristics. 
 In assessing collective impairment the Group uses historical trends of the probability of default, timing of recoveries and the amount of loss 
incurred, adjusted for management’s judgement as to whether the current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses are 
likely to be greater or less than suggested by historical trends.    
An impairment loss in respect of a ﬁnancial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and 
the present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. Losses are recognised in proﬁt 
or loss and reﬂected in an allowance account against receivables. Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognised through the 
unwinding of the discount. When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is 
reversed through proﬁt or loss. 
Non-ﬁnancial assets    
 The carrying amount of the Group’s non-ﬁnancial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is an indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated. 
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing the 
value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects the current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together 
into the smallest group of assets that generate cash inﬂows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inﬂows of other assets 
or groups of assets (the “cash-generating unit”).   
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in proﬁt or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated ﬁrst to 
reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group 
of units) on a pro rata basis. In the case of land and buildings, a decrease in value is recognised in other comprehensive income.
 An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at 
each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change 
in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
1.3.10 Employee beneﬁts    
Short-term employee beneﬁts    
 Short-term employee beneﬁt obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided. 
 A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or proﬁt-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee, and the obligation can be estimated reliably. 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
53
Share based payment transactions    
 The grant-date fair value of share-based payment awards granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding 
increase in equity, over the period that the employees unconditionally become entitled to the awards. The amount recognised as an expense is 
adjusted to reﬂect the number of awards for which the related service and nonmarket vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the 
amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions 
at the vesting date. For share-based payment awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant-date fair value of the share-based payment is measured 
to reﬂect such conditions and there is no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
Deﬁned contribution plan    
 A deﬁned contribution plan is post-employment plan under which an entity pays ﬁxed contributions into a separate legal entity and will have no 
legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to deﬁned contribution pension plans are recognised as an 
employee beneﬁt expense in proﬁt or loss in the periods during which services are rendered by employees. Prepaid contributions are recognised 
as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available. Contributions to a deﬁned contribution plan that is due 
more than 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the services are discounted to their present value. 
Deﬁned beneﬁt plan    
 A deﬁned beneﬁt plan is a post-employment plan other than a deﬁned contribution plan. The Group’s net obligation in respect of deﬁned 
beneﬁt plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future beneﬁt that employees have earned in return for their 
service in the current and prior periods; that beneﬁt is discounted to determine its present value. Any unrecognised past service costs and the 
fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The calculation is performed annually by a qualiﬁed actuary using the projected unit method. 
 The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from deﬁned beneﬁt plans in other comprehensive income.
1.3.11 Provisions    
 A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, 
and it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the 
expected future cash ﬂows at a pre-tax rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the 
liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as ﬁnance cost.
Onerous contracts    
 A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected beneﬁts to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the 
unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. The provision is measured at the present value of the lower of the expected 
cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of continuing with the contract. Before a provision is established, the Group 
recognises any impairment loss on the assets associated with that contract.    
1.3.12 Revenue    
 Revenue comprises the net invoiced value of contracts and other services rendered (excluding value added tax).   
Services    
 Revenue from services rendered is recognised in proﬁt or loss in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the reporting date. 
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work performed.     
Contract revenue    
 Contract revenue includes the initial amount agreed in the contract plus any variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments to the extent 
that it is probable that they will result in revenue and can be measured reliably. As soon as the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably, 
contract revenue and expenses are recognised in proﬁt or loss in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract. Contract expenses are 
recognised as incurred unless they create an asset related to future contract activity. 
 The stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work performed. When the outcome of the contract cannot be estimated 
reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable. An expected loss on a 
contract is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss.    
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
54
1.3.13 Lease payments    
 Payments made under operating leases are recognised in proﬁt or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.   
 Minimum lease payments made under ﬁnance leases are apportioned between the ﬁnance expense and the reduction of the outstanding liability. 
The ﬁnance expense is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability.
Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease    
 At inception of an arrangement, the Group determines whether such an arrangement is or contains a lease. A speciﬁc asset is the subject of a 
lease if fulﬁlment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of that speciﬁc asset. An arrangement conveys the right to use the asset if the 
arrangement conveys to the Group the right to control the use of the underlying asset. 
 At inception or upon reassessment of the arrangement, the Group separates payments and other consideration required by such an arrangement 
into those for the lease and those for other elements on the basis of their relative fair values. If the Group concludes for a ﬁnance lease that it 
is impracticable to separate the payments reliably, an asset and a liability are recognised at an amount equal to the fair value of the underlying 
asset. Subsequently the liability is reduced as payments are made and an imputed ﬁnance charge on the liability is recognised using the Group’s 
incremental borrowing rate. 
1.3.14 Finance income and costs     
 Finance income comprises interest income of funds invested, dividend income, gains on the disposal of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets, changes 
in fair value of ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss, and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in proﬁt or loss. Interest 
income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised in proﬁt or loss on the date that the 
Group’s right to receive payment is established.
 Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions, changes in the fair value of ﬁnancial assets 
at fair value through proﬁt or loss, impairment losses recognised on ﬁnancial assets, and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised 
in proﬁt or loss. Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are 
recognised in proﬁt or loss using the effective interest method. Foreign currency gains or losses are reported on a net basis. 
1.3.15 Income tax    
 Income tax expense comprises current taxation, deferred taxation and Secondary Taxation on Companies (being a South African taxation on 
dividends). Income tax expense is recognised in proﬁt or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or in other 
comprehensive income. 
 Current taxation is the expected taxation payable on taxable income for the year, using taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date, and any adjustments to taxation payable in respect of previous years.     
 Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for ﬁnancial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. 
 Deferred taxation is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that 
is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and 
jointly controlled entities to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. In addition, deferred taxation is 
not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.    
 Deferred taxation is measured at the taxation rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based on 
the laws that have been enacted or substantively been enacted by the reporting date.     
 Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current taxation liabilities and assets, and they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same authority on the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities, but they intend to settle current 
taxation liabilities and assets on a net basis or their taxation liabilities and assets will be realised simultaneously.  
A deferred taxation asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable proﬁts will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred taxation assets are reviewed at each 
reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related taxation beneﬁt will be realised. 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
55
1.3.16 Earnings per share       
The Group presents basic earnings per share data for its ordinary shares. Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the proﬁt or loss 
attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted 
for the Company’s own shares. Diluted earnings per share is determined by adjusting proﬁt or loss attributable to the ordinary shareholders and 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held and for the effects of all diluted potential ordinary 
shares, which may comprise convertible notes and share options granted to employees. 
1.3.17 Segment reporting      
 An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, 
including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. All operating segments‘ operating 
results are reviewed regularly by the Group’s executive management to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to 
assess its performance, and for which discrete ﬁnancial information is available. 
 Segment results that are reported to executive management include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be 
allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate overhead expenses and income tax assets and liabilities. 
 Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the year to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other 
than goodwill.    
1.3.18 Determination of fair values    
 A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of fair value, for both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial 
assets and liabilities. Fair values have been determined for measurement and/or disclosure purposes based on the following methods. When 
applicable, further information about the assumptions made in determining fair values is disclosed in the notes speciﬁc to that asset or 
liability. 
Property, plant and equipment     
 The fair value of property is based on market values. The market value of property is the estimated amount for which a property could be 
exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s length transaction after proper marketing wherein 
the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.   
Trade and other receivables    
 The fair value of trade and other receivables, excluding construction work in progress, is estimated as the present value of future cash ﬂows, 
discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date. The fair value is determined for disclosure purposes.   
Derivatives    
 The fair value of derivatives is based on their listed market price, if available. If a listed market price is not available, then the fair value is 
estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the 
contract using a risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds).
 The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on broker quotes. Those quotes are tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated future 
cash ﬂows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market interest rates for a similar instrument at the measurement date.
 Fair values reﬂect the credit risk of the instrument and include adjustments to take account of the credit risk of the Group and counterparty 
when appropriate.   
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities    
 Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash ﬂows, 
discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date. In respect of the liability component of convertible notes, the market rate of 
interest is determined by reference to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion option. For ﬁnance leases the market rate of interest is 
determined by reference to the rate per the agreement, which is linked to the prime lending rate of South Africa.   
Investments in equity    
 The fair value of ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets is 
determined by reference to their quoted bid price at the reporting date. The fair value of held-to-maturity investments is determined for 
disclosure purposes only.
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
56
Share based payments    
The fair value of the Group’s long term share incentive scheme is measured using the Monte Carlo option pricing model. Measurement inputs 
include the share price at measurement date, the expected volatility (based on an evaluation of the Company’s historic volatility, particularly 
over the historic period commensurate with the expected term of the instruments), the expected term of the instruments, expected dividends 
and the risk free interest rates based on government bonds. Service and non-market performance conditions attached to the transactions are 
not taken into account in determining fair value.   
1.3.19 New standards and interpretations    
 A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2010, and 
have not been applied in preparing these annual ﬁnancial statements. None of these is expected to have a material effect on the annual 
ﬁnancial statements of the Group.
2 Revenue
 2010 2009 
 GBP  GBP
Contract revenue  
Revenue from South African core operations  147,331,270  110,058,382 
Revenue from rest of world core operations  35,796,359   37,806,695 
  183,127,629   147,865,077 
3 Proﬁt from operations       
 is arrived at after charging/(crediting)      
 2010 2009 
 GBP  GBP
Auditors’ remuneration 1,535,478  276,958 
  - for audit services rendered 1,128,097   263,221 
  - for non-audit services rendered 407,381  13,737 
Impairment allowance on trade and other receivables  (3,740,319)  3,076,262 
  - recognised  108,375  3,076,262 
  - reversed (3,848,694)  - 
Consulting fees paid 1,034,118  291,567 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment - note 6.1 7,180,928  4,042,381 
Personnel costs 122,823,394   86,192,491 
Employee beneﬁts - share based payments 20,669  - 
Impairment allowances on equity accounted investees  (1,021,386)  990,179 
  - recognised  741,692  990,179 
  - reversed (1,763,078)  -
(Reversal)/raising of write down of inventory to net realisable value  (58,391)  73,726 
Operating lease charges 990,981  1,255,478 
(Proﬁt)/loss on foreign exchange differences (111,714)  1,713,043 
Impairment loss on plant and equipment  (1,478,473)  2,502,829 
  - recognised 54,199  2,502,829 
  - reversed (1,532,672)  - 
Proﬁt on disposal of plant and equipment (121,457)  (386,478) 
Directors’ emoluments 877,865 714,956 
Provision raised for future retirement beneﬁt obligations, relating to past employees - note 22 35,413  28,322 
          
          
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
57
3.1 Contract provision and settlement      
The Group was involved in a dispute with one of its clients towards the end of the 2009 ﬁnancial year due to the non-payment by the client of 
invoices issued by the Group for services rendered. At the end of the 2009 ﬁnancial year this client owed the Group GBP3.0 million for services 
rendered by the Group and held assets of the Group to the value of GBP2.5 million. Due to the fact that the dispute had turned into a legal 
matter, management considered it prudent to raise an impairment provision against both the outstanding receivable as well as the plant and 
equipment of the Group which the client had under its control due to the uncertainty around the recovery of these assets. An impairment 
allowance of GBP5.5 million was therefore raised at 31 December 2009.  
In April 2010 the Group reached a settlement with the client mentioned above and in terms of the settlement the client agreed to pay a 
portion of its outstanding debts owing to the Group as well as purchase a portion of the Group’s plant and equipment that was held by the 
client. The plant and equipment items that were not acquired by the client were returned to the Group. The settlement agreement removed 
the conditions that existed at the time on which the impairment allowance was raised and resulted in the reversal of the impairment allowances 
amounting to GBP3.8 million for the year ended 31 December 2010.        
4 Finance income and costs       
  2010 2009 
  GBP  GBP
Interest on call and current account balances   16,779  4,851 
Fair value adjustments to derivative instruments   -   76,752 
Sundry interest received   143,747  18,242 
Interest on ﬁnance lease receivables   124,916   - 
Interest on loan to related party   62,336   - 
Finance income   347,778   99,845 
Interest paid on ﬁnance lease obligations   (419,105)   (421,680) 
Interest paid on interest bearing borrowings   (943,775)   (1,139,722) 
Fair value adjustments to derivative instruments   (110,269)  - 
Interest on loan from related party   (32,442)   (32,029) 
Interest on bank overdraft   (129,362)  (310,262) 
Finance costs   (1,634,953)   (1,903,693) 
Net ﬁnance costs recognised in proﬁt or loss   (1,287,175)  (1,803,848) 
    
    
  
    
    
  
    
  
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
58
5 Income tax        
  2010 2009 
  GBP  GBP
Current tax expense   
– current year   2,275,122  7,302,153 
– prior year under/(over) provision   1,644,364  (411,183) 
Deferred tax   
– current year   1,666,063  (3,826,972) 
– prior year over provision   (1,509,887)  (556,206) 
Total income tax  4,075,662 2,507,792
   
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income  
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment   
Before tax   459,483  215,770 
Tax expense   (103,780)  (26,067) 
Net of tax   355,703   189,703 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate   
Current year’s charge as a percentage of proﬁt before tax   24.5  20.1  
Foreign tax rate differential   (24.5)   (20.1) 
Standard taxation rate   0.0   0.0 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
59
6 Property, plant and equipment
6.1 Reconciliation of property, plant and equipment 
 Plant and    Furniture, ﬁttings 
 equipment Land Buildings and ofﬁce equipment Motor vehicles Total 
 GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP
2010      
Cost or valuation      
Balance at beginning of year  53,325,066   2,435,164   3,874,310   2,248,666   667,181   62,550,387 
Additions  10,433,145   -   37,630   415,273   1,245,250   12,131,298 
Revaluation  -   177,680   281,803   -   -   459,483 
Disposals  (7,363,916)   -   -   (33,910)   (1,000,018)   (8,397,844) 
Effect of exchange differences on  
translation from functional to  
presentation currency  8,580,966   376,630   603,303   389,230   129,839   10,079,968 
Balance at end of year  64,975,261   2,989,474   4,797,046   3,019,259   1,042,252   76,823,292 
      
Depreciation and impairment losses      
Balance at beginning of year  11,820,918   -   317,255   1,590,460   262,009   13,990,642 
Depreciation  6,471,243   -   81,341   453,961   174,383   7,180,928 
Reversal of impairment loss (1,532,672)  -   -   -   -   (1,532,672) 
Impairment loss  54,199   -   -   -   -   54,199 
Disposals  (547,485)   -   -   (29,956)   (46,481)   (623,922) 
Effect of exchange differences on  
translation from functional to  
presentation currency  850,379  -   57,908   292,063  54,422   1,254,772
Balance at end of year  17,116,582   -   456,504   2,306,528   444,333   20,323,947
      
Carrying value      
Balance at beginning of year  41,504,148   2,435,164   3,557,055  658,206  405,172   48,559,745
Additions  10,433,145   -   37,630   415,273   1,245,250   12,131,298 
Revaluation  -   177,680   281,803   -   -   459,483 
Disposals  (6,816,431)   -   -   (3,954)   (953,537)   (7,773,922) 
Depreciation for the year  (6,471,243)   -   (81,341)   (453,961)   (174,383)   (7,180,928) 
Reversal of impairment loss  1,532,672      1,532,672 
Impairment loss  (54,199)   -   -   -   -   (54,199) 
Effect of exchange differences on  
translation from functional to  
presentation currency  7,730,587  376,630   545,395   97,167   75,417  8,825,196 
Balance at end of year  47,858,679  2,989,474   4,340,542  712,731   597,919   56,499,345
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
60
6 Property, plant and equipment (continued) 
6.1 Reconciliation of property, plant and equipment (continued) 
 Plant and    Furniture, ﬁttings 
 equipment Land Buildings and ofﬁce equipment Motor vehicles Total 
 GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP
2009      
Cost or valuation      
Balance at beginning of year  33,564,181   1,887,817   3,347,167   1,612,404   828,331   41,239,900 
Additions  14,921,562   -   19,114   362,222   813,680   16,116,578 
Revaluation  -   245,346   (29,576)   -   -   215,770 
Disposals  (1,981,906)   -   -   (22,068)   (1,077,718)   (3,081,692) 
Effect of exchange differences on  
translation from functional to  
presentation currency  6,821,229   302,001   537,605   296,108   102,888   8,059,831 
Balance at end of year  53,325,066   2,435,164   3,874,310   2,248,666   667,181   62,550,387 
      
Depreciation and impairment losses      
Balance at beginning of year  4,657,144   -   235,279   1,072,920   179,657   6,145,000 
Depreciation  3,471,983   -   39,865   321,655   208,878   4,042,381 
Impairment loss  2,502,829   -   -   -   -   2,502,829 
Disposals  (203,590)   -   -   (10,649)   (160,675)   (374,914) 
Effect of exchange differences on  
translation from functional to 
 presentation currency  1,392,552   -   42,111   206,534   34,149   1,675,346 
Balance at end of year  11,820,918   -   317,255   1,590,460   262,009   13,990,642 
      
Carrying value      
Balance at beginning of year  28,907,037   1,887,817   3,111,888   539,484   648,674  35,094,900 
Additions  14,921,562   -   19,114   362,222   813,680   16,116,578 
Revaluation  -   245,346   (29,576)   -   -   215,770 
Disposals  (1,778,316)   -   -   (11,419)   (917,043)   (2,706,778) 
Depreciation for the year  (3,471,983)   -   (39,865)   (321,655)   (208,878)   (4,042,381) 
Impairment loss  (2,502,829)   -   -   -   -   (2,502,829) 
Effect of exchange differences on  
translation from functional to 
presentation currency  5,428,677   302,001   495,494   89,574   68,739   6,384,485 
Balance at end of year  41,504,148   2,435,164   3,557,055   658,206   405,172   48,559,745 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
61
6 Property, plant and equipment continued 
6.2 Land and buildings     
Land and buildings include:      
-       Portion 6 of Erf 53, Eastgate and Portion 701 of the farm Zandfontein No. 42 IR, including ofﬁce buildings.   
-       Portion 305 of the farm Scheerpoort No. 477 JQ, including residential buildings and improvements.    
The Group’s land and buildings are encumbered by a cession to The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited, as security for its guarantee and 
banking facilities as set out in note 19.3. The previous cession to ABSA Bank Limited was released at the end of 2010 as part of the settlement 
of the Group’s obligations to ABSA Bank Limited.    
The Group’s land and buildings were revalued by eValuations Enhanced Property Appraisals (Proprietary) Limited, an independent sworn 
appraiser, on 31 December 2010. The fair value of the land and buildings was determined with reference to market prices. The cost of the land 
and buildings, prior to any revaluation at 31 December 2010 is GBP6,019,641 (2009: GBP5,177,199).    
6.3 Plant and equipment funded by instalment sale agreements       
Plant and equipment with a carrying value of GBP789,620 (2009: GBP5,072,134) were funded by instalment sale agreements during the year 
by the Group. The instalment sale obligations are secured by these assets (refer note 19.3).    
6.4 Impairment loss    
Certain items of plant and equipment were assessed as having no further useful life during the current ﬁnancial year. These items were 
impaired to the residual values resulting in an impairment loss of GBP54,199 being recognised in other operating expenditure. The 
impairments arose due to the assets reaching both the end of their useful and economic life spans.    
During the 2009 ﬁnancial year the Group was involved in litigation with one of its clients. Plant and equipment with a net book value of GBP2.5 
million were physically under the control of the former client when the litigation commenced and as a result of the uncertainties around 
the recovery of these items it was decided to impair these items resulting in an impairment loss of GBP2.5 million being recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income.    
During April 2010 a settlement agreement was signed between the Group and its client whereby it was agreed that the plant and equipment 
that was previously impaired would either be sold to the client or be returned to the Group. Since the events that originally gave rise to the 
impairment were removed it was deemed appropriate to reverse the impairment loss recognised in 2009. A reversal of impairment amounting 
to GBP1.5 million was therefore recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.    
The impairment losses that were raised and reversed are all allocated to the South African segment of the Group.   
6.5 Change in estimate     
During the year under review the useful lives of items of plant and equipment were reassessed resulting in a decrease in useful life and an 
additional depreciation charge of GBP0.9 million (2009: GBP1.0 million) being processed. The effect of the change in estimates on future 
periods is expected to be an increase of GBP0.9 million in depreciation.    
The following key assumptions were used during the re-assessment of useful lives:    
-  mechanical stress, which refers to forces and loads applied to assets which lead to degradation over time;
-  electrical loading, which refers to stresses such as continuous loading, temporary overloading and exposure to short circuit fault current;
-  operational practices, which refers to how frequently an asset is subject to operations;
-   environmental conditions, including pollution, salt, acid rain, humidity and extreme temperature that are prevalent and causes long term 
degradation; and
-  maintenance practices, which refers to the frequency of routine inspection and maintenance that is performed on plant and equipment.  
    
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
62
7 Goodwill     
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of Rossal 126 (Proprietary) Limited by the Group during 2007. The balance represents the excess of the cost 
of the acquisition over the Group’s interest in fair value of the identiﬁable assets and liabilities of Rossal 126 (Proprietary) Limited.  
Reconciliation of goodwill balances:    
  2010 2009 
  GBP GBP
Opening balance   2,306,785  1,988,652 
Foreign currency translation reserve   356,775  318,133 
Closing balance  2,663,560  2,306,785 
    
Allocation of goodwill to cash generating units   
Goodwill has not been allocated to individual cash generating units as it is believed that goodwill relates to the specialised industry expertise 
and experiences within the Group itself that allows the Group to operate in various different geographical segments.  
Impairment testing     
An impairment test was performed on 31 December 2010 on the goodwill balances of the Group, whereby the recoverable amount of the Group’s 
underlying assets was based on its value in use, which was determined using a discounted cash ﬂow model.
The recoverable amount was compared to the carrying amount of goodwill and it was found that the recoverable amount signiﬁcantly 
exceeded the carrying amount.      
Key assumptions used in the discounted cash ﬂow projections    
-   The budgeted and forecast earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation for the period 2011 to 2015 are consistent 
with budgets and forecasts approved by the Board of Directors;    
-  A weighted average cost of capital of 18.64% was used as the discount rate in determining the present value of future cash ﬂows 
8 Equity accounted investees       
The Group held a 25% investment in an associate company, Alpha Resources Limited (“Alpha Resources”), incorporated in Jersey, Channel 
Islands, and its wholly owned subsidiary Delta Gold Zimbabwe (Private) Limited (“Delta Gold”), incorporated in Zimbabwe. 
On 11 October 2010 the Group entered into a sale of shares agreement with Mmakau Mining (Proprietary) Limited whereby the Group 
disposed of its 25% interest and loan claims in Alpha Resources and Delta Gold for a purchase consideration of ZAR1. Loan amounts owing to 
the Group of GBP 1.8million (ZAR20 million) were repaid.    
The purchase consideration and loan repayment was received on 27 October 2010  resulting in the derecognition of the Group’s investment.  
Prior to the derecognition of the Group’s investment in equity accounted investees, the directors fully impaired the investment in the associate.
During the 2010 ﬁnancial year an impairment allowance of GBP741,692 (2009: GBP990,179) was raised due to the extent of the uncertainty 
regarding the recoverability of the loans granted by the Group to its associate. The Group’s share of the associate’s loss for the year ended  
31 December 2009 amounted to GBP78,555.    
The disposal of the Group’s shares in Alpha Resources resulted in a recovery of previously impaired claims against Alpha Resources and a 
reversal of impairment allowances amounting to GBP1,763,078 was recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in 2010. 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
63
9 Investment in and loans to joint venture companies     
9.1 Loans to joint venture partners    
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
RSV-Shaft Sinkers International (Proprietary) Limited    592   791 
SDM Mining Contractors (Proprietary) Limited   58,621   22,985 
   59,213   23,776 
The above mentioned loans are unsecured, bear no interest and are repayable on demand.    
9.2 Joint venture companies – consolidated results    
The Group results include the following amounts relating to the Group’s interest in joint venture companies:
 RSV-Shaft Sinkers International  SDM Mining Contractors 
 (Proprietary) Limited  (Proprietary) Limited 
 2010 2009 2010 2009
 GBP GBP GBP GBP
Net expenses  -   -   (2,537)  (15,315) 
Loss before taxation  -   -   (2,537)  (15,315) 
Taxation  -   -   450   436 
Net loss for the period  -   -   (2,087)  (14,879) 
 
Cash and cash equivalents  -   -   (69)   25 
Loans payable  (26,133)   (22,632)   (175,004)  (100,822) 
Trade and other payables  -   -   (70,914)  (39,517) 
Income taxation refundable  -   -   73,230   41,988 
Interest in equity  (26,133)   (22,632)   (172,757)   (98,326) 
Comprising of:    
Share capital  4   4   65   56 
Share of accumulated losses  (17,617)  (17,617)   (276,367)  (274,280) 
Foreign currency translation reserve  (8,520)  (5,019)   103,545   175,898 
  (26,133)  (22,632)   (172,757)   (98,326) 
 
There were no capital commitments in respect of these joint ventures at the reporting date.    
By agreement with Mmakau Mining (Proprietary) Limited, the Group accounts for a 66.7% (2009 – 66.7%) economic interest in SDM Mining 
Contractors (Proprietary) Limited. SDM Mining Contractors (Proprietary) Limited remains a joint venture by virtue of the provisions in the 
shareholders’ agreement between the parties.    
10 Other unlisted investment
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Shares in Rand Mutual Assurance Company Limited, at fair value   893   774 
Number of shares held by the Group: 469 (2009: 469)   
    
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
64
11 Deferred taxation   
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Balance at beginning of year   1,671,299  (2,739,374) 
Current year movement   
– temporary differences recognised in proﬁt or loss   (1,666,063)   3,826,972 
– prior year overprovision recognised in proﬁt or loss   1,509,887   556,207 
– temporary differences recognised in other comprehensive income   (103,780)   (23,437) 
Foreign currency translation reserve   241,516   50,931 
Balance at end of year   1,652,859   1,671,299 
Deferred tax asset   4,407,011   2,451,762 
Deferred tax liability   (2,754,152)  (780,463) 
  1,652,859   1,671,299 
 
Comprising:   
– capital allowances   (6,659,063)  (3,467,040) 
– prepaid expenses   (68,974)  (41,310) 
– retention debtors   (571,325)  (158,765) 
– deferred revenue   4,744,220   2,627,919 
– provisions   2,886,237   3,362,156 
– loans and borrowings   13,928  (651,661) 
– unrealised foreign exchange losses   1,289,391   - 
– tax losses   6,086   - 
– other   12,359   - 
  1,652,859   1,671,299 
12 Inventories  
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Consumable stores and spare parts   7,931,315   7,241,194 
Contract work in progress   381,088   4,362 
   8,312,403   7,245,556 
Consumable stores include electrical wire, oils & diesel, paint and protective clothing.    
During the 2010 ﬁnanical year, inventories previously written down to net realisable value and amounting to GBP58,391 were reversed. 
During the 2009 ﬁnancial year, the write down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to GBP73,726.
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
65
13 Trade and other receivables
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Trade receivables   46,693,312   27,946,880 
Impairment allowance   (197,888)  (3,762,713) 
Other receivables   3,634,538   4,901,005 
   50,129,962   29,085,172 
The Group has ceded its trade receivables to The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited, as security for its guarantee and banking facilities 
(refer note 19.3).
At 31 December 2010, trade receivables include retentions of GBP1,684,388 (2009: GBP 567,019) relating to contracts in progress.  
Advances for which the related work has not yet started, are presented as deferred revenue (refer note 24) and amounted to GBP23,418,707 
(2009: GBP21,014,299). 
14 Finance lease receivables   
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Non-current ﬁnance lease receivables   492,048   714,358 
Current ﬁnance lease receivables   1,176,329   341,011 
   1,668,377   1,055,369 
14.1 Leasing arrangements    
The Group enters into ﬁnance leasing arrangements with qualifying employees in respect of motor vehicles that are acquired for use by the 
employees on the Group’s projects. The average term of ﬁnance leases entered into is 5 years.  
14.2 Amounts receivable under ﬁnance leases   
 Gross investment in ﬁnance  Unearned Present value of 
 lease receivable ﬁnance income minimum lease payments  
 GBP GBP GBP
31 December 2010   
Due within one year  1,371,256   (194,927)   1,176,329 
Due between one and ﬁve years  640,042   (147,994)   492,048 
  2,011,298   (342,921)   1,668,377 
 
31 December 2009   
Due within one year  462,025   (121,014)   341,011 
Due between one and ﬁve years  800,901   (86,543)   714,358 
  1,262,926   (207,557)   1,055,369 
   
The interest rate inherent in the leases is ﬁxed at the contract date for the entire lease term and is linked to the prime interest rate of South 
Africa. At 31 December 2010 the average effective interest rate contracted is approximately 10.9% (2009: 11.5%).   
Finance lease receivable balances are secured over the motor vehicles leased.    
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
66
15 Cash and cash equivalents 
15.1 Cash and cash equivalents – non-current 
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Restricted cash  -   1,732,876 
15.2 Cash and cash equivalents – current
Call accounts   28,369,293   118,849 
Current funds at bank   7,287,188   6,518,187 
Cash on hand   32,317   32,594 
   35,688,798   6,669,630 
 
15.3       Bank overdraft  (129,168)   -
Total cash and cash equivalents  35,559,630   8,402,506
Guarantees on advances received from clients previously restricted the use of certain cash ﬂows. During July 2010 the restrictions on cash and 
cash equivalents were lifted and as a result all cash and cash equivalents are available for use at 31 December 2010.  
The majority of current and call accounts are held at The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited and have been ceded to them as security for 
facilities provided to the Group as described in note 19.3.
16 Ordinary share capital
For purposes of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group, the restructuring on 23 December 2010 whereby the holding company of 
Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited, being International Mineral Resources BV ,  received replacement shares in Shaft Sinkers Holdings plc, has been 
treated as a Group restructuring. Common control accounting principles have been used to account for the restructuring in such a manner that the 
consolidated results of Shaft Sinkers Holdings plc have been prepared on the basis that the current Group has been in existence since the inception 
of common control, as more fully described in note 32.
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Authorised share capital  
63,333,333 ordinary shares with no par value    
Issued share capital    
47,500,000 ordinary shares with no par value (2009: nil ordinary shares with no par value) 56,563,799  28,295,890 
Reconciliation of share capital    
Shares issued on incorporation  1   - 
Shares issued on admission   58,900,000   - 
Capitalised listing expenses  (2,336,202)   -
Shares reﬂected on consolidation for common control purposes    28,295,890
  56,563,799   28,295,890 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled to one vote per share at 
meetings of the Company. At reporting date no shares of the Company were held by the Group.
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
67
17 Revaluation reserve
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Balance at beginning of year   466,670   280,994 
Acquisition of non-controlling interest in Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited  326,629 -
Movement   355,703   102,440 
Foreign currency translation reserve   122,696   83,244 
Balance at end of year   1,271,706  466,670 
The revaluation reserve relates to the revaluation of land and buildings net of deferred tax. Refer note 6 and note 11.
18 Earnings per share    
Basic earnings per share    
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the proﬁt attributable to ordinary shareholders of GBP12,633,185  
(2009: GBP: 5,374,712) and a weighted average number of shares outstanding of 42,387,157 (2009: 22,819,266).  
The weighted average number of ordinary shares was calculated as follows:      
  2010 2009
  Shares Shares
Shares deemed to be issued at 1 January  22,819,266  22,819,266 
Effect of share issued to acquire minority interest  19,438,634 -
Effect of shares issued during the year to raise additional cash for the Company  129,257   - 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at the end of the year   42,387,157   22,819,266 
The issued shares at 1 January 2009 represents the shares issued to investors excluding shares issued to raise additional cash for the Company, 
as more fully described in note 32.    
Diluted earnings per share        
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the proﬁt attributable to ordinary shareholders of GBP12,633,185 (2009: GBP5,374,712) 
and a weighted average number of shares outstanding of 42,689,576 (2009: GBP22,819,266). 
  2010 2009
  Shares Shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at the end of the year  
used in the computation of basic earnings per share    42,387,157   22,819,266 
Shares that may potentially be issued in terms of the LTIP as described in note 29    302,419   - 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at the end of the year    42,689,576   22,819,266 
19 Interest bearing borrowings 
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
19.1      Non-current portion  
Secured bank loans   19,819,897   8,148,588 
Finance lease obligations   63,358   3,153,268 
   19,883,255   11,301,856
19.2      Current portion   
Secured bank loans   4,478,502   2,481,082 
Finance lease obligations   78,394   1,264,210 
   4,556,896   3,745,292 
Total interest bearing borrowings   24,440,151   15,047,148 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
68
19 Interest bearing borrowings (continued)
19.3 Terms and debt repayment    
The secured bank loans relate to loan facilities provided by The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited that are secured by the following: 
 
–  a notarial general covering bond, binding all of the moveable property and effects of Shaft Sinkers (Proprietary) Limited;  
–  a covering mortgage bond over land and buildings of Shaft Sinkers (Proprietary) Limited; and    
–  a notarial special covering bond binding the winders of Shaft Sinkers (Proprietary) Limited.    
The secured bank loans are categorised into the following facilities that are subject to the terms and conditions detailed below: 
–   a senior amortisation facility bearing interest at the 3 month Johannesburg Inter-Bank Agreed Rate (“JIBAR”) plus 2.20% and is repayable 
quarterly in arrears from 31 December 2010.    
–   a senior bullet facility bearing interest at the 3 month Johannesburg Inter-Bank Agreed Rate (“JIBAR”) plus 2.50% and is repayable on  31 
December 2013.    
–   a mezzanine bullet facility bearing interest at the 3 month Johannesburg Inter-Bank Agreed Rate (“JIBAR”) plus 6.75% and is repayable on 
31 December 2014.    
The loan facilities described above were entered into on 28 October 2010 and replaced the loan facilities that the Group had with ABSA Bank 
Limited. The interest bearing borrowings at ABSA Bank Limited bore interest at the Johannesburg Inter-Bank Agreed Rate (“JIBAR”) plus 
1.75% and was repayable quarterly in arrears.     
A portion of the plant and equipment purchased has been funded by instalment sale agreements. The average term is 3 to 5 years. For the 
year ended 31 December 2010, the average effective borrowing rate was 9.31% (2009: 10.61%). Interest rates are linked to the prime interest 
rate in South Africa. The fair value of the lease obligation approximates the carrying amount of the underlying asset (refer note 6.3).   
 
19.4 Analysis of ﬁnance lease obligations     
 Minimum lease   Present value of minimum 
 payments due Finance charges lease payments due 
 GBP GBP GBP
31 December 2010   
Due within one year  87,472   (9,078)   78,394 
Due between one and ﬁve years  65,011   (1,653)   63,358 
  152,483  (10,731)   141,752 
31 December 2009   
Due within one year  1,638,088   (373,878)   1,264,210 
Due between one and ﬁve years  3,622,525   (469,257)   3,153,268 
  5,260,613   (843,135)   4,417,478 
20 Interest free advances from clients
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
20.1       Interest free advances – non-current   
Advances received from client   13,164,644   1,892,899 
   
20.2       Interest free advances – current  
Advances received from client   6,182,700   4,846,416 
Total interest free advances   19,347,344   6,739,315 
The advances received are US Dollar denominated contractual working capital advances received from a client. The advances are repayable 
over periods ranging between 3 and 30 months.    
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
69
21 Related party loans
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
21.1       Loan to related party – non-current   
Mmakau Mining (Proprietary) Limited   -   628,502 
   
21.2       Loan to related party - current   
International Mineral Resources SA (Proprietary) Limited   489,587   - 
   
21.3       Loan from related party - current   
International Mineral Resources BV   (493,039)  (395,848) 
The loan to Mmakau Mining (Proprietary) Limited, who held a minority shareholding in the Group prior to listing, was settled during December 
2010. The loan was unsecured, bore no interest and did not have any formal terms of repayment.    
The loan to International Mineral Resources SA (Proprietary) Limited is unsecured, bears interest at the South African Prime lending rate minus 
2.00% and is repayable on demand. International Mineral Resources SA (Proprietary) Limited is a subsidiary of International Mineral Resources BV .
The loan from International Mineral Resources BV is unsecured, bears interest at the South African Prime lending rate minus 2.00% and is 
repayable on demand. International Mineral Resources BV is a major shareholder of the Company.
22 Post retirement beneﬁt obligations   
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Unfunded obligations   
Present value of post retirement medical aid obligations   383,311   357,785 
Present value of retirement fund obligations   105,752   89,670 
Total post retirement beneﬁt obligation   489,063   447,455 
   
Movements in the obligation   
Opening balance   447,455   391,399 
Obligation for future medical aid subsidies provided   29,810   21,584 
Obligation for future pension fund subsidies provided   5,603   6,738 
Medical aid subsidies paid   (56,697)   (25,312) 
Pension fund subsidies paid   (3,607)   (8,906) 
Foreign currency translation reserve   66,499   61,952 
Closing obligation   489,063   447,455 
   
Recognised in proﬁt and loss   
Present value of future medical aid payments   29,810   21,584 
Present value of future pension fund payments   5,603   6,738 
   35,413   28,322 
The Group subsidises a closed group of pensioners’ medical aid contributions. The monthly subsidies, which are reviewed annually by the 
Group, are charged against the obligation raised. The obligation is the estimated present value of the obligation payable over the recipients’ 
remaining lives.     
The Group contributes towards the Sentinel Mining Industry Retirement Fund in favour of seven disability claimants. These contributions are 
charged against the obligation raised. The obligation is the estimated present value of contributions until retirement date.  
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
70
22 Post retirement beneﬁt obligations (continued) 
Independent actuarial valuations in respect of these obligations were performed as at 31 December 2010, by R H Welham, a Fellow of the 
Institute of Actuaries. It is Group policy to perform actuarial valuations annually.      
The scheme has no plan assets and is an unfunded scheme.    
The Group expects GBP46,251 in subsidies to be contributed to these deﬁned contribution schemes in 2011. 
  2010 Valuation 2009 Valuation
Principal actuarial assumptions used in the last actuarial valuation, performed as at 31 December % %
Long-term rate of investment return  9.0 9.0
Inﬂation rate  6.0 6.0
Future medical cost increases  8.0 8.0
Future increases in employer contributions in respect of retirement fund  6.0 6.0
Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on published statistics and mortality tables. The current longevities underlying the values of 
the obligations in the deﬁned beneﬁt plans are as follows:    
  
Assumptions speciﬁcally relating to post retirement medical aid obligation:  2010 Valuation 2009 Valuation
Number of females   27   31 
Number of males   38   40 
Average age of females  74.6 71.9
Average age of males  75.4 74.3
Assumptions speciﬁcally in respect of retirement fund subsidies: 
Number of pensioners  7 7 
Average age of disability pensioners  51.9 50.9
Average monthly subsidiary (GBP)  141 112
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognised in proﬁt or loss. A one percentage change in 
assumed health care cost trend rates has the following effects on proﬁt or loss.   
 
  1 % decrease 1 % increase 
  GBP GBP
Effect on interest cost   26,182  (30,149) 
Effect on post retirement beneﬁt obligation   (5,799)   5,243 
23 Trade and other payables, including derivatives 
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Trade and other payables   28,380,397   22,013,823 
Annual bonus accrual   5,401,587   4,156,636 
Leave bonus accrual   508,636   374,304 
Leave pay accrual   5,132,400   3,825,948 
Interest rate derivative   -   179,737 
Accrual for decommissioning of winder   -   50,067 
   39,423,020   30,600,515 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
71
24 Deferred revenue 
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Deferred revenue   
– Non-current   5,908,356   10,596,275 
– Current   17,510,351   10,418,024 
   23,418,707   21,014,299 
Deferred revenue comprises advances received from clients for which the related work has not yet been performed. Deferred revenue is 
released to the statement of comprehensive income on a stage of completion method as the services to which the deferred revenue relates 
are performed.   
25 Commitments
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
25.1       Operating lease commitments
Future operating lease charges relating to property  
– payable within 1 year   1,387,137   169,133 
– payable between 1 and 5 years   2,989,849   - 
   4,376,986   169,133 
Future operating lease charges relating to plant and equipment  
– payable within 1 year   -   8,904 
– payable between 1 and 5 years   -   - 
   -   8,904 
Future operating lease charges relating to ofﬁce equipment  
– payable within 1 year   31,652   7,183 
– payable between 1 and 5 years   52,637   - 
   84,289   7,183 
Future operating lease charges relating to motor vehicles  
– payable within 1 year   33,863   20,042 
– payable between 1 and 5 years   -   - 
   33,863   20,042 
Total future operating lease charges   
– payable within 1 year   1,452,652   205,262 
– payable between 1 and 5 years   3,042,486   - 
   4,495,138   205,262 
Future lease charges, except for operating leases relating to properties, are subject to changes in the Prime lending rate of South Africa. The 
lease agreements continue indeﬁnitely, unless terminated in terms of the agreements, which typically require a three month notice period. 
25.2 Capital commitments
 
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Capital expenditure authorised   
– not yet contracted for   3,893,979   11,798,096 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
72
26 Financial instruments and risk management      
The Board’s overall policy is to maintain a strong capital base as to maintain investor, creditor and market conﬁdence. Having sufﬁcient and 
extensive capital, in the form of plant and equipment, is the key to success of the Group. Having the necessary equipment available gives the 
Group a competitive edge in the tendering process and avoids delays in the start-up of new contracts. Certain key plant items are scarce in the 
market and have a long lead time from ordering to receiving.    
The Group has exposure to the following risks    
–  market risk    
–  credit risk    
–  liquidity risk    
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and process for 
measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital. Further quantative disclosures are included throughout these 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.    
Exposure to currency and credit risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business. Forward exchange contracts are used as a means of 
reducing exposure to ﬂuctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Group generally does not speculate in derivative instruments. There were no 
forward exchange rate contracts at the reporting date.    
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management. The audit committee 
has been mandated with the responsibility of developing and monitoring the Group’s risk management policies. The committee is assisted in 
its role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of 
which are reported to the audit committee. The Group audit committee reports to the Board of Directors on a regular basis.
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and 
controls, and monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reﬂect changes in market 
conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group through its training, management and safety standards and procedures, aims to develop a 
disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations, as well as the importance of 
maintaining safety standards.     
26.1 Market risk    
Market risk is the risk that changes in the market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Group’s 
income or the value of its holdings of ﬁnancial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk 
exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return.    
Foreign currency risk    
The Group is exposed to currency risk on contract revenue, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the 
respective functional currencies of the Group, primarily the South African Rand (ZAR), U.S. Dollar (USD), Russian Rouble (RUR), the United Arab 
Emirate Dirham (Dirham), the Euro and the Indian Rupee (INR).    
The Group ensures that its net exposure is kept to an acceptable level by buying and selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary 
to address short term imbalances. The Group invoices in foreign currencies where possible where its cost base is also in foreign currencies. 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
73
26 Financial instruments and risk management (continued)
26.1 Market risk (continued)
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows: 
  ZAR ZAR 
  2010 2009
Loan to related party - non current   -   7,425,375 
Finance lease receivables   17,070,669   12,468,552 
Trade and other receivables   320,997,650   271,597,282 
Loan to related party - current   5,009,394   - 
Loans to joint venture partners   605,862   280,896 
Cash and cash equivalents   258,686,144   39,320,653 
Deferred revenue   (209,417,616)  (100,999,908) 
Interest bearing borrowings   (250,069,181)  (179,820,069) 
Post retirement beneﬁt obligations   (5,004,043)  (5,323,981) 
Trade and other payables   (393,663,882)  (367,689,907) 
Loan from related party - current   (5,044,726)  (4,491,721) 
Bank overdraft   (1,321,637)   - 
Gross statement of ﬁnancial position exposure   (262,151,366)  (327,232,828) 
  USD USD 
  2010 2009
Trade and other receivables   21,559,406   6,115,446 
Cash and cash equivalents   3,318,175   6,627,251 
Trade payables   -  (3,752) 
Interest free advances   (29,782,766)  (10,734,928) 
Deferred revenue   (4,543,577)  (2,633,475) 
Gross statement of ﬁnancial position exposure   (9,448,762)  (629,458) 
  RUR RUR 
  2010 2009
Trade and other receivables   212,324,901   203,559,408 
Cash and cash equivalents   793,302   33,314,605 
Trade and other payables   (22,832,171)  (24,457,196) 
Gross statement of ﬁnancial position exposure   190,286,032   212,416,817 
  Dirham Dirham 
  2010 2009
Trade and other receivables   327,413   - 
Cash and cash equivalents   106,551   899,733 
Trade and other payables   (44,540)   - 
Gross statement of ﬁnancial position exposure   389,424   899,733 
  Euro Euro 
  2010 2009
Trade and other receivables   195,682   - 
Trade and other payables   (3,700)   - 
Gross statement of ﬁnancial position exposure   191,982  - 
  Rupee Rupee 
  2010 2009
Cash and cash equivalents   8,057,625   - 
Gross statement of ﬁnancial position exposure   8,057,625   - 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
74
26 Financial instruments and risk management (continued)
26.1 Market risk (continued)
The following signiﬁcant exchange rates applied during the year: 
 2010 2009
 Average rate  Reporting date Average rate Reporting date 
 per pa. spot rate per pa. spot rate
Denomination in foreign currency    
ZAR 1  0.088   0.097  0.076  0.085 
USD 1  0.647  0.645   0.639   0.606 
RUR 1  0.021   0.021   0.020  0.021 
Dirham 1  0.176   0.176   0.174  0.171 
Euro 1  0.858   0.860   0.891  0.891 
INR 1  0.014  0.014   0.013  0.013 
 
Sensitivity analysis    
A 15 percent strengthening of the British Pound against the South African Rand, US Dollar, the Russian Rouble, the Dirham, the Euro and the 
Indian Rupee would have resulted in changes in equity and proﬁt by the following amounts. The analysis assumes all variables, in particular 
interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is performed in the same manner for 2009.    
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
-    South African Rand  (3,822,167)  (4,172,219) 
-    US Dollar   (914,168)  (57,218) 
-    Russian Rouble   602,255   669,113 
-    Dirham   2,807   23,078 
-    Euro   24,777   - 
-    Indian Rupee   17,163   - 
   (4,089,333)  (3,537,246) 
A 15 percent weakening in the British Pound would have had an opposite effect.     
Interest rate risk    
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as it borrows and invests excess funds at both ﬁxed and ﬂoating interest rates. The risk is managed 
by maintaining an appropriate mixture between ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate borrowings and placings within the market exposure expectations. The 
Group also uses interest rate swaps, where deemed necessary to hedge its exposure to ﬂoating interest rates.    
Interest rates used to discount estimated cash ﬂows where applicable, are based on the bank prime lending rate at reporting date and were as follows: 
Variable interest rates:   
-    Loans and borrowings are linked to the Johannesburg Inter-Bank Agreed Rate (“JIBAR”) and ranges between JIBAR plus 2.2% and JIBAR 
plus 6.75% per annum (2009: JIBAR plus 1.75%).
-   Finance lease obligation are linked to the prime lending rate of South Africa and had an average effective borrowing rate of 9.31% (2009: 10.60%)
-   Loans to and from related parties bears interest at the prime lending rate of South Africa less 2.00% per annum (2009: prime less 2.00% 
per annum).  
At the reporting date the interest rate proﬁle of the Group‘s interest bearing ﬁnancial instruments were:    
    
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Variable rate instruments
Financial assets   29,747,839   9,457,875 
Financial liabilities   (25,062,358)  (15,442,995) 
   4,685,481  (5,985,120) 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
75
26 Financial instruments and risk management (continued)
26.1 Market risk (continued)
Cash ﬂow sensitivity analysis:    
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) proﬁt or loss by the amounts shown 
below. This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2009.
    
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Interest bearing bank loan   (242,984)  (106,297) 
Finance lease obligations   (1,418)  (44,175) 
Finance lease receivables   16,684   10,554 
Related party loans   (35)  (3,958) 
Cash and cash equivalents   274,608   84,025 
   46,855  (59,851) 
26.2 Exposure to credit risk       
Credit risk is the risk of ﬁnancial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a ﬁnancial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers.    
Trade and other receivables       
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is inﬂuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer as well as the demographics of the 
Group’s customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which the customers operate.    
Management has established a policy of spreading the customer base outside of Africa and into Eastern and Western Europe and India. This is 
to optimise geographical concentration of credit risk.    
The Board of Directors has established parameters which, if these are to be exceeded, prior approval from the Board is required before 
submission of a tender to the potential new customer. These parameters are based on items such as the value of the contract, the type of 
contract, and location of the contract.    
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. The 
main component of this allowance is a speciﬁc loss component that relates to individually signiﬁcant exposure and a collective loss component 
established of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identiﬁed. The collective loss allowance is determined 
based on historical data of payment statistics for similar ﬁnancial assets.    
Impairment losses    
The ageing and impairment losses thereon at the reporting date was:    
 2010 2009
 Gross trade  Gross Gross trade  Gross 
 receivables impairment receivables impairment 
 GBP GBP GBP GBP
Group    
Not past due  40,943,713   -   16,930,451   - 
Past due 0 – 30 days  3,125,768   -   4,708,421   (710,833) 
Past due 31 – 75 days  -   -   590,044   - 
Past 75 days  2,623,831   (197,888)   5,717,964  (3,051,880) 
  46,693,312   (197,888)   27,946,880   (3,762,713) 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
76
26 Financial instruments and risk management (continued)
26.2 Exposure to credit risk (continued)
Reconciliation of impairment
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Opening balance   (3,762,713)  (294,227) 
Impairments raised during the year   (108,375)  (3,076,262) 
Impairments reversed during the year   3,848,694   - 
Foreign currency translation reserve   (175,494)  (392,224) 
Closing balance   (197,888)  (3,762,713) 
The impairments were raised on customers where payments were not regular and/or where payments have been outstanding for more than 
120 days at the date of this report.       
In 2009 GBP3,076,262 of the impairment loss allowance related to contracts which were terminated with a customer. The amount arose due to 
a dispute on the settlement of the ﬁnal payment. The conditions that resulted in the impairment loss being created in 2009 were resolved in 
2010 resulting in a reversal of impairment allowances amounting to offer GBP3,848,694.      
The Group believes that no further impairments are necessary, other than those raised as above, in respect of trade receivables. The balance of 
trade receivables relate to customers that have had a good track record with the Group in the past.    
The Group has ceded its trade receivables to The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited, as security for its guarantee and banking facilities (refer 
note 19.3). 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:    
 
 2010 2009
 Gross trade  Gross Gross trade  Gross 
 receivables impairment receivables impairment 
 GBP GBP GBP GBP
Group    
South Africa  34,001,642   (197,888)   25,691,802   (3,762,713) 
Rest of World  12,691,670   -   2,255,078   - 
  46,693,312   (197,888)   27,946,880   (3,762,713) 
The maximum credit risk exposure by customer type at reporting date was within the mining industry. 
Loans and other recievables       
The Group has provided funding to related parties and employees in the form of loans and ﬁnance lease receivables respectively. These loans 
and other receivables are considered low risk by management as these receivables are mostly secured by the underlying asset in the case of 
ﬁnance lease receivables. No allowances for impairment is therefore deemed necessary for these loans. The maximum exposure of the Group 
to credit risk relating to loans and other receiavbles are reﬂected by the carrying amount of these instruments and are summarised below:
   2010 2009 
   GBP GBP
Loan to related party – non-current   - 628,502
Loan to related party – current   489,587 -
Finance lease receivables   1,668,377 1,055,369
Loans to Joint Venture partners  59,213 23,776 
  2,217,177 1,707,647
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
77
26 Financial instruments and risk management (continued)
26.3 Liquidity risk    
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meets its ﬁnancial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing 
liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufﬁcient cash ﬂow and marketable securities to meet its obligations when they 
fall due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risk damage to the Group’s reputation. 
The Group ensures that it has sufﬁcient cash on hand to meet unexpected operational expenses as they fall due, including the servicing of 
ﬁnancial obligations. This excludes the potential impact of extreme circumstances that cannot be reasonably predicted, such as natural disasters. 
In addition, the Group maintains overdraft facilities to cover periods where high volumes of the operational liabilities are expected to fall due. 
The following are the contractual maturities of ﬁnancial liabilities, undiscounted, including interest payments and excluding the impact of 
netting agreements:    
 Carrying amount Contractual cash ﬂows Less than 1 year 1 – 5 years More than 5 years 
 GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP
Group     
2010     
Non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments     
Interest bearing borrowings –  
The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited  24,298,399   (29,616,907)   (6,601,412)   (23,015,495)   - 
Interest bearing borrowings – ﬁnance lease obligations  141,752   (152,484)   (87,472)   (65,012)   - 
Interest free advances received from clients  19,347,344   (19,347,344)   (6,182,700)   (13,164,644)   - 
Trade and other payables  38,969,589   (38,969,589)   (38,969,589)   -   - 
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities     
Interest rate hedge  -   -   -   -   - 
2009     
Non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments     
Interest bearing borrowings – ABSA Bank Limited  10,629,669   (12,757,001)   (3,352,618)   (9,404,383)   - 
Interest bearing borrowings – ﬁnance lease obligations  4,417,478   (5,260,613)   (1,638,088)   (3,622,525)   - 
Interest free advances received from clients  6,739,315   (6,739,315)   (1,892,899)   (4,846,416)   - 
Trade and other payables  30,413,160   (30,413,160)   (30,413,160)   -   - 
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities     
Interest rate hedge  187,355   (187,355)   (187,355)   -   - 
Fair values    
The Directors consider the fair values of assets and liabilities to be the same as the carrying amounts reﬂected in the statement of ﬁnancial position. 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
78
27 Related parties    
27.1 Identiﬁcation of related parties    
The subsidiaries, associates and joint venture companies of the Group are listed below:    
a)  Wholly owned subsidiaries, directly held    
  -  Shaft Sinkers Management Company Limited    
b)  Wholly owned subsidiaries, indirectly held    
 -  Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited    
 -  Rossal 126 (Proprietary) Limited    
 -  Jascoma Investments Limited    
 -  Shaft Sinkers (Proprietary) Limited    
 -  Shaft Sinkers Mining (Proprietary) Limited    
 -  Thomas and Pillner (Proprietary) Limited #    
 -  Shaft Sinkers International (Proprietary) Limited*    
 -  Mining and Engineering Technical Services (Proprietary) Limited #    
 -  Shaft Sinkers RUS LLC (registered in Russia)    
 -  Shaft Sinkers FZE (registered in Dubai)    
 -  Capstone International FZCO (registered in Dubai)     
c)  Partially owned subsidiary, indirectly held    
  -  70% (2009: 70%) in Shaft Sinkers Zimbabwe (Private) Limited*      
d)  Joint venture companies, indirectly held    
  -  50% (2009: 50%) in RSV-Shaft Sinkers International (Proprietary) Limited*    
  -   48.6% (2009: 48.6%) in SDM Mining Contractors (Proprietary) Limited. By agreement with Mmakau Mining (Proprietary) Limited, the 
Group accounts for a 66.7% (2009: 66.7%) economic interest in SDM Mining Contractors (Proprietary) Limited. SDM Mining Contractors 
(Proprietary) Limited remains a joint venture by virtue of the provisions in the shareholders’ agreement between the parties.  
e)  Associate companies    
  -  Nil% (2009: 25%) in Alpha Resources Limited, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Delta Gold Zimbabwe (Private) Limited  
 *Dormant companies    
 # Companies deregistered during 2009      
The Directors of the Company and other members of the executive management are deﬁned as key management.  
The Directors of the Company are listed in the Directors’ report.    
The Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in note 3.      
27.2 Material party related transactions     
Transactions with related parties    
Related party loans – refer note 21    
Interest paid to and received from related parties – refer note 4.
During the 2010 ﬁnancial year the Group disposed of its 25% interest and loan claims in Alpha Resources and Delta Gold to a previous 
minority shareholder in the Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited Group as described in note 8.      
 
The above transactions were conducted on an arms length basis.   
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
79
27 Related parties (continued)
27.3 Transactions with key management personnel    
The Group provides non-cash beneﬁts to key management by way of a long-term share incentive plan, as described in note 29.  
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Key management compensation comprised:  
Short-term employee beneﬁts   3,731,519   3,478,966 
28 Retirement beneﬁt information    
The Group has made provision for various retirement funds, covering substantially all permanent employees.    
There are two retirement Funds, all of which are deﬁned contributions funds, governed by the Pension Funds Act of 1956 of South Africa. 
The following contributions to funds were made during the year:
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Republic of South Africa    
– Sentinel Mining Industry Retirement Fund   4,457,484   3,266,314 
– Mine Employees Pension Fund    4,759,141   3,202,403 
   9,216,625   6,468,717 
29 Share based payment arrangements      
Description of the share based payment arrangements    
On 23 December 2010 the three executive directors of the Company were given awards over a number of ordinary shares of the Company. 
This share based payment arrangement will be satisﬁed at the end of the vesting periods and will be effected through the transfer of ordinary 
shares to the participants. This share based payment arrangement is therefore considered to be equity settled as deﬁned in IFRS 2 - Share 
based payment.    
Terms and conditions of the share based payment arrangements    
The share based payment arrangement comprise of two performance conditions that will be measured in stages over the vesting periods. The 
performance conditions, described below, are independent of each other and therefore have been accounted for as separate share based 
payment arrangements.     
The performance conditions that are applied for the share based payment arrangements are as follows:    
-  growth in earnings per share of the Company (“EPS”)    
-  growth in the Company’s share price    
EPS share based payment arrangement    
In order for the shares attributable to the growth in earning per share of the Company to vest, the Group has to achieve a growth in earnings 
for each of the ﬁnancial years ending 31 December 2011 to 31 December 2013 of at least 20 per cent per annum. In the event that the growth 
in earnings is between 10 and 20 per cent per annum, between 50 and 100 percent of the shares will vest on a straight line basis. In the event 
that the growth in earnings is less than 10 percent, none of the shares will vest.    
In the event that the compounded growth per annum over the three year period is 20 percent per annum all of the shares will vest to the 
participants despite not having achieved the targeted growth rate in a particular year.    
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
80
29 Share based payment arrangements (continued)
Share price based payment arrangement    
In order for the shares attributable to the growth in share price of the Company to vest, the share price of the Company has to achieve growth 
of at least 26 per cent per annum for each of the ﬁnancial years ending 31 December 2011 to 31 December 2013. The base price for the 
ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2011 is the placing price at which the Company’s shares were listed i.e. GBP1.24 per share. In the event 
that the growth in share price is between 13 and 26 percent per annum, between 50 and 100 percent of the shares will vest on a straight line 
basis. In the event that the share price growth rate is less than 13% per annum, none of the relevant shares will vest.  
In the event that the closing share prices over the 30 days following the announcement of the Group’s audited results for the ﬁnancial year 
ending 31 December 2013 is 100 percent or more above the placing price, despite not having achieved the 26 percent per annum growth in 
its share price in any year, the share price performance criteria will be deemed to have been achieved and the participants will be entitled to 
100 percent of the share awards.    
Inputs for measurement of grant date fair values    
The grant date fair value of the share based payment arrangements was measured based on the Monte Carlo Simulation option pricing 
model. Volatility was based on the historical share price data of the constituents of the Oil services and equipment sector on the London Stock 
Exchange. The inputs used in the measurement of the fair values at grant date of the share based payment arrangements were as follows:  
  
     
 Value per Assumed vesting Share price at Number Number  Weighted average 
 share right date grant date of days  of shares   volatility  
Description GBP  GBP   
Share price growth      
1st tranche  0.63  10 April 2012  1.24   474   375,000  52.51%
2nd tranche  0.52   10 April 2013  1.24   839   375,000  52.51%
3rd tranche  0.72   10 April 2014   1.24   1,204   375,000  52.51%
      
EPS shares      
1st tranche  1.22  10 April 2012   474   375,000  52.51%
2nd tranche  1.11  10 April 2013   839   375,000  52.51%
3rd tranche  0.99   10 April 2014    1,204   375,000  52.51%
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Employee beneﬁts    
Expense arising on share based payment arrangements granted on 23 December 2010 20,669   -
None of the share rights have vested at 31 December 2010    
30 Contingent Liabilities
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
30.1  South African contractual performance and/or retention guarantees and payment  
  bonds held by contracted clients and service providers at the reporting date. 5,954,033   2,566,511
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
81
31 Notes to the cash ﬂow statement   
31.1 Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes 
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Proﬁt from operations per statements of comprehensive income   17,996,022   14,343,365 
Adjustments for non-cash items included in:    
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and impairment   7,180,928   4,042,381 
Proﬁt on disposal of property, plant and equipment    (121,457)  (386,478) 
Reversal of impairment loss on property, plant and equipment   (1,532,672)   - 
Impairment losses raised on plant and equipment   54,199   - 
(Reversal)/raising of write down of inventory to net realisable value   (58,391)   73,726 
Contract provision and settlement   (3,819,876)   5,479,452 
Employee beneﬁts - share based payments    20,669   - 
Increase in retirement beneﬁt obligation   35,413   28,321 
Reversal of impairment losses on equity accounted investees   (1,763,078)   - 
   17,991,757   23,580,767 
 
31.2 Income taxation paid
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Amount payable at the beginning of the year   (3,482,690)  (1,113,963)
Prior year (under)/over provision   (1,644,364)   411,181 
Amount charged to the statement of comprehensive income   (2,275,122)  (7,302,153) 
Amount payable at the end of the year   2,914,624   3,482,690 
Foreign currency translation reserve   (430,167)  (399,185) 
   (4,917,719)  (4,921,430) 
31.3 Proceeds received on issuing of share capital
On 23 December 2010 the Company was admitted for trading on the main list of the London Stock Exchange. The proceeds received on 
issuing of share capital was as follows:
  2010
  GBP
Cash paid to acquire the non-controlling interest in Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited  20,670,129 
Cash contribution made by non-controlling shareholders towards listing expenses and IPO bonus expenses  3,433,777 
Gross cash raised on market to acquire non-controlling interest in Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited  24,103,906 
Cash raised by Company for its own purposes    6,500,205 
     30,604,111 
32 Acquisitions from entities under common control    
On 23 December 2010 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited, the South African holding 
company of the Shaft Sinkers operations. The acquisition resulted from the restructuring of the Shaft Sinkers Holdings Group, which controls 
both the Group and Capstone 615 (Pty) Limited. As a result of the acquisition, the Group, following its listing on the London Stock Exchange, is 
expected to expand its business globally.
Common control accounting principles have been used for the Group restructuring in such a manner that the consolidated results of Shaft Sinkers 
Holdings plc have been prepared on the basis that the current Group had always existed. For the purposes of disclosure of the common control 
transaction in the comparative period, Shaft Sinkers Holdings Plc will be treated as wholly-owned subsidiary of International Mineral Resources BV 
from 1 January 2009. At this date International Mineral Resources BV owned 54% of the Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited Group.  
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
82
International Mineral Resources BV exchanges its 54% interest in Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited for 22,819,266  shares in the Shaft Sinkers 
Holdings Group. At 1 January 2009 this is deemed to be to total issued share capital of Shaft Sinkers Holdings for comparative purposes at a 
price of GBP 1.24 per share, being the listing price.
The non-controlling interest reﬂected on 1 January 2009 relates to the interests of the non-controlling shareholders in the reserves of Capstone 
615 (Proprietary) Limited at 1 January 2009.
On 23 December 2010, the date of listing, the Group acquired the remaining 46% interest in the Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited Group and 
settles this liability from the proceeds of the listing. The Group owns 100% of the Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited Group from 23 December 
2010. The non-controlling interest, reﬂected in the consolidated statement of changes in equity is transferred to the common central reserve to 
reﬂect the new 100% interest in Capstone 615 (Proprietary) Limited. As this is the date of the actual transaction, the reserve now reﬂects the full 
impact of the Group restructuring transactions. The equity per category as reﬂected in the consolidated statement of changes in equity at 31 
December 2010 reﬂect the true accounting position at that date.
The transaction gave rise to a common control reserve as follows: 
  2010 2009
  GBP GBP
Share capital of Capstone 615 (Pty) Limited at date of acquisition   144   144 
Share premium of Capstone 615 (Pty) Limited at date of acquisition   3,434,021   3,434,021 
   3,434,165   3,434,165 
Value of shares issued to acquire IMR BV interest in Capstone 615 (Pty) Limited   (28,295,890)  (28,295,890) 
Value of shares issued to acquire non-controlling interest in Capstone 615 (Pty) Limited (24,103,906) -
Difference taken to common control reserve   (48,965,631)  (24,861,725) 
33 Segmental reporting    
Information about reportable segments    
The Group has two reportable segments, as described below, which are the Group’s strategic divisions. The strategic divisions of the Group 
are geographically different and are managed separately due to the unique challenges and risks that are present when operating in different 
jurisdictions.
The following describes the Group’s operating segments:       
-  South Africa - Contract services provided to clients within the Republic of South Africa    
-  Rest of world - Contract services provided to clients outside of the borders of the Republic of South Africa.    
The Group’s foreign revenues are mostly derived from contract services provided in Russia and India, with the revenues generated from Russia 
making up the majority of foreign revenues.      
Information regarding the results of each reportable segment is included below. Performance is measured based on segment proﬁt before 
income tax as described below. Performance is measured based on segment proﬁt before income tax, as included in the internal management 
reports that are reviewed by the Group’s executive management. The information is prepared under IFRS and is consistent with the Group’s 
accounting policies. Segment proﬁt is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant in 
evaluating the results of certain segments taking into consideration the unique risk characteristics of each of these segments. 
Other corporate activities comprise activities that do not by deﬁnition form part of the operating segments as well as the head ofﬁce activities 
which could not be assigned to an individual segment. Inter segment transactions are conducted on an arm’s length basis.   
 
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
83
33 Segmental reporting (continued)
     
 South Africa Rest of world Other corporate activities Total
 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP GBP
External revenues  147,490,967   110,058,382   35,636,662   37,806,695   -    -    183,127,629  147,865,077
Gross proﬁt 14,065,939 13,050,135 15,116,985 13,498,439 - - 29,182,924 26,548,574 
Depreciation and  
amortisation  6,775,998  3,853,342   323,589  149,174   81,341  39,865  7,180,928   4,042,381 
Finance income   280,720  99,845   66,787  -    271  -   347,778  99,845 
Finance expense  1,631,356  1,893,542   3,597  10,151   -    -    1,634,953   1,903,693 
Reportable segment  
proﬁt before income tax  11,876,573  12,779,119   13,722,202   9,306,394   (8,889,928)  (9,624,551)  16,708,847   12,460,962 
Reportable segment  
assets  105,903,169  68,322,257   41,431,453  23,333,787   14,800,522  8,952,056  162,135,143   100,608,100 
Capital expenditure  9,997,034 10,753,690   2,096,635  5,343,774   37,630  19,114  12,131,299   16,116,578 
Reportable segment  
liabilities 70,536,677  35,243,972   16,606,184   25,781,274   28,482,401   18,330,640  115,625,262   79,355,886 
     
     
     
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010  
34 Investment in subsidiary (Company)
34.1 Investment in subsidiary
   2010 
   GBP
Investment in Shaft Sinkers Management Company Limited    28,295,890 
The Company owns the entire issued share capital of Shaft Sinkers Management Company Limited.     
34.2 Loan to subsidiary (Company)
   2010 
   GBP
Shaft Sinkers Management Company Limited    20,670,129 
The loan is unsecured, bears no interest and has no formal terms of repayment.       
35 Other receivables (Company)          
   2010 
   GBP
Vat recoverable   59,861 
The loan is unsecured, leaves no interest and is repayable on demand.
36 Related party receivable           
   2010 
   GBP
Shaft Sinkers (Proprietary) Limited   38,590  SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
84
37 Cash and cash equivalents (Company)         
   2010 
   GBP
Current funds at bank    8,098,922 
38 Ordinary share capital (Company)
   2010 
   GBP
Authorised share capital 
63,333,333 ordinary shares with no par value
Issued share capital
47,500,000 oridnary shares with no par value   58,900,001
Reconciliation of share capital
Shares issues on incorporation   1
Shares issued on admission   58,900,001
Capitalised listing expenses   (1,638,426)
   57,261,575
39 Other payables
   2010 
   GBP
Accruals    297,856 
Other payables   153,475
   451,331
Notes to the consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements 
(continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2010   SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
85
Shareholder information 
General information
Shaft Sinkers Holdings plc’s shares are quoted on the London Stock 
Exchange.  Copies of the Group’s annual report and accounts, interim 
results and interim management statements and major presentations 
to analysts and institutional shareholders are available from the 
Company Secretary.
Dividends
As noted in the Directors’ Report on page 24, no dividend has been 
declared at the date of this report.
Registrars and transfer ofﬁce
The Company’s ordinary share register is maintained by 
Computershare Investor Services (IOM) Limited 
International House
Castle Hill
Victoria Road
Isle of Man
IM2 4RB
Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares, 
such as change of address, change of ownership or dividend 
payments should be directed to the Company’s Registrars.
Enquiries
Shareholders who wish to contact the Company on any matter 
relating to their shareholding are invited to contact the Company’s 
Registrars, Computershare Investor Services (IOM) Limited. 
Shareholders may also contact the Company Secretary, Mr. Martin 
Peters at:
EIS Advisors Limited
Millennium House
Victoria Road
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM2 4RW
Telephone +44 (0) 1624 624 100
For other enquiries, please contact the Company at the  
registered ofﬁce.
Analysis of ordinary shareholders
As at 31 March 2011
 Number of holders % Number of shares
1-1,000 shares 22  0% 15,631 
1,001-5,000 139  1% 439,032 
5,001 - 50,000 124  4% 1,712,565 
50,001 - 100,000 9  1% 665,893 
100,001 - 500,000 18  9% 4,350,229 
500,001 and over 15  85% 40,316,650 
 327   47,500,000  SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
86
Corporate information
Registered ofﬁce
Shaft Sinkers Holdings plc
18 Athol Street
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM1 JA1
Website www.shaftsinkers.co.za
Telephone +44 (0)1624 624100
Registered in the Isle of Man
Company No. 006057V
Company Secretary
Martin Peters
EIS Advisors Limited
Millennium House
Victoria Road
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM2 4RW
Telephone +44 (0) 1624 624 100
Stockbroker
Arbuthnot Securities Limited
Arbuthnot House
20 Ropemaker Street
London
EC2Y 9AR
Legal Advisors
Jones Day
21 Tudor Street
London 
EC4Y 0DJ
Auditors
KPMG Audit LLC
Heritage Court
41 Athol Street
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM99 1HN
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services (IOM) Limited
International House
Castle Hill,
Victoria Road
Isle of Man
IM2 4RB
Public Relations
M: Communications
1 Ropemaker Street, 34th Floor
London
EC2Y 9AW SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
87
Financial calendar for 2011
The following are provisional dates:
Annual General Meeting and Interim Management Statement Wednesday 8 June 2011
Interim Results and Interim dividend declaration Tuesday 30 August 2011
Ex-dividend date Wednesday 7 September 2011
Dividend record date Friday 9 September 2011
Interim dividend payment date Friday 7 October 2011
Interim management statement Tuesday 15 November 2011
Annual information update Tuesday 20 December 2011 SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
88
Notice of Annual General Meeting
SHAFT SINKERS HOLDINGS PLC (‘the Company’) 
(Incorporated in Isle of Man with company number 6057V)
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 21 Tudor Street, London EC4Y 0DJ at 11.00 
am on 8 June 2011 to consider and, if thought ﬁt, pass the following resolutions, resolutions 1 to 11 (inclusive) as ordinary resolutions and 
resolution 12 as a special resolution:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.  To receive and adopt the audited annual accounts for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2010 together with the reports of the 
directors and the auditors on those accounts.
2.  To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 35 to 39 of the Annual Report & Accounts for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 
December 2010. 
3. To elect Alon Davidov as a Director of the Company.
4. To elect Robert Schroder as a Director of the Company.
5. To elect Christopher Hall as a Director of the Company.
6. To elect Amre Youness as a Director of the Company.
7. To elect Stephen Oke as a Director of the Company.
8. To elect Ian Watson as a Director of the Company.
9. To elect Roger Williams as a Director of the Company.
10. To re-appoint KPMG Audit LLC as auditors of the Company to hold ofﬁce until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
11. To authorise the directors to determine KPMG Audit LLC’s remuneration as auditors of the Company.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
1.  THAT for the purposes of Article 6.4 of the Company’s Articles of Association the relevant “Allotment Period” shall be the period from 
the conclusion of this annual general meeting until 30 June 2012 or, if sooner, the end of the Company’s annual general meeting in 2012 
and the relevant “Non-preemption Amount” shall be such number of equity securities as shall be equal to 5 per cent. of the number of 
Ordinary Shares in issue as at 21 April 2011. 
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
MARTIN PETERS
SECRETARY
21 April 2011
Shaft Sinkers Holdings PLC
18 Athol Street
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM1 1JA
  SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
89
NOTES:
Proxies
1.   A shareholder is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend and to speak and vote at 
the Annual General Meeting. A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that 
each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder. A proxy need not also be a 
shareholder of the Company.
2.   A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid it must be received at the ofﬁces of the Company’s Registrars, Computershare Investor Services 
(Jersey) Limited, c/o Queensway House Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ES or at the email address: infor@computershare.co.uk or 
by fax to +44 (0)870 873 5851, by 11am on Monday 6 June 2011. Completion and return of a form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder 
from attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting in person if he/she so wishes.
3.   A space has been included in the form of proxy to allow shareholders to specify the number of shares in respect of which that proxy is 
appointed. Shareholders who return the form of proxy duly executed but leave this space blank will be deemed to have appointed the 
proxy in respect of all of their shares. Shareholders who wish to appoint more than one proxy in respect of their shareholding should 
contact the Company’s Registrars, Computershare Investor Services (IOM) Limited on their helpline number: +44 (0) 1534 825230 for 
additional forms of proxy, or you may photocopy the form of proxy provided with this document indicating on each copy the name of the 
proxy you wish to appoint and the number of Ordinary Shares in the Company in respect of which the proxy is appointed. All forms of 
proxy should be returned together in the same envelope.
4.   In the case of joint holders, any one holder may vote. If more than one holder is present at the meeting, only the vote of the senior will be 
accepted, seniority being determined in the order in which the names appear on the register of shareholders of the Company.
Corporate Representatives
5.   Corporate shareholders may appoint corporate representatives to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the Annual General Meeting. 
Where a person is authorised to represent a corporate shareholder at the meeting any Director or the Secretary may require him to 
produce a certiﬁed copy of the resolution from which he derives his authority.
Right to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting
6.   To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting (and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes 
they may cast), shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 11am on Monday 6 June 2011 or, in the 
event of any adjournment, 11am on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting. Changes to entries on the 
register of shareholders after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the 
Annual General Meeting.
Documents on display
7.   Copies of each Director’s service contract or letter of appointment will be available for inspection at the registered ofﬁce of the Company 
during normal business hours on any weekday (public holidays excepted) from the date of this Notice until the conclusion of the Annual 
General Meeting and at the ofﬁces of Jones Day, 21 Tudor Street, London EC4Y 0DJ for 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual  
General Meeting.
Total number of shares and voting rights
8.   As at 11am on 13 April 2011 (being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice), the Company’s issued share capital 
comprised 47,500,000 Ordinary Shares carrying one vote each. Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at  
13 April 2011 is 47,500,000. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
90
Questions at the Annual General Meeting
9.   Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions. The Company must cause to be answered any such question 
relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the 
preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of conﬁdential information, (b) the answer has already been given on a website in the 
form of an answer to a question, or (c) it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question 
be answered.
Conduct at meeting
10.   We ask all those present at the Annual General Meeting to facilitate the orderly conduct of the meeting and reserve the right, if orderly 
conduct is threatened by a person’s behaviour to require that person to leave. For security reasons, all hand luggage may be subject to 
examination prior to the entry to the Annual General Meeting. Cameras, tape recorders, laptop computers and similar equipment may not 
be taken into the Annual General Meeting.
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The notes below give an explanation of the Resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 11 are proposed as ordinary resolutions. Resolution 12 is proposed as a special resolution. 
Resolution 1: Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The purpose of this Resolution is to receive and adopt the Directors’ and Auditor’s Reports and the Accounts for the year ended  
31 December 2010.
Resolution 2: Remuneration Report
The purpose of this Resolution is to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 35 to 39 of the Annual Report & Accounts.
Resolutions 3 to 9: Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association require all new Directors to submit themselves for election by investors in their ﬁrst year following 
appointment. As the forthcoming Annual General Meeting will be the ﬁrst since Admission, the entire Board of Directors will submit 
themselves for election by investors. In future years, in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all Directors will have to 
submit themselves for re-election at least every three years if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to be eligible. 
Biographical details of the Directors presenting themselves for election can be found on pages 2 and 3 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 10 and 11: Auditors
The purpose of these Resolutions is to re-appoint KPMG Audit LLC as the Company’s Auditors and authorise the Board to ﬁx their 
remuneration.
Resolution 12: Authority to allot
The purpose of this Resolution is to propose that the period under which Directors have authority to allot shares for cash consideration to 
existing shareholders or other person, be (i) extended to 30 June 2012 or, if sooner, the end of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 
2012 and (ii) limited to 2,375,000 Ordinary Shares, which represents approximately 5 per cent. of the number of Ordinary Shares in issue as at 
today’s date. SHAFT SINKERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2010
91
FORM OF PROXY – Shaft Sinkers Holdings plc AGM 2011
To be valid the Form of Proxy must be received by post or (during normal business hours only) by hand by the Registrar, c/o Computershare 
Investor Services (Jersey) Limited, P .O. Box 329, Queensway House Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ES, or at the email address: info@
computershare.co.je or by fax to +44 (0) 870 873 5851, no later than 11.00 a.m. on 6 June 2011 (or 48 hours preceding the date and time for 
any adjourned meeting).
I/We: 
of: 
being the holders of:          ordinary shares
hereby appoint: 
of: 
or failing him: 
of: 
or failing him the Chairman of the meeting as my/our proxy to vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the Annual general Meeting of Shareholders 
of the Company  to be held at 21 Tudor Street, London EC4Y 0DJ at 11.00 am on 8 June 2011 and at every adjournment of that meeting.
Please indicate with and ‘X’ or tick in the appropriate space below how you wish your votes to be cast.
Agenda item Vote for Vote against Vote withheld
1. To receive and adopt the Group’s audited annual accounts for the ﬁnancial year ended  
 31 December 2010.   
2. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2010.    
3. To elect Alon Davidov as a Director of the Company.   
4. To elect Robert Schroder as a Director of the Company.   
5. To elect Christopher Hall as a Director of the Company.   
6. To elect Amre Youness as a Director of the Company.   
7. To elect Stephen Oke as a Director of the Company.   
8. To elect Ian Watson as a Director of the Company.   
9. To elect Roger Williams as a Director of the Company.   
10. To re-appoint KPMG Audit LLC as auditors of the Company to hold ofﬁce until the conclusion  
 of the next Annual General Meeting. 
11. To authorise the directors to determine KPMG Audit LLC’s remuneration as auditors  
 of the Company.   
SPECIAL BUSINESS   
12. Authority to allot Ordinary Shares equal to 5 per cent. of the number of Ordinary Shares  
 in issue as at 21 April 2011.  
Signed at:                          on:  2011
 
Signature(s):  
Assisted by me (where applicable):  
Full names of signatory if signing in a representative capacity. Please use block capital letters   94
SHAFT
SINKERS
Shaft Sinkers Holdings plc
18 Athol Street
Douglas
Isle of Man
IM1 JA1
Telephone +44 (0)1624 624100
Email: info@shaftsinkers.co.za
www.shaftsinkers.co.za
