  
   
Shanks Group plc annual report and accounts 2009 
 
 
Contents 
 
 
 Shanks Group 
1 Our Vision, Our Business and Our Strategy 
2 Financial Highlights 
3 Chairman’s Statement 
6 Chief Executive’s Statement 
 Our Business 
9 Market Overview 
11 Corporate Strategy 
15 Business Review by Country 
26 Financial Review 
33 Corporate Responsibility 
 Governance 
38 Board of Directors 
39 Directors’ Report 
46 Corporate Governance 
52 Remuneration Report 
60 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
61 Auditors’ Report 
 Financial Statements 
63 Consolidated Income Statement 
63 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 
64 Consolidated Balance Sheet 
65 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
66 Company Income Statement 
66 Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 
67 Company Balance Sheet 
68 Company Cash Flow Statement 
69 Notes to the Financial Statements 
108 Subsidiary Undertakings and Joint Ventures 
110 Consolidated Five Year Financial Summary 
 Shareholder and Company Information 
111 Shareholder Information 
113 Financial Calendar 
114 Company Information  shanks.  annual report 2009      1  
 
 
Shanks Group 
 
We are europe’s largest listed independent waste processing and resource 
management company, operating in the Netherlands, Belgium, UK and Canada.   
 
Our Vision 
 
Our vision is to be europe’s leading provider of sustainable waste management 
solutions.   
 
Our Business 
 
 NetherlandsBelgium UK Canada Group 
Average number of employees 2,295 1,245 992 12 4,544 
Active operating centres 39 20 44 1 104 
Operating centres with recycling/recovery 35 12 17 1 65 
Operational landfill sites 1 2 6 - 9 
Collection and transport lorries 845 500 221 - 1,566 
Tonnes waste handled (million tonnes) 4.7 1.3 1.8 0.1 7.9 
Tonnes materials recovered (million tonnes) 4.12 0.80 0.59 0.06 5.57 
Overall recycling and recovery rate 87% 61% 32% 75% 70% 
Energy generated (megawatt hours) 10,214 53,271 39,074 - 102,559 
 
Our Strategy 
 
1 Invest to drive organic growth where returns are greatest 
2 Develop our infrastructure further to support sustainable waste management 
and conversion of waste to renewable energy 
3 Share our core capabilities and technologies within the Group 
4 Maximise asset utilisation and minimise unit costs 
5 Continue to use acquisitions to improve asset utilisation and re-orient the 
portfolio to high growth markets  shanks.  annual report 2009      2  
Financial Highlights 
 
2009 2008 Change
Revenue £697m £564m 24%
Operating profit £63.9m £55.3m 16%
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles
1
£3.8m £2.5m
Exceptional profit on disposals
2
£(3.3)m £(1.9)m
Exceptional restructuring charge
2
£2.0m £0.0m
Trading Profit
3
£66.4m £55.9m 19%
Profit before tax £33.9m £41.3m -18%
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles
1
£3.8m £2.5m
Exceptional profit on disposals
2
£(3.3)m £(1.9)m
Exceptional restructuring charge
2
£2.0m £0.0m
Change in fair value of interest rate swaps
2
£12.1m £2.9m
Underlying profit before tax
4
£48.5m £44.8m 8%
Tax on underlying profit 29% (2008: 32%) £(14.1)m £(14.4)m
Underlying profit after tax
5
£34.4m £30.4m 13%
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles
1
 (net of tax) £(2.8)m £(1.9)m
Exceptional profit on disposals
2
£3.3m £1.9m
Exceptional restructuring charge
2 
(net of tax) £(1.4)m £0.0m
Change in fair value of interest rate swaps
2
 (net of tax) £(8.7)m £(2.1)m
Exceptional tax charge for loss of UK IBAs
2
£(18.4)m £0.0m
Profit after tax £6.4m £28.3m
Underlying basic earnings per share
5
14.5p 12.9p 12%
Basic earnings per share 2.7p 12.0p
Dividend per share 2.1p 6.2p
EBITDA
6
£113.1m £92.7m 22%
March 09 March 08
Core net debt £290m £212m
PFI Companies and other project finance net debt
7
£118m £111m
Total Group net debt before fair value adjustment
7
£408m £323m
Fair Value of PFI interest rate swaps £16m £4m
Total Group net debt £424m £327m
 
1
 Acquisition intangibles comprise intangible assets arising on acquisitions excluding landfill void and computer 
software 
2
 The Group considers these items as exceptional for the purposes of determining underlying profit (see note 1 of 
financial statements) 
3
 Before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, exceptional items, interest and tax 
4
 Before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, exceptional items and tax 
5
 Before amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional items, net of associated tax 
6
 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 
7
 Excluding fair value of interest rate swaps 
 
Revenue £m
420.4
442.5
508.5
563.7
696.5
05 06 07 08 09
Underlying Profit £m
30.7
34
40.3
44.8
48.5
05 06 07 08 09
Profit before tax from 
continuing operations £m
19.7
30.3
46.1
41.3
33.9
05 06 07 08 09 shanks.  annual report 2009      3  
Trading performance remains resilient despite the economic 
slowdown.  The approach to delivering our strategy has been 
adapted to increase the focus on maximising the short to medium 
term cash position 
 
 
Chairman’s Statement 
 
The economic environment in which the Group operates changed dramatically during 
the second half of 2008, with all countries in the Eurozone now experiencing sharp 
declines in GDP.  This has led to reductions in the amount of consumer and industrial 
waste produced and a fall in the value of materials recovered from waste. The speed 
and severity of this slowdown in economic activity impacted on all companies in the 
waste sector.   
 
Against this background, the financial results for the year demonstrate the robust 
make-up of our business portfolio.  Underlying profit before tax rose 8% to £48.5m.  
This reflected growth of 13% in the first half year, slowing to 4% in the second half as 
a result of the progressively deteriorating economic conditions.   
 
People 
The change in economic outlook during the year has required our people to adapt 
very rapidly. We have strong operational management across the Group and they 
have responded quickly and decisively to the challenges facing them.  On behalf of 
the Board I would like to thank all of our employees for their commitment and 
creativity.  We have achieved some major milestones during the year and they 
should all feel proud of these achievements.   
 
In April 2009 we announced the appointment of Chris Surch as Group Finance 
Director on the departure of Fraser Welham.  Prior to joining Shanks, Chris held a 
number of senior positions for Smiths Group plc, most recently as Finance Director of 
the Specialty Engineering Division.  Chris brings years of industry and operational 
expertise to Shanks from his time at Smiths Group and previously TI Group plc.  On 
behalf of the Board I would like to record our appreciation to Fraser for everything he 
has done over the last thirteen years with the Group.   
 
Strategic Progress 
The tougher external environment will require us to be even more focused and 
disciplined in the pursuit of our long term strategy for the Group.   
 
In response to the quite exceptional prevailing economic conditions, the stewardship 
of the Group’s cash position has become a key strategic priority.  We are taking 
action to realise value from non-core assets, and have initiated a range of cost 
saving measures across the Group. In addition, efforts to improve the efficient use of 
capital in the business have resulted in a marked reduction in expenditure on 
maintenance, and a sharply improved working capital performance.   
 
These actions confirm our determination to position the Group to participate in the 
market’s transition to more sustainable waste management solutions.  Despite the 
present economic climate, the environmental challenges facing society have not 
changed, and to meet these challenges the pace of legislative change has 
accelerated.  In this context it was pleasing to see the UK Government’s recent  shanks.  annual report 2009      4  
budget commitment to provide significant funding to support the PFI process and the 
decision to further increase landfill tax.   
 
With a portfolio offering proven landfill diversion and waste to energy technologies 
ranging from anaerobic digestion, biological treatment and incineration, Shanks is 
well positioned to selectively realise very attractive opportunities in our core markets.   
 
Financial Position 
In April 2009 we announced the successful refinancing of the Group’s £250m 
medium term bank facility.  This was a significant achievement which secured an 
increase in funding from an expanded group of financial institutions, in a very difficult 
funding market.   
 
In this recessionary environment, capacity to continue to invest will be critical to the 
long term market positioning and profitability of the Group.   
 
Strengthening our capital structure 
The Group has historically maintained what was considered to be an appropriate 
level of borrowings given the prevailing economic environment.  Given the prospect 
of a difficult trading environment in 2009/10, we intend to continue our actions to 
preserve cash and reduce net debt.  In order to further strengthen the position of the 
Group, the Board believes it is both appropriate and in the best interests of its 
shareholders to raise net proceeds of approximately £66.7 million equity via a Rights 
Issue which we announced on 21 May 2009. 
 
We intend to use the net proceeds of this Rights Issue to reduce the level of 
indebtedness which in the short term will increase headroom and ensure balance 
sheet strength in case of any further unforeseen deterioration in market conditions.  
We have a clear growth strategy in place based around three key areas (Recycling, 
Organic processing (including Orgaworld), and UK PFI), and funding for these will be 
provided by the proceeds of targeted non-core disposals and also strong cash flow 
generation once economic conditions start to improve. 
 
Dividend 
The Company will not be recommending a final 2009 dividend.  Following the Rights 
Issue, the Board expects to pay an interim and final dividend for the year to 31 March 
2010, and then to implement a progressive dividend policy within a cover range of 
2.0 to 2.5. 
 
The Board 
The Board has also had to adapt very quickly to the changing economic 
circumstances, and I would like to thank my Board colleagues for their unreserved 
commitment and professionalism in addressing the challenges facing the Group.   
 
For investors, these are also difficult times, and it is critically important that they have 
confidence in the qualification and decisions of the Board, and also that the Board 
can be held accountable for its decisions.  In recognition of the need to strengthen 
this accountability the Board will present to the AGM in July a resolution proposing 
the annual re-election of all Non-executive Directors.   
 
Remuneration 
The Board is mindful of the understandable public and investor focus on the 
remuneration of senior executives in the current climate, particularly in those 
companies where earnings are under pressure. The Remuneration Report sets out 
the steps we have taken to demonstrate responsiveness to these concerns, whilst  shanks.  annual report 2009      5  
also ensuring the continued motivation of our senior management team in what are 
quite exceptional operating conditions. 
 
Corporate Responsibility 
Shanks operates in a sector which is increasingly seen to have an important role in 
managing the impact of climate change and improving the re-use of the world’s finite 
resources. This year the Group will publish its first Corporate Responsibility Report, 
which sets out some clear commitments and reports progress on a number of 
important indicators.  This will include a calculation of the Group’s carbon footprint, 
together with the impact our activities can have on wider carbon emissions. We have 
also established a Group Corporate Responsibility Committee which reports directly 
into the Executive Committee to ensure a consistent and committed focus across the 
Group. 
 
Outlook 
The outlook for the near term is undoubtedly more challenging than twelve months 
ago. In the Netherlands our exposure to the construction sector has seen the 
profitability of our Dutch Solid Waste business reduce over recent months and other 
parts of the business have also been impacted. However, we have taken decisive 
action to reduce costs and conserve cash and the benefits of recent investments will 
come through during the current financial year.   
 
We expect the current year to remain challenging, but the Group is well positioned 
with strong market positions and proven technologies to deliver attractive earnings 
growth once the wider economic outlook improves.   
 
 
 
 
Adrian Auer 
Chairman 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      6  
Our priorities will remain in line with our vision of sustainable waste 
management focusing on the generation of energy from waste and 
recycling 
 
 
Chief Executive’s Statement 
 
My second year as Chief Executive of the Shanks Group takes place within a very 
different macroeconomic environment to the first. The credit crunch has led to 
negative GDP growth in all our markets, reduced the availability of capital and 
changed attitudes to gearing. 
 
We have reshaped our priorities and business model to the changed environment 
whilst continuing to deliver our long term strategy. The fundamental regulatory and 
legislative drivers are undiminished and the opportunities available to the business 
remain. It is important that we pursue them at the right time.  
 
Following strong trading in the first half of the year, we have been active in the 
second half in both taking the short term measures necessary to mitigate the profit 
impact of a sharp economic downturn as well as reshaping our business model to 
continue developing our strategy through a recession.   
 
This has necessitated a reassessment of how we generate adequate cash flow for 
investment whilst volumes in our core markets are declining. Our response, outlined 
more fully below, has been to be tough on reducing operating costs, working capital 
and maintenance capital expenditure and to be more active in recycling capital from 
disposal of non-core assets.  
 
Progress during the year 
Last year I set out the five key elements of our strategy for the Group and I am 
pleased to report progress against them. 
 
Invest to drive organic growth where returns are greatest 
 
Organic revenue growth in the first half year was 7%.  This fell during the second half 
year leaving annual growth of 3%.  This reflected principally the impact of a reduction 
in the level of waste arising in our industrial and commercial customer base and we 
expect the decline to continue during the coming year.  Our strategy of investing to 
drive growth does however mitigate the impact of this decline and we expect the full 
year benefits of the investments we have made in 2008/9 to contribute £7m to trading 
profit during 2009/10. 
 
Develop our infrastructure further to support sustainable waste management 
and conversion of waste to renewable energy 
 
We have commissioned a number of capital projects to improve our ability to deliver 
sustainable waste management solutions. These include new sorting lines at two of 
our Dutch recycling businesses, the new recycling/solid recovered fuel (SRF) 
facilities and anaerobic digestion plant in Belgium, composting plants in Canada and 
the Netherlands and additional engines in our landfill power division.  
 
Assets under construction include a further composting plant in Canada, a 
wastewater and anaerobic digestion facility in Amsterdam, a steam turbine and  shanks.  annual report 2009      7  
combined heat and power (CHP) plant in Belgium, as well as a new recycling facility 
in Glasgow.   
 
The UK PFI market is an important opportunity for Shanks to help the UK 
government develop sustainable alternatives to landfill. We have sought to 
complement our powerful mechanical biological treatment (MBT) technology offering 
through our newly formed joint venture with Wheelabrator, a subsidiary of Waste 
Management Inc.  This allows Shanks to offer an energy-from-waste proposition to 
those authorities who have chosen this as their preferred treatment technology. We 
are very pleased with the positive market response to the relationship with 
Wheelabrator and have been shortlisted on a number of authority tenders.  Our 
pipeline is as full as it has ever been, reflecting our increased investment in bidding 
during the year.   
 
Share our core capabilities and technologies within the Group 
 
This is an important cultural change for a Group that is used to operating in a 
decentralised way and inevitably takes some time to implement. However, we have 
made progress in launching the Orgaworld business in the UK which includes 
processing of food waste from Marks and Spencer’s stores. 
 
We are also working with our Benelux team in the design of our UK recycling facilities 
and have cross Group teams looking at a number of projects. 
 
Maximise asset utilisation and minimise unit costs 
 
We have taken steps to reduce our cost base during the year. In July 2008 we 
moved the Group Corporate Office from Bourne End to share the UK Head Office 
facility in Milton Keynes.  During the year we announced approximately 100 
redundancies in our UK and Belgian operations as a regrettable response to the 
downturn in trading. In all of our core operations we have been reducing variable 
costs as volumes reduce and cutting back on overhead expenditure.  Our plans for 
2009/10 include approximately £10m of savings in our fixed cost base to mitigate the 
profit impact of declining volumes. 
 
Continue to use acquisitions to improve asset utilisation and re-orient the 
portfolio to high growth markets 
 
In April 2008 we acquired the Foronex business in Belgium and despite difficult 
market conditions are pleased with trading in the final quarter as the benefits of our 
integration plan came through.   
 
To generate growth capital for our strategy we have been disposing of non core 
assets. In the UK we realised £5m from selling operations outside our strategic 
regions and have recently announced the sale of our interest in the Avondale landfill 
joint venture for a total consideration of up to £27.5m.  The Group has also market 
tested a number of other smaller disposals but has avoided proceeding with 
transactions at depressed prices which it does not believe represent good value for 
shareholders. We will continue to review opportunities to realise value from our non-
core assets and investments as appropriate.   
 
Culture 
I retain my belief in the fundamentally decentralised structure within the Group as this 
allows us to remain responsive to our changing customer needs in this fast moving 
environment. However, we will continue to promote the sharing of best practice  shanks.  annual report 2009      8  
where it can deliver tangible benefits. We will also look to implement a more 
structured performance management framework to allow us to benchmark 
performance, actively share best practice, improve our forecasting and provide the 
tools and information to allow our entrepreneurial managers to do what they do best 
– develop their business in their local markets. 
 
Performance 
Given the difficult market conditions I believe the Group delivered a creditable 
performance in 2008/9. Our focus in 2009/10 will be to minimise the impact of the 
downturn on the business and maintain strong relationships with our customers so 
that our performance picks up strongly as economic conditions recover.  
 
Our priorities will remain in line with our vision of sustainable waste management 
focusing on the generation of energy from waste and recycling. We expect growth 
within this strategy to come from three main areas: 
 
• Recycling  
• Organic processing, particularly through our Orgaworld technology 
• UK PFI opportunities 
 
 
Tom Drury 
Group Chief Executive  shanks.  annual report 2009      9  
Market Overview 
 
Waste management is an essential service.  In societies where there is a high level 
of regulation and enforcement, it is a sophisticated industry using advanced 
technologies.  In societies with little or no regulation or enforcement, waste tends to 
be treated indiscriminately.   
 
In the European Union (EU) where most of the Group’s operations are situated, the 
level of environmental regulation is high, however unlike trade regulations, there are 
no common standards for waste management.  EU legislation on waste sets 
minimum standards which member nations must meet, however they are free to 
exceed these standards in order to follow their own political and environmental 
agendas.  The result is that, within the EU, national regulations differ and there is no 
single market. 
 
The waste management market can be subdivided into non-hazardous and 
hazardous waste.  The former tends to be a local business, as the relatively low unit 
cost of treatment makes transport a significant part of the overall cost.  Hazardous 
waste treatment costs tend to be higher making it a more regional business. 
 
Both the public and the private sector are active in the waste market.  The degree of 
privatisation varies across Europe; it is high in the UK and France but lower in 
Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium.  Advancing EU legislation is necessitating 
substantial investment in new infrastructure.  This investment combined with 
budgetary constraints is driving privatisation initiatives in many EU countries.  Within 
the private sector, consolidation of the industry has been a feature for many years.  
The new infrastructure requirements and the long term nature of the business have 
recently attracted infrastructure funds. 
 
Within the national markets a further distinction may be made between “collection, 
transfer and recycling” and “treatment and disposal”.  The former has historically had 
low barriers to entry and hence has been made up of many small participants.  
Increasing recycling requires greater investment in infrastructure which is moving this 
market towards the larger players.  Treatment and disposal have high barriers to 
entry as facilities tend to be capital intensive and projects have long gestation 
periods.  These activities are therefore the domain of well capitalised companies, and 
are populated by a few large players, often multinationals.  
 
The markets may also be split between the industrial and commercial (I&C) sector 
and the municipal sector.  In most EU countries the municipalities have a statutory 
duty to deal with household waste, which they either do themselves or use private 
sector contractors.  They have no such duty in respect of I&C waste.  Due to the 
larger volumes controlled by the municipalities and their longer term outlook, the 
municipal sector is typified by large, long-term contracts which tend to be five to ten 
years for collection and often in excess of twenty years for treatment and disposal.  In 
the I&C sector the volumes generated by individual entities tend to be relatively small 
and their outlooks are shorter.  This market therefore tends to be more short term 
with contracts in excess of a couple of years being rare. 
 
Market Trends and Drivers 
Across the world, governments are urging the waste industry to support them in 
recovering more resources and energy from waste, and are providing economic 
incentives to increase recycling through taxation on landfill and in some cases  shanks.  annual report 2009      10  
incineration, alongside subsidies for treatment processes that support the production 
of renewable energy from waste.  The general market trend can be summarised as: 
 
“Less waste, more materials recovery, energy from waste and much less landfill” 
 
The high level factors behind this are climate change, the price and security of supply 
of fossil fuels and an increasing appreciation within society of the need to develop 
sustainable waste solutions.  These factors are driving a convergence between the 
waste, energy intensive and power industries. 
 
In terms of specific legislative and market drivers these can be summarised as 
follows: 
 
The European Landfill Directive - biodegradable waste in landfill is a major source 
of methane emissions to the atmosphere.  Methane is a potent greenhouse gas with 
twenty five times the impact of a carbon dioxide emission of the same mass.  A key 
objective of this directive is to significantly reduce the landfilling of biodegradable 
waste, a major component of municipal waste that is landfilled by European member 
states.  The directive also aims to reduce the polluting impact of landfills by 
substantially restricting other types of waste that may be landfilled. 
 
Landfill tax - a significant mechanism being used by many European states to drive 
waste out of landfill to more environmentally acceptable options such as recycling 
and energy recovery. 
 
Energy prices and surety of supply - these have increased the pressure to find 
alternative fuels; waste is one of these. 
 
Carbon emissions quotas – these have further increased the cost of using fossil 
fuels.  Waste derived fuels can be exempt from carbon emissions calculations, 
increasing interest in this source of fuel. 
 
Renewable electricity - many waste based electricity generation projects qualify for 
renewable electricity subsidies and credits, available in various forms across Europe. 
This is because a major component of waste derived fuels comprises renewable 
short carbon cycle materials, e.g. wood, paper, and other vegetable matter. 
 
European Waste Framework Directive – the revised European Waste Framework 
Directive published in November 2008 provides further legislative support for 
recovering more resources and energy from waste by setting minimum energy 
recovery criteria and introducing statutory recycling targets for member states to 
achieve by 2020 both for municipal waste, 50%, and construction and demolition 
waste, 70%. 
 
The effects of these drivers vary by territory and are explained in the business 
reviews by country.  
  shanks.  annual report 2009      11  
Corporate Strategy 
 
 
Group Vision 
 
“To be Europe’s leading provider of sustainable waste management solutions.” 
 
This will be achieved by firmly positioning the Group in the Recycling and Energy 
Recovery area of the Waste Hierarchy (see Figure 1). 
 
Prevention 
Reuse 
Recycling 
Energy recovery 
Disposal
shanks
shanks
Prevention 
Reuse 
Recycling 
Energy recovery 
Disposal
shanks
shanks
 
 
Figure 1 – Waste Hierarchy 
 
 
The key elements of the Group’s strategy are: 
• Invest to drive organic growth where returns are greatest 
• Develop our infrastructure further to support sustainable waste management and 
conversion of waste to renewable energy 
• Share our core capabilities and technologies within the Group 
• Maximise asset utilisation and minimise unit costs 
• Continue to use acquisitions to improve asset utilisation and re-orient the portfolio 
to high growth markets 
 
This provides a strong corporate framework for clear individual country strategies 
which are detailed in the Country Business Reviews. 
 
Activities and Structure 
The Group is a major player in the Netherlands, Belgium and the UK.  There are also 
some operations in France close to the Belgian border which are managed from 
Belgium and combined with the Belgian operations due to their small size.  There is 
also a start up operation in Canada specialising in the treatment of source 
segregated municipal organic waste streams using our Orgaworld tunnel composting 
technology. 
 
The Group’s organisational structure reflects the national nature of the markets in 
which it operates, with divisions in the Netherlands, Belgium, UK and Canada.  
Management of the Group is decentralised to ensure that the people making the 
decisions are close to, and understand, their markets.  This structure is underpinned 
by strong central financial control.  Throughout the organisation we employ high 
calibre management who are properly trained and motivated.  shanks.  annual report 2009      12  
 
Table 1 below summarises the Group’s waste activities in each country and Table 2 
shows how these activities are grouped in the segmental reporting. 
 
Table 1: Group Activities   
   
 
 
Industrial & 
Commercial 
 
Municipal 
Non-hazardous Solid Waste   
Collection NL, BE, UK BE 
Transfer & recycling NL, BE, UK NL, BE, UK 
Organic Processing NL NL, CA 
Residual treatment BE BE, UK 
Landfill disposal & power NL, BE, UK BE, UK 
Hazardous Waste   
Industrial cleaning and transport NL, BE  
Treatment and disposal NL, BE  
Contaminated land remediation NL, BE, UK  
 
 
Table 2: Waste Activities in Segmental Reporting 
  
Solid Waste Non-hazardous solid waste collections, 
transfer, recycling and treatment 
Landfill and Power Landfill disposal (including contaminated 
soils) and power generation from landfill 
gas 
Hazardous Waste Industrial cleaning, hazardous waste 
transport, treatment (including 
contaminated soils) and disposal and 
contaminated land remediation 
Organic Treatment Anaerobic digestion and tunnel 
composting of source segregated organic 
waste streams 
PFI contracts Long term UK municipal waste treatment 
contracts 
 
In addition to the waste activities detailed above we also operate a sand quarry 
adjacent to our landfill site in Wallonia and have small infrastructure and 
groundworks operations in Ghent in Belgium and Amersfoort in the Netherlands.  
Due to their small size, the infrastructure and groundworks activities are reported as 
part of the Solid Waste activities. 
 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
The Group’s KPIs can be divided into three categories, health and safety, 
environmental and operational.   
 
Health and Safety 
Reporting of Injuries Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations (RIDDOR) 
is UK law which requires companies to report specified more serious accidents and 
incidents to the Health and Safety Executive.  The Group requires all of its 
operations, no matter which country they are based in, to report monthly in this 
common format.  Minor incidents are also reported.  The minor and RIDDOR KPIs for  shanks.  annual report 2009      13  
the current and prior years are given in the Corporate Responsibility section of this 
report. 
 
Environmental 
The Group closely monitors compliance with environmental permits at locations.  All 
issues are reviewed at monthly divisional meetings and, at least quarterly, at Group 
Board level.  Details of prosecutions during 2008/9 are given in the Corporate 
Responsibility section of this report. 
 
Operational 
The number of waste activities undertaken by the Group is significant, with each site 
involved in differing ranges of activities.  The performance indicators used to monitor 
these activities are varied and range from lifts per day, lifts per kilometre and tonnes 
per lift for collection activities, to input and output tonnages and final elimination 
diversion rates for treatment and recycling activities.  Currently these KPIs are only 
used at a local level, with the KPIs at a regional or country level being financial in 
nature. These KPIs are those common to most businesses namely revenue, trading 
profit, cash flows and return on capital employed.  Details are included in the 
Business Review by Country section.   
 
Principal Risks and Their Mitigation 
The performance of our Industrial & Commercial (I&C) businesses (approximately 
85% of revenue) is linked to the economic activity in the sectors we serve.  We are 
therefore exposed to fluctuations in these sectors across our national markets.  We 
mitigate this risk by diversifying our customer base where possible. 
 
The sale of recyclable materials provides a significant source of income across the 
Group.  As seen in the latter part of 2008 the level of global economic activity can 
have a dramatic effect on commodity prices and hence the value of these 
recyclables.  Where the Group collects or processes segregated recyclables streams 
such as paper and cardboard, it endeavours to reduce the exposure to fluctuations in 
commodity prices by linking input prices directly to corresponding quoted commodity 
prices.  Where the recyclables are recovered from residual waste streams their value 
is small compared to the costs of handling the stream, so is not separately identified 
in the overall price to the customer.  However, the combined value of recyclables 
extracted from large volumes of residual waste can be significant and the impact of 
falling prices therefore becomes material. The Group seeks to limit exposure to 
fluctuations in commodity prices in the short to medium term by entering into 
agreements with off takers, however in the longer term fluctuations in the value of 
these streams have to be covered in the collection or gate fee to the waste producer.  
 
Borrowings are drawn, so far as possible, in the same currencies as the underlying 
investment to reduce translation exposure on exchange rate movements. However 
movements in exchange rates could have a negative impact on translations of the 
results of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries into sterling. 
 
In addition to the above economic risks there are a number of waste industry specific 
risks: 
 
Environmental Legislation and its Interpretation 
As already mentioned, regulation is a key driver of the waste market.  The ability of 
individual countries, and indeed regions in the case of Belgium, to set their own 
legislation makes this a very complex field.  This is further complicated by the rapid 
rate of change in legislation resulting from the increased profile of environmental 
issues.  Changes in the legislation or its interpretation can have a significant and far  shanks.  annual report 2009      14  
reaching impact on markets.  The Group endeavours to mitigate this risk by 
employing high quality management in each of our divisions to influence the evolving 
legislative framework.  We therefore actively lobby for our interests at European, 
National and Regional levels. 
 
Environmental Compliance 
All operating sites and activities are regulated by environmental authorities in line 
with the requirements set out within licences and permits.  These licences and 
permits are required to carry on the business, therefore the negotiation of, and 
compliance with, their terms is of paramount importance.  Maintaining the highest 
environmental standards is also important to ensure continuing acceptance of 
operations by host communities, and to satisfy customers.  Details of how the Group 
monitors and controls environmental compliance are given in the Corporate 
Responsibility section of this report.  
 
Health and Safety 
The waste management industry is recognised as one of the most hazardous sectors 
in which to work.  Shanks’ employees are the Group's most important and valuable 
asset and their health and safety is paramount.  As a result Shanks devotes 
considerable management resource to ensure the highest health and safety practices 
are imposed and maintained.  Details can be found below in the Corporate 
Responsibility section of this report.  
 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      15  
 
Business Review by Country 
 
Chart 1 shows the geographical split of revenue and trading profit.  The Netherlands 
remains the main source of the Group’s profits contributing 63%, with Belgium and 
the UK contributing 27% and 8% respectively.  Canada, still being in start up mode, 
currently contributes 2%. 
 
 
Chart 1: Revenue and Trading Profit by Territory
Revenue
26%
1%
22%
51%
Trading Profit
1
63%
27%
8%
2%
Netherlands Belgium United Kingdom Canada
 
1
 before group central services  
 
The Netherlands 
Market 
The Netherlands has had some of the most advanced environmental legislation in 
Europe in place for some time. They also have high levels of landfill tax (currently 
circa €90 per tonne).  These, together with the geological characteristics of the 
country, have resulted in a low reliance on landfill, incineration being the predominant 
final disposal route.  The higher cost and limited capacity of final disposal outlets has 
made sorting and recycling in the Netherlands more viable and it is not uncommon 
for recycling rates to be 70% or above. 
 
The Group’s business in the Netherlands splits into three divisions: Solid Waste, 
Hazardous Waste and Organic Treatment.  The Solid Waste business comprises a 
number of large recycling sites, together with supporting collection vehicle fleets, 
which typically recycle and divert from landfill or incineration 80% of the waste they 
process.  The business derives approximately half its trading profit from construction 
and demolition (C&D) waste, the other half being from more general I&C waste and 
other activities. There is limited work from the municipal sector.  The business is 
principally based in the populous Randstad area to the west of the country where we 
have strong market positions; number one in the collection of C&D waste and 
number three in the collection of more general I&C waste.  Our estimated national 
market shares are 7% and 11% respectively. 
 
The Hazardous Waste business comprises two units: Afvalstoffen Terminal Moerdijk 
(ATM), a treatment plant and Reym, which focuses on industrial cleaning.  ATM is 
one of the world’s largest single site hazardous waste facilities, processing almost 
1.5 million tonnes of low contamination hazardous waste per annum. There are three 
principal processes: thermal treatment of contaminated soils, pyrolysis of paint waste  shanks.  annual report 2009      16  
and biological and physio-chemical treatment of acqueous wastes.  Reym supplies 
industrial cleaning services to the oil and gas, petrochemical and other industries.  
Again both these businesses have dominant market positions being market leaders 
in their respective activities.  Market shares vary by activity: for industrial cleaning we 
have around 20%; for treatment this is estimated at 25% for soil cleaning with 40-
50% for highly contaminated water treatment and paint waste. 
 
Organic Treatment comprises the Orgaworld business which consists of a number of 
treatment facilities for organic wastes by wet or dry anaerobic digestion, or tunnel 
composting. These waste streams originate from industry, mainly from food 
processing companies and supermarkets, and source segregated organic municipal 
waste streams.  Orgaworld is the number three player in the Netherlands with a 
market share of around 7%. 
 
Strategy 
The strategic goal for the Dutch operations is to maintain the strong operating 
margins we currently enjoy and, over the long term, grow both the Solid and 
Hazardous Waste businesses ahead of gross domestic product.  This will be 
achieved by:  
• maintaining the current decentralised structure and culture but seeking out 
greater benefits from collaboration between the business units; 
• upgrading existing recycling facilities to improve their efficiency and thereby 
maintain our market leadership in processing costs; 
• focusing on new niche mono-stream markets such as the depleted growth 
media from the Dutch greenhouse industry we already process; 
• continuing the successful track record of tuck-in acquisitions; and 
• maintaining the current strong cash generation from the business. 
 
In addition the recent Orgaworld acquisition provides significant opportunities for 
higher rates of growth in the organic waste treatment sector not only in the 
Netherlands, but also in the UK, Belgium and Canada. 
 
Operational Review 
 
Table 3: Netherlands Revenue and Trading Profit by Activity
2009 2008 Variance 2009 2008 Variance
€m €m €m % €m €m €m %
Solid Waste 274 269 5 2% 38.4 42.6 (4.2) -10%
Hazardous Waste 151 143 8 6% 18.8 13.4 5.4 40%
Organic Treatment 12 10 2 20% 2.1 2.3 (0.2) -9%
Country Central Services (5) (4) (1) 25% (4.7) (4.9) 0.2 4%
Total (€m) 432 418 14 3% 54.6 53.4 1.2 2%
Total
(£m at average FX rate) 356 295 61 21% 44.9 37.7 7.2 19%
Revenue Trading Profit
 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      17  
Table 4: Netherlands Trading Margins and Return on Capital Employed by Activity
(after allocation of Country Central Services)
2009 2008 Variance 2009 2008 Variance
% %% % %%
Solid Waste 13 15 (2) 9 10 (1)
Hazardous Waste 11 83 19 13 6
Organic Treatment 15 21 (6) 5 7(2)
Total 13 13 - 11 10 1
Trading Margin ROCE
 
 
Trading profit in the Netherlands improved 19% to £44.9m (2008: £37.7m).  
Eliminating the impact of exchange, profits were up 2% year on year.  A difficult 
second half in Solid Waste due to the economic downturn and harsh weather 
conditions was offset by a strong performance from Hazardous Waste. 
 
In Solid Waste the full year effect of last year’s four tuck-in acquisitions contributed 
some €1.1m (3%) of additional trading profit.  Profits from the existing Solid Waste 
businesses have reduced by €5.3m (12%) principally due to the sharp downturn in 
the economy at the end 2008.  This manifested itself in a number of ways. As 
mentioned previously Solid Waste derives around 50% of its business from the 
construction and demolition (C&D) sector.  In the first quarter of 2009 we have seen 
reducing volumes in this market which have been further depressed by the unusually 
harsh winter.  These reducing volumes have increased competitive pressure 
restricting our ability to raise prices at the beginning of 2009.   
 
Whilst not growing, the more general I&C market has been more stable in terms of 
volumes, however here too there is pricing pressure as competitors seek to replace 
falling C&D volumes.   
 
At the same time as these local economic issues, the collapse in commodity prices 
caused by the global downturn has driven down the value of recyclable materials.  
This has had a modest effect on the profitability of source segregated recyclable 
streams due to the pass through nature of the commercial arrangements. However, 
the impact on margins of general waste streams has been more material because it 
has not been possible to recover the falling contribution from recovered materials due 
to the pricing pressures mentioned above.  Recovered metals are the main source of 
value which across the business total some 40,000 tonnes per annum.  As 
demonstrated in chart 2 the average sales prices achieved for recovered metals has 
fallen by 70% from its high in 2008. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      18  
Chart 2: Average price received for recovered metals
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Apr-08
May-08
Jun-08
Jul-08
Aug-08
Sep-08
Oct-08
Nov-08
Dec-08
Jan-09
Feb-09
Mar-09
€ / tonne
 
 
These pressures on revenue have also been accompanied by adverse factors in the 
cost base.  In January 2009 there was a 3.75% increase in labour costs for the 
majority of our employees as a result of national collective labour agreements.  In 
addition the Amsterdam municipal incinerator, a major outlet for our sorting residues, 
significantly increased their prices.  Finally, early in 2009 a major customer of our 
Smink groundworks business unexpectedly went into administration resulting in a 
€1m bad debt.   
 
In order to address the difficult trading conditions in the Solid Waste business a cost 
reduction programme – Fit for the Future - has been initiated which is targeting 
delivery of  €7m of annual savings in addition to the €5m that will be removed from 
the cost base as a consequence of reducing volumes. 
 
Our Hazardous Waste activities performed extremely well during the year showing a 
40% year on year improvement.  This was principally due to an extremely strong 
performance from our ATM treatment plant despite the unexpected disruption to the 
waste water treatment in July which caused a temporary shutdown and loss of 
capacity. As disclosed in our Interim Results, the financial impact of the shutdown of 
€2.7m was substantially offset by a favourable decision relating to a long running 
dispute on excise duties which resulted in a rebate of historic charges.  Prices and 
volumes at ATM were up year on year by 2% and 4% respectively.  Reym, our 
industrial cleaning business also had a good year, extending a significant oil industry 
contract to 2014.  Both these businesses have, and continue to show, strong 
resilience to the economic downturn. 
 
Our Organic Treatment activity, Orgaworld, continues to trade satisfactorily in its 
home market of the Netherlands.  Work has started on the Greenmills project, a new 
100,000 tonne per annum anaerobic digestion and 350,000 tonne wastewater 
treatment facility in Amsterdam.  Construction of this facility is expected to complete 
in 2010. 
 
Belgium 
Market 
In Belgium, environmental responsibility is devolved to the three Regions: Flanders, 
Wallonia and Brussels.  Flemish environmental legislation and landfill tax levels are 
very similar to those in the Netherlands resulting in similar market characteristics; 
high levels of recycling, a reliance on incineration for final disposal and very little 
landfill. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      19  
In the Walloon Region landfill tax on I&C waste at an effective rate of €53 per tonne 
is sufficient to drive reasonably high levels of recycling.  This rate will rise to €90 per 
tonne in 2010, which combined with a lack of incineration capacity will promote 
increased recycling and other forms of energy recovery.  The effective cost of landfill 
tax is 52% higher than the actual tax because it is non-deductible for corporation tax 
purposes. 
 
In January 2008 new legislation was introduced which has had a major impact on the 
municipal waste treatment sector.  Prior to January 2008 a reasonable proportion of 
municipal waste was still landfilled as, unlike I&C waste, it attracted very little landfill 
tax.  In January 2008 the Walloon Region adopted a strict interpretation of the 
Landfill Directive requirement for pre-treatment of non-hazardous waste which 
stopped residual waste collected from households from being landfilled without pre-
treatment.  At the same time landfill tax was introduced on other municipal waste 
streams at €20 per tonne.  This is scheduled to rise to €60 per tonne from January 
2010. 
 
The Brussels Region has little landfill capacity.  It has its own incinerator but beyond 
that it is reliant on the other Regions for final disposal. 
 
The activities in Belgium are broken down into Solid Waste, Landfill & Power, 
Hazardous Waste and a Sand Quarry.  The Solid Waste business is similar to that in 
the Netherlands, however the division is less reliant on the C&D sector and also 
includes the operation of municipal waste collection contracts, the largest being for 
the City of Liege under a ten year contract which was renewed in 2005. 
  
The Landfill and Power operations are situated in Mont St Guibert in Wallonia where 
we have one of the largest landfills in the Walloon Region.  A major source of income 
for this operation is from the generation of renewable electricity from the methane 
produced as the biodegradable waste decays.  This landfill is unique within the 
Walloon Region in that its licence allows it to accept municipal waste from across the 
Region.  This gives it a strong market position in the landfilling of municipal waste, a 
market which will almost disappear due to the legislative changes mentioned above. 
 
The Hazardous Waste division is also similar to that in the Netherlands comprising 
industrial cleaning activities and a main treatment centre at Roeselare in West 
Flanders. The Industrial Cleaning businesses service the steel, cement, chemical 
and other large industries not only across Belgium, but also in northern France. The 
treatment facility specialises in the preparation of waste derived fuels and minerals 
for the cement industry which has major installations in both the east and west of 
Wallonia.  Like ATM in the Netherlands, the treatment facility also treats highly 
contaminated waste water streams using physio-chemical and biological processes. 
 
The Sand Quarry is adjacent to the landfill in Wallonia and is a profitable but non-
core activity. 
 
In terms of overall revenue Shanks Belgium is the number two player in the Belgian 
market.  We estimate our market share in the solid and hazardous I&C markets to be 
7% and 9% respectively.  In terms of the municipal market our share is lower at 
around 3%, however a significant proportion of this market remains within the public 
sector.   
 
Strategy 
In Belgium the strategy is to grow the I&C Solid Waste business to replace the 
declining contribution from landfill.  By focusing on solid recovered fuel (SRF)  shanks.  annual report 2009      20  
production from I&C waste we will be able to create sustainable competitive 
advantage by securing long term energy from waste outlets at lower costs than 
landfill or mass burn incineration (approximately €120-€130/tonne in Flanders). 
 
The acquisition of Foronex in April 2008 builds on this strategy by moving us into the 
European waste wood processing market which creates further opportunities in the 
biomass and co-generation areas with the potential for Shanks to both supply and 
invest in energy from waste projects.   
 
Further opportunities exist to invest in additional green energy production at our 
landfill and hazardous waste plants.  These have already been partly realised 
through the development of a bio-digester to create green energy on the Roeselare 
site, which began commissioning during the last quarter.   
 
Operational Review 
 
Table 5: Belgium Revenue and Trading Profit by Activity
2009 2008 Variance 2009 2008 Variance
€m €m €m % €m €m €m %
Solid Waste 154 109 45 41% 9.7 10.4 (0.7) -7%
Landfill & Power 27 26 1 4% 12.1 11.9 0.2 2%
Hazardous Waste 60 58 2 3% 5.7 4.7 1.0 21%
Sand Quarry 4 3 1 33% 1.4 1.0 0.4 40%
Country Central Services (26) (19) (7) 37% (5.3) (5.0) (0.3) -6%
Total (€m) 219 177 42 24% 23.6 23.0 0.6 3%
Total
(£m at average FX rates) 180 125 55 44% 19.5 16.2 3.3 20%
Revenue Trading Profit
 
 
Table 6: Belgium Trading Margins and Return on Capital Employed by Activity
(after allocation of Country Central Services)
2009 2008 Variance 2009 2008 Variance
% %% % %%
Solid Waste 4 7(3) 10 18 (8)
Landfill & Power 44 44 - n/a
1
n/a
1
n/a
Hazardous Waste 7 52 23 20 3
Sand Quarry 34 30 4 n/a
1
n/a
1
n/a
Total 11 13 (2) 40 60 (20)
Trading Margin ROCE
1 Due to provisions for environmental liabilities these activities have net liabilities so ROCE is not a valid measure 
 
Overall trading profit in Belgium improved 20% to £19.5m (2008: £16.2m).   
Removing the benefit of exchange gains, this represents 3% growth over last year.  
Reductions in the contribution in Solid Waste and the landfill element of Landfill and 
Power were more than offset by improved performance from Power, Hazardous 
Waste and the Sand Quarry. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      21  
Solid Waste incorporates the Foronex group which was acquired in April 2008 for a 
gross consideration of €25m plus a €6m post acquisition injection of working capital. 
This combined with the full year effect of last year’s acquisitions contributed €0.9m 
(9%) of additional trading profit. 
 
Foronex collects and trades up to 1 million tonnes per annum of wood waste and by-
products, making it the largest company in this field across France and Belgium.   
During the year considerable effort has been spent to transition the business from a 
family run organisation to part of an international group.  We have made significant 
improvements to the operating procedures and management information used within 
the business, which has resulted in the renegotiation of a number of major input and 
output agreements.  We expect the contribution from the business to increase going 
forward and for it to play an important role in growing the future development of the 
Belgian business. 
 
One of the key attractions of the Foronex business is its ability to produce fuel for the 
biomass industry from the wood waste and by-products it handles.  As a strategic 
supplier to new project funded energy plants, we also have the opportunity to 
participate directly in the special purpose vehicles (SPVs) created to build and 
operate these plants allowing us to share in the attractive returns that they generate.  
In October 2008 we took a 50% stake in the Vare project, a combined heat and 
power plant producing 5MW of green electricity and 12MW of steam, with specialist 
renewable energy investor Intrinergy Energy. The plant will be located near Liege in 
Belgium and will be fired by wood based biomass supplied by Foronex.  It will use the 
heat produced to turn sawdust, also supplied by Foronex, into wood pellets for sale 
as a renewable fuel.  Construction of the facility is now underway and it is expected 
to be operational in late 2010.   
 
Profits from the existing Solid Waste business have declined €1.6m (15%) due to the 
non repeat of a substantial industrial disposal job in the prior year which contributed 
€0.9m.  The economic downturn in the second half has also impacted the business, 
however considerably less than experienced in the Netherlands due to the reduced 
exposure to the C&D sector and the higher involvement in municipal waste.  Also 
recent investment in the business such as our solid recovered fuel production facility 
in Ghent completed during the period have made maiden contributions.  This facility 
accepts mainly I&C waste and, following extraction of recyclable materials, produces 
a fuel which we dispose of via long term contracts with cement and other companies.  
The plant is operating as planned, having started up in June 2008, and is proving 
successful in attracting waste at competitive prices in the market. 
 
In Landfill and Power, there was an 8% decline in contribution from the landfill 
element which was a better than expected performance.  Following the ban in 
Wallonia on untreated municipal solid waste (MSW) going to landfill from January 
2008, inputs from these sources ceased.  However, we have been successful in 
attracting new sources of waste from both municipal (treatment residues) and 
commercial sources.  Our current expectation, based on these new streams, is for 
there to be a more modest decline in volumes through calendar year 2009 with a 
significant step down from January 2010 as landfill tax is increased and further bans 
on municipal solid waste come into effect.  The contribution from landfill power is 
unaffected by these developments, indeed it has increased during the period due to 
higher electricity prices and a favourable clarification of the qualification criteria for 
green electricity subsidies. 
 
The strong growth in Hazardous Waste trading profit was due to increases in both 
volumes and prices at our treatment facility at Roeselare in Flanders. There has  shanks.  annual report 2009      22  
however, been a reduction in lower margin, labour intensive industrial cleaning work 
which has become more acute in the second half with the deterioration in the 
economic conditions.  
 
The construction of our new anaerobic digestion facility in Roeselare completed on 
schedule in early 2009.  The treatment process is now being started up but it will take 
several months to reach full capacity due to its biological nature. 
 
At the Sand Quarry activity levels have been stable with profits boosted by reduced 
restoration costs. 
 
United Kingdom 
Market 
The UK’s historical heavy reliance on landfill means that the imposition of the 
European Landfill Directive is having a major impact, particularly on the municipal 
sector.  Implementation of the directive implies that some 14 million tonnes per 
annum of biodegradable municipal waste needs to be diverted from landfill between 
2006 and 2020.  In November 2006 DEFRA estimated that the investment in new 
infrastructure required to achieve this is between £9bn and £11bn.  In an endeavour 
to secure least cost compliance the Government has introduced the Landfill 
Allowance Trading Scheme (LATS), a tradeable permit scheme between local 
authorities.  Here authorities who overachieve against their landfill diversion 
requirements may sell their overachievement to an underachieving authority.  Failure 
by an authority either to meet its diversion requirements or to secure the necessary 
LATS, results in a £150 per tonne penalty for the excess. 
 
As part of the 2009 Budget, the Government has announced that it will strengthen 
the existing drivers for diverting I&C waste from landfill and provide further financial 
support for alternative ways to deal with waste (including reuse, recycling, energy 
from waste and anaerobic digestion). The key budgetary announcements include: 
• the standard rate of landfill tax will continue to increase by £8 per tonne on 1 
April each year from 2011 to 2013. The current rate of landfill tax (since 1 
April 2009) of £40 per tonne will therefore increase to £72 per tonne by 1 April 
2013. The 2009 Budget also highlighted that Government is currently 
consulting on redefining  what constitutes a taxable disposal of waste, so that 
a greater proportion of waste that ends up in landfill (including materials used 
for cover and in construction of a landfill site) is taxable. These measures will 
further encourage the use of and investment in more sustainable alternative 
to reduce reliance on landfill; 
• the Government will make £10 million of new grants available in 2009-2010 
for UK businesses to deliver anaerobic digestion and in-vessel composting 
infrastructure; 
• the Government plans to commit more than £2billion of PFI credits to allow 
investment in waste handling projects through the Treasury Infrastructure 
Finance Unit, which was launched by the Treasury in March 2009; and 
• the Government highlighted that UK renewable and energy projects will stand 
to benefit from up to £4 billion of new capital from the European Investment 
Bank. 
 
These initiatives will further support the Group’s strategy to become the leading 
provider of waste management solutions in Europe. 
 
Another driver for the I&C waste market is restriction of the type of waste that can be 
landfilled.  A significant milestone of the European Landfill Directive is the restriction  shanks.  annual report 2009      23  
on landfilling of untreated non-hazardous waste.  The government has introduced 
new legislation which required pre-treatment of non-hazardous waste prior to 
landfilling from October 2007.  Whilst the authorities have taken a fairly soft handed 
approach to the enforcement of this legislation initially, it is expected it will be applied 
more rigorously in the future.  
 
Strategy  
In the UK the aim is to make Shanks the preferred alternative to landfill.  In the I&C 
waste area we will build a resource management and reprocessing business with 
improved margins by importing more than ten years of Dutch know-how in this area.  
Initially we will focus on building density in the three regions where we already have 
critical mass, Scotland, the East Midlands and the Northern Home Counties.  Having 
established an enabling platform of a strong regional business with a differentiated 
and profitable business model, we may then consider more aggressive consolidation 
options. 
 
We will continue to bid for PFI residual waste contracts, using those that we win as a 
base from which to expand our I&C business.  At the same time we intend to secure 
a share of the significant UK demand for anaerobic digestion and composting both in 
the municipal and I&C sectors using Orgaworld and other technologies as 
appropriate. 
 
In recent years we have established ourselves as a leading player in the PFI market 
with the first mechanical biological treatment (MBT) plant in the UK operational since 
2006. With a substantial number of opportunities coming to market that require 
alternative solutions we have improved our technical offering by entering into a 
strategic partnership with Wheelabrator Technologies Inc (WTI). This has enabled us 
to offer Energy from Waste solutions in addition to our MBT technology provided by 
EcoDeco. We have now been selected, with others, to tender for PFI contracts in 
Staffordshire, Suffolk, Merseyside and Belfast with WTI as our equity and operating 
partner. 
 
In addition the Government has signalled its support for the treatment of separately 
collected kitchen wastes utilising anaerobic digestion to treat the waste and, in so 
doing, produce gas for energy generation and high quality compost for soil 
improvement. As with solid wastes our Dutch business (Orgaworld) has a track 
record in this aspect of waste treatment which enables us to deliver a proven solution 
to the market. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      24  
Operational Review 
 
Table 7: United Kingdom Revenue and Trading Profit by Activity
2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m % £m £m £m %
Solid Waste 73 75 (2) -3% 6.3 6.4 (0.1) -2%
Landfill & Power 16 16 - 0% 5.6 5.0 0.6 12%
Hazardous Waste 20 11 9 82% 1.7 1.7 - 0%
PFI Contracts 49 43 6 14% (0.4) 0.4 (0.8) -200%
Country Central Services - -- - (5.4) (5.7) 0.3 5%
UK Operations 158 145 13 9% 7.8 7.8 (0.0) 0%
PFI Bid Team - -- (2.1) (0.9) (1.2) -133%
TOTAL 158 145 13 9% 5.7 6.9 (1.2) -17%
Revenue Trading Profit
Variance Variance
 
 
Table 8: United Kingdom Trading Margins and Return on Capital Employed by Activity
(after allocation of Country Central Services)
2009 2008 Variance 2009 2008 Variance
% %% % %%
Solid Waste 4 31 9 54
Landfill & Power 34 33 1 48 48 -
Hazardous Waste 7 11 (4) 42 47 (5)
PFI Contracts (4) (2) (2) (2) (1) (1)
UK Operations 5 5 - 10 11 (1)
Trading Margin ROCE
 
Trading profit from operations was flat at £7.8m as difficult economic conditions in the 
second half impacted profitability and offset very good progress in the first. 
 
In Solid Waste the full year effect of last year’s acquisition of Wastecom contributed 
£0.1m (2%) of additional trading profit.  Profits from the existing Solid Waste 
businesses have reduced by £0.2m (3%).  Trading since November 2008 has been 
challenging due to the sharp fall in the value of recyclable materials and a slowdown 
in volumes.  We took swift action to reduce the cost base which gave rise to a £1.5m 
exceptional restructuring charge.  This is delivering approximately £2m of annualised 
cost savings going forward to help mitigate the challenging trading conditions.  
 
Our strategy for the Solid Waste business in the UK is to focus on our core regions of 
Scotland, East Midlands and Northern Home Counties and take advantage of rising 
landfill taxes to develop a recycling business using expertise from our Dutch 
operations.  During the year, as part of focusing on these core regions, we sold our 
Liverpool and Swansea operations for consideration of £3m and £2m respectively.  
These transactions gave rise to exceptional disposal profits totalling £3.3m. 
 
The downturn in the UK construction market has adversely impacted our Hazardous 
Waste activities which comprise our contaminated land services business.  The 
number of site decontamination jobs from general construction activities is down 
substantially and we have reduced our headcount to reduce costs.  On a more  shanks.  annual report 2009      25  
positive note, we handled 243k tonnes of soil from the 2012 Olympic site clean up 
offsetting the decline in profit from the underlying business. 
 
The economic slowdown in construction activities has also impacted contaminated 
soil inputs into our joint venture landfills.  Despite this slowdown, increased power 
generation and lower void costs at our Avondale joint venture (sold subsequent to 
year end) have delivered solid overall growth in trading profit for the Landfill and 
Power activity. 
 
Profits from our existing PFI contracts were down as we incurred additional operating 
costs to ensure hitting certain performance targets which will release income 
supplements at ELWA.  Going into next year we are on target to receive these 
supplements.   The dramatic fall in the resale value of metal recovered from the 
waste stream has also reduced profits.  Production of SRF is going well with record 
amounts being delivered to the cement kilns.  There is also increasing interest from 
other off-takers. 
 
Country Central Services costs were down £0.3m at £5.4m despite 2008 being net of 
disposal profits totalling £0.6m.  Underlying costs were therefore down £0.9m (16%) 
year on year. 
  
PFI bid costs were up £1.2m at £2.1m reflecting the increased bidding activity.  Many 
authorities have or are about to start their procurement processes and we are 
actively pursuing this limited window of opportunity as the next two years will see a 
large number of deals being closed.  We believe that our extensive experience in 
bidding combined with the enhanced offering mentioned in the Chief Executive’s 
Statement positions us well to win our share. 
 
Canada 
Market 
As part of the Orgaworld acquisition completed in April 2007 the Group acquired an 
operation in Canada.  In Canada there is strong public opinion against landfill, which 
in some areas has led to a shortage of consented capacity.  As in Europe there is a 
drive to reduce waste going to landfill.  Orgaworld identified an opportunity in the 
Canadian market to offer biological treatment of source segregated organic municipal 
waste, a market which has significant potential in terms of volumes and to date has 
few competitors. 
 
Operational Review 
Trading profit in Canada increased £1.1m to £1.2m (2008: £0.1m) reflecting the 
increase in volumes at the first Orgaworld plant in London, Ontario.  In March 2009 
the District of York confirmed a 20,000 tonne per annum increase in their annual 
contract volumes and extended the term of their contract from ten to fifteen years. 
This plant is now operating at close to its capacity of 150,000 tonnes per annum.  
Construction work on our second facility in Ottawa is progressing on schedule with 
operations due to start in early 2010. 
 
Group Central Services 
Group Central Services costs reduced by £0.1m to £4.9m (2008: £5.0m). shanks.  annual report 2009      26  
Financial Review 
 
Operating profit, which includes exceptional property disposals in the UK of £3.3m, 
exceptional restructuring charge and amortisation of acquisition intangibles has 
increased 16% to £63.9m (2008: £55.3m). 
 
Table 9 - Summarised Group Income Statement
2009 2008 Variance
£m £m £m %
Revenue 697 564 133 24
Operating profit 63.9 55.3 8.6 16
Exceptional profits on disposals (3.3) (1.9) (1.4)
Exceptional restructuring charge 2.0 - 2.0
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 3.8 2.5 1.3 52
Trading profit 66.4 55.9 10.5 19
Net financial income from PFI 1.1 0.7 0.4 57
Core finance charges (19.0) (11.8) (7.2) -61
Underlying profit before tax 48.5 44.8 3.7 8
Tax - Underlying 29% (2008: 32%) (14.1) (14.4) 0.3 2
Underlying profit after tax 34.4 30.4 4.0 13
Exceptional profits on disposals 3.3 1.9 1.4
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (net of tax) (2.8) (1.9) (0.9)
Exceptional restructuring (net of tax) (1.4) - (1.4)
IAS 39 adjustment (net of tax) (8.7) (2.1) (6.6)
IBAs exceptional tax charge (18.4) - (18.4)
Profit for the year 6.4 28.3 (21.9)
 
Table 10: Revenue and Trading Profit by Geographical Region
2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m % £m £m £m %
Netherlands 356 295 61 21% 44.9 37.7 7.2 19%
Belgium 180 125 55 44% 19.5 16.2 3.3 20%
United Kingdom 158 145 13 9% 5.7 6.9 (1.2) -17%
Canada 5 1 4 >100 1.2 0.1 1.1 >100
Central Services (2) (2) - 0% (4.9) (5.0) 0.1 2%
Total 697 564 133 24% 66.4 55.9 10.5 19%
Revenue Trading Profit
Variance Variance
 
 
 
The major factors impacting revenue, trading and underlying profit are summarised in 
table 11. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      27  
Table 11: Revenue, Trading Profit and Underlying Profit Bridge
Revenue Trading Profit Underlying PBT
£m £m £m
2008 564 100% 55.9 100% 44.8 100%
Organic growth (excluding Belgium landfill) 14 3% 0.1 0% (2.4) -5%
Current year acquisitions /divestments 30 5% 0.4 1% (0.7) -2%
Full year of prior year acquisitions 11 2% 1.1 2% (0.3) -1%
Belgium landfill decline 0 0% (0.4) -1% (0.4) -1%
Exchange 78 14% 9.3 17% 7.5 17%
2009 697 124% 66.4 119% 48.5 108%
 
Details of the Group’s trading performance and acquisitions are given in the country 
business reviews. 
 
Table 12 shows the average and year end exchange rates used to translate our 
foreign currency denominated results.  The Euro has strengthened significantly 
verses Sterling causing a 17% enhancement to Euro denominated profits.  The 
impact on the Euro denominated year end balances is slightly less at 16%. 
 
Table 12: Exchange Rates
2009 2008 Change
Euro:
Average 1.215 1.419 17%
Closing 1.080 1.254 16%
Canadian Dollar:
Average 1.826 2.044 12%
Closing 1.803 2.039 13%
 
 
  
Net Financial Income from PFI increased to £1.1m (2008: £0.7m).  As shown in table 
13 this comprises interest income on financial assets arising on the UK PFI contracts 
net of the interest charge on the PFI net debt before taking into account the 
International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39 change in market value of financial 
instruments (see below). 
 
Table 13: Net Financial Income from PFI
2009 2008 Variance
£m £m £m %
Interest income from financial assets 8.9 8.8 0.1 1
Interest charge on PFI net debt
1
(7.8) (8.1) 0.3 4
Net Financial Income from PFI 1.1 0.7 0.4 >100
 
 
1
 PFI net debt is the external net debt in the Special Purpose Vehicles set up to project finance the UK PFI 
contracts. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      28  
The £0.3m decrease in interest charge on PFI net debt reflects the lower average 
level of debt during 2009 than during 2008, despite the balance being higher at the 
year end than at the start of the year. 
 
Core Finance Charges increased £7.2m to £19.0m (2008: £11.8m), the main 
components of which are given in table 14. 
 
Table 14: Core Finance Charges
2009 2008 Change
£m £m £m
Finance charge on core borrowings (17.0) (10.7) (6.3)
Discount unwind on deferred consideration (1.3) (0.9) (0.4)
Loan fee amortisation (0.5) (0.9) 0.4
Discount unwind on other long term provisions (1.1) (0.7) (0.4)
Finance income from defined benefit pension schemes 0.9 1.4 (0.5)
Core Finance Charges (19.0) (11.8) (7.2)
 
 
The major factors behind the increase in the finance charge on core borrowings are 
detailed in table 15. 
 
Table 15: Finance Charge on Core Borrowings Major Factor Analysis
2009 2008 Change
£m £m £m
Finance Charge on Core Borrowings (17.0) (10.7) (6.3)
Major Factors: 
Increase in core borrowing levels (4.5)
Exchange (1.8)
Total (6.3)
 
 
The factors behind the increase in the level of core borrowings are covered in the 
cash flow section below.  For reasons explained in the Treasury section below, a 
significant proportion of the Group’s borrowings is in Euros and therefore attracts 
Euro denominated interest.  The Sterling value of this has therefore increased due to 
the strengthening of the Euro.   
 
Under IFRS all long term liabilities and provisions, except for deferred tax, have to be 
stated at current value.  This involves discounting the nominal value of a future 
liability which then unwinds as time progresses.  The Group uses a 5% discount rate, 
this being an estimate of long term interest rates.  The acquisition of Orgaworld in 
April 2007 included a €25m deferred element, €20m of which is dependent on 
achieving future profitability targets.  The conditional element has been recognised in 
full at the acquisition date so is generating a significant finance charge even though 
the trading profits on which it depends will only arise in the future. 
 
The average tax rate on underlying profit fell to 29% (2008: 32%).  This was 
attributable to the flow through of recent tax reductions in both the Netherlands and 
the UK.  The underlying rates of tax in the Netherlands, Belgium and the UK were 
25.5%, 34% and 28% respectively.  In Belgium the effective rate on landfill derived  shanks.  annual report 2009      29  
profits is higher as landfill tax is non-deductible for corporation tax.  This is mitigated 
via a deduction for notional interest on Belgian equity.  
 
The exceptional disposal profits of £3.3m relate to the disposal of two surplus 
operations in the UK.  These have been excluded from underlying profit due to their 
exceptional size.  There was no tax payable on these disposals as the capital gains 
arising were sheltered by significant brought forward capital tax losses within the 
Group. 
 
The IAS39 change in market value of financial instruments relates to interest rate 
swaps which fix the interest rate on PFI contract borrowing.  At the financial close of 
a PFI contract the price of the service is determined by, inter alia, the long term 
interest rate available in the market.  The Group therefore protects itself against 
future fluctuations in interest rates by entering into interest rate swaps to match its 
future cash inflows and outflows.  Under IAS39 these swaps must be valued at 
current market value irrespective of the commercial reasons for entering into them.  
Revaluation of these swaps can lead to large accounting gains or losses but does not 
affect the long term profitability of the contract as the Group has matched its long 
term revenue and costs.  Whilst IAS39 does allow these gains and losses to be taken 
directly to reserves, it is on the proviso that the actual cash flows remain in close 
correlation to those originally forecast.  At the time of introduction of IAS39 there was 
a significant divergence of actual and originally forecast cash flows due to one years 
planning delays on ELWA, the Group’s largest PFI project.  Whilst commercially 
neither the funders nor the Group required the cash flows to be rehedged, this 
rendered the interest rate swaps ineligible to be matched to the underlying loans 
under IAS39.  The resulting changes in fair value are excluded from our underlying 
profit.  There was a £12.1m adverse (2008: £2.9m) change in the market value of 
these swaps during the year. 
 
Cash Flow 
Details of the Group’s cash flow performance are summarised in table 16 below. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      30  
Table 16: Summarised Group Cash Flow
2009 2008
Core
Non Core
1
Total Total Difference
£m £m £m £m £m
Trading profit 68 (2) 66 56 10
Depreciation & landfill provisions 47 - 47 37 10
EBITDA 115 (2) 113 93 20
Working capital movement and other
2
-1 1 3 (2)
Net replacement capital expenditure (46) - (46) (31) (15)
Interest & tax (31) - (31) (20) (11)
Underlying free cash flow 38 (1) 37 45 (8)
Dividends / issue of shares (14) - (14) (12) (2)
PFI cross funding (7) 7 - - -
Net growth capital expenditure (30) (13) (43) (19) (24)
Acquisitions (incl wkg cap injection) (25) - (25) (48) 23
Discontinued / restructuring (2) - (2) - (2)
Net cashflow (40) (7) (47) (34) (13)
Exchange (38) - (38) (32) (6)
Opening net debt
3
(212) (111) (323) (257) (66)
Closing net debt
3
(290) (118) (408) (323) (85)
1
 Non core includes PFI and other project finance. 
2
 Other comprises non-landfill provision movements and add back of share based payments. 
3
 Excluding fair value of interest rate swaps 
 
The underlying free cash flow generated by the core business was £38m after net 
replacement capital expenditure of £46m.  The £7m cross funding represents the net 
cash flow between the core and PFI and other project finance activities (including the 
PFI bid team).  The £25m outflow on acquisitions relates principally to the Foronex 
acquisition in April 2008 and comprises the £10m paid, £10m of net debt in the 
acquired entities and a £5m post acquisition injection of working capital.  This was 
due to the unsustainably low level of working capital at acquisition which had been 
identified in the due diligence process.  There was a £38m adverse movement on 
the translation of Group’s Euro denominated debt into Sterling, giving an overall 
increase in core net debt of £78m. 
 
The non-recourse aggregated net debt in the PFI companies, excluding fair value of 
interest rate swaps, increased by £2m to £113m (2008: £111m); increases due to 
funding of ongoing capital investment principally at ELWA.  The other project finance 
debt of £5m relates to the investment together with Intrinergy Energy in a combined 
heat and power plant in Belgium.   
 
Capital Expenditure 
The Group spent £89m net on capital expenditure (2008: £50m) of which £76m was 
in the core business and £13m on PFI and other project finance contracts.  The core 
business maintenance capital expenditure was £46m, net of disposal proceeds of 
£3m from assets being replaced.  Gross expenditure on growth projects was £35m 
and proceeds from sale of surplus assets was £5m.  Major projects in the core  shanks.  annual report 2009      31  
business included the installation of SRF production and anaerobic digestion facilities 
in Belgium, construction of tunnel composting facilities in Canada and The 
Netherlands and the expansion of a recycling centre in the Netherlands, and 
additional engines for landfill power. 
 
The capital expenditure on PFI contracts comprised £16m (2008: £17m) of financial 
asset advances net of £10m (2008: £9m) of financial asset repayments.  The 
financial asset advances related to the completion of recyclables sorting facilities and 
final payments for the EcoDeco MBT facilities at our ELWA contract.   
 
A further £7m has been spent on the combined heat & power plant in Belgium, being 
built in conjunction with Intrinergy.   
 
Treasury 
The Group’s treasury policy is to use financial instruments with a spread of maturity 
dates and sources in order to reduce funding risk. Borrowings are drawn in the same 
currencies as the underlying investment to reduce cash and net translation exposure 
on exchange rate movements. No other currency hedging mechanisms are used. 
The Group maintains a significant proportion of its debt on fixed rates of interest in 
order to protect interest cover. 
 
At 31 March 2009, the Group’s principal financing was a £250m multicurrency 
revolving credit facility with five major banks expiring in April 2010. This was replaced 
on 7 April 2009 by a €360m multicurrency term loan and revolving credit facility 
expiring in April 2012.  At first drawing on 9 April 2009, this facility was approximately 
79% utilised.  The term loan of €270m equivalent was fully drawn in Euro, Sterling 
and Canadian Dollars on three month interest periods. Some €13m equivalent was 
drawn on the revolving credit facility in Sterling and Canadian Dollars on a one month 
interest period. Interest is based on LIBOR or EURIBOR for the relevant period. The 
facility contains a requirement for interest rates to be hedged and this was met by the 
Group entering on 15 May 2009 into a two year fixed interest swap with a principal of 
€180m from the three month LIBOR commencing 9 July 2009, underwritten at an 
effective interest rate of 1.87%.  The definitions of the covenants of this facility 
exclude the results of PFI and other project companies and the results of joint 
ventures except where received in cash.  The margin is fixed for the first six months 
and then varies on a ratchet fixed by the Debt:EBITDA ratio for the prior quarter on a 
rolling twelve month calculation.  The financial covenants of this facility are principally 
the ratio of Debt:EBITDA of less than 3.00:1, interest cover of not less than 3.00:1 
and a minimum net worth of £225m. 
 
The 2001 notes issued under the Group’s Pricoa private placement of €52m carry 
fixed interest at 6.9% and have repayments due July 2009 (€16m), April 2011 (€18m) 
and September 2013 (€18m). The financial covenants of this facility are principally 
the ratio of Debt:EBITDA of less than 2.75:1, interest cover of not less than 3.00:1 
and a minimum net worth.  The definitions of these covenants are fixed in UK GAAP 
as at 2001 and exclude the results of PFI and other project companies and the 
results of joint ventures except where received in cash. Under the terms of the notes, 
the Group’s other principal lenders have moved to a level of Debt:EBITDA of 3.00:1, 
the Group can require Pricoa to also move to a Debt:EBITDA level of 3.00:1, whilst 
Pricoa has the option to adopt the financial covenants definition of the New Facilities. 
 
The Group also has £29m of working capital facilities with various banks. Cashflows 
are pooled at a country level and each operation is tasked with operating within the 
limits of the locally available working capital facilities. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      32  
Each of the Group’s PFI projects has senior debt facilities which contribute 
approximately 85% of the capital funding required. These facilities are secured on the 
future cash flows of the PFI companies with no recourse to the Group as a whole. 
Repayment of these facilities, and any equity bridge facility in respect of the 
remaining capital funding, commences when construction is complete and concludes 
one to two years prior to the expiry of the PFI contract period. As the Group currently 
holds 100% of the equity in its PFI companies, the net debt of £113m and the fair 
value of the interest rate swaps used to fixed interest rates of £16m are fully 
consolidated in the Group balance sheet. The maximum which could be drawn down 
under these facilities at 31 March 2009 is £3m. The interest rates on these loans vary 
with one month LIBOR during the construction period and three month or six month 
LIBOR in the post-construction period. In order to provide a fixed price to the client 
local authority varying only with inflation, interest rates are fixed at between 6.25% 
and 6.99% with a weighted average of 6.57% by means of interest rate swaps at the 
time of contract inception. 
 
Insurance 
The Group places all its insurance with leading insurance companies with sound 
financial credentials.  For obligatory insurances, the policy is to obtain the necessary 
cover at competitive rates.  For other areas, regular risk assessments are undertaken 
to identify and assess risks; where appropriate insurance is then used to mitigate 
these risks.  The level of cover put in place will depend on the nature of the risks and 
the cost and extent of cover available in the market.  The majority of our insurances 
are renewed annually. 
 
The Group uses international brokers to advise on risk management, appropriate 
insurers, cover levels and benchmarking. 
 
Insurance requirements for our UK PFI contracts are set out in the funding and 
project agreements. 
 
 
Retirement Benefits 
The Group uses IAS19 – Employee Benefits to account for pensions.  The pension 
charge for the year has increased to £9.1m (2008: £7.7m).  Using assumptions laid 
down in IAS19 there was a net retirement benefit deficit of £1.0m (2008: £9.4m 
surplus).  This relates solely to the defined benefit section of our UK schemes.  The 
defined benefit section of the UK scheme was closed to new members in September 
2002 and new employees are now offered a defined contribution arrangement.  
 
The Group participates in several multi-employer schemes in the Netherlands.  
These are accounted for as defined contribution plans as it is not possible to split the 
assets and liabilities of the schemes between participating companies and the Group 
has been informed by the schemes that it has no obligation to make additional 
contributions in the event that the schemes have an overall deficit. 
 
The pension arrangements within our Belgian operations are considered to be 
defined contribution in nature.  shanks.  annual report 2009      33  
Corporate Responsibility 
 
 
Responsible and Corporate 
All companies are responsible to their stakeholders and the environment they 
operate in.  At Shanks we have identified three main areas as the focus of corporate 
responsibility.  They are the environment, including carbon and climate change, the 
wellbeing of employees, and the Group’s relationship with its stakeholders and the 
wider communities its operations are located within.   
 
Waste and resources companies operate under strict environmental law and 
regulation. Each of the Group’s sites has a series of permits and permissions which 
dictate how they operate.  From which wastes they can accept and the processes for 
receiving such, to discharge conditions and the nature of the treatment, recovery and 
other activities allowed. Failure to comply with these permits and permissions can 
result in enforcement action, prosecution and restrictions on operations.  In addition, 
entities which repeatedly breach their permissions may face increased difficulty 
gaining new permits, or varying those they already hold, to take advantage of 
changing market conditions, new technologies and emerging business opportunities.   
 
No one can have failed to notice that the issue of carbon and climate change has 
increased in importance over the past few years. For many companies the focus has 
been to reduce the ‘carbon footprint’ of their products and services by reducing the 
carbon impact of production or service delivery and/or by off-setting this impact.  
Waste and resources companies are in the almost unique position that their 
products, such as recyclable materials and products and secondary fuels which can 
displace fossil fuels, may have their own intrinsic carbon benefits. This is discussed 
in more depth below, but, in essence, for a waste and resources company producing 
more products can mean less carbon for the wider economy.   
 
Waste and resources management is acknowledged as a sector with a high health 
and safety risk.  In most countries, for example, the accident rates displayed by those 
in the sector are often multiples of the averages for that country. In addition to the 
moral imperative of not harming employees or others who may be affected by the 
Group’s operations, the risks of prosecution and civil costs are significant drivers. 
 
The Group is not a large, single site operation. Rather it is a diverse and widespread 
group with more than 4,000 employees located at over 120 sites, many of which 
have multiple operations based on them. The quality, competence and motivation of 
local management and employees are critical to the Group’s continued success. 
 
Beyond its employees, the operations sit in a wider community. Waste and resources 
sites and operations can, no matter what their overall benefit to the environment, be 
seen at best as an unpopular necessity. Everyone accepts the need for recycling and 
recovery operations, but not always on their own doorstep.  Virtually all 
environmental permission systems have a statutory duty to consider local issues and 
companies which do not foster good relations will find the gaining of new, or revision 
and maintenance of current permissions at best difficult. 
 
Co-ordinating Responsibility 
Corporate responsibility is an important and continuously evolving issue for the 
Group. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      34  
The whole of the waste and resources management industry is changing rapidly.  
New technologies are constantly being introduced to improve recycling and recovery 
rates.  Older activities, such as landfill, are in decline and the diversity of the sector is 
expanding at an increasing rate. In addition, environmental and health and safety 
regulation and expectations have risen rapidly over recent years and will continue to 
do so and community tolerance of industrial type activities is decreasing. 
 
Similarly the Shanks Group is continuing to expand in size, geographical spread, 
complexity and the diversity of its operations and activities. Ten years ago Shanks 
had operations in the UK only and was largely dependent on landfill.  Today the 
Group is active in five countries, has four times as many employees and a range of 
waste and resource management activities which would have seemed unimaginable 
a decade ago. In this rapidly changing environment no approach to corporate 
responsibility can remain static. 
 
During 2008/9 the Group formed its Group Corporate Responsibility Committee, 
formed out of pre-existing environmental, health and safety and human resources 
structures and comprising of senior representatives from the Group’s main countries 
of operation. This Group Corporate Responsibility Committee reports directly into the 
Group’s Executive Committee, which includes the Group Chief Executive, the Group 
Finance Director and Managing Directors of the Group’s three operating companies.   
 
Reporting of corporate responsibility issues and performance has been improved 
both internally and externally.  Shanks’ first Group-wide corporate responsibility 
report, which will be published this year, is a very clear example of improved 
reporting and includes the Group’s first assessment of its carbon footprint.  This 2009 
Group Corporate Responsibility Report will be available on the Group website, and in 
hard copy, and provides information on a wide variety of corporate responsibility 
performance indicators.  In addition to reporting on performance, the report includes 
qualitative and quantitative targets and case study examples from around the Group.   
 
The Environment 
Shanks is an environmental management group.  It takes society’s by-products and 
manages them in an environmentally sound manner and, where practical, produces 
resources from recycling and recovery, the benefits of which are fed back into 
society. The technologies and facilities it employs to perform this function are bound 
by a complex and strict network of environmental regulation and policy. 
 
All the Group operations have environmental management systems aimed at 
compliance with environmental regulation and permitting and maximising the benefits 
of resource recovery within these set boundaries. The Group aims to foster 
constructive relationships with its environmental regulators. The Group’s success in 
achieving the above aims may be measured at a headline level by the low level of 
enforcement action taken against its operating companies.   
 
Table 17: Environmental Convictions 
 
  Fine (£k)  Details 
Netherlands  9.9  Breach of oil spill reporting deadlines 
Netherlands  2.5  Breach of safety procedures for cleaning processes 
Belgium  None   
United Kingdom  None   
Canada  None   
 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      35  
The framework for waste and resource management in Europe is set by reference to 
the waste hierarchy with the 2008 Waste Directive introducing targets for recycling 
and recovery which EU member states must enforce. The Group’s policy is to align 
itself with the waste hierarchy and to increase its recycling and recovery rates. 
 
Such recycling rate and recovery performance are not equal across all countries of 
operation, some having higher recycling and recovery rates than others.  One of our 
strengths as a multi-national concern is the ability to transfer technologies and 
experience across the Group as a tool for improvement. For example, the anaerobic 
digestion technologies acquired in the Netherlands are of potential use in the Group’s 
other countries of operation. 
 
Table 18: Overall Recycling and Recovery Rate 
 
  Recycling/recovery rate 
Netherlands  87% 
Belgium  61% 
United Kingdom  32% 
Canada  75% 
Group  70% 
 
Carbon and climate change 
Most organisations deliver products or services which have a carbon impact.  A 
waste and resources group is different in that its ‘products’ are environmental 
management and recycled or recovered resources. For example, the Group may 
produce from waste a secondary fuel which displaces fossil fuels in a production 
process, or a recyclate which displaces virgin raw material in a process so producing 
a carbon avoidance benefit. 
 
As the technologies employed by the Group develop and become more widespread 
in use, it is expected that carbon emissions from its own direct energy use may rise 
for some operations. However, it is also expected that the potential carbon avoidance 
benefit for the wider society of these activities will also increase to more than balance 
out any energy use issues. It is the balance between energy use and potential 
carbon avoidance benefit which is the important performance indicator, rather than a 
simple calculation involving only one end of the process.   
 
Of course the potential carbon avoidance benefits accrued from recycling and 
recovery activities are not the sole property of the Group.  It is also spread across the 
Group’s customers consigning wastes to its sites and the downstream recipients of 
recycled and recovered resources.  It is certain that the issues surrounding waste 
and resource management and carbon will continue to develop rapidly over the next 
few years. However, the Group’s carbon footprint demonstrates the critical and 
growing role the Group can play in the carbon debate. 
 
People, Employee Wellbeing and Health and Safety 
With its geographical spread and diverse operational structure, the Group relies 
heavily on the competence, motivation and abilities of its employees, whether to 
ensure compliance with its environmental permissions or to maintain the effective 
and safe running of its operations. Employee wellbeing is perhaps more important for 
the Group than for many other businesses. 
 
At its most basic level employee wellbeing means not harming employees and is a 
health and safety issue.  The Group has always been aware that it operates in a 
potentially high risk sector and has reported publicly on its accident performance for  shanks.  annual report 2009      36  
more than 18 years. At a more complex level issues such as employee 
communication, dignity, diversity, business ethics and company culture are all part of 
employee wellbeing. 
 
 
Table 19: Shanks Group RIDDOR accident rate per 100,000 employees 2001/2002–
2008/2009 
 
 
Table 19 displays the Group’s RIDDOR (Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and 
Dangerous Occurrence Regulations) employee accident rate from 2001/2, when 
Shanks acquired its Dutch interests, to the year 2008/9.  As can be seen the trend is 
one of continuous improvement. 
 
All of the Group’s employment and training policies are compliant with relevant 
national employment legislation and regulatory obligations. The Group is an equal 
opportunities employer and full and fair consideration is given to applications from, 
and the continuing employment, career development and training of, disabled people. 
A culture of two way communications is actively promoted and trade unions, works 
councils and other employee groups are involved wherever appropriate.   
 
At a Group level the approach taken is clearly outlined in the Statement of Business 
Principles and Corporate Ethics. This is publicly available alongside other corporate 
publications on the Group’s website. For 2009 the Group has committed to the 
review of this policy to include wider corporate responsibility issues and, via the 
activities of the Group Corporate Responsibility Committee, to seek ways to embed 
this better into company operations and culture.   
 
A further target the Group has set itself is to improve employee communications, and 
a first step in this will be to implement new, and review previous, employee attitude 
surveys. This target is one of the objectives to be set into the 2009 Corporate 
Responsibility Report. 
 
Wider Community 
Waste and resource management operations are often not the most popular of 
neighbours, even if they are accepted by society as a whole as being a necessity 
and, so far as recycling and recovery facilities are concerned, even as a benefit. 
 
The Group understands that it is essential to keep good communication lines open 
with its neighbours and other stakeholders. More than this the Group has a positive 
role to play in promoting recycling and other more environmentally sustainable waste 
management practices to the public and its closer stakeholders such as customers. 
 
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
2001/2002 2002/2003 2003/2004 2004/2005 2005/2006 2006/2007 2007/2008 2008/2009
RIDDOR rate shanks.  annual report 2009      37  
The Group has an open door policy and encourages visits from local communities, 
customers and other interested persons and parties. Open days are held at some 
sites, while at others education centres have been established for the use of local 
schools and other bodies. Formal liaison groups are encouraged at high-profile sites 
and engagement with local political systems is a direct duty of operational 
management. 
 
The Group cannot rely on its regulators and internal monitoring systems completely 
when assessing the potential impacts of its operations and it is essential that local 
populace opinion and concerns are accounted for. As a result, the Group has 
complaint and comment tracking and response systems at all of its sites. Trends in 
complaints are tracked centrally with the aim of addressing any issues before they 
either come to the regulator’s attention or start to impact significantly on company 
image and reputation.  The Group is more than aware that local perception is a 
critical factor which can have a direct effect on site development and success. This is 
reflected in one of the objectives to be set out in the 2009 Group Corporate 
Responsibility Report, which requires its operating companies to review their existing 
environmental complaints procedures to ensure that they remain relevant and 
effective in tracking local opinion and views. 
 
2009 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Since the late 1980s the Group has produced publicly available reports on corporate 
responsibility issues, such as on health and safety and the environment. In later 
years these separate reports were combined into one Safety, Health and 
Environment report and for 2008 the Group produced a corporate responsibility data-
set publication, which included wider corporate responsibility performance 
information. 
 
For 2009 Shanks will produce its first Group-wide Corporate Responsibility Report, 
including details of the Group carbon footprint and giving examples of company 
initiatives as case studies. This report will primarily be an electronic publication and 
will be produced in English, Dutch and French and will be available for download on 
the Group’s website.    shanks.  annual report 2009      38  
Board of Directors  
 
Adrian Auer, BA, MBA, ACT | Chairman 
Adrian joined the Board in 2005 and was appointed Chairman in July 2006. He chairs 
the Nomination Committee and is also a member of the Remuneration Committee. 
Adrian is also Chairman of Readymix plc and a Non-executive Director of Filtrona plc. 
Previously he has held the position of Finance Director in a number of major 
companies, notably in the building materials and construction sectors, as well as 
senior finance positions with BP and ICI. He is also Chairman of Addaction, Britain’s 
largest specialist drug and alcohol treatment charity. Adrian will be standing for re-
election at the forthcoming AGM and is considered by the Board to be independent. 
 
Stephen Riley, B Eng, PhD | Non-executive Director 
Stephen was appointed to the Board in March 2007 and is a member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees. He is currently an Executive Director 
with International Power plc having joined that business in 1985. Stephen has 
extensive operational experience in the power industry having held senior positions in 
the UK and Australia. Stephen will be standing for re-election at the forthcoming AGM 
and is considered by the Board to be independent. 
 
Peter Johnson, BA, ACA | Non-executive Director 
Peter joined the Board in May 2005 and is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and 
also sits on the Remuneration and Nomination Committees. Peter is a chartered 
accountant and a Non-executive Director of Oriel Securities Limited. He was Finance 
Director of Taylor Wimpey plc from 2002 until October 2008. Previously he has held a 
number of senior positions in the Financial Services sector including those of Group 
Finance Director of Henderson plc, Chief Financial Officer for Pearl Assurance and 
Finance Director of Norwich Union Life. Peter will be standing for re-election at the 
forthcoming AGM and is considered by the Board to be independent. 
 
Eric van Amerongen | Senior Independent Director 
Eric was appointed to the Board in February 2007 and sits on the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees. In July 2007 he was appointed Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director. He was until 
January 2008 a Non-executive Director of Corus Group plc, a position he held for 
seven years. Eric has wide ranging European business experience and holds a 
number of Non-executive and advisory positions. Eric will be standing for re-election 
at the forthcoming AGM and is considered by the Board to be independent. 
 
Tom Drury, MA | Group Chief Executive 
Tom joined the Company as Group Chief Executive Designate in September 2007 
and was appointed Group Chief Executive in October of that year. Following an early 
career with Unilever and PricewaterhouseCoopers he went on to a distinguished 
career with United Utilities plc, being appointed a main Board Director in 2005. In 
1996 he was appointed Managing Director of a new commercial enterprise, Vertex, 
which grew to become the second largest firm in the UK’s business process 
outsourcing sector until the sale of that business in March 2007 to US private equity. 
 
Chris Surch, B.Com (ACC), ACA | Group Finance Director 
Chris joined the Board in May 2009 as Group Finance Director. Following an early 
career with PricewaterhouseCoopers he joined TI Group plc in 1995 where he held a 
number of audit and finance roles. Following the merger of TI Group with Smiths 
Group plc in December 2000 he went on to hold further senior finance roles, most 
recently as Finance Director of their Specialty Engineering division. Chris will be 
standing for election at the forthcoming AGM.  shanks.  annual report 2009      39  
Directors’ Report 
The Directors present their Annual Report together with the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 31 March 2009. 
Directors 
The composition of the Board of Directors at the date of this Report is shown on the 
previous page together with their biographical details. Mr A Auer, Mr T Drury, Mr E 
van Amerongen, Mr P Johnson and Dr S Riley all served on the Board throughout 
the financial year under review. On 27 April 2009 Mr F Welham, who served as a 
Director throughout the year, left the Board and was succeeded as Group Finance 
Director on 1 May 2009 by Mr C Surch. Mr C Surch will be standing for election at the 
forthcoming AGM and Mr A Auer, Mr E van Amerongen, Mr P Johnson and Dr S 
Riley will be offering themselves for re-election voluntarily. Mr C Surch has a service 
contract terminable on six months notice up to 1 November 2009 and on twelve 
months notice thereafter. The Board commends to shareholders the election and re-
elections of these Directors, all of whom they regard as possessing the requisite 
skills and attributes to continue making significant contributions in their respective 
roles.  
Details of the Directors’ interests are shown in the Remuneration Report. 
Principal Activities and Business Review 
The principal activities of the Group continue to be waste processing and waste 
management in the Netherlands, Belgium, UK, and Canada. 
The Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Statement, Market Overview, 
Corporate Strategy, Business Review by Country, Financial Review and Corporate 
Responsibility sections of this Annual Report, refer to the objectives and strategy, 
competition and the markets in which the Group operates, the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group, a review of the development and performance of the 
business for the year ended 31 March 2009, the financial position of the Group as at 
the financial year end, key performance indicators and likely future developments of 
the business. Together with Corporate Governance, the Remuneration Report and 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities the information referred to above fulfills the 
requirements of the business review provisions in section 417 of the Companies Act 
2006 and is incorporated by reference into, and shall be deemed to form part of, this 
Report together with the other information referred to in this Directors’ Report. 
Acquisitions and Disposals 
During the year acquisitions have been made at a total cost of £10.4m (2008: 
£47.5m), details of which are described in note 13 to the financial statements. There 
were no disposals in the year (2008: £Nil). Subsequent to the year end, on 14 May 
2009 the Group disposed of its joint venture interest in the Avondale landfill business 
in the UK for a consideration of up to £27.5m as described in note 30 to the financial 
statements. 
 
Research and Development 
The Group spent £Nil (2008: £Nil) on research and development during the year 
ended 31 March 2009.  shanks.  annual report 2009      40  
Results and Dividends 
The Group’s Consolidated Income Statement appears on page 63 and note 2 to the 
financial statements shows the contribution to revenue and profits made by the 
different segments of the Group’s business. The Group’s profit for the year amounted 
to £6.4m (2008: £28.3m). 
The Directors do not recommend a final dividend for the year (2008: 4.2p).The 
interim dividend of 2.1p (2008: 2.0p) per share already paid on 9 January 2009, 
therefore represents the total dividend for the year (2008: 6.2p). 
Statement of Going Concern 
After making enquiries the Directors have formed the view, at the time of approving 
the financial statements, that the Company and Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the 
Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. 
Notifiable Interests 
As at 20 May 2009, the Company had been notified of the following direct and 
indirect interests in voting rights equal to or exceeding 3% of the ordinary share 
capital of the Company: 
  
Share Capital 
During the year ended 31 March 2009 no ordinary shares were issued other than 
those issued in respect of exercises of options under the Company’s share option 
schemes and in satisfaction of awards granted under the long term incentive plans, 
details of which are given in note 5 to the financial statements. As at 31 March 2009 
and as at the date of this report the authorised ordinary share capital was and is 
£35,000,000, consisting of 350,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each. As at 31 
March 2009 and as at the date of this report there were 238,019,801 ordinary shares 
in issue. The principal rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are as 
follows: 
• Dividend rights – holders of the Company’s ordinary shares may, by ordinary 
resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the 
amount recommended by the Directors. The Directors may also pay interim 
dividends. No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for 
distribution. Unless the terms of issue of any share otherwise provide, dividends 
may be declared or paid in any currency and all dividends shall be declared and 
paid according to the amounts paid up on the share in respect of which the 
dividend is paid and dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according 
to the amounts paid up on a share during any portion of the period in respect of 
which the dividend is paid.  Payment or satisfaction of a dividend may be made 
wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets, including fully paid shares or 
debentures of any other company. Such action must be directed by the general 
 
Number of 
shares Percentage
Legal & General Group plc 43,296,585 18.19
Schroder Investment Management Limited 31,294,239 13.14
Norges Bank 7,266,636 3.05 shanks.  annual report 2009      41  
meeting which declared the dividend, by ordinary resolution, and upon the 
recommendation of the Directors.  The Directors may deduct from any dividend 
payable to a member all sums of money (if any) payable by such member to the 
Company in respect of ordinary shares of the Company. 
• Voting rights – voting at any general meeting is by a show of hands unless a poll 
is duly demanded. On a show of hands every shareholder who is present in 
person at a general meeting (and every proxy appointed by a shareholder and 
present at a general meeting) has one vote regardless of the number of shares 
held by the shareholder (or represented by the proxy). On a poll, every 
shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share 
held by that shareholder (the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set 
out in the form of proxy). A poll may be demanded by any of the following: (a) the 
chairman of the meeting; (b) at least five shareholders entitled to vote and 
present in person or by proxy at the meeting; (c) any shareholder or shareholders 
present in person or by proxy and representing in the aggregate not less than 
one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to attend and vote 
at the meeting; or (d) any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by 
proxy and holding shares conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting on 
which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one-
tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right. In the case of 
an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, the chairman of the 
meeting is entitled to cast the deciding vote in addition to any other votes he or 
she may have.  In the case of joint holders of an ordinary share, the vote of the 
senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to 
the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.  Seniority is determined by 
the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Company's 
register of members. 
• Return of capital – in the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment 
of all liabilities and deductions taking priority, the balance of assets available for 
distribution will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to 
the amounts paid up on the shares held by them. A liquidator may with the 
sanction of a special resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction 
required by the Companies Acts, divide among the shareholders in kind the 
whole or any part of the Company’s assets. Alternatively, a liquidator may, upon 
the adoption of a special resolution of the shareholders, vest the assets in whole 
or in part in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of shareholders, but no 
shareholder is compelled to accept any assets upon which there is any liability. 
 Subsequent to the year end, on 21 May 2009, being the date of this Report, the 
Company announced proposals to raise approximately £66.7m (net of expenses) by 
way of a 2 for 3 Rights Issue of 158,679,867 Rights Issue Shares at a price of 45p 
per Rights Issue Share. A prospectus detailing these proposals and convening an 
extraordinary general meeting will be published and posted to shareholders. 
 
Restrictions on the Holding or Transfer of Shares 
There are no restrictions under the Company's Memorandum or Articles of 
Association that restrict the rights of members to hold or transfer the Company's 
shares. 
 
Control Rights Under Employee Share Schemes 
The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.  Under one of those 
schemes, ordinary shares may be held by trustees on behalf of employees.   shanks.  annual report 2009      42  
Employees are not entitled to exercise directly any voting or other control rights in 
respect of any shares held by such trustees and the trustees have full discretion to 
vote or abstain from voting at general meetings of the Company in respect of such 
shares. 
 
Appointment and Replacement of Directors 
The Company shall appoint (disregarding alternate directors) not less than two 
Directors. The appointment and replacement of Directors may be made as follows: 
 
• the members may by ordinary resolution appoint any person who is willing to act 
to be a Director; 
 
• the Board may appoint any person who is willing to act to be a Director.  Any 
Director so appointed shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be 
eligible for election; 
 
• each Director shall retire from office at the third AGM after the AGM at which he 
or she was last elected but he or she may be reappointed by ordinary resolution if 
eligible and willing; 
 
• the Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration 
of his or her period of office or may, by ordinary resolution, remove a Director 
where special notice has been given and the necessary statutory procedures are 
complied with; and  
 
• there are a number of other grounds on which a Director's office may cease, 
namely voluntary resignation, where all the other Directors (being at least three in 
number) request his or her resignation, where he or she suffers mental 
incapacity, compounds with his or her creditors, is declared bankrupt or is 
prohibited by law from being a Director.   
 
Powers of Directors 
The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the business of the 
Company shall be managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the 
Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or 
not. This power is subject to any limitations imposed on the Company by legislation. 
It is also limited by the provisions of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of 
the Company and by any directions given by special resolution of the members of the 
Company which are applicable on the date that any power is exercised. Specific 
provisions relevant to the exercise of power by the Directors include the following: 
• Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares – while holders of ordinary 
shares have no pre-emptive rights under the Articles of
 
Association, the ability 
of the Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, securities convertible 
into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share 
scheme, is restricted. Under the Companies Acts, the Directors of a company 
are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without 
express authorisation, which may be contained in a company’s articles of 
association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either 
event cannot last for more than five years. Under the Companies Acts, the 
Company may also not allot shares for cash (otherwise than pursuant to an 
employee share scheme) without first making an offer to existing shareholders 
to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion 
to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special  shanks.  annual report 2009      43  
resolution of the Company's shareholders.  The Company received authority at 
the last AGM to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a 
maximum nominal amount of £1,184,000.  This authority lasts until the earlier of 
the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009 or 24 October 2009. 
• Repurchase of shares – subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the 
Company may purchase all or any of its own shares in
 
accordance with the 
Companies Acts. Any shares which have been bought back may be held as 
treasury shares (subject to statutory limitations) or, if not so held, must be 
cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the 
amount of the Company’s issued share capital.  The Company received 
authority at the last AGM to purchase up to 23,690,000 ordinary shares.  This 
authority lasts until the earlier of the AGM of the Company in 2009 or 23 
January 2010. 
• Borrowing powers – the Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers 
of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of 
the Company's assets, subject to the
 
limitation that the aggregate amount of all 
net external borrowings of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed 
an amount equal to three times the aggregate of the Group’s adjusted capital 
and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in the Articles of Association, 
unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the Company’s shareholders. 
Amendment to Company’s Articles 
The Company may alter its Articles of Association by special resolution passed at a 
general meeting. 
Corporate Governance 
The Board is fully committed to high standards of corporate governance. Details 
relating to the Company’s compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance for the financial year are given in the Corporate Governance and 
Remuneration Reports on pages 46 to 59. These sections contain details of 
Directors’ service contracts and further information on the appointment of Directors 
and the responsibilities of the Board. Subject to the provisions of the Companies 
Acts, the Memorandum and Articles of Association and directions given by special 
resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may 
exercise all the powers of the Company. 
Corporate Responsibility 
Information on Corporate Responsibility matters including the environment, 
employment policies, health and safety and community relations are set out on pages 
33 to 37.  Shanks Group plc is a constituent member of the FTSE4Good index 
series, designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally 
recognised corporate responsibility standards. 
 
Charitable and Political Donations 
During the period donations made by the Group for charitable purposes amounted to 
£550 (2008: £2,430).  In the UK, through the Landfill Communities Fund, the Group 
has also supported local environmental and social projects in areas around its 
remaining landfill sites. This Fund aims to offset some of the negative impacts of 
residing very near to such sites by enabling operators to channel a proportion of their 
landfill tax liability to not-for-profit organisations to undertake projects such as 
disused land restoration, public park maintenance and habitat conservation. In the 
Netherlands a charitable project was established in the year to recycle and  shanks.  annual report 2009      44  
recondition hand tools for shipment to start up businesses in Africa. In addition, staff 
at individual Group businesses have organised various fund raising events to support 
local and national charities. No donations were made for political purposes during the 
year (2008: £Nil).  
 
Payment of Suppliers 
The Company does not currently subscribe to any code or standard on payment 
practice. It is the Company's policy, however, to settle terms of payment with those 
suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that those suppliers 
are made aware of the terms of payment, and to abide by the terms of payment. The 
amount owed to trade creditors at the year end in proportion to the amounts invoiced 
by suppliers during the year, expressed as a number of days, was 68 days (2008: 65 
days) for the Group and was 34 days (2008: 25 days) for the Company. 
Change of Control - Significant Agreements 
The Group’s principal financing instrument at 31 March 2009, the multicurrency 
£250m revolving credit facility with five major banks, contains an option for those 
banks to declare that all sums outstanding under that agreement are repayable 
immediately in the event of a change of control. This notice takes effect no earlier 
than thirty days from change of control and, if exercised at 31 March 2009, would 
have required the repayment of £243.2m in principal and interest. 
 
The multicurrency €360m term loan and revolving credit facility with six major banks 
which was signed on 7 April 2009 and replaced the facility in place at 31 March 2009, 
contained identical terms regarding change of control. 
The 2001 notes issued under the Group’s private placement contain an option for the 
noteholders to enforce prepayment between thirty days and sixty days from change 
of control of outstanding principal and interest which would have amounted in total at 
31 March 2009 to £48.7m. In addition, an amount of make-whole amounting to £5.5m 
which is not provided for in these accounts would be payable to private placement 
noteholders based on treasury yields at 31 March 2009. 
In addition, the rules of the Company’s share plans provide that awards and options 
may vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company. 
Persons with Whom the Company has Essential Contractual and Other 
Arrangements 
The Company’s largest customers for its products and services include local 
authorities and municipalities. In the UK these include notably, twenty five year 
integrated waste management contracts with the East London Waste Authority, 
Dumfries & Galloway and Argyll and Bute Councils. Under these contracts the Group 
is responsible for dealing with all the municipal wastes and recyclables collected by 
the borough or district councils or their subcontractors. In The Netherlands, the 
Group’s hazardous waste business has long term contracts with the oil and gas 
industry and is a major supplier of cleaning services to the petrochemical industry. 
The Netherlands also has a number of long term source segregated organic 
contracts with municipalities and provinces. In Belgium there are a number of 
municipal waste collection contracts, the largest being for the city of Liege under a 
ten year contract which was renewed in 2005. In addition, the Foronex business in 
Belgium has a small number of long-term wood supply agreements with biomass 
burning renewable energy producing plants.  shanks.  annual report 2009      45  
Disclosure of Information to the Company’s Auditors 
Each of the Company’s Directors in office as at the date of this report confirms that, 
so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information in connection with 
preparing their report of which the Company’s auditors are unaware. Each Director 
has taken all steps which he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make 
himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are 
aware of that information. 
Annual General Meeting 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at the offices of the 
Royal Bank of Scotland, 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA on Thursday 23 July 
2009 at 11.00am will be set out in a circular which will be dispatched to shareholders 
together with a form of proxy.  
 
Resolutions will be proposed to receive the 2009 report and accounts, approve the 
2009 Remuneration Report, elect Mr Chris Surch as a Director, re-elect the Non-
executive Directors, reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of the 
Company and authorise the Directors to determine the auditors’ remuneration. 
Shareholders will also be asked to renew the general authority of the Directors to 
issue shares, together with the authority to disapply pre-emption rights and authorise 
the Company to make purchase of its own shares. A resolution will also be proposed 
to authorise the Company to call a general meeting on not less than fourteen clear 
days notice. In addition, a resolution will be proposed to amend the Company’s 
Articles such that Non-executive Directors will be required to stand for annual re-
election. 
The Directors consider that all the resolutions proposed at the AGM to be held on 23 
July 2009 are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole 
and they unanimously recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the 
resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings. 
By order of the Board 
 
 
Philip Griffin-Smith 
Company Secretary  
21 May 2009 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      46  
Corporate Governance 
Combined Code 
The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance and 
integrity and exemplary ethical standards in all its business dealings. This statement, 
together with the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 59, explains how the Group 
has applied the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
published in 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council and updated subsequently in 
2006. The Board considers that it has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code 
in all material respects throughout the year. The Group has also complied with the 
Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees issued in October 2008 
in all material respects. 
The Board of Directors 
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, a further three independent Non-
executive Directors, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director. The 
Chairman has primary responsibility for running the Board and the Group Chief 
Executive is responsible for the operations of the Group and for the development of 
strategic plans and initiatives for consideration by the Board. The division of 
responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive has been 
clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board. 
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of experience to the Group and are 
considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any 
business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of 
their independent judgement. The Non-executive Directors make a significant 
contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby ensuring that no one individual or 
group dominates the decision making process. Non-executive Directors are not 
eligible to participate in any of the Company’s share option or pension schemes. The 
Chairman also meets as necessary with the other Non-executive Directors without 
the Executive Directors present. 
The Combined Code also recommends that the Board appoints one of its 
independent Non-executive Directors to be the Senior Independent Director. This 
Director is available to shareholders should they have concerns which contact 
through the normal channels of Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance 
Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate. During the 
year this role was fulfilled by Mr E van Amerongen. 
The Board meets regularly, having met thirteen times during the year. In addition, 
separate strategic discussions take place. Several meetings are held at subsidiary 
company locations in the Netherlands, Belgium and the UK where local operations 
are reviewed and site inspections made. In line with the requirement of sound 
corporate governance, there is a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically for 
the Board’s decision. These include approval of financial statements, strategic policy, 
acquisitions and disposals, capital projects over defined limits, annual plans and new 
borrowing facilities. 
The Board operates under agreed terms of reference, which together with those of its 
Committees are documented formally and updated as necessary. The Board is 
provided with appropriate information in a timely manner to enable it to effectively  shanks.  annual report 2009      47  
discharge its duties. All Directors have access to the Company Secretary whose role 
includes ensuring that Board procedures and regulations are followed. In addition, 
Directors are entitled, if necessary, to seek independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties at the Company’s expense. 
Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors during 
the year was again undertaken through the mechanism of formalised self 
assessment questionnaires. The performance evaluation of the Chairman was 
undertaken by the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director. 
An additional number of Board meetings, necessitated by the refinancing of the 
Group’s core bank facility during the year, called particularly upon the experience and 
contribution of the Non-executive Directors and reflected the effective working of the 
whole Board. Under the direction of the Chairman the Board will also set itself 
specific governance objectives for the coming year against which progress can be 
monitored. The Board will also determine whether to engage the services of external 
consultants for the next formal evaluation. 
All Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders in accordance with 
the Company’s Articles of Association and all Non-executive Directors are appointed 
initially for a three year term. Any new Director appointed to the Board will be subject 
to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment. The Board 
has determined that with effect from the forthcoming AGM, Non-executive Directors 
will stand for re-election on an annual basis and a resolution will be put to the AGM to 
amend the Company’s Articles accordingly.   
On appointment, Directors are given an introduction to the Group’s operations, 
including visits to principal sites and meetings with operational management. Specific 
training requirements of Directors are met either directly or by the Company through 
legal/regulatory updates. Board succession planning is kept under review by the 
Nomination Committee. 
As at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force between the Company and 
each of its Directors under which the Company has agreed to indemnify each 
Director, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of certain liabilities incurred as a 
result of carrying out his role as a Director of the Company. The Directors are also 
indemnified against the costs of defending any criminal or civil proceedings or any 
claim by the Company or a regulator as they are incurred provided that where the 
defence is unsuccessful the Director must repay those defence costs to the 
Company.  The indemnities are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the 
purposes of the Companies Act 2006. In respect of those liabilities for which the 
Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors' and Officers' 
liability insurance policy throughout the financial year and has renewed that policy. 
With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 introduced a statutory duty 
on Directors to avoid conflicts of interest. Shareholders approved a resolution at the 
2008 AGM giving Directors authority to approve situations involving any such 
conflicts and to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with by the Board. All Directors 
are required to notify the Company on an ongoing basis of their other commitments 
and through the Company Secretary has established procedures for ensuring that 
the Board’s powers for authorising directors’ conflicts of interest are operated 
effectively. 
The table below details the number of formal Board and Committee meetings held in 
the year and the attendance of each Director. In addition, the Board held a one day  shanks.  annual report 2009      48  
strategy meeting with senior management in attendance. There was also regular 
communication between the Non-executive Directors without the presence of the 
Executive Directors. 
  
   Audit Remuneration Nomination 
Director  Group Board* Committee Committee Committee 
A Auer  13 (13) n/a 3 (3) 1 (1) 
T Drury  13 (13) n/a n/a n/a 
P Johnson  13 (13) 3 (3) 3 (3) 1 (1) 
S Riley  13 (13) 3 (3) 3 (3) 1 (1) 
E van Amerongen  9 (13) 3 (3) 3 (3) 1 (1) 
F Welham  13 (13) n/a n/a n/a 
* Inclusive of four meetings held by telephone conference. 
Figures in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings during the period in which 
each individual was a Board/Committee member. 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee, which met three times in the year, is formally constituted with 
written terms of reference which are available on the Group’s website. The 
Committee is comprised solely of Non-executive Directors; Mr P Johnson, Dr S Riley 
and Mr E van Amerongen. Mr P Johnson, who continues to have current and 
relevant financial experience under Combined Code requirements, chaired the 
Committee throughout the year. The external auditors, the Chairman and the 
Executive Directors are regularly invited to attend meetings and the Committee has 
access to the external auditors’ advice without the presence of the Executive 
Directors. The Audit Committee has the authority to examine any matters relating to 
the financial affairs of the Group. This includes the appointment, terms of 
engagement, objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the nature and 
scope of the audit, reviews of the interim and annual financial statements, internal 
control procedures, accounting policies, adherence with accounting standards and 
such other related functions as the Board may require. The Committee also 
considers and reviews other risk management and control documentation, including 
the Group’s policy on ‘whistleblowing’ and security reporting procedures. 
The policy on engagement of the external auditors for non-audit services was 
reviewed during the year. Specified non–audit services may be provided by the 
external auditor subject to a competitive bid process other than in situations where it 
is determined by the Group Finance Director that the work is closely related to the 
audit or when a significant benefit can be obtained from work previously conducted 
by the external auditor. Whilst the Group Finance Director may approve any new 
engagement up to the value of £25,000, anything in excess requires Audit Committee 
approval up to an agreed annual aggregate limit. In determining whether or not to 
engage the external auditor to provide any non-audit services consideration will be 
given to whether this would create a threat to their independence. Similarly the 
external auditor will not be permitted to undertake any advocacy role for the Group 
such that their objectivity may be compromised. 
During the year the performance of the external auditors was formally reviewed. A 
resolution proposing the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Group 
auditors will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.  shanks.  annual report 2009      49  
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee, which met three times in the year, is formally 
constituted with written terms of reference which are available on the Group’s 
website. The Committee is comprised solely of Non-executive Directors; Mr E van 
Amerongen, Mr A Auer, Mr P Johnson and Dr S Riley. The Committee has been 
chaired since July 2007 by Mr E van Amerongen and determines the Company’s 
policy on remuneration and on a specific package for each of the Executive 
Directors. It also determines the terms on which the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
and the Save As You Earn (SAYE) share options are awarded to employees. The 
Committee also determines the remuneration of the Group’s senior management and 
that of the Chairman. It recommends the remuneration of the Non-executive 
Directors for determination by the Board. In exercising its responsibilities the 
Committee has access to professional advice, both internally and externally, and may 
consult the Group Chief Executive about its proposals. The Remuneration Report on 
pages 52 to 59 contains particulars of Directors’ remuneration and interests in the 
Company’s shares. 
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr A Auer and is comprised solely of Non-
executive Directors; Mr E van Amerongen, Mr P Johnson and Dr S Riley. The 
Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference which are available 
on the Group’s website. It met once during the year and is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and succession 
planning. During the year the Committee reviewed succession planning in respect of 
the senior management teams in the Netherlands, Belgium the UK. It has also 
reviewed the structure, composition and balance of skills of the Board to ensure that 
all members of the Board had devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to 
the work of the Board. Using the services of an external executive search consultant 
the recommendation of the Nomination Committee of the appointment of Mr C Surch 
as Group Finance Director was accepted by the Board, leading to his appointment on 
1 May 2009. 
Pensions 
The assets of both the final salary and money purchase schemes in the UK are held 
separately from those of the Group. These are invested by independent professional 
investment managers and cannot be invested directly in the Company. There are 
three trustees appointed by the Company and a selection process is underway 
currently to fill two vacancies for member nominated trustee positions. Senior 
employees in Belgium are provided with defined contribution pension benefits. In the 
Netherlands, employees participate in compulsory collective transport industry wide 
pension schemes, or equivalent schemes, which provide benefits up to a certain level 
of pay. Senior employees in the Netherlands earning in excess of the maximum level 
of pay allowed for within the compulsory pension schemes also participate in a 
defined contribution arrangement for the excess amount. 
Investor Relations 
The Company has an active investor relations programme, with designated members 
of the Board regularly meeting institutional investors, analysts, press and other 
parties. The Board obtains feedback from its broker, RBS Hoare Govett on the views 
of institutional shareholders and the Chairman attends meetings with major 
shareholders whose views are communicated to the Board as a whole. Detailed 
shareholder and market comment in particular is reported to the full Board after 
results announcements. The Group also communicates with private and institutional  shanks.  annual report 2009      50  
investors through its AGM. The Group’s website www.shanksplc.co.uk provides 
additional information for shareholders and the general public. 
Risk Management 
The Board confirms that processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
material risks faced by the Group and their regular review by the Board have been in 
place for the financial year 2009 and to the date of approval of the Annual Report and 
Accounts. During the year the Group has strengthened its risk management 
processes through the formal adoption of a risk management framework, the key 
elements of which are as follows; 
• a bi-annual review by each business unit to identify and evaluate the significant 
strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks affecting the business and 
to record the key mitigating controls in place to reduce risks to a level acceptable 
to the Board; 
• review by both country management and the Board of the risk summaries 
developed out of the above process to ensure the appropriateness of both the 
risks identified and the controls reported; 
• annual self-assessment by each business unit of the scope and quality of its risk 
management process and system of internal control, with subsequent review by 
both country management and the Board; and 
• consideration of both the risk summaries and self-assessment reviews by the 
Risk Management and Internal Audit function in setting the Group’s risk-based 
internal audit plan. 
Risk management also forms part of major decision-making processes such as those 
concerning acquisitions, major contract tenders and investment projects. It is also 
embedded in the day to day management of operations including health, safety and 
environmental compliance. 
Internal Control 
The Directors are responsible for and have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal control during the period covered by the Annual Report and 
Accounts. The system is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance 
against material avoidable loss or misstatement of financial information. The key 
features of the control system are as follows; 
• monthly visits by Executive Directors to key operating locations to attend local 
Board or management meetings; 
• regular Executive Committee meetings of the Group’s most senior managers and 
Executive Directors; 
• formal written financial policies and procedures applicable to all business units; 
• comprehensive annual budgets, requiring Board and business unit approval, 
reviewed on a regular basis, with performance measured against budgets and 
explanations sought for significant variances;  shanks.  annual report 2009      51  
• a formal clearly defined framework for control and approval of capital expenditure 
and investment programmes, with cash authorisation limits and post investment 
appraisals along with contract authorisation levels; 
• identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to each area of business 
assessed on a continuing basis at both Divisional Board and Group Board level; 
• appointment of experienced and professional staff of the necessary calibre to 
meet their responsibilities; 
• annual reviews by the Risk Management and Internal Audit function of the 
adequacy of procedures and controls in each country’s operations following self-
assessment by each business unit. Summaries of findings from these reviews 
and the status of follow-up actions are discussed at both Divisional Board and 
Group Board level; 
• an annual risk-based audit plan approved by the Audit Committee. The audits 
are performed under the guidance of the Risk Management and Internal Audit 
function. Findings from these audits are discussed at the monthly business unit 
Board meetings. Summaries of audit findings, the status of follow-up actions to 
remedy significant failings and the progress of audits against plan are discussed 
at the Group Board and Audit Committee meetings on a regular basis; 
• a range of quality assurance and environmental management systems are used 
at the Group’s sites. Where appropriate these are independently certified to 
internationally recognised standards including ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, and as 
such are subject to regular external audits; and 
• an Audit Committee comprising Non-executive Directors, the responsibilities of 
which are set out on page 48. 
To strengthen existing controls the Board accepted the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee in February 2008 that an independent internal audit function be 
established. The role of Group Risk Management & Internal Audit Manager, with a 
direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, was created to head up 
this function and in June 2008 an appropriately qualified candidate was recruited.  shanks.  annual report 2009      52  
Remuneration Report 
Remuneration Policy 
The principal objectives of the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by Mr E 
van Amerongen and comprises the Non-executive Directors, are to attract, retain and 
motivate high quality senior management with a competitive package of incentives 
and awards linked to performance and the interests of shareholders. The Committee 
seeks to ensure that the Executive Directors are fairly rewarded taking into account 
all elements of their remuneration package in the light of the Group’s performance. 
The Committee has appointed Deloitte LLP to provide independent market 
information and advice relating to executive remuneration and benefits. Deloitte LLP 
are considered to be independent as they provide only very limited other services to 
the Group.   
As described below, a significant proportion of potential total remuneration is 
performance related and is built around annual and longer term incentives. For 
Directors achieving median performance, performance related pay would represent 
approximately 35% of total remuneration. If performance were such that the 
maximum award available under each incentive scheme was paid, performance 
related pay would represent approximately 70% of total remuneration. 
Basic Salary 
The basic salary element is determined primarily by reference to external data which 
takes into account the Executive Director’s duties and responsibilities. Basic salary is 
generally reviewed on an annual basis or following a significant change in 
responsibilities. During the year and as at the date of this Report no increases have 
been applied to Executive Directors’ salaries. As such the base salary of the Group 
Chief Executive remains at £390,000. The new Group Finance Director appointed on 
1 May 2009 joined on a base salary of £250,000. 
 
Annual Cash Bonuses 
Annual cash bonuses for Executive Directors are paid at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee as a percentage of base salary dependent upon corporate 
financial performance compared to target and achievement of personal objectives. 
 
For the year to 31 March 2009 the corporate financial component of Mr T Drury’s 
bonus ranged from 30% for achieving target performance to a maximum bonus of 
100% for achieving performance of approximately 10% above target performance. 
For Mr F Welham the respective ranges were 22.5% and 75%. In addition, the 
maximum bonus component for achievement of personal objectives was 25% 
resulting in a maximum total bonus potential of 125% and 100% for Mr T Drury and 
Mr F Welham respectively. 
Target performance of the corporate financial component was achieved for 2008/9.  
Together with achievement of personal objectives relating to 15% and 17% of salary, 
the Remuneration Committee determined that total bonuses of 45% and 39.5% be 
awarded to Mr T Drury and Mr F Welham respectively. In addition, the Remuneration 
Committee awarded Mr T Drury a special one off bonus of £25,000 at the beginning 
of the 2008/9 financial year in recognition of his strong performance in his first six 
months as Group Chief Executive.  shanks.  annual report 2009      53  
Given the difficulty in predicting financial performance and forecasting earnings in the 
current economic climate the Remuneration Committee reviewed the structure of the 
annual bonus plan for 2009/10, recognising both the need to incentivise executives 
whilst also aligning with investor interests and the wider debate on levels of executive 
remuneration in general. Having considered the advice of remuneration consultants 
and recognising the greater degree of uncertainty, a lower threshold has been set for 
bonus payout against budgeted financial performance for the year ending 31 March 
2010. As such 10% of salary will be payable for “threshold” performance, 
representing 90% of budget. A total of 25% and 20% of salary will be payable to the 
Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director respectively for achievement of 
2009/10 budget whilst a maximum 75% and 50% respectively would be payable for 
outperformance of budget. Together with the retained 25% component for 
achievement of personal objectives the maximum aggregate bonus potential for the 
Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director is 100% and 75% respectively; 
having been reduced from 125% and 100% for the year ended 31 March 2009.The 
Remuneration Committee will review these arrangements for future years. 
Long Term Incentive Plan 
Under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Executive Directors and senior 
employees may be granted an award annually, the vesting of which is subject to the 
attainment of performance conditions measured over a three year period. Awards are 
in the form of Shanks Group plc shares. The maximum value in any financial year is 
limited to 100% of basic salary as at the date of grant and is calculated on the 
Company’s share price at that time. 
For awards up to and including those made in 2008, two performance conditions 
have been applied. The first performance condition is based on Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR), where the Company’s TSR achieved during the three year 
performance period is measured against the TSR achieved by those companies that 
constituted the FTSE Support Services Sector immediately before the date of grant 
of an award. An award will only vest in full if the Company’s TSR results in it being 
ranked in the upper quartile of the companies in the comparator group where the 
company with the highest TSR is ranked first. If the TSR of the Company results in a 
median position in the comparator group, then 25% of the award will vest. Vesting 
above the median position is on a sliding scale, with 3% of the award vesting for 
each percentile increase in the Company’s rank above the median position up to the 
maximum award. If the Company’s TSR for the performance period results in a 
position below the median then the award will lapse. 
The second performance condition is based on Earnings per Share (EPS) and for an 
award to vest, the average growth in the Company’s adjusted EPS calculated on a 
consistent basis must exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index over the same 
period by at least nine percentage points. Having reviewed this performance 
condition and in light of market conditions at the time the Remuneration Committee 
increased this to twelve percentage points for those grants awarded during the 
financial year 2008/9.  
The Remuneration Committee have decided to amend the performance conditions 
for LTIP awards to be made in 2009. In the current circumstances, the Committee 
believe that a single TSR condition will provide the best measure of performance.  As 
such the Company’s TSR performance will be compared to the TSR of the FTSE 
Support Services Sector with awards only vesting to the extent the Committee is 
satisfied that the Company’s TSR performance reflects underlying performance of 
the Company.  shanks.  annual report 2009      54  
Further, reflecting the fall in the share price of the Company and investor views on 
this topic, the Committee has decided to reduce the award level for the coming year.  
As such, and for awards in 2009 only, the quantum of awards for Executive Directors 
and Managing Directors will be limited to 50% of basic salary (compared to 100% of 
salary for the prior year). None of the awards will vest if the Company’s TSR is 
ranked below median.  Subject to the underlying performance of the Company, 
awards with an initial value at grant of 25% of salary will vest at median performance 
with the balance vesting in full for upper quartile performance.  Awards will vest on a 
straight line basis between median and upper quartile. 
The Remuneration Committee intends to review and consult more widely with regard 
to performance conditions applying to awards made in 2010. 
A number of minor administrative amendments to the LTIP were made during the 
year by the Remuneration Committee including the introduction of the option for the 
Committee to recommend to the plan trustees that awards can be cash settled in 
respect of the tax liability crystalising on exercise. No amendment may be made to 
the performance conditions which would be to the material advantage of participants 
without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting. 
During the year the Committee confirmed that the performance conditions for the 
LTIPs granted in 2005 had been achieved and that those awards vest in full. With 
regard to the LTIPs granted in 2006 the Committee have determined that as only one 
of the relevant two performance conditions for the financial year ended 31 March 
2009 were met, none of those awards would vest. 
The Shanks Group plc Employee Share Trust has been established for the purpose 
of granting awards under the LTIP and to hold shares in the Company either 
purchased in the market or new shares subscribed for, with funds provided by the 
Company or its subsidiaries. As at 31 March 2009 the Employee Share Trust did not 
hold any of the Company’s shares. 
Figure 1: Shanks Group plc Total Shareholder Return versus FTSE Support 
Services Sector Index for the period 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2009  
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
200
225
250
Shanks Group plc
FTSE Support
Services Sector
2004/05 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09
Source: Datastream
 
The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return of the Company and that of the FTSE 
Support Services Sector Index over the five year period to 31 March 2009. This Index  shanks.  annual report 2009      55  
has been selected as it is a broad equity index of which Shanks Group plc is a 
constituent member. 
Share Option Schemes 
The Remuneration Committee believes that share ownership by employees 
encourages the matching of long term interests between employees and 
shareholders. All UK employees including Executive Directors may participate in a 
HM Revenue & Customs approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
(SRSOS). Former Executive Directors and senior executives were also able to 
participate in an Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee. Grants of options under the ESOS were discontinued in 
August 2005 when this scheme was replaced by the LTIP. 
Under the terms of the SRSOS options may be granted during the ten year period to 
July 2015 to acquire up to 10% of the issued equity share capital of the Company, 
including options granted under the ESOS and LTIP. Options are granted at the 
higher of the nominal value of an ordinary 10 pence share and an amount 
determined by the Remuneration Committee being not less than 80% of the market 
value. Employees held options over nearly 0.6m shares under the SRSOS as at 
31 March 2009.  
Under the terms of the discontinued ESOS, options could be granted during the ten 
year period to August 2005 to acquire up to 5% of the issued equity share capital of 
the Company. The exercise of options granted under the ESOS was subject to a 
performance condition, achievement of which was a pre-requisite for exercise of 
options. The condition was tested once only after a period of three years and if it was 
not achieved the relevant options lapsed. Options were only exercisable if the 
Group’s EPS, calculated on a consistent basis, exceeded the growth in Retail Price 
Index over the same period by at least nine percentage points. At a meeting of the 
Remuneration Committee on 27 May 2008 the performance conditions for the 
financial year ended 31 March 2008 were determined to have been achieved 
resulting in the vesting of the final tranche of executive options granted in 2005 at an 
option price of £1.44. 
Directors’ Service Contracts and Notice Periods 
The Remuneration Committee has agreed that the policy with regard to the notice 
period for Executive Directors is one year. Accordingly, Mr T Drury has a rolling 
service contract dated 3 September 2007 which requires one year’s notice from the 
Company.   
 
The service contract of Mr C Surch dated 27 April 2009 has the same provisions 
save that until 1 November 2009 a mutual six month notice period applies. In the 
event of early termination, the Remuneration Committee will consider carefully what 
compensation should be paid taking into account the circumstances of the particular 
case. As at the date of this Report the compensation payment relating to 
Mr F Welham’s leaving the Company was yet to be finalised but will be disclosed fully 
in next year’s Remuneration Report. 
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts as their terms of 
engagement are governed by letters of appointment. During the year, letters of 
appointment for both Mr A Auer and Mr P Johnson were renewed for a further three 
year term.  shanks.  annual report 2009      56  
 
 Date of Date of 
 appointment as Director initial letter of appointment Term of appointment
A Auer 16 May 2005 10 May 2005 Renewable three year term
P Johnson 16 May 2005 10 May 2005 Renewable three year term
E van Amerongen 9 February 2007 12 January 2007 Renewable three year term
S Riley 29 March 2007 12 January 2007 Renewable three year term
External Appointments 
The Remuneration Committee acknowledges that Executive Directors may be invited 
to become Non-executive Directors of other quoted companies which have no 
business relationship with the Group and that these duties can broaden their 
experience and knowledge to the benefit of the Company. Executive directors are 
limited to holding one such position and the policy is that fees may be retained by the 
Director, reflecting the personal risk assumed in such appointments. No external 
appointments were held by Executive Directors during the year. 
Directors’ Interests in Ordinary Shares 
The Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the Company both during the year 
and at 20 May 2009 were as follows: 
  
  
As at 1 April 2008
As at 31 March 2009
and 20 May 2009 or date
 of leaving if earlier
A Auer  10,000 20,000
T Drury  15,000 35,000
P Johnson  1,585 1,585
S Riley  – –
C Surch (appointed 1 May 2009)  – –
E van Amerongen  – –
F Welham (left 27 April 2009)  – 63,119
 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      57  
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the remaining 
section of the Remuneration Report. 
Directors’ Remuneration 
 
   Performance Other 2009 2008
 
 
Basic
salary/fees 
related
bonus 
emoluments
 
Total
 
Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
      
Chairman      
A Auer  108 – – 108 100
      
Executive Directors      
M Averill (retired 30 September 2007)  – – – – 201
T Drury (appointed 1 October 2007)  390 200 125 715 409
F Welham (left 27 April 2009)  257 102 46 405 418
      
Non-executive Directors      
P Delaunois (retired 26 July 2007)  – – – – 26
P Johnson  40 – – 40 40
B Pointon (retired 26 July 2007)  – – – – 13
S Riley   35 – – 35 35
E van Amerongen   40 – – 40 38
Total  870 302 171 1,343 1,280
Notes 
(i) Other emoluments for Mr T Drury and Mr F Welham include such items as car 
allowance and medical insurance which are not pensionable. In the case of Mr 
F Welham this also includes Company contributions of £24,483 to the Defined 
Contribution section of the Shanks Group Pension Scheme. Other emoluments 
for Mr T Drury include a cash element, paid in lieu of pension scheme 
contributions, equating to 25% of salary. All of these items are non pensionable. 
(ii) The Non-executive Directors do not participate in the annual bonus plan and do 
not receive any pension contributions from the Group. 
(iii) With effect from 1 April 2009 the Board determined to denominate the fees of 
the Netherlands resident, Senior Independent Director, Mr Eric van Amerongen, 
in Euros and to increase these to €60,000 (£49,375) per annum. 
Directors’ Pension Benefits 
Mr F Welham is a member of the Final Salary (Defined Benefit) section of the Shanks 
Group Pension Scheme, which is a funded scheme, approved by HM Revenue & 
Customs. Pension benefits are capped at the notional HM Revenue & Customs 
earnings cap, which is reviewed annually. For the year to 31 March 2009 the notional 
cap was £117,600. Under the terms of this scheme participating Executive Directors 
have: 
• at retirement, and subject to length of service, a pension of up to two thirds of 
basic salary; 
• an employee contribution of 7% of basic salary; 
• a lump sum death in service benefit of four times basic salary; and 
• a spouse’s pension on death. 
 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      58  
The following table shows the movement in Director’s pension benefits during the 
year: 
Director’s Final Salary Pension – Benefits 
 
  
Age at
31.03.09 
Increase in
accrued
pension
during the 
year 
Increase in
accrued
pension
during the
year
net of 
inflation
Accrued
pension 
at
31.03.09
Transfer 
value
at 
31.03.09
of pension
benefits
accrued at
31.03.09
Transfer 
value
at 31.03.08
of pension
benefits
accrued at
31.03.08
Increase in
transfer value
less Director’s
contributions
Transfer
value of
increase in
accrued 
pension
during the 
year
net of inflation
less Director’s
contributions
Director’s 
Contributions
   (ii) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) (vi) (vi)
   £000 pa £000 pa £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
F Welham  44 4 4 34 414 355 51 37 8
 
Notes 
(i) This schedule sets out the disclosures in respect of benefits accrued in the 
Shanks Group Pension Scheme only under both the Stock Exchange Listing 
requirements and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 requirements. It does not include 
benefits accrued in the Senior Executive scheme or any other Company 
sponsored arrangement.  
(ii) The increase in accrued pension during the year represents the difference 
between the total accrued pension at the end of the year and the equivalent 
amount at the beginning of the year. 
(iii) The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on 
retirement based on service at the end of the year. 
(iv) Following the change in transfer value regulations with effect from 1 October 
2008 the transfer value as at 31 March 2009 has been calculated in accordance 
with regulations 7 to 7E of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer Value) 
Regulations 1996. It has been calculated taking account of market conditions 
and the age at 31 March 2009. 
(v) The transfer value as at 31 March 2008 has been calculated on the basis of 
actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. The 
calculation is based on the assumption that pensions will be paid from the 
earliest retirement age possible without the application of actuarial reduction 
factors (at age 62 for Mr F Welham). 
(vi) The increase in transfer value has been calculated taking into account market 
conditions and the Director’s age at 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2009. 
Directors’ Interests in Share Options 
The following Director held options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company: 
 
       Option Number    Number
  Date of Normal Exercise Dates price at 1 Granted Lapsed Exercised at 31
Share Options * grant From To (pence) April 2008 in year in year in year March 2009 
F Welham E 02.08.04 03.08.07 02.08.14 115.0 25,000 – – – 25,000
 S 25.09.03 01.11.08 30.04.09 84.0 18,869 – – 18,869 –
 S 26.09.08 01.11.11 30.04.12 177.0 – 5,423 – – 5,423
* (E) Executive Share Option Scheme and (S) Savings Related Share Option Scheme.  shanks.  annual report 2009      59  
Notes 
(i)  The option price is the price at which the option was granted. The price is set by 
the Remuneration Committee but is not less than 80% (SRSOS) and 100% 
(ESOS) of the average market price of the shares over the last three dealing 
days immediately preceding the date of the invitation to subscribe (SRSOS) or 
the date of grant (ESOS). The performance conditions relating to the exercise of 
Executive Share Options are shown on page 55.   
(ii)  The market price of the shares on 6 November 2008 when Mr F Welham 
exercised his savings related share options was 143.25 pence. 
Directors’ Interests in Long Term Incentive Plan 
The following Directors have been made notional allocations of shares under the 
Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan: 
 
   
Outstanding 
awards at 
31 March 
2008   
Awards made 
during 
the year   
Awards lapsed
during
the year 
Awards
exercised
during
the year  
Outstanding
 awards at
31 March
2009 
Date of
award 
Share price on 
date of award 
(pence)   
Performance 
period end   
Restricted
period end
T Drury   150,000   –   – – 150,000 28.09.07 233.0   31.03.10   28.09.10
   –    155,000    –  – 155,000 10.06.08 236.75    31.03.11   10.06.11
              
F Welham   75,000   –   – 75,000 – 06.06.05 144.75   31.03.08   06.06.08
   94,000   –   94,000 – – 05.06.06 170.0   31.03.09   05.06.09
   75,000   –   – – 75,000 04.06.07 273.5   31.03.10   04.06.10
  –  100,000  – – 100,000 10.06.08 236.75  31.03.11  10.06.11
Notes 
(i) The market price of the shares on 9 June 2008 on the vesting of Mr F 
Welham’s 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan was 241.17 pence. 
(ii) The performance conditions relating to awards granted in 2006 under the 
Long Term Incentive Plan were not met at the end of the three year 
performance period and these awards lapsed on 31 March 2009. 
 
(iii) The performance conditions relating to the vesting of the awards are shown 
on page 53.   
 
The highest closing mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Company during 
the year was 263 pence and the lowest closing mid-market price during the year was 
46.5 pence. The mid-market price at the close of business on 31 March 2009 was 
55.75 pence. 
Other Interests 
None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of 
the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group. 
By order of the Board 
 
 
Eric van Amerongen 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
21 May 2009  shanks.  annual report 2009      60  
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the 
Financial Statements. 
 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The financial statements are required by 
law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group 
and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
• state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;  
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis; and 
• include a fair review of the development, performance and position of the 
business, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.   
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the 
Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the 
Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 38 of the 
Annual Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: 
• the Company and Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit  of the Group; and 
• the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the Company and the Group, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces; and 
• there is no relevant audit information of which the Company and the Group’s 
auditors are unaware; and 
• they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order 
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company and the Group’s auditors are aware of that information. 
By order of the Board 
 
Philip Griffin-Smith 
Company Secretary  
21 May 2009  shanks.  annual report 2009      61  
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of 
Shanks Group plc 
 
We have audited the group and parent company financial statements (the ‘‘financial 
statements’’) of Shanks Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise 
the Consolidated Group and Parent Company Income Statements, the Consolidated 
Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Group and Parent 
Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated Group and Parent Company 
Statements of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.  These 
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out 
therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
that is described as having been audited. 
 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities. 
 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory 
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, 
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as 
a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other 
purpose.  We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose 
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and 
fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information 
given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements. The 
information given in the Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented 
in the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Statement, Market Overview, 
Corporate Strategy, Business Review by Country, Financial Review and Corporate 
Responsibility that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the 
Directors’ Report. 
 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper 
accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ 
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed. 
 
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code (2006) specified for our 
review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it 
does not. We are not required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal 
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
 
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is 
consistent with the audited financial statements. The other information comprises  shanks.  annual report 2009      62  
only the Directors’ Report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
the Financial Highlights, Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Statement, the 
Market Overview, Business Review by Country, Financial Review, Corporate 
Responsibility, Corporate Governance Statement, Consolidated Five Year Summary 
and all other information as referenced by the contents page of the Annual Report. 
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our 
responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 
 
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, 
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also 
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the 
directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the group’s and company’s circumstances, consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed. 
 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and 
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient 
evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our 
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in 
the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited. 
 
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, of the state of the group’s and the parent 
company’s affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of the group’s and the parent 
company’s profit and cash flows for the year then ended; 
 
• the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation; and 
 
• the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial 
statements. 
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London 
21 May 2009  shanks.  annual report 2009      63  
Consolidated Income Statement 
year ended 31 March 2009 
 
 2009 2008 
 Note £m £m 
Continuing operations    
Revenue 2 696.5 563.7 
Cost of sales before amortisation of acquisition intangibles  (567.3) (456.0) 
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 10 (3.8) (2.5) 
Total cost of sales  (571.1) (458.5) 
Gross profit  125.4 105.2 
Administrative expenses before exceptional items  (62.8) (51.8) 
Exceptional profit on disposal of properties 3 3.3 1.9 
Exceptional restructuring charge 3 (2.0) – 
Total administrative expenses  (61.5) (49.9) 
Operating profit 2,3 63.9 55.3 
Finance charges:    
Interest payable  (28.6) (23.8) 
Interest receivable  10.7 12.7 
Change in fair value of interest rate swaps  (12.1) (2.9) 
Total finance charges 6 (30.0) (14.0) 
Profit before tax 2 33.9 41.3 
Tax before exceptional items  (9.1) (13.0) 
Exceptional tax  (18.4) – 
Total tax 7 (27.5) (13.0) 
Profit for the year  6.4 28.3 
    
Dividend per share 8 2.1p 6.2p 
    
Earnings per share    
– basic 9 2.7p 12.0p 
– diluted 9 2.7p 12.0p 
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 
year ended 31 March 2009 
 
 2009 2008
Note £m £m
Exchange gain on translation of foreign operations 24 35.0 28.1 
Actuarial (loss) gain on defined benefit pension schemes 22 (12.1) 16.0 
  22.9 44.1 
Deferred tax in respect of defined benefit pension schemes  3.4 (4.7) 
Net income recognised directly in equity  26.3 39.4 
Profit for the year  6.4 28.3 
Total recognised income and expense for the year 24 32.7 67.7 
The notes on pages 69 to 107 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  shanks.  annual report 2009      64  
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
at 31 March 2009 
  
   At At 
   31 March 31 March 
    2009 2008 
  Note £m £m 
Non-current assets     
Intangible assets  10 314.7 273.7 
Property, plant and equipment  11 388.2 287.5 
Other investments and loans to joint ventures  12 2.5 1.6 
Trade and other receivables  17 156.4 150.7 
Retirement benefit assets  22 – 9.4 
Deferred tax assets  14 12.6 3.7 
   874.4 726.6 
Current assets     
Inventories  15 10.4 7.7 
Trade and other receivables  17 162.7 152.8 
Current tax receivable   1.5 1.4 
Cash and cash equivalents  18 27.0 53.2 
   201.6 215.1 
Total assets   1,076.0 941.7 
Current liabilities     
Borrowings  19 (30.7) (8.1) 
Trade and other payables  20 (191.7) (175.5) 
Current tax payable   (12.2) (16.2) 
Provisions  21 (3.0) (4.1) 
   (237.6) (203.9) 
Non-current liabilities     
Borrowings  19 (420.6) (371.8) 
Other non-current liabilities  20 (18.0) (18.5) 
Deferred tax liabilities  14 (66.9) (39.1) 
Provisions  21 (32.3) (28.3) 
Retirement benefit obligations  22 (1.0) – 
   (538.8) (457.7) 
Total liabilities   (776.4) (661.6) 
Net assets   299.6 280.1 
     
Equity     
Share capital  23 23.8 23.7 
Share premium  24 99.2 97.4 
Exchange reserve  24 64.2 29.2 
Retained earnings  24 112.4 129.8 
Total equity  24 299.6 280.1 
The notes on pages 69 to 107 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The Financial Statements on pages 63 to 110 were approved by the Board of 
Directors and authorised for issue on 21 May 2009. 
They were signed on its behalf by: 
  
 
 
 
A Auer 
Chairman  
C Surch 
Group Finance Director 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      65  
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
year ended 31 March 2009 
  
   2009 2008 
  Note £m £m 
Net cash from operating activities  25 91.2 87.1 
Investing activities     
Purchases of intangible assets   (0.5) (0.5) 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment   92.5 (47.7) 
Disposals of property, plant and equipment   8.5 5.3 
Financial asset capital advances   (16.1) (17.1) 
Financial asset capital repayments   10.2 8.8 
Acquisitions of subsidiary and other businesses   (20.5) (47.5) 
Income received from other investments   0.3 0.4 
Net cash used in investing activities   (109.6) (98.3) 
Financing activities     
Interest paid   (25.8) (21.1) 
Interest received   11.0 10.6 
Proceeds from issue of shares   0.7 2.3 
Dividends paid   (15.0) (14.3) 
Increase in net borrowings   18.5 38.5 
Increase in obligations under finance leases   2.5 3.8 
Repayments of obligations under finance leases   (2.7) (2.7) 
Net cash flow from financing activities   (10.8) 17.1 
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents   (29.2) 5.9 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes   3.0 4.6 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year   53.2 42.7 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year   27.0 53.2 
The notes on pages 69 to 107 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      66  
Company Income Statement 
year ended 31 March 2009 
  
   2009 2008 
  Note £m £m 
Continuing operations     
Administrative expenses before exceptional items   (3.2) (3.4) 
Administrative expenses – exceptional  3 – (137.0) 
Total administrative expenses   (3.2) (140.4) 
Other operating expense – exchange   (18.8) (17.7) 
Operating loss  2,3 (22.0) (158.1) 
Income from shares in subsidiary undertakings   45.3 187.5 
Finance charges:     
Interest payable   (28.1) (19.8) 
Interest receivable   11.0 6.1 
Total finance charges  6 (17.1) (13.7) 
Profit before tax   6.2 15.7 
Tax  7 6.4 6.9 
Profit for the year   12.6 22.6 
Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 
year ended 31 March 2009 
  
   2009 2008 
  Note £m £m 
Actuarial (loss) gain on defined benefit pension schemes  22 (12.1) 16.0 
Deferred tax in respect of the above   3.4 (4.7) 
Net (expense) income recognised directly in equity   (8.7) 11.3 
Profit for the year   12.6 22.6 
Total recognised income and expense for the year  24 3.9 33.9 
The notes on pages 69 to 107 are an integral part of these financial statements.  shanks.  annual report 2009      67  
Company Balance Sheet 
at 31 March 2009 
  
   At At 
   31 March 31 March 
   2009 2008 
  Note £m £m 
Non-current assets     
Property, plant and equipment  11 0.2 0.2 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings  12 469.6 469.6 
Retirement benefit assets  22 – 9.4 
Deferred tax assets  14 0.5 – 
   470.3 479.2 
Current assets     
Trade and other receivables  17 274.9 184.0 
Current tax receivable   6.0 8.1 
Cash and cash equivalents  18 5.6 37.6 
   286.5 229.7 
Total assets   756.8 708.9 
Current liabilities     
Borrowings  19 (14.6) – 
Trade and other payables  20 (3.1) (3.5) 
Provisions  21 (2.4) (3.1) 
   (20.1) (6.6) 
Non-current liabilities     
Borrowings  19 (123.4) (128.5) 
Other non-current liabilities  20 (425.7) (376.3) 
Deferred tax liabilities  14 – (1.6) 
Retirement benefit obligations  22 (1.0) – 
   (550.1) (506.4) 
Total liabilities   (570.2) (513.0) 
Net assets   186.6 195.9 
     
Equity     
Share capital  23 23.8 23.7 
Share premium  24 123.2 121.4 
Retained earnings  24 39.6 50.8 
Total equity  24 186.6 195.9 
The notes on pages 69 to 107 are an integral part of these financial statements. 
The Financial Statements on pages 63 to 110 were approved by the Board of 
Directors and authorised for issue on 21 May 2009. 
They were signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
A Auer C Surch 
Chairman Group Finance Director 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      68  
Company Cash Flow Statement 
year ended 31 March 2009 
 
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
Net cash from operating activities    
Operating loss  (22.0) (158.1) 
Net (decrease) increase in provisions  (2.4) 130.8 
Exchange loss  18.8 17.7 
Share-based payments  0.8 0.8 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital  (4.8) (8.8) 
Increase in receivables  (88.1) (159.2) 
Increase in payables  49.0 100.5 
Cash generated by operations  (43.9) (67.5) 
Income taxes received  7.4 4.8 
Net cash from operating activities  (36.5) (62.7) 
Investing activities    
Dividends received  45.3 57.8 
Net cash from investing activities  45.3 57.8 
Financing activities    
Interest paid  (28.1) (18.9) 
Interest received  11.0 6.1 
Proceeds from issue of shares  0.7 2.3 
Dividends paid  (15.0) (14.3) 
(Repayment) increase of net borrowings  (9.4) 28.7 
Net cash flow from financing activities  (40.8) 3.9 
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (32.0) (1.0) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  37.6 38.6 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  5.6 37.6 
The notes on pages 69 to 107 are an integral part of these financial statements.  shanks.  annual report 2009      69  
Notes to the Financial Statements 
1 Accounting policies – Group and Company 
General information 
Shanks Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the 
United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as required by Article 4 of the European Union IAS 
Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements are prepared on the 
historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, which are stated 
at fair value. The policies set out below have been consistently applied. The 
Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued relevant to 
its operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 April 2008. 
 
The Group early adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments for the year ended 31 
March 2008 in order to facilitate a greater understanding and improve the 
transparency of the Group’s reported results.  IFRS 8 requires that disclosure of 
financial information be made which is consistent with that used by the chief 
operating decision maker to decisions about allocating resources and assessing 
performance.There has been no impact on reported profits or net assets. 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following standards, 
amendments to existing standards and interpretations which have not been 
applied in these Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective.  
IAS 23 (Amendment), Borrowing Costs, effective from 1 January 2009. The 
amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to 
the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset (one that takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale) as part of the cost of that 
asset. The option of immediately expensing such borrowing costs will be 
removed. This is in line with the Group’s existing accounting policy and will have 
no impact on reported profits or net assets. 
‘Improvements to IFRSs’ contains amendments to various existing standards. 
The amendments are effective, in most cases from 1 January 2009, or otherwise 
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. There is not expected to be 
any material impact on the results. 
IFRS 3 (Revised), Business Combinations, effective for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 July 2009 subject to EU endorsement. The revised standard 
continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations with some 
significant changes. For example, all payments to purchase a business are to be 
recorded at fair value as at acquisition date, with contingent payments classified 
as debt subsequently remeasured through the income statement. All acquisition 
related costs should be expensed. There is a choice on an acquisition-by-
acquisition basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree at either 
fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s 
net asset. The Group will adopt IFRS 3 (Revised) prospectively to all business 
combinations from 1 April 2010 subject to EU endorsement. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      70  
 
IAS 27 (Revised), Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, subject to EU endorsement. 
The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with a non-controlling 
interest to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these 
transactions no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses. The revised 
standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost. Any remaining 
interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised 
in profit or loss. The Group will apply IAS 27 (Revised) prospectively from 1 April 
2010. 
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the following amendments to 
standards and interpretations in future periods which were also in issue but were 
not effective at the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, will have 
no material impact on the results of the Group. 
o IAS 1 (Revised), Presentation of Financial Statements, effective from 1 
January 2009; 
o IAS 32 (Amendment) Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 
(Amendment), Presentation of Financial Statements – Puttable financial 
instruments and obligations arising on liquidation, effective from 1 January 
2009, subject to EU endorsement;  
o IAS 39 (Amendment), Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 
– Eligible Hedged Items, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 
July 2009, subject to EU endorsement; 
o IFRS 1 (Amendment), First Time Adoption of IFRS, effective from 1 January 
2009, subject to EU endorsement; 
o IFRS 2 (Amendment), Share Based Payments – Vesting Conditions and 
Cancellations, effective from 1 January 2009; 
o IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes, effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 July 2008; 
o IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, effective from 1 
January 2009, subject to EU endorsement; 
o IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008, subject to EU 
endorsement;  
o IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009; and 
o IFRIC 18, Transfer Assets from Customers, issued in January 2009 subject 
to EU endorsement. 
 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires 
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income 
and expenses. Although these estimates are based on management’s best 
knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ 
from those estimates. The most significant judgements made relate to 
assumptions concerning discount rates, future returns on assets and future  shanks.  annual report 2009      71  
contribution rates in connection with the Group’s retirement benefit schemes 
(see note 22). In making these assumptions, the Group takes advice from 
qualified actuaries. Other significant judgements made relate to tax (see note 
7), provisions (see note 21) and PFI contracts (see below). 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of 
Shanks Group plc and all its subsidiary undertakings (subsidiaries). Entities 
which are jointly controlled with another party or parties (joint ventures) are 
incorporated in the financial statements by proportional consolidation. The 
results of subsidiaries and joint ventures acquired or sold during the year are 
included in the consolidated financial statements up to, or from, the date control 
passes. Wholly owned subsidiary companies set up under PFI contracts are 
fully consolidated by the Group. 
PFI contracts 
The Group’s PFI contracts are all Integrated Waste Management contracts. In 
these contracts, the existing Local Authority waste management services are 
operated by the Group from inception of the contract. The PFI contract requires 
the building of new infrastructure to add to that inherited from the previous 
service provider and all rights to the infrastructure pass to the Local Authority at 
the termination or expiry of the contract. The payments made to contractors for 
the construction of the infrastructure are accounted for as financial assets. The 
Group accounts for the service element as revenue and the repayment element 
is deducted from the financial asset. Interest receivable is added to the financial 
asset based on the rate implied in the contract payments. Reviews are 
undertaken regularly to ensure that the financial asset will be recovered over 
the contract life. 
Borrowing costs relating to contract specific external borrowings are expensed 
in the income statement. 
 
Bid costs are expensed in the income statement until the Group is appointed 
preferred bidder and there is a high probability that a contract will be awarded. 
Bid costs incurred after this point are capitalised within trade and other 
receivables. When the contract is awarded, the costs are included in the 
relevant financial asset. 
Revenue 
Revenue represents the invoiced value of waste streams processed and other 
services provided including landfill tax but excluding sales taxes. Revenue is 
recognised when processing occurs or when the service is provided. 
Exceptional items 
Items are classified as exceptional and disclosed separately due to their size or 
incidence to enable a better understanding of performance. These include but 
are not limited to financing fair value remeasurements and the profit or loss on 
disposals of properties. 
Share-based payments 
The fair value of options granted is expensed on a straight-line basis over the 
vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually 
vest. Adjustments to the amounts expensed are only made in respect of non-
market related factors.  shanks.  annual report 2009      72  
Discontinued operations 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that 
represents a separate major line of business. Classification as a discontinued 
operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be 
classified as held for sale, if earlier. 
Intangible assets 
(i) Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair 
value of the group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired 
subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of 
subsidiaries is included in ‘intangible assets’. Separately recognised 
goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. Any impairment is charged immediately 
to the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.    
 
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of 
impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash generating units 
or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
business combination in which the goodwill arose.  
 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to the date of transition to IFRS (31 
March 2004) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP net book value 
following impairment tests. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK 
GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated.   
 
The profit or loss on disposal or closure of a business is calculated after 
taking into account any goodwill excluding amounts previously written off 
to reserves prior to 1998. 
(ii) Landfill void 
 When landfill operations are acquired, landfill void is capitalised based on 
the fair value of the void acquired and is amortised over its estimated 
useful life on a void usage basis. 
(iii) Other intangibles 
Other intangible assets are capitalised on the basis of the fair value of the 
assets acquired or on the basis of costs incurred to purchase and bring 
the assets into use. These are amortised over the estimated useful life on 
a straight line basis as follows: 
 
Computer software 1 to 5 years 
Waste permits 5 to 20 years 
Other 5 to 10 years 
 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment except for freehold land is stated at cost less 
depreciation and provision for any impairment. Freehold land is not depreciated. 
(i) Buildings, plant and machinery 
Depreciation is provided on these assets to write off their cost by equal 
annual installments over the expected useful economic lives. The 
expected useful life of buildings is 25 to 50 years. Plant and machinery 
lives are:  shanks.  annual report 2009      73  
 
Computer equipment 1 to 5 years 
Mobile plant 5 years 
Generation equipment 8 to 15 years 
Heavy goods vehicles 5 to 10 years 
Other items 3 to 20 years 
(ii) Landfill sites 
Site development costs including engineering works and the discounted 
cost of final site restoration are capitalised. These costs are written off 
over the operational life of each site based on the amount of void space 
consumed. 
Impairment of assets 
Assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment whenever events or 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If any 
such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated in order to 
determine the extent of any impairment loss. The recoverable amount is the 
higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value. If the 
recoverable amount is estimated to be less than the carrying amount the asset 
is reduced to the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised 
immediately as an operating expense. 
Leased assets 
(i) Finance leases 
Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of a leased asset, the lease is treated as a finance lease. Leased assets 
are included in property, plant and equipment at the total of the capital 
elements of the payments during the lease term and the corresponding 
obligation is included in payables. Depreciation is provided to write down 
the assets over the expected useful life or the lease term, which ever is 
the shorter. 
(ii) Operating leases 
All leases other than finance leases are treated as operating leases. 
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the income statement 
in the year to which they relate. The obligation to pay future rentals on 
operating leases is shown in note 27 to the accounts.   
 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are 
measured on a first in first out basis. 
Government grants and subsidies 
Capital related government grants are released to the income statement evenly 
over the expected useful lives of the assets to which they relate. Revenue 
grants and subsidies are credited in the same period as the items to which they 
relate. 
Unprocessed waste 
The accrual or deferred income relating to unprocessed waste is calculated at 
the higher of sales value or processing cost.  shanks.  annual report 2009      74  
Deferred consideration 
Deferred consideration is provided for at the net present value (NPV) of the 
Group’s expected cost at the date of acquisition. The likelihood of payment for 
deferred consideration conditional on meeting certain performance targets is 
considered on acquisition. Any differences between consideration accrued and 
consideration paid are charged or released to the income statement. 
Site restoration provision 
Full provision is made for the NPV of the Group’s unavoidable costs in relation 
to restoration liabilities at its landfill sites and this value is capitalised and 
amortised over the useful life of the site. In addition the Group continues to 
provide for the NPV of intermediate restoration costs over the life of its landfill 
sites and mineral extraction sites, based on the quantity of waste deposited or 
mineral extracted in the year. 
 
Aftercare provision 
Provision is made for the NPV of post closure costs at the Group’s landfill sites 
based on the quantity of waste deposited in the year. Similar costs incurred 
during the operating life of the sites are written off directly to the income 
statement and not charged to the provision. 
Discounting 
All long term provisions for deferred consideration, restoration, aftercare and 
onerous leases are calculated based on the NPV of estimated future costs. The 
effects of inflation and unwinding of the discount element on existing provisions 
are reflected within the financial statements as a finance charge. The real 
discount factor currently applied is 2%. 
Retirement benefits 
The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS19 Employee 
Benefits. For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted 
present value whilst plan assets are recorded at market value. The operating 
and financing costs of the plans are recognised separately in the income 
statement and actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full through the 
statement of recognised income and expense. Surpluses on defined benefit 
plans are recognised only to the extent that they are recoverable. Movements in 
irrecoverable surpluses are recognised immediately in the statement of 
recognised income and expense. 
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement 
as they become due. The Group participates in several multi-employer schemes 
in the Netherlands. These are accounted for as defined contribution plans as it 
is not possible to split the assets and liabilities of the schemes between 
participating companies, and the Group has been informed by the schemes that 
it has no obligation to make additional contributions in the event that the 
schemes have an overall deficit. 
Tax 
(i) Current tax 
Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit 
differs from profit before tax in the income statement because it excludes 
items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years or 
that are never taxable or deductible. The liability for current tax is  shanks.  annual report 2009      75  
calculated using tax rates that have been enacted, or substantially 
enacted, by the balance sheet date. 
(ii) Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is recognised in full where the carrying value of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements is different to the corresponding tax 
bases used in the computation of taxable profits. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax 
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the taxable 
profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can 
be utilised. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to 
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where 
it relates to items charged or credited through the statement of recognised 
income and expense or directly to reserves, when it is charged or credited 
there. 
 
Foreign currencies 
Foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated into sterling 
at the year end exchange rate. Transactions and the results of overseas 
subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures in foreign currencies are translated 
at the average rate of exchange for the year and the resulting exchange 
differences are recognised in the Group’s exchange reserve. Cumulative 
exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the year in 
which an overseas subsidiary undertaking is disposed of. The Group applies the 
hedge accounting principles of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement relating to net investment hedging to offset the exchange 
differences arising on foreign currency denominated borrowings with the 
translation of foreign operations. Net investment hedges are accounted for by 
recognising exchange rate movements in the exchange reserve, with any hedge 
ineffectiveness being charged to the income statement in the period the 
ineffectiveness arises. 
 
Financial instruments 
(i) Trade receivables 
Trade receivables do not carry interest and are stated at their nominal 
value reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable 
amounts. 
(ii) Financial assets relating to PFI contracts 
Financial assets relating to PFI contracts are classified as loans and 
receivables and are initially recognised at the fair value of the 
consideration paid and subsequently amortised using the effective interest 
rate method. 
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with 
a maturity of three months or less. 
(iv) External borrowings 
Interest bearing bank loans are recorded at the proceeds received, net of 
direct issue costs. Finance charges, including premiums payable on 
settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an 
accruals basis to the income statement using the effective interest rate 
method and are added to the carrying amount of the borrowings to the 
extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.  shanks.  annual report 2009      76  
(v) Trade payables 
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at 
their nominal value. 
(vi) Derivative financial instruments 
As part of the Group’s PFI contracts, the Group has a number of interest 
rate swaps. These swaps are measured at fair value at each reporting 
date with the gains or losses between period ends being taken to finance 
charges in the income statement. 
(vii) Other receivables and other payables 
Other receivables and other payables are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate method. 
Contingent liabilities 
The Company and certain subsidiaries have, in the normal course of business, 
given guarantees and performance bonds relating to the Group’s contracts. 
Dividends 
Dividends are accounted for on a cash basis and are not accrued in the balance 
sheet. 
Segmental reporting 
The Group’s organisational structure reflects the national nature of markets in 
which it operates, with divisions in the Netherlands, Belgium, the United 
Kingdom and Canada. 
Use of adjusted measures 
Shanks Group plc believes that trading profit, underlying profit before tax, 
underlying profit after tax and underlying earnings per share provide useful 
information on underlying trends to shareholders. These measures are used by 
Shanks for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation 
arrangements for employees. The terms ’trading profit’, ‘exceptional items’ and 
‘adjusted’ are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be 
comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies. It 
is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to GAAP measurements of 
profit. The term ‘underlying’ refers to the relevant measure being reported for 
continuing operations excluding exceptional items, financing fair value 
remeasurements and amortisation of acquisition intangibles, excluding landfill 
void and computer software. Trading profit is defined as continuing operating 
profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional items.  shanks.  annual report 2009      77  
 
2 Segmental reporting 
The Group operates in The Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom and 
Canada. As discussed in the Business Review by country on pages 15 to 25 the 
waste markets are different in each member state of the European Union. As a 
result, the Group is organised and managed mainly by geographical location. 
Each geographical location can be analysed according to the following types of 
activity: 
 
Solid Waste Non-hazardous solid waste collections, transfer, 
recycling and treatment 
Landfill and Power Landfill disposal (including contaminated soils) and 
power generation from landfill gas 
Hazardous Waste Industrial cleaning, hazardous waste transport, 
treatment (including contaminated soils) and disposal 
and contaminated land remediation 
Organic Treatment Anaerobic digestion and tunnel composting of source 
segregated organic waste streams 
PFI Contracts Long term United Kingdom municipal waste treatment 
contracts 
Sand Quarry Mineral extraction 
In addition to the waste activities detailed above we have small infrastructure 
and groundworks operations in Ghent in Belgium and Amersfoort in the 
Netherlands.  Due to their small size the infrastructure and groundworks 
activities are reported as part of the Solid Waste activities. 
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those 
described in note 1, except that pension expense for the United Kingdom is 
recognised and measured on the basis of cash payments to the pension plan. 
The profit measure the Group uses to evaluate performance is trading profit. 
Trading profit is operating profit before the amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles (excluding landfill void and computer software) and exceptional 
items. The Group accounts for inter-segment trading on an arm’s length basis.   shanks.  annual report 2009      78  
 
 2009 2008
Revenue £m £m
Netherlands Solid Waste 225.6 189.5
 Hazardous Waste 124.3 100.6
 Organic Treatment 10.2 7.2
  Intra-segment revenue (4.3) (2.6)
   355.8 294.7
Belgium  Solid Waste 126.4 77.2
  Landfill and Power 22.2 18.0
  Hazardous Waste 49.0 40.9
  Sand Quarry 3.2 2.2
  Intra-segment revenue (21.0) (13.2)
   179.8 125.1
United Kingdom  Solid Waste 72.6 75.1
  Landfill and Power 16.3 15.2
  Hazardous Waste 20.1 10.9
  PFI Contracts 48.8 43.2
   157.8 144.4
Canada  Organic Treatment 4.7 1.4
Inter-segment revenue (1.6) (1.9)
Total revenue  696.5 563.7
Group  674.2 547.3
Share of joint ventures 22.3 16.4
Total revenue  696.5 563.7
  shanks.  annual report 2009      79  
 
   2009 2008 
Profit before tax   £m £m 
Trading Profit
1
     
Netherlands  Solid Waste  31.6 30.0 
  Hazardous Waste  15.4 9.5 
  Organic Treatment  1.7 1.6 
  Country Central Services  (3.8) (3.4) 
    44.9 37.7 
Belgium  Solid Waste  8.0 7.4 
  Landfill and Power  10.0 8.3 
  Hazardous Waste  4.7 3.3 
  Sand Quarry  1.2 0.7 
  Country Central Services  (4.4) (3.5) 
    19.5 16.2 
United Kingdom  Solid Waste  6.3 6.4 
  Landfill and Power  5.6 5.0 
  Hazardous Waste  1.7 1.7 
  PFI Contracts  (0.4) 0.4 
  PFI Bid Team  (2.1) (0.9) 
  Country Central Services  (5.4) (5.7) 
    5.7 6.9 
Canada  Organic Treatment  1.2 0.1 
Group Central Services  (4.9) (5.0) 
Total trading profit    66.4 55.9 
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles  (3.8) (2.5) 
Exceptional profit on disposal of properties  3.3 1.9 
Exceptional restructuring charge  (2.0) – 
   (2.5) (0.6) 
Total operating profit   63.9 55.3 
Group   58.0 50.1 
Share of joint ventures  5.9 5.2 
Total operating profit   63.9 55.3 
Finance charges  Interest payable  (28.6) (23.8) 
  Interest receivable  10.7 12.7 
  Change in fair value of interest rate swaps  (12.1) (2.9) 
Total finance charges  (30.0) (14.0) 
Profit before tax   33.9 41.3 
1 
 Trading profit is operating profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles (excluding landfill void 
and computer software) and exceptional items. 
The Company operates solely in the United Kingdom providing Central 
Services. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      80  
  
      2009 2008 
  Net assets    £m £m 
  Netherlands  Gross non-current assets  523.9 451.3 
    Gross current assets  84.1 78.8 
    Gross liabilities  (120.7) (117.6) 
      487.3 412.5 
  Belgium  Gross non-current assets  113.1 55.0 
    Gross current assets  53.4 37.5 
    Gross liabilities  (80.7) (62.6) 
      85.8 29.9 
  United Kingdom  Gross non-current assets  205.6 199.8 
    Gross current assets  34.1 43.5 
    Gross liabilities  (37.4) (37.0) 
      202.3 206.3 
  Canada  Gross non-current assets  19.0 7.2 
    Gross current assets  1.1 0.4 
    Gross liabilities  (1.1) (0.5) 
      19.0 7.1 
  
Group Central 
Services  Gross non-current assets  0.2 9.6 
    Gross current assets  0.4 0.3 
    Gross liabilities  (6.1) (8.7) 
      (5.5) 1.2 
  Total  Gross non-current assets  861.8 722.9 
    Gross current assets  173.1 160.5 
    Gross liabilities  (246.0) (226.4) 
  Net operating assets  788.9 657.0 
  Current tax    (10.7) (14.8) 
  Deferred tax    (54.3) (35.4) 
  Net debt    (424.3) (326.7) 
  Net assets    299.6 280.1 
 
 
  
      2009 2008 
  Other disclosures    £m £m 
  Netherlands   Capital expenditure  33.9 31.8 
    Depreciation  28.5 23.2 
    Amortisation of intangibles  4.4 3.5 
  Belgium  Capital expenditure  34.8 11.8 
    Depreciation  13.2 7.1 
    Amortisation of intangibles  0.2 – 
  United Kingdom  Capital expenditure  7.8 5.6 
    Depreciation  3.9 3.8 
    Amortisation of intangibles  0.8 0.4 
  Canada   Capital expenditure  11.2 2.1 
    Depreciation  0.3 0.2 
    Amortisation of intangibles  0.1 0.1 
  Total   Capital expenditure  87.7 51.3 
    Depreciation  45.9 34.3 
    Amortisation of intangibles  5.5 4.0 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      81  
3 Profit for the year 
  
  Profit for the year is stated after charging (crediting): 
    Group Company
    2009 2008 2009 2008
    £m £m £m £m
  Staff costs (see note 4)  167.1 131.6 2.4 2.5
  Depreciation of property, plant and equipment     
  – Owned assets  41.3 32.1 – –
  – Held under finance leases  4.6 2.2 – –
  Amortisation of intangible assets (charged to cost of sales)  5.5 4.0 – –
  
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and 
equipment  41.8 31.6 – –
  Net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment  (2.0) (1.2) – –
  Exceptional disposal profits on the sale of property  (3.3) (1.9) – –
  Exceptional restructuring costs in the UK and Belgium  2.0 – – –
  
Impairment of investment in subsidiary undertakings (note 
12)  – – – 133.4
  
Make-whole payment relating to amounts owed to subsidiary 
undertakings  – – – 3.6
  Trade receivables impairment  1.9 0.8 – –
  Government grants  (0.1) (0.1) – –
  Operating lease costs:     
  – Minimum lease payments  20.3 15.3 0.1 0.1
  – Less sublease rental income  (0.1) (0.2) – –
    20.2 15.1 0.1 0.1
  Represented by:     
  – Operating lease rentals – Land and buildings  6.0 4.9 0.1 0.1
  – Operating lease rentals – Plant and machinery  14.2 10.2 – –
    20.2 15.1 0.1 0.1
  Auditors’ remuneration:     
  – Audit of parent company and consolidated accounts  0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
  – Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  0.5 0.4 0.1 0.1
  – Tax services  0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
  – Other  0.4 – 0.2 –
  Total payments to auditors  1.5 1.0 0.9 0.7
At 31 March 2009 the amount due to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for fees not 
yet invoiced was £0.3m. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      82  
4 Employees 
  
    2009 2008 
    Number Number 
  
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was 
as follows:    
  Netherlands  2,295 2,161 
  Belgium  1,245 1,031 
  United Kingdom  977 914 
  Canada  12 5 
  Group Central Services  15 14 
    4,544 4,125 
      
    2009 2008 
    £m £m 
  The total remuneration of all employees comprised:    
  Wages and salaries costs  133.8 105.7 
  Employer’s social security costs  24.2 18.2 
  Employer’s pension costs (see note 22)  9.1 7.7 
    167.1 131.6 
 
The disclosure above relates to the Group. The average number of persons 
employed by the Company was 15 (2008: 14), with the related wages and 
salaries costs, employer’s social security costs and employer’s pension costs 
amounting to £2.0m (2008: £1.8m), £0.2m (2008: £0.3m) and £0.2m (2008: 
£0.4m) respectively. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      83  
5 Share-based payments 
Group and Company 
As described in the Remuneration Report, the Group issues equity-settled 
share-based payments under a Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
(SRSOS), an Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) and a Long Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP) for key executives. 
Outstanding options  
 
   SRSOS  ESOS LTIP 
   Weighted  Weighted  
   average  average  
   exercise  exercise  
  Options price Options price Options 
  Number pence Number pence Number 
Outstanding at 31 March 2007  740,842 107p 2,015,000 155p 1,732,500 
Granted during the year  104,630 186p – – 751,400 
Forfeited during the year  (43,995) 131p – – – 
Expired during the year  (17,493) 130p (125,000) 141p (7,725) 
Exercised during the year  (100,523) 111p (1,390,000) 161p (507,275) 
Outstanding at 31 March 2008  683,461 117p 500,000 141p 1,968,900 
Granted during the year  275,063 177p – – 933,750 
Forfeited during the year  (93,200) 166p – – – 
Expired during the year  (51,633) 110p (20,000) 144p (266,750) 
Exercised during the year  (238,422) 89p (313,000) 144p (540,000) 
Outstanding at 31 March 2009  575,269 149p 167,000 135p 2,095,900
1 
Exercisable at 31 March 2009  193,356 102p 167,000 135p  
Exercisable at 31 March 2008  17,557 116p 55,000 115p  
 
      
       
At 31 March 2009:       
Range of price per share  84p to 186p 115p to 144p  
Weighted average remaining contractual 
life   
2 years
  
2 years
 
 2 years
 
1
 With regard to the LTIPs granted in 2006, since the year end the Remuneration Committee have determined 
that as only one of the relevant two performance conditions for the year ended 31 March 2009 were met, 
none of the 454,000 awards would vest.  
 
Fair value of options granted during the year 
 
   SRSOS  LTIP 
  2009 2008   
  Black- Black- 2009 2008 
Valuation model  Scholes Scholes Binomial Binomial 
Weighted average fair value  50p 66p 116p 147p 
Weighted average share price  205p 233p 237p 265p 
Weighted average exercise price  177p 186p – – 
Expected volatility  27% 31% 26% 33% 
Expected life  3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 
Risk-free interest rate  4.3% 5.1% 5.3% 5.6% 
Dividend yield  2.8% 4.0% – – 
Expected dividends  – – 2.0p/4.2p 2.0p/4.0p 
Correlation  – – 31% 21% 
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the 
Company’s share price over three, five and seven years prior to the date of 
grant. The risk-free interest rate is based on the term structure of UK 
Government zero coupon bonds. The expected life used in the models has 
been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.  shanks.  annual report 2009      84  
Charge for the year 
The Group and the Company recognised total expenses of £0.8m (2008: 
£0.8m) relating to equity-settled share-based payments. 
6 Finance charges 
 
   Group  Company 
2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m
Interest payable:      
Interest payable on borrowings wholly repayable within five 
years  
17.6
 
12.8
 
7.5
 
5.0
 
Interest payable on other borrowings  7.8 8.1 20.1 13.9 
Share of interest of joint ventures  0.3 0.3 – – 
Unwinding of discount on long term landfill liabilities  1.1 0.8 – – 
Unwinding of discount on deferred consideration  1.3 0.9 – – 
Amortisation of bank fees  0.5 0.9 0.5 0.9 
Total interest payable  28.6 23.8 28.1 19.8 
Interest receivable:      
Interest receivable on financial assets relating to PFI 
contracts  
(9.0) (8.9) –
 
–
 
Other interest receivable  (1.7) (3.8) (11.0) (6.1) 
Total interest receivable  (10.7) (12.7) (11.0) (6.1) 
Change in fair value of PFI interest rate swaps  12.1 2.9 – – 
Net finance charges  30.0 14.0 17.1 13.7 
 
7 Tax 
The tax charge (credit) based on the profit for the year is made up as follows: 
 
    Group   Company 
   2009 2008 2009  2008 
   £m £m £m  £m 
Current tax: UK corporation tax at 28% (2008: 30%)       
 – Current year  3.2 5.5 (5.5 ) (7.0) 
 – Prior year  (1.5) (1.6) (2.6 ) (1.4) 
 Double tax relief  (2.9) (2.9) –  – 
 Overseas tax       
 – Current year  12.8 10.8 –  – 
 – Prior year  (1.4) (2.1) –  – 
Total current tax  10.2 9.7 (8.1 ) (8.4) 
Deferred tax (see note 14)       
– Current year  (1.1) 2.7 1.0  1.5 
– Prior year   – 0.6 0.7  – 
– Exceptional  18.4 – –  – 
Total deferred tax  17.3 3.3 1.7  1.5 
Total tax charge (credit) for the year  27.5 13.0 (6.4 ) (6.9) 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      85  
The tax assessed for the year is higher than the United Kingdom standard rate 
of tax of 28% (2008: 30%). The differences are explained below: 
 
   Group  Company 
  2009 2008 2009 2008 
  £m £m £m £m 
Total profit before tax  33.9 41.3 6.2 15.7 
Tax charge (credit) based on UK tax rate  9.5 12.4 1.7 4.7 
Effects of:      
Adjustment to tax charge in respect of prior periods  (2.9) (3.1) (1.9) (1.4) 
Profits taxed at overseas tax rates  1.0 0.1 – – 
Non-taxable/non-deductible items  (0.5) (1.5) (7.8) (12.1) 
Unrecognised tax losses  1.5 2.9 1.5 1.9 
Withdrawal of industrial buildings allowances   18.4 – – – 
Other  0.5 2.2 0.1 – 
Total tax charge (credit) for the year  27.5 13.0 (6.4) (6.9) 
For both the Group and the Company, in addition to the amount charged to the 
income statement, deferred tax relating to retirement benefit obligations and 
share-based payments amounting to £3.8m has been credited (2008: £4.9m 
charged) directly to equity. 
As a result of changes enacted in the Finance Act 2008 there will be a phased 
withdrawal of industrial buildings allowances over a period of 4 years. This has 
resulted in an £18.4 million exceptional tax charge in the period. This principally 
relates to the non-discounted value of tax relief that would have been available 
on the PFI infrastructure towards the end of the 25 year PFI contracts. 
 
8 Dividends 
 
  Group and Company 
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:    
Final dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2008 of 4.2p per share 
(2007: 4.0p)  10.0 9.5 
Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2009 of 2.1p per share 
(2008: 2.0p)  5.0 4.8 
  15.0 14.3 
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 of nil pence per 
share (2008: 4.2p)  – 9.9 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      86  
9  Earnings per share 
 
  Group 
 2009 2008 
Number of shares    
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 237.6 236.2 
Effect of share options in issue  0.1 0.5 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per 
share  237.7 236.7 
    
Calculation of basic and adjusted basic earnings per share    
Earnings for basic earnings per share being profit for the year (£m)  6.4 28.3 
Change in fair value of interest rate swaps (net of tax) (£m)  8.7 2.1 
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (net of tax) (£m)  2.8 1.9 
Exceptional restructuring charge (net of tax) (£m)  1.4 – 
Exceptional profit on disposal of properties (net of tax) (£m)  (3.3) (1.9) 
Exceptional IBA tax charge  18.4 – 
Earnings for adjusted basic earnings per share (£m)  34.4 30.4 
Basic earnings per share (pence)  2.7p 12.0p 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) (see note below)  14.5p 12.9p 
    
Calculation of diluted earnings per share    
Earnings for basic earnings per share being profit for the year (£m)  6.4 28.3 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares (£m)  – – 
Earnings for diluted earnings per share (£m)  6.4 28.3 
Diluted earnings per share (pence)  2.7p 12.0p 
The Directors believe that adjusting earnings per share for the effect of the 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles (excluding landfill void and computer 
software) and exceptional items enables comparison with historical data 
calculated on the same basis. Exceptional items are those items that need to be 
disclosed separately on the face of the income statement because of their size 
or incidence to enable a better understanding of performance. Changes in fair 
values of interest rate swaps that the Group is required to enter into in relation 
to its PFI arrangements are considered to be exceptional items. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      87  
10 Intangible assets 
 
  Goodwill Landfill void Other Total 
Group  £m £m £m £m 
Cost      
At 31 March 2007  170.1 20.3 13.2 203.6 
On acquisition of businesses  24.9 – 17.4 42.3 
Additions  – – 0.4 0.4 
Exchange  30.8 3.6 3.5 37.9 
At 31 March 2008  225.8 23.9 34.5 284.2 
On acquisition of businesses  2.8 – 1.6 4.4 
Additions  – – 0.5 0.5 
Disposals  – – (0.5) (0.5) 
Exchange  35.3 3.9 4.6 43.8 
At 31 March 2009  263.9 27.8 40.7 332.4 
Accumulated impairment/amortisation      
At 31 March 2007  – 1.2 4.1 5.3 
Amortisation charge for the year  – 1.1 2.9 4.0 
Exchange  – 0.3 0.9 1.2 
At 31 March 2008  – 2.6 7.9 10.5 
Amortisation charge for the year  – 1.4 4.1 5.5 
Disposals  – – (0.5) (0.5) 
Exchange  – 0.6 1.6 2.2 
At 31 March 2009  – 4.6 13.1 17.7 
Net book value      
At 31 March 2009  263.9 23.2 27.6 314.7 
At 31 March 2008  225.8 21.3 26.6 273.7 
At 31 March 2007  170.1 19.1 9.1 198.3 
Of the total £5.5m (2008: £4.0m) amortisation charge for the year, £3.8m (2008: 
£2.5m) related to intangible assets arising on acquisition.  
Goodwill impairment 
Impairment testing is carried out at cash generating unit (CGU) level on an 
annual basis. A segment level summary of the goodwill allocation is presented 
below.   
 
    2009 2008 
    £m £m 
Netherlands    232.9 200.5 
Belgium    19.6 13.0 
United Kingdom    11.4 12.3 
    263.9 225.8 
 
 
The Group estimates the recoverable amount of a CGU using a value in use 
model by projecting cashflows for the next twenty years discounted at the 
Group’s estimated average cost of capital. The post-tax discount rate used is 
based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 8%, as most 
CGUs have integrated operations across large parts of the Group. This is 
considered appropriate for all parts of the business. The Group WACC is 
equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11%. 
 
Where the impairment test indicates that the recoverable value of the unit is 
close to or below its carrying value, it is reperformed using a pre-tax discount 
rate and pre-tax cash flows in order to determine if an impairment exists and to  shanks.  annual report 2009      88  
establish its magnitude.The cash flows are based on projections prepared by 
management covering a five-year period and are extrapolated using estimated 
growth rates at the end of the five year plan. The growth rate does not exceed 
the long term average growth. Management determined the five year plan 
based on past performance and its expectation of market development. In each 
case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably 
possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of the 
related goodwill. 
Other intangible assets impairment 
Other intangible assets includes site or waste permits, customer lists and other 
acquired intangible assets as well as computer software. During the year there 
has been no indication of any impairment.  
 
11 Property, plant and equipment 
 
  Land and Landfill Plant and  
  buildings sites machinery Total 
Group  £m £m £m £m 
Cost      
At 31 March 2007  118.7 48.4 303.7 470.8 
On acquisition of businesses  20.9 – 7.0 27.9 
Additions  9.5 2.9 38.9 51.3 
Disposals  (1.4) (0.1) (9.6) (11.1) 
Exchange  32.2 5.5 52.5 90.2 
At 31 March 2008  179.9 56.7 392.5 629.1 
On acquisition of businesses  2.5 – 12.7 15.2 
Additions  28.9 5.3 53.5 87.7 
Disposals  (2.5) (0.1) (20.4) (23.0) 
Exchange  29.7 5.9 67.6 103.2 
At 31 March 2009  238.5 67.8 505.9 812.2 
Accumulated depreciation      
At 31 March 2007  29.3 36.1 196.4 261.8 
Depreciation charge for the year  5.9 1.5 26.9 34.3 
Disposals  (0.5) – (8.4) (8.9) 
Exchange  14.8 4.9 34.7 54.4 
At 31 March 2008  49.5 42.5 249.6 341.6 
Depreciation charge for the year  7.1 2.1 36.7 45.9 
Disposals  (1.4) (0.1) (18.4) (19.9) 
Exchange  8.6 5.3 42.5 56.4 
At 31 March 2009  63.8 49.8 310.4 424.0 
Net book value      
At 31 March 2009  174.7 18.0 195.5 388.2 
At 31 March 2008  130.4 14.2 142.9 287.5 
At 31 March 2007  89.4 12.3 107.3 209.0 
Included in plant and machinery are assets held under finance leases with a net 
book value of £16.7m (2008: £12.0m). 
Depreciation expense of £44.5m (2008: £33.4m) has been charged in cost of 
sales and £1.4m (2008: £0.9m) in administrative expenses.  shanks.  annual report 2009      89  
 
  Land and Plant and  
  buildings machinery Total 
Company  £m £m £m 
Cost     
At 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007  0.1 0.5 0.6 
Additions  – 0.1 0.1 
Disposals  – (0.2) (0.2) 
At 31 March 2009  0.1 0.4 0.5 
Accumulated depreciation     
At 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007  – 0.4 0.4 
Disposals  – (0.1) (0.1) 
At 31 March 2009  – 0.3 0.3 
Net book value     
At 31 March 2009  0.1 0.1 0.2 
At 31 March 2008  0.1 0.1 0.2 
At 31 March 2007  0.1 0.1 0.2 
 
 
12 Investments 
  
   Group Company 
  Loans Other   Investments 
  to joint unlisted   in subsidiary 
  ventures investments Total  undertakings 
  £m £m £m  £m 
At 31 March 2007  – 1.8 1.8  379.8 
Additions  – – –  223.2 
Repayments or disposals  – (0.4) (0.4 ) – 
Provision movement  – 0.2 0.2  (133.4) 
At 31 March 2008  – 1.6 1.6  469.6 
Additions  0.9 0.2 1.1  – 
Repayments or disposals  – (0.3) (0.3 ) – 
Provision movement  – (0.1) (0.1 ) – 
Exchange  – 0.2 0.2  – 
At 31 March 2009  0.9 1.6 2.5  469.6 
Details of subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are shown on page 108 to 
109 and form part of these financial statements. 
During the prior year the Company acquired Shanks Investments from other 
Group companies in exchange for intercompany loans. Following the acquisition 
and subsequent dividend distribution, an impairment provision of £134.6m was 
considered necessary.  shanks.  annual report 2009      90  
In relation to the Group’s interest in joint ventures, the assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses are shown below: 
  
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
Non-current assets  23.8 13.7
Current assets  6.3 4.8
Current liabilities  (8.1) (5.1) 
Non-current liabilities  (10.7) (4.2) 
Net assets  11.3 9.2
Income  22.3 16.4
Expenses  (16.6) (11.5) 
Profit before tax  5.7 4.9
Tax  (1.6) (1.4) 
Share of profit after tax for the year from joint ventures  4.1 3.5
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is 
exposed nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its 
interest in joint ventures. 
The share of capital commitments of the joint ventures is shown in note 26. 
 
13 Business combinations 
(a) On 1 April 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of the Foronex 
group in Belgium, for a consideration of £10.4m. Foronex is a leading player in 
the wood waste and by-products market in Benelux. The goodwill recognised is 
attributable to Foronex’s strong market position, growth potential and synergistic 
benefits. From acquisition to 31 March 2009 Foronex contributed £38.0m to 
revenue and reduced profit after tax by £1.1m. The aggregate book value of the 
assets and liabilities acquired and the fair value to the Group were as follows: 
  
   Fair  
  Book value Fair 
  value adjustment value 
  £m £m £m 
Intangible assets  – 1.6 1.6 
Property, plant and equipment  8.1 8.1 16.2 
Investments  0.1 
–
 0.1 
Inventories  1.8 
–
 1.8 
Trade receivables   10.0 
–
 10.0 
Other receivables  0.1 
–
 0.1 
Trade payables  (10.6) 
–
 (10.6) 
Other payables  (2.3) 
–
 (2.3) 
Borrowings  (6.5) (3.9) (10.4) 
Deferred tax asset  2.2 (2.0) 0.2 
Provisions  (0.1) 
–
 (0.1) 
Net assets acquired  2.8 3.8 6.6 
Goodwill    3.8 
    10.4 
Satisfied by:     
Cash consideration    10.4 
(b) For acquisitions completed in the year ended 31 March 2008 there have been 
no amendments to the provisional fair values except for Wastecom Limited in 
the UK acquired for a consideration of £6.4m on 7 November 2007. Following 
the finalisation of the fair value of net assets on completion and a price  shanks.  annual report 2009      91  
adjustment of £1.0m, goodwill arising on the acquisition has been reduced by 
£1.0m. 
 
14 Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences under the liability 
method using applicable local tax rates. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an 
intention to settle the balances net. 
  
Group  
Retirement
benefit
schemes
£m 
Tax
losses
£m 
Interest
rate swaps
£m 
Capital
allowances
£m 
Other 
timing
differences
£m 
Total
£m 
At 31 March 2007  4.8 11.8 0.2 (28.2) (5.2) (16.6) 
Acquisitions  – 0.1 – (6.1) (0.4) (6.4) 
(Charge) credit to income 
statement  (1.7) (2.1) 0.8 1.6 (1.9) (3.3) 
Charge to equity  (4.7) – – – (0.2) (4.9) 
Exchange  – 0.5 – (3.1) (1.6) (4.2) 
At 31 March 2008  (1.6) 10.3 1.0 (35.8) (9.3) (35.4) 
Acquisitions  – 2.4 – – (2.2) 0.2 
(Charge) credit to income 
statement  (1.5) 3.4 3.4 (20.1) (2.5) (17.3) 
Charge to equity  3.4 – – – 0.4 3.8 
Exchange  – 0.5 – (4.0) (2.1) (5.6) 
At 31 March 2009  0.3 16.6 4.4 (59.9) (15.7) (54.3) 
Deferred tax assets  0.3 6.1 4.4 (1.9) 3.7 12.6 
Deferred tax liabilities  – 10.5 – (58.0) (19.4) (66.9) 
At 31 March 2009  0.3 16.6 4.4 (59.9) (15.7) (54.3) 
Deferred tax assets  (1.6) 2.4 1.0 (1.8) 3.7 3.7 
Deferred tax liabilities  – 7.9 – (34.0) (13.0) (39.1) 
At 31 March 2008  (1.6) 10.3 1.0 (35.8) (9.3) (35.4) 
As at 31 March 2009, the Group has unused trading losses (tax effect) of 
£22.9m (2008: £17.9m) available for offset against future profits. A deferred tax 
asset has been recognised in respect of £16.6m (2008: £10.3m) of such losses. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining £6.3m 
(2008: £7.6m) due to the unpredictability of future profit streams. Tax losses 
may be carried forward indefinitely. 
No liability has been recognised on the aggregate amount of temporary 
differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries because the 
Group is in a position to control the timing and method of the reversal of these 
differences and it is probable that such differences will not give rise to a tax 
liability in the foreseeable future. 
  
Company  
Retirement
benefit
schemes
£m 
Other
timing
differences
£m 
Total
£m 
At 31 March 2007  4.8 – 4.8 
(Charge) credit to income statement  (1.7) 0.2 (1.5) 
Charge to equity  (4.7) (0.2) (4.9) 
At 31 March 2008  (1.6) – (1.6) 
Charge to income statement  (1.5) (0.2) (1.7) 
Charge to equity  3.4 0.4 3.8 
At 31 March 2009  0.3 0.2 0.5  shanks.  annual report 2009      92  
As at 31 March 2009, the Company has unused tax trading losses (tax effect) of 
£5.8m (2008: £7.1m) available for offset against future profits. No deferred tax 
asset has been recognised in respect of the losses due to the unpredictability of 
future profit streams. Tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely. 
 
15 Inventories 
  
   Group 
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
Raw materials and consumables  9.4 6.6 
Work in progress  0.5 0.5 
Finished goods  0.5 0.6 
  10.4 7.7 
 
16 Financial instruments 
Carrying value and fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities 
  
    Group Company 
   Carrying value Carrying value 
   2009 2008 2009 2008 
Financial assets  Note £m £m £m £m 
Loans and receivables:       
Financial assets relating to PFI contracts  17 164.8 158.7 – – 
Trade and other receivables  17 154.3 144.8 274.9 184.0 
Cash and cash equivalents  18 27.0 53.2 5.6 37.6 
   346.1 356.7 280.5 221.6 
The Group considers that the fair value of financial assets is not materially 
different to their carrying value. 
 
      Group Company 
   Carrying value Fair value  Carrying value  Fair value  
   2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
Financial liabilities  Note £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Loans and payables:           
Bank overdrafts and           
short term loans  19 6.7 – 6.7 – – – – – 
Bank loans  19 365.8 325.2 365.8 325.2 123.4 116.0 123.4 116.0 
Senior notes  19 47.8 41.1 50.7 42.0 14.6 12.5 14.8 12.6 
Finance lease obligations  19 15.4 10.1 15.4 10.1 – – – – 
Trade and other payables  20 209.7 194.0 209.7 194.0 428.8 379.8 428.8 379.8 
Derivative financial 
instruments:           
Interest rate swaps  19 15.6 3.5 15.6 3.5 – – – – 
   661.0 573.9 663.9 574.8 566.8 508.3 567.0 508.4 
The fair value of the senior notes is measured by discounting the future cash 
flows at the market interest rate set by swaps with an equivalent interest 
pattern. The fair value of interest rate swaps is measured by reference to the 
cost of foreclosing the swap position at the year end. None of the change in fair 
value of interest rate swaps is attributable to changes in the Group’s credit risk. 
Risk management 
The Group is exposed to market risk (interest rate risk and foreign exchange 
risk), liquidity risk and credit risk. Group Treasury is charged with managing and 
controlling risk relating to the financing and liquidity of the Group under policies 
approved by the Board of Directors. Group Treasury does not enter into 
speculative transactions.  shanks.  annual report 2009      93  
 
Interest rate risk 
A substantial part of the Group’s borrowings are at floating rates which exposes 
the Group to interest rate risk. The Group’s core borrowings are mainly at 
floating rates except for the senior notes which are at fixed rates. The debt 
relating to PFI non-recourse borrowings is at floating rates and the Group has 
entered into interest rate swaps as a condition of the related debt. The interest 
rate swaps represent a hedge of the interest cash flows and although hedge 
accounting under IAS 39 would allow changes in the fair value of interest rate 
swaps to be recognised directly in reserves, the Group has not previously 
allocated the hedges. The interest rate swaps are therefore classified as held 
for trading in accordance with IAS 39. The swaps are presented in non-current 
liabilities together with the related long term borrowings since the Group 
believes this best reflects the commercial reality of the instruments. 
Changes in interest rates could have a significant impact on banking covenants 
relating to interest cover and on the interest charge in the income statement. 
The Group manages this risk by fixing the interest rates on a proportion of its 
total borrowings. The proportion of borrowings fixed at any one time is 
dependent on forecast interest rate cover. In order to measure the risk, 
borrowings and the expected interest cost for the year are forecast on a 
quarterly basis and scenarios run using management’s expectations of a 
reasonably possible change in interest rates. 
Interest expense volatility remained within acceptable limits throughout the year. 
The Group’s exposure to, and the way it manages interest rate risk has not 
changed from the previous year. 
The weighted average effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were 
as follows: 
 
    2009   2008 
Group  
Floating
rate
£m 
Fixed
rate
£m 
Weighted
average 
interest
rate
% 
Floating
rate
£m 
Fixed
rate
£m 
Weighted 
average 
interest
rate
% 
Financial assets:        
Financial assets relating to PFI 
contracts  – 164.8 5.6 – 158.7 5.6 
Cash and cash equivalents  15.0 – – 34.3 – – 
Short term deposits  12.0 – 0.8 18.9 – 5.4 
        
Financial liabilities:        
Bank overdrafts and short term loans 6.7 – 2.5 – – – 
Senior notes  – 47.8 6.9 – 41.1 6.9 
Bank loans  365.8 – 2.3 325.2 – 5.5 
Interest rate swaps  (119.6) 119.6 6.6 (123.8) 123.8 6.6 
Excluded from the analysis above is £15.4m (2008: £10.1m) of amounts 
payable under finance leases as set out in note 19, which are subject to fixed 
rates of interest. In addition, trade and other receivables and payables have 
been excluded as they are not interest bearing. 
The average term for short-term deposits is no more than seven days.  shanks.  annual report 2009      94  
For the Company, there were no short term deposits. In 2008 the effective 
interest was 5.4% with an average term of 1 day. The effective interest rate on 
the Company’s cash and cash equivalents was nil (2008: 5.0%). The weighted 
average effective interest rates relating to the Company were nil (2008: nil) for 
Euro bank overdrafts, 6.9% (2008: 6.9%) for senior notes and 1.96% (2008: 
5.4%) for bank loans. Interest on inter-company loan balances are charged at 
rates of between 0% and 12% (2008: 0% and 12%) 
 
Derivative financial instruments – interest rate swaps 
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 
31 March 2009 was £119.6m (2008: £123.8m). The expiry dates of the 
contracts range from 16 April 2023 (earliest) to 31 March 2025 (latest). 
Interest rate sensitivity (assuming all other variables remain constant): 
 
  2009 2008 
  Income Equity Income Equity 
  sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity 
  £m £m £m £m 
1% increase in interest rates       
Derivatives  1.2 10.7  1.3 10.0 
Non derivatives  (3.3) (3.3 ) (2.5) (2.5)
  (2.1) 7.4  (1.2) 7.5 
1% decrease in interest rates       
Derivatives  (1.2) (11.7 ) (1.3) (11.2)
Non derivatives  3.3 3.3  2.5 2.5 
  2.1 (8.4 ) 1.2 (8.7)
The interest rate sensitivity is taken to occur from 31 March 2008 and so the 
change in the fair value of the swaps is shown as an equity sensitivity which 
results in an increase of £9.5m (2008: £8.7m) for a 1% increase in interest rate 
and a decrease of £10.5m (2008: £9.9m) for a 1% decrease in rates. 
Foreign exchange risk 
The Group operates in Europe and Canada and is exposed to foreign exchange 
risk for movements between the Euro, Canadian Dollar and Sterling. The 
majority of the Group’s subsidiaries conduct their business in their respective 
functional currencies; therefore there is limited transaction risk. Foreign 
exchange risk arises mainly from net investments in foreign operations. This 
exposure is reduced by funding the investments as far as possible with 
borrowings in the same currency. The Group applies hedge accounting 
principles to net investments in foreign operations and the related borrowings.  
The Group has designated the carrying value of Euro borrowings of £131.7m 
(2008: £113.5m) (fair value of £132.0m (2008: £113.6m)) as a net investment 
hedge of the Group’s investments denominated in Euros. The hedge was 100% 
effective (2008: 100%) for the year ended 31 March 2009 and as a result the 
related exchange loss of £17.3m (2008: £17.1m) on translation of the 
borrowings into Sterling has been recognised in the exchange reserve. 
Foreign exchange rate sensitivity (assuming all other variables remain 
constant): 
The following table details how the Group’s income and equity would increase if 
there were a 10% increase in the respective currency against sterling. A 10% 
decrease would have an equal and opposite effect.  shanks.  annual report 2009      95  
 
 2009 2008
 Income Equity Income Equity
 sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity
 £m £m £m £m
10% increase in foreign exchange rates against sterling
Euro 3.5 13.9 3.4 8.2
Canadian dollar – 0.3 – –
 3.5 14.2 3.4 8.2
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial 
resources to meet its obligations as they fall due. As well as term borrowing 
under a syndicated loan facility, the Group maintains uncommitted lending 
facilities with a range of banks for working capital purposes. The Group 
manages liquidity risk by monitoring forecast cash flows to ensure that facility 
draw-downs are arranged as necessary and an adequate level of headroom is 
maintained. The Group’s exposure to, and the way it manages liquidity risk has 
not changed from the previous year. 
 
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities 
 
  Core PFI companies Total Group 
  2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
Group  £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Expiring within one year  – – – – – – 
Expiring between one and two 
years  6.9 – – – 6.9 – 
Expiring in more than two 
years  – 39.5 3.0 18.4 3.0 57.9 
  6.9 39.5 3.0 18.4 9.9 57.9 
In addition, the Group had access to £25.5m (2008: £27.3m) of undrawn 
uncommitted working capital facilities. 
As at 31 March 2009, the Company had undrawn committed borrowing facilities 
at floating rates of £6.9m expiring in between one and two years (2008: £39.5m 
in more than two years). 
Maturity profile of non-current borrowings 
 
   Group Company 
  2009 2008 2009 2008 
  £m £m £m £m 
Between one and two years  250.3 21.1 123.4 12.5 
Between two years and five years  55.2 246.6 – 116.0 
Over five years  115.1 104.1 – – 
  420.6 371.8 123.4 128.5 
The Group’s principal bank loan expiring in between one and two years has 
been re-financed since the year end (see note 30). 
Security of borrowing facilities 
The Group’s principal bank loans are unsecured but are subject to cross 
guarantees within the Group, excluding the PFI companies (see note 28). Each  shanks.  annual report 2009      96  
PFI company has loan facilities which are secured by fixed and floating charges 
on the future cash flows of PFI contracts. 
Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss where counterparties are not able to meet 
their obligations. 
Surplus cash, when not used to repay borrowings, is placed on deposit with 
banks and money market funds in accordance with a policy that specifies the 
minimum acceptable credit rating and the maximum exposure to each 
counterparty. At 31 March 2009 the amount of credit risk totalled £27.0m (2008: 
£53.2m). 
Credit risk on derivatives where the fair value is positive is closely monitored to 
ensure that it remains within the limits set for each counterparty. At 31 March 
2009 the credit risk was £nil (2008: £nil). 
Trade and other receivables comprise mainly amounts due from customers for 
services performed. Management consider that the exposure to any single 
customer is not significant and that where credit quality is in doubt, adequate 
provision has been made for probable losses. At 31 March 2009 the credit risk 
amounted to £154.3m (2008: £144.8m). The Group does not hold any collateral 
as security. 
The financial assets relating to PFI contracts are recoverable from the future 
revenues relating to the PFI contracts. Management consider that as the 
counterparties for the future revenues are UK local authorities or councils, there 
is minimal credit risk. At 31 March 2009, the credit risk was £164.8m (2008: 
£158.7m). 
Capital risk management 
The Group maintains a group funding strategy to ensure that the Group 
maintains an appropriate debt to equity ratio as well as an appropriate debt 
maturity profile. The strategy is based on the requirements of the Company’s 
Articles of Association, which state that debt should be limited to three times the 
level of capital and reserves. 
The Group’s funding strategy has not changed from the previous year.   
 
The Group has to comply with a number of banking covenants which are set out 
in the agreements for bank loans and senior notes. There are financial 
covenants which are measured using the performance of the Core Group, 
excluding PFI companies, and relate to interest cover, the ratio of debt to 
EBITDA and the net worth of the Group. There are other restrictions in the loan 
documentation concerning acquisitions, disposals, security and other issues. 
The Group has complied with its banking covenants. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      97  
17 Trade and other receivables 
 
   Group Company 
  2009 2008 2009 2008 
  £m £m £m £m 
Non-current assets:      
Financial assets relating to PFI contracts  154.8 148.8 – – 
Other receivables  1.6 1.9 – – 
  156.4 150.7 – – 
Current assets:      
Trade receivables  137.3 129.1 – – 
Provision for impairment of receivables  (5.3) (4.4) – – 
Trade receivables – net  132.0 124.7 – – 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings  – – 269.2 183.7 
Financial assets relating to PFI contracts  10.0 9.9 – – 
Other receivables  9.6 8.5 5.5 0.2 
Prepayments and accrued income  11.1 9.7 0.2 0.1 
  162.7 152.8 274.9 184.0 
 
Movement in the provision for impairment of receivables: 
 
   Group 
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
At 1 April 2008  4.4 4.2 
Charged to income statement  1.9 0.8 
On acquisition of business  0.6 – 
Utilised  (2.2) (0.6) 
Exchange  0.6 – 
At 31 March 2009  5.3 4.4 
 
Ageing of trade receivables that are past due but not impaired: 
 
   Group 
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
Neither impaired nor past due  65.5 57.4 
Not impaired but overdue by less than 3 months  63.5 64.1 
Not impaired but overdue by between 3 and 6 months  2.5 2.8 
Not impaired but overdue by more than 6 months  0.5 0.4 
Impaired  5.3 4.4 
Impairment provision  (5.3) (4.4) 
  132.0 124.7 
 
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 
  
   Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £m £m £m £m
 Sterling  188.9 191.7 132.8 84.0
 Euro  129.1 111.4 141.5 99.5
 Canadian Dollar  1.1 0.4 0.6 0.5
   319.1 303.5 274.9 184.0
       shanks.  annual report 2009      98  
 
18 Cash and cash equivalents     
    Group  Company
   2009 2008 2009 2008
   £m £m £m £m
 Cash at bank and in hand  15.0 34.3 5.6 32.0
 Short term deposits  12.0 18.9 – 5.6
   27.0 53.2 5.6 37.6
      
 The carrying amounts of cash and of cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: 
      
    Group  Company
   2009 2008 2009 2008
   £m £m £m £m
 Sterling  5.2 12.4 5.6 17.9
 Euro  20.6 39.6 – 19.7
 Canadian Dollar  1.2 1.0 – –
 US Dollar  – 0.2 – –
   27.0 53.2 5.6 37.6
      
19 Borrowings     
    Group  Company
   2009 2008 2009 2008
   £m £m £m £m
 Current borrowings:     
 Bank overdrafts and short term loans  6.7 – – –
 Senior notes  14.6 – 14.6 –
 Bank loans  4.2 4.5 – –
 Finance lease obligations  5.2 3.6 – –
   30.7 8.1 14.6 –
 Non-current borrowings:     
 Senior notes  33.2 41.1 – 12.5
 Bank loans  361.6 320.7 123.4 116.0
 Interest rate swaps  15.6 3.5 – –
 Finance lease obligations  10.2 6.5 – –
   420.6 371.8 123.4 128.5
  shanks.  annual report 2009      99  
The carrying amounts of borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 
 
      Group Company
     2009 2008 2009 2008
     £m £m £m £m
 Sterling    151.7 133.7 16.0 15.0
 Euro    281.9 239.3 122.0 113.5
 Canadian Dollar    17.7 6.9 – –
     451.3 379.9 138.0 128.5
        
 The Group’s finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: 
        
     2009   2008
   Minimum   Minimum  
   lease   lease  
   payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal
 Group  £m £m £m £m £m £m
 Less than one year  6.0 (0.8) 5.2 4.4 (0.8) 3.6
 Between one and five years  10.0 (1.2) 8.8 5.8 (0.7) 5.1
 More than five years  1.7 (0.3) 1.4 1.7 (0.3) 1.4
   17.7 (2.3) 15.4 11.9 (1.8) 10.1
  
 
The Group has an option to purchase leased assets at the end of the lease term. There are no
restrictions imposed by lessors to take out other debt or leases. 
  
20 Trade and other payables and other non-current liabilities 
        
      Group  Company
     2009 2008 2009 2008
     £m £m £m £m
 Current liabilities:       
 Trade payables    92.7 79.9 0.6 0.2
 Other tax and social security payable    15.6 14.1 0.1 0.1
 Other payables    9.0 10.4 0.2 0.7
 Accruals and deferred income    53.8 57.0 2.2 2.5
 Deferred consideration    5.7 – – –
 Unprocessed waste    14.8 14.1 – –
 Government grants    0.1 – – –
     191.7 175.5 3.1 3.5
 Non-current liabilities:       
 Amounts owed to group undertakings   – – 425.7 376.3
 Deferred consideration    17.8 18.2 – –
 Government grants    0.2 0.3 – –
     18.0 18.5 425.7 376.3
        
 
The carrying amounts of trade and other payables and other non-current liabilities are denominated in 
the following currencies: 
        
      Group  Company
     2009 2008 2009 2008
     £m £m £m £m
 Sterling    174.1 33.1 139.9 82.8
 Euro    34.5 160.4 288.9 297.0
 Canadian Dollar    1.1 0.5 – –
     209.7 194.0 428.8 379.8
  shanks.  annual report 2009      100  
 
21 Provisions  
 
    Group Company 
  
Site 
restoration    
  
and 
aftercare Other Total Other 
  £m £m £m £m 
At 31 March 2008  25.6 6.8 32.4 3.1 
Provided – cost of sales  0.4 0.8 1.2 – 
Released – cost of sales  (1.5) (0.1) (1.6) – 
Released – administrative expenses  – (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) 
Finance charges – unwinding of discount  1.2 – 1.2 – 
Utilised  (0.7) (0.8) (1.5) (0.5) 
Exchange  3.4 0.4 3.8 – 
At 31 March 2009  28.4 6.9 35.3 2.4 
Current  0.4 2.6 3.0 2.4 
Non-current  28.0 4.3 32.3 – 
At 31 March 2009  28.4 6.9 35.3 2.4 
Current  0.5 3.6 4.1 3.1 
Non-current  25.1 3.2 28.3 – 
At 31 March 2008  25.6 6.8 32.4 3.1 
Site restoration 
Site restoration provision as at 31 March 2009 relates to the cost of final 
capping and covering of the landfill sites. The Group’s minimum unavoidable 
costs have been reassessed at the year end and the net present value fully 
provided for. 
An element of the closing provision relates to costs of £0.4m that are expected 
to be paid next year. The remaining part of the provision relates to restoration 
costs that are expected to be paid over a period of up to twenty five years from 
today. These costs may be impacted by a number of factors including changes 
in legislation and technology. 
Aftercare 
Post closure costs of landfill sites, including such items as monitoring, gas and 
leachate management and licensing, have been estimated by management 
based on current best practice and technology available. These costs may be 
impacted by a number of factors including changes in legislation and 
technology. The dates of payments of these aftercare costs are uncertain but 
are anticipated to be over a period of approximately thirty years from closure of 
the relevant landfill site. 
Other 
Other provisions principally cover onerous leases, warranties and indemnities. 
The net present value of the rental on vacant leasehold properties has been 
provided in full. These payments will be made over the next five years. Under 
the terms of the agreements for the disposal of the United Kingdom landfill and 
power and other United Kingdom operations, the Company has given a number 
of warranties and indemnities to the purchasers which may give rise to 
payments. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      101  
 
22 Retirement benefit schemes 
 
   Group 
Retirement benefit costs  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
UK defined contribution schemes  0.6 0.5 
UK funded defined benefit schemes  1.0 1.5 
Overseas pension schemes  7.5 5.7 
Total pension cost  9.1 7.7 
(a) United Kingdom 
The Group and Company’s principal pension scheme is the Shanks Group 
Pension Scheme which covers eligible United Kingdom employees and has 
both funded defined benefit and defined contribution sections. The Group also 
has two other small funded defined benefit schemes, which are included in the 
defined benefit disclosures below. Pension costs for the defined benefit section 
are determined by an independent qualified actuary on the basis of triennial 
valuations using the projected unit method. 
Assumptions 
The most recent actuarial valuation of the principal funded defined benefit 
pension scheme operated by the Group dated 5 April 2006 has been updated 
by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 
19 Employee Benefits in order to assess the liabilities of these schemes at 31 
March 2009. The main assumptions were as follows: 
 
  2009 2008 
  % p.a. % p.a. 
Discount rate  6.6 6.9 
Future salary growth  4.0 5.2 
Rate of increase in pensions payment (fixed 3%)  3.0 3.0 
Rate of increase in pensions payment (cap 5%)  2.9 3.6 
Rate of increase in pensions payment (cap 2.5%)  2.1 2.4 
Rate of price inflation  3.0 3.7 
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow 
for future mortality improvements. The assumptions are that a member currently 
aged 65 will live on average for a further 22 years if they are male and for a 
further 24 years if they are female. The assumptions used by the independent 
qualified actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible 
actuarial assumptions. 
Income statement 
    2009 2008 
    £m £m 
Operating profit  Current service cost  1.0 1.5 
Other finance items    
  Interest charge on scheme liabilities  6.0 5.8 
  Expected return on scheme assets  (6.9) (7.2) 
    (0.9) (1.4) 
Net pension cost before tax  0.1 0.1 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      102  
 
Statement of recognised income and expense 
    
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
Loss on actual return less expected return on scheme assets  (16.5) (7.6) 
Experience losses arising on scheme liabilities  0.1 0.3 
Gain arising on changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the 
scheme liabilities  4.3 23.3 
Actuarial (loss) gain  (12.1) 16.0 
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of 
recognised income and expense since 1 April 2004 are £3.9m (2008: £16.0m).   
 
History of experience gains and losses 
  2009 2008 2007  2006 2005 
Market value of scheme assets (£m)  86.3 97.4 98.4  94.1 71.6 
Present value of scheme liabilities (£m)  (87.3) (88.0) (106.8 ) (104.4) (88.5) 
(Deficit) surplus  in the schemes (£m)  (1.0) 9.4 (8.4 ) (10.3) (16.9) 
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets 
(£m)  (16.5) (7.6) (0.8 ) 11.7 1.8 
% of scheme assets  19.1% 7.8% 0.8 % 12.4% 2.5%
Experience adjustments arising on scheme 
liabilities (£m)  0.1 0.3 1.5  – 0.8 
% of scheme liabilities  0.1% 0.3% 1.4 % – 0.9%
Balance Sheet 
The aggregate fair values of the assets in the Group’s defined benefit schemes, 
the aggregate net pension liabilities and their expected weighted average long 
term rates of return are set out below: 
 
 
Expected long term
rate of return 
Net pension
fund 
Plan assets as
% of total assets 
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009  2008 
 % p.a. % p.a. £m £m %  % 
Equities 8.5 8.6 50.1 61.9 58.1  63.6
Government bonds 4.0 4.6 35.5 34.8 41.1  35.7
Corporate bonds 5.0 5.3 0.4 0.4 0.5  0.4
Cash 4.3 6.0 0.3 0.3 0.3  0.3
Total market value of assets 86.3 97.4 100.0  100.0
Present value of scheme liabilities (87.3) (88.0)  
Net (deficit) surplus in the schemes (1.0)9.4  
Related deferred tax asset (liability) 0.3 (2.6)  
Net pension (liability) asset  (0.7)6.8  
 
The overall expected rate of return on scheme assets is 6.6% (2008: 7.1%) and 
is a weighted average of the expected rates of return on each asset class. The 
Group employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of 
return on pension plan assets. Historical markets are studied and assets with 
higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely 
accepted capital market principles. The assumed long term rate of return on 
each asset class is set out within this note. The overall expected rate of return is 
then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class over the 
actual asset allocation for the schemes as at 31 March 2009.  shanks.  annual report 2009      103  
At 31 March 2009 the IAS 19 net retirement deficit was £1.0m (2008: surplus 
£9.4m). The change is due to a £16.5m decrease in assets as a result of the 
change in market value. The amount of the surplus varies if the main financial 
assumptions change, particularly the discount rate. If the discount rate 
increased or decreased by 0.25%, the IAS19 asset would increase or decrease 
by circa £3.9m. 
 
Movement in scheme assets during the year 
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
At 1 April   97.4 98.4 
Expected return on plan assets  6.9 7.2 
Actual return less expected return on plan assets  (16.5) (7.6) 
Employer contributions  1.8 1.9 
Member contributions  0.4 0.4 
Benefits paid  (3.7) (2.9) 
At 31 March   86.3 97.4 
Movement in scheme liabilities during the year 
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
At 1 April   (88.0) (106.8) 
Current service cost  (1.0) (1.5) 
Interest cost on plan liabilities  (6.0) (5.8) 
Experience gains  0.1 0.3 
Changes in assumptions  4.3 23.3 
Member contributions  (0.4) (0.4) 
Benefits paid  3.7 2.9 
At 31 March   (87.3) (88.0) 
 
The estimated contributions expected to be paid to the schemes in the year 
ending 31 March 2010 are £1.1m. 
(b) Overseas 
In the Netherlands, employees are members of either a multi-employer pension 
scheme or other similar externally funded schemes. These schemes are treated 
as defined contribution plans as it is not possible to separately identify the 
Group’s share of the assets and liabilities of those schemes. The Group has 
been informed by the schemes that it has no obligation to make additional 
contributions in the event that the schemes have an overall deficit. In Belgium, 
the Group operates small defined contribution schemes. The total cost in the 
year for overseas pensions was £7.5m (2008: £5.7m). 
 
23 Called up share capital 
  2009 2008 
Group and Company  £m £m 
Authorised 350 million (2008: 350 million) ordinary shares of 10p each  35.0 35.0 
Allotted, called up and fully paid 238 million (2008: 237 million) ordinary 
shares of 10p each  23.8 23.7 
 
During the year 1,091,422 (2008: 1,997,798) ordinary shares were allotted 
following the exercise of options under the Company’s Long Term Incentive 
Plan and Executive and Savings Related Share Option Schemes for an 
aggregate consideration of £662,289 (2008: £2,346,545). Further disclosures 
relating to share-based payments are set out in note 5. 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      104  
24 Statement of changes in shareholders’ funds 
 
  Share Share Exchange Retained   
  
capital
 
premium
 
reserve
 
earnings 
 
Total
 
Group  
£m
 
£m
 
£m
 
£m 
 
£m
 
At 31 March 2007  23.5 94.0 1.1 105.1  223.7 
Recognised income and expense for the year  – – 28.1 39.6  67.7 
Dividends paid  – – – (14.3 ) (14.3) 
Share-based payments  – – – 0.8  0.8 
Tax on share-based payments  – – – (0.2 ) (0.2) 
Other reserves movement  – – – (1.2 ) (1.2) 
Issue of share capital  0.2 3.4 – –  3.6 
At 31 March 2008  23.7 97.4 29.2 129.8  280.1 
Recognised income and expense for the year  – – 35.0 (2.3 ) 32.7 
Dividends paid  – – – (15.0 ) (15.0) 
Share-based payments  – – – 0.8  0.8 
Tax on share-based payments  – – – 0.4  0.4 
Other reserves movement  – – – (1.3 ) (1.3) 
Issue of share capital  0.1 1.8 – –  1.9 
At 31 March 2009  23.8 99.2 64.2 112.4  299.6 
 
The exchange reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising since 
1 April 2005 from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s 
net investment in foreign operations. 
 
  Share Share Retained  
  
capital
 
premium
 
earnings
 
Total
 
Company  
£m
 
£m
 
£m
 
£m
 
At 31 March 2007  23.5 118.0 31.8 173.3 
Recognised income and expense for the year  – – 33.9 33.9 
Dividends paid  – – (14.3) (14.3) 
Share-based payments  – – 0.8 0.8 
Tax on share-based payments  – – (0.2) (0.2) 
Other reserves movement  – – (1.2) (1.2) 
Issue of share capital  0.2 3.4 – 3.6 
At 31 March 2008  23.7 121.4 50.8 195.9 
Recognised income and expense for the year  – – 3.9 3.9 
Dividends paid  – – (15.0) (15.0) 
Share-based payments  – – 0.8 0.8 
Tax on share-based payments  – – 0.4 0.4 
Other reserves movement  – – (1.3) (1.3) 
Issue of share capital  0.1 1.8 – 1.9 
At 31 March 2009  23.8 123.2 39.6 186.6 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      105  
25 Notes to the cash flow statement 
 
  2009 2008 
Group  £m £m 
Net cash from operating activities    
Operating profit  63.9 55.3 
Amortisation of intangible assets  5.5 4.0 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  45.9 34.3 
Charge for long term landfill provisions  1.1 1.0 
Exceptional gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment  (3.3) (1.9) 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (“EBITDA”)  113.1 92.7 
Non-exceptional gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment  (2.0) (1.2) 
Decrease in provisions  (6.1) (1.7) 
Share-based payments  0.8 0.8 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital  105.8 90.6 
Increase in inventories  (2.6) (1.3) 
Decrease (increase) in receivables  18.9 (14.0) 
(Decrease) increase in payables  (15.1) 20.2 
Cash generated by operations  107.0 95.5 
Income taxes paid  (15.8) (8.4) 
Net cash from operating activities  91.2 87.1 
    
Consolidated movement in net debt    
    
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents  (29.2) 5.9 
Increase in borrowings and finance leases  (18.3) (39.6) 
Amortisation of loan fees  (0.5) (0.9) 
Exchange loss  (37.5) (31.8) 
Change in fair value of interest rate swaps  (12.1) (2.9) 
Movement in net debt  (97.6) (69.3) 
Net debt at beginning of year  (326.7) (257.4) 
Net debt at end of year  (424.3) (326.7) 
    
Analysis of net debt    
    
  At At 
  31 March 31 March 
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
Cash and cash equivalents  27.0 53.2 
Current borrowings  (30.7) (8.1) 
Non-current borrowings  (420.6) (371.8) 
Total Group net debt  (424.3) (326.7) 
    
  At At 
  31 March 31 March 
  2009 2008 
  £m £m 
Core Business net debt  (290.0) (211.7) 
PFI companies and other project finance net debt  (118.7) (111.5) 
Total Group net debt before fair value of interest rate swaps  (408.7) (323.2) 
Fair value of PFI interest rate swaps  (15.6) (3.5) 
Total Group net debt  (424.3) (326.7) 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      106  
26 Capital commitments 
 
  2009 2008 
Group  
£m
 
£m
 
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure on financial assets  1.8 11.0 
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment  26.6 15.5 
Share of joint venture future capital expenditure  7.4 0.6 
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 March 2009 (2008: £Nil).      
 
27 Financial commitments 
 
  2009 2008 
Group  
£m
 
£m
 
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:    
Within one year  7.4 6.8 
Later than one year and less than five years  32.5 33.0 
After five years  52.4 48.9 
  92.3 88.7 
Future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable 
sub-leases  (0.6) (1.4) 
  91.7 87.3 
 
The Company has commitments under non-cancellable leases of £0.5m 
expiring in between two and five years (2008: £0.5m).  
 
28 Contingent liabilities 
Group and Company 
Under the terms of the sale agreement with Terra Firma for the disposal of the 
Group’s landfill and power operations, the Group has given a number of 
indemnities and warranties relating to the disposed operations. 
The Company and certain subsidiaries have, in the normal course of business, 
given guarantees and performance bonds relating to the Group’s contracts. In 
addition the Company has contingent liabilities in respect of both VAT and HM 
Revenue & Customs group payment arrangements of £0.2m (2008: £0.3m) 
The Company has given guarantees in respect of the Group’s and subsidiary 
undertakings’ bank borrowing facilities totalling £29.2m (2008: £28.6m). 
Joint Ventures 
The Group’s joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities. 
 
29 Related party transactions 
 
(a) Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries 
A list of the Company’s principal subsidiaries is set out on page 108. 
Transactions with subsidiaries relate to interest on intercompany loans and 
management charges. Net interest expense was £10.9m (2008: £11.2m) and 
management charges received were £2.1m (2008: £2.0m). Total outstanding 
balances are listed in notes 17 and 20. 
(b) Remuneration of key management personnel 
Key management comprises the Board of Directors and the managing directors 
of the country operations. The disclosures required by the Companies Act 1985 
and those specified by the Financial Services Authority relating to Directors’ 
remuneration (including pension benefits and incentive plans), interests in  shanks.  annual report 2009      107  
shares, share options and other interests, are set out within the Remuneration 
Report on pages 52 to 59, and form part of these financial statements. The 
aggregate emoluments paid to the country managing directors was £960,000. 
 
30 Post balance sheet events 
On 7 April 2009 the Group signed an agreement to re-finance its £250 million 
core bank facility. The new facility is a €360 million facility expiring in April 2012 
provided by a club comprising six banks. The new facility is denominated in 
Euros, but can be drawn in Sterling or Canadian Dollars. The cost of the facility, 
both in terms of the up-front arrangement fees and interest margin over LIBOR, 
although significantly higher than in the past is in line with current market 
norms. The facility contains a requirement for interest rates to be hedged and 
this was met by the Group entering on 15 May 2009 into a two year fixed 
interest swap with a principal of €180m from the three month LIBOR 
commencing 9 July 2009, underwritten at an effective interest rate of 1.87%. 
 
On 14 May 2009 the Group completed the sale of the 50% holding in Avondale 
Environmental Limited for a consideration of up to £27.5m, with £3m deferred 
for 12 months, £6m payable over the next seven years and £3m contingent on 
planning approval for an increase in the landfill void.  As a part of the 
transaction, the Group has entered into a five year supply agreement with 
Avondale Environmental Limited which guarantees a certain minimum tonnage 
at a pre-agreed price which increases annually in line with the Retail Price 
Index.  During the year to 31 March 2009 Avondale Environmental Limited 
made a pre-tax profit of £7.9m with net assets of £10.3m.  In the year to 31 
March 2009 the Group received total dividends of £1.5m. 
 
On 21 May 2009, the Company announced proposals to raise approximately 
£66.7m (net of expenses) by way of a 2 for 3 Rights Issue of 158,679,867 
Rights Issue Shares at a price of 45p per Rights Issue Share. A prospectus 
detailing these proposals and convening an extraordinary general meeting will 
be published and posted to shareholders. 
   shanks.  annual report 2009      108  
Subsidiary Undertakings and Joint Ventures 
at 31 March 2009 
Subsidiary undertakings 
The Company held, through wholly owned subsidiaries, 100% of the issued share 
capital of the following principal trading subsidiaries (unless otherwise stated) all of 
which have been consolidated in the Group’s financial statements. 
 
  Country of incorporation
Principal Group subsidiary undertakings  
Shanks Nederland B.V.  Netherlands
Icova B.V.  Netherlands
BV van Vliet Groep Milieudienstverleners  Netherlands
Vliko B.V.  Netherlands
Klok Containers B.V.  Netherlands
Transportbedrijf van Vliet B.V. “Contrans”  Netherlands
Afvalstoffen Terminal Moerdijk B.V. “ATM”  Netherlands
Reym B.V.  Netherlands
Smink Beheer B.V.  Netherlands
Orgaworld B.V. (82%)  Netherlands
Shanks s.a.  Belgium
Shanks Hainaut s.a.  Belgium
Shanks Liège-Luxembourg s.a.  Belgium
Shanks Bruxelles s.a.  Belgium
Shanks Vlaanderen n.v.  Belgium
Shanks Transport n.v.  Belgium
Foronex n.v.  Belgium
Shanks Waste Management Limited  UK
Orgaworld Canada Ltd  Canada
  
Subsidiary undertakings holding PFI contracts  
Shanks Argyll & Bute Limited  UK
ELWA Limited  UK
Shanks Dumfries and Galloway Limited  UK
  shanks.  annual report 2009      109  
Joint Ventures 
The Company held, through wholly owned subsidiaries, the following interests in 
material joint venture companies, all of which operate as waste management 
companies. The Group’s share of profits and gross assets and liabilities have been 
incorporated in the Group’s financial statements: 
 
 % Group Most recent Country of
 holdingyear endincorporation
Avondale Environmental Limited 50% 31 March 2009 UK
Caird Bardon Limited 50% 31 December 2008 UK
Geohess (UK) Limited 50% 31 December 2008 UK
Vare Holdings SPRL 50% 31 December 2008 Belgium
Silvamo n.v. 50% 31 December 2008 Belgium
Marpos n.v. 45% 31 December 2008 Belgium
  shanks.  annual report 2009      110  
Consolidated Five Year Financial Summary 
at 31 March 2009 
 
  2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
  IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS 
  £m £m £m £m £m 
Consolidated income statement      
Revenue  696.5 563.7 508.5 442.5 420.4
Trading profit from continuing operations
1
  66.4 55.9 47.3 38.9 36.0
Finance charges – interest  (15.0) (8.5) (5.8) (4.2) (4.7)
Finance charges – other  (2.9) (2.6) (1.2) (0.7) (0.6)
Profit from continuing operations before exceptional      
items and tax (Underlying Profit)  48.5 44.8 40.3 34.0 30.7
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles  (3.8) (2.5) (1.1) – –
Exceptional items  (10.8) (1.0) 6.9 (3.7) (11.0)
Profit before tax from continuing operations  33.9 41.3 46.1 30.3 19.7
Tax  (9.1) (13.0) (14.8) (10.5) (7.1)
Exceptional Tax  (18.4) – – – –
Profit after tax from continuing operations  6.4 28.3 31.3 19.8 12.6
Profit after tax from discontinued operations  – – – 10.6 65.0
Profit for the year  6.4 28.3 31.3 30.4 77.6
      
Consolidated balance sheet      
Non-current assets  874.4 726.6 561.8 466.0 433.7
Other assets less liabilities  (150.5) (119.8) (80.7) (68.6) (66.0)
Net debt  (424.3) (326.7) (257.4) (188.8) (178.7)
Net assets  299.6 280.1 223.7 208.6 189.0
Share capital and share premium  123.0 121.1 117.5 117.2 116.6
Reserves  176.6 159.0 106.2 91.4 72.4
Total equity  299.6 280.1 223.7 208.6 189.0
Financial ratios      
Adjusted basic earnings per share  14.5p 12.9p 11.7p 9.6p 8.7p
Basic earnings per share  2.7p 12.0p 13.3p 13.0p 33.1p
Dividends per share  2.1p 6.2p 5.9p 5.7p 5.7p
1
Trading profit from continuing operations is stated before exceptional items and amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles  shanks.  annual report 2009      111  
Shareholder Information  
at 31 March 2009 
Analysis of shareholders as at 31 March 2009 
 
  Holders % Shares held % 
Private shareholders  2,342 61.6 12,027,638  5.1 
Corporate shareholders  1,457 38.4 225,992,163  94.9 
  3,799 100.0 238,019,801  100.0 
 
Size of shareholding   Holders % Shares held % 
1 –     5,000  2,876 75.7 5,177,688 2.2 
5,001 –   25,000  565 14.9 5,967,178 2.5 
25,001 –   50,000  90 2.4 3,270,966 1.4 
50,001 – 100,000  61 1.6 4,699,496 2.0 
100,001 – 250,000  70 1.8 11,810,712 4.9 
250,001 – 500,000  41 1.1 15,241,573 6.4 
over 500,000  96 2.5 191,852,188 80.6 
   3,799 100.0 238,019,801 100.0 
Registrar services 
Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in the Company should be made 
to the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater 
Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ. Computershare can also be contacted by telephone on 
0870 707 1290. Shareholders can also manage their holding online by registering at 
www.computershare.com/investor. 
Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid directly to a bank or 
building society account and who wish to do so should complete a mandate form 
obtainable from Computershare. Tax vouchers are sent to the shareholder’s 
registered address under this arrangement, unless requested otherwise. 
Shareholders are strongly encouraged to receive their cash dividends by direct 
transfer as this ensures dividends are credited promptly and efficiently. 
If you receive more than one copy of our Annual Report, it may be that your shares 
are registered under two or more names. Should you wish to combine such holdings 
into a single account please contact Computershare. 
Electronic Shareholder Communication 
Following the introduction of new legislation shareholders may elect to receive future 
shareholder documents and information by email or via the Company’s website. This 
is intended to help the environment by reducing paper and transport as well as 
enabling the Company to save on administration, printing and postage costs. 
The Shanks Group plc website contains copies of our financial reports, corporate 
news and other shareholder information. Shareholder information will be made 
available by way of publication on the website. Shareholders have the following 
options:   
 
• Option A. Receive email notification that documents and information are available 
on the Shanks Group plc website. You may register for this option by registering 
your email address at www.etreeuk.com/shanksplc. (You will require your SRN or 
Shareholder Reference Number which can be found on either your Share  shanks.  annual report 2009      112  
Certificate or recent Dividend Certificate/Tax Voucher). If you choose this option, 
we will plant a tree under the Woodland Trust’s “tree for all” campaign.  
• Option B. Receive all documents and information by post.  
• Option C. Receive notification by post that documents and information are 
available on the Shanks Group plc website (including the Annual Report).  
 
You may change your mind as to how you receive your shareholder information at 
any time by notifying Computershare.  You may also request a hard copy of a 
particular document at any time from the Company. 
 
Low cost share dealing service 
A low cost, execution only share-dealing service for the purchase and sale of Shanks 
Group plc shares is available from Natwest Stockbrokers. Natwest Stockbrokers is 
authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority and is a member of the 
London Stock Exchange.  Natwest Stockbrokers, Waterhouse Square, 138-142 
Holborn, London, EC1N 2TH. Telephone: 0870 600 3070.   
Shareholder warning – unsolicited mail 
In recent years many companies have become aware that their shareholders have 
received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment 
matters. These are typically from overseas based ‘brokers’ who target UK 
shareholders offering to sell them what often turns out to be worthless or high risk 
shares in US or UK investments. They can be very persistent and extremely 
persuasive. It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way; many of 
the victims had been successfully investing for several years. Shareholders are 
advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount 
or offers of free company reports. 
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: 
 
• make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and make a 
record of any information they give you; 
• check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved. You 
can check at www.fsa.gov.uk/register; 
• the FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who 
are targeting, or have targeted UK investors. Any approach from such an 
organisation should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date 
and any other appropriate action can be considered. If you deal with an 
unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by 
completing an online form at 
www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/form.shtml or if you do not have 
internet access, on 0845 606 1234; and 
• inform our Registrars on 0870 707 1290. 
 
Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in 
Company mailings. More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found 
on the FSA website www.fsa.gov.uk/consumer.   
Share price information 
On 31 March 2009, the middle market price of Shanks Group plc ordinary 10 pence 
shares was 55.75 pence per share, having varied during the year between a low of 
46.5 pence and a high of 263 pence. Share price information on Shanks Group plc is 
widely available in the financial press and on financial websites.The ISIN  shanks.  annual report 2009      113  
(“International Securities Identification Number “) code for the Company’s ordinary 
shares is GB0007995243 and the SEDOL (“Stock Exchange Official Daily List”) 
number is 0799524.  
ShareGift 
If shareholders have only a small number of shares whose value makes it 
uneconomic to sell, they may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift 
(registered charity no. 1052686). Further information may be obtained from their 
website at www.sharegift.org or by calling 020 7930 3737. 
Company Websites 
The Shanks Group plc website, containing Company details, financial information 
and current news can be found at www.shanksplc.co.uk. The website for Shanks 
companies within Belgium can be found at www.shanks.be, that for the Netherlands 
at www.shanks.nl and that for the United Kingdom at www.shanks.co.uk.   
Financial Calendar 
 
23 July 2009  Annual General Meeting 
November 2009  Announcement of interim results and dividends 
January 2010  Payment of interim dividend 
31 March 2010  2010 financial year ends 
June 2010  Announcement of 2010 results and dividend recommendation 
 
  shanks.  annual report 2009      114  
Company Information 
  
CORPORATE HEAD OFFICE  REGISTERED OFFICE  GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY
Shanks Group plc  Shanks Group plc  Philip Griffin-Smith, FCIS 
Dunedin House  16 Charlotte Square   
Auckland Park, Mount Farm  Edinburgh   
Milton Keynes  EH2 4DF   
Buckinghamshire MK1 1BU     
     
Tel: 00 44 (0) 1908 650580  Registered in Scotland No. SC077438 
Fax: 00 44 (0) 1908 650651     
website: www.shanksplc.co.uk     
e-mail: info@shanksplc.co.uk     
 
PRINCIPAL OFFICES 
  
THE NETHERLANDS  BELGIUM  UNITED KINGDOM 
Shanks Nederland  Shanks Belgium  Shanks Waste Management 
PO Box 171  Rue Edouard Belin, 3/1  Dunedin House 
3000 AD Rotterdam  BE-1435  Auckland Park, Mount Farm 
The Netherlands  Mont Saint Guibert  Milton Keynes 
  Belgium  Buckinghamshire MK1 1BU 
     
Tel: 00 31 (0) 10 280 5300  Tel: 00 32 (0) 1023 3660  Tel: 00 44 (0) 1908 650650 
Fax: 00 31 (0) 10 280 5311  Fax: 00 32 (0) 1023 3661  Fax: 00 44 (0) 1908 650699 
website: www.shanks.nl  website: www.shanks.be  website: www.shanks.co.uk 
e-mail: info@shanks.nl  e-mail: info@shanks.be  e-mail: info@shanks.co.uk 
Corporate Advisers 
  
Auditors  Financial Advisers  Corporate Brokers 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  Greenhill & Co International LLP  RBS Hoare Govett Limited 
     
Principal Bankers  Solicitors  Financial Public Relations Advisers 
Barclays Bank plc  Ashurst LLP  Tulchan Communications Group 
Fortis Bank s.a.  Dickson Minto W.S.   
HSBC Bank plc     
ING Bank n.v.     
Rabobank International     
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc     
     
 
