 Silence Therapeutics plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2012
Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and financial statements 2012
3 Shortlands 
Hammersmith 
London W6 8DA
Tel:  +44 (0)333 988 0140 
Email:  mail@silence-therapeutics.com
silence-therapeutics.com ABOUT US
CONTENTS
Silence Therapeutics is a global leader in 
the discovery, development and delivery  
of novel RNAi therapeutics for the treatment 
of serious diseases.
RNA interference, a Nobel Prize winning 
technology, is one of the most exciting  
areas of drug discovery today.
Business review
IFC About us
01 Silence Therapeutics at a glance
02  Chairman’s statement
04  Chief Executive’s review
06  Financial review
Corporate governance
08  Board of directors
10 Company information and advisers
11  Directors’ report
16 Directors’ responsibilities  
for the financial statements
Financial statements
17  Independent auditor’s report
18  Consolidated income statement
18  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
19  Consolidated balance sheet
20  Consolidated statement of changes in equity
21  Company balance sheet
22  Company statement of changes in equity
23  Cash flow statements
24  Notes to the financial statements
Visit us online
silence-therapeutics.com
Printed on Hello Silk. The pulp used in this product is bleached using a totally 
chlorine free process (TCF) or Elemental Chlorine Free process (ECF) and is  
produced in a mill that is certified to ISO14001 environmental management 
standards. This paper is from responsible sources.
Designed and produced by  
www.lyonsbennett.com Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
01
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
SILENCE THERAPEUTICS AT A GLANCE
HIGHLIGHTS
Gene silencing
•	 Synthetic	siRNA	that	can	silence	any	gene
•	 Patented	form	of	siRNA	tested	in	humans
•	 Over	300	patients	treated	to	date,	no	evidence	of	
adverse	effects	or	immune	response	
Delivery of gene silencing siRNA
•	 Own	delivery	systems	that	do	not	require	
immune	suppression
•	 Safety	and	tolerability	demonstrated
•	 34	patients	treated	in	phase	I	with	AtuPLEX	
delivery	system
•	 T wo	further	preclinical	delivery	systems,	DACC	
for	the	lung	and	DBTC	for	the	liver ,	both	at	
preclinical	stage
Current own clinical asset: Atu027
•	 AtuRNAi	silencing	PKN3	+	AtuPLEX	=	Atu027
•	 Acts	by	preventing	the	spread	of	cancer
•	 T o	be	used	in	combination	with	conventional	tumour	
killing	drugs
•	 Currently	in	human	testing,	in	combination	with	a	
chemotherapy	agent,	gemcitabine	
Preclinical programmes
•	 Eight	programmes
•	 Oncology	and	non‑oncology
Research and development engine
•	 RNAi	+	delivery	+	expertise	and	testing	facilities	 	
=	development	programme
•	 Potential	to	quickly	enter	into	the	clinic	at	a	
relatively	low	cost	
•	 Developing	pipeline	to	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology
Cash resources
•	 £26.0m	of	cash	in	the	bank	following	April	2013	
fund	raising
During the year
•	 Management	reorganisation	and	cost	restructuring	
•	 Completion	 of	 phase	 I	 trial	 in	 Atu027	 with	 no	 serious	
adverse	effects	or	immune	response	deemed	to	be	
directly	related	to	Atu027
•	 Cash	raised	through	equity	placings	totalling	
£10.7m	before	expenses
•	 Assets	 using	 Silence	 technology	 continue	 to	 progress
Post year‑end events
•	 In	April	2013,	patient	dosing	started	for	Atu027	
in	combination	with	a	chemotherapy	agent,	
gemcitabine
•	 In	April	2013,	£19.0m	gross	funds	were	raised	
through	an	equity	placing	to	fund	two	further	phase	
1b	trials	and	progress	preclinical	development	in	
non‑cancer	targets Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
02
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Jerry Randall 
Chairman
“RNAi therapeutics 
are succeeding.”
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.	Helped	by	key	long‑term	
supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	to	
restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 broad applicability: the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 specificity: 	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 simplicity: 	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	phase	I	study .	Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	
lower	doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.	A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .	This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumours	
directly .	The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	
that	combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent	
in	pancreatic	cancer .	Our	preclinical	work	on	this	
combination	has	demonstrated	a	reduction	in	total	
tumour	burden,	including	visible	metastatic	spread.	
W e	were	given	ethical	committee	approval	for	this	
phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	trial,	and	dosed	the	
first	patient	in	April	2013.
W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
03
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	programme,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	to	showcase	the	strength	
of	our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programmes	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Our	partner	Quark	Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	
to	make	progress	in	the	two	projects	covered	under	
our	licence	agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	
macular	oedema	(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	
Quark	and	Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	
function	post	kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	
agreement	between	Quark	and	Novartis).	The	results	of	
these	studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
income	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.	If	these	molecules	are	
commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	income	
in	the	form	of	royalties.	
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	and	
ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focused	on	
developing	the	assets	of	the	company .	At	the	same	time,	
we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	support	our	
progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Giese,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	February	2012	Thomas	Christely	resigned	as	
chief	executive	and	left	the	company .	In	August,	
T ony	Sedgwick,	chief	executive,	Max	Herrmann,	
chief	financial	officer	and	Annette	Clancy ,	 	
non‑executive	director ,	left	the	company .
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy	in	August	2012,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	
Director	in	October	2012,	and	I	remain	Chairman.	Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	
T im	has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streamlining	of	the	
finance	function.
Mike	Khan	became	a	non‑executive	director	in	
September	and	Chief	Medical	Officer	in	January	2013.
W e	also	welcome	Annie	Cheng	to	the	board	as	
Director	of	Corporate	Development.	She	has	14	years	
of	experience	in	the	healthcare	industry ,	in	equity	
research	and	consulting.	While	in	equity	research,	
she	covered	a	wide	range	of	European	and	US	
healthcare	product	stocks.	As	a	consultant,	Annie	
advised	a	number	of	biotechnology	companies	in	
corporate	development	and	communications	with	the	
investment	community .	
Capital raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7m	before	expenses	in	July ,	and	
£5.0m	before	expenses	in	November .	In	addition,	
as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19.0m,	before	
expenses,	was	raised	post	year	end.	These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	post	year	end	of	our	existing	key	shareholders	
and	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	twelve	months	by	the	
whole	team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	
Silence	is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	
product	company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	
modifications	of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.	 	
At	the	same	time,	the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	
continues	to	see	positive	developments,	which	in	our	
view ,	validates	our	strategic	direction.	
As	a	board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products	in	
the	future.	W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	
the	development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Chairman
28	May	2013 Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
04
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“We will use our technology to 
change patient lives for the 
better, and in the process, 
build shareholder value.”
Ali Mortazavi
Chief	Executive
New	technologies	enable	the	development	of	new	
medicines	that	change	lives	dramatically	for	the	better .	
For	example,	five‑year	relative	survival	rate	for	cancer	
increased	to	69%	in	1999	to	2005,	from	50%	in	1975	to	
1977.	By	supporting	companies	that	made	a	difference	
for	patients,	investors	in	these	companies	were	
rewarded.	In	2012,	European	small‑cap	biotechnology	
stocks	were	up	over	40%,	according	to	Ernst	&	Y oung’ s	
2013	Biotechnology	Industry	Report.
Silence	Therapeutics,	as	one	of	the	few	companies	with	
intellectual	property	and	know‑how	in	the	emerging	
oligonucleotide	therapeutics	platform,	now	has	an	
opportunity	to	become	a	fully	fledged	biotechnology	
company	in	the	tradition	of	the	previous	waves	of	
biotechnology	pioneers.	
Our	team	of	scientists,	who	have	been	with	us	since	the	
inception	of	the	company ,	created	a	powerful	platform	
technology	from	which	new	drugs	can	be	developed	to	
treat	previously	unaddressable	conditions.	
The	drug	development	industry	remains	an	attractive	
investment	opportunity	due	to	demographic	trends	
although	this	path	is	not	without	challenges.	W e	
believe	our	success	is	contingent	on	developing	drugs	
that	truly	make	a	difference	to	patients.	W e	are	in	the	
process	of	acquiring	the	capabilities	to	enable	us	to	
make	appropriate	clinical	development	decisions	for	the	
benefit	of	patients	and	shareholders.
In	the	next	year ,	we	look	forward	to	sharing	with	you	
a	research	and	development	plan	and	timelines	for	
delivering	key	development	milestones.	
Leveraging the strengths of our technology
The	core	technology	of	Silence	Therapeutics	enables	the	
development	of	novel	molecular	entities	that	“silence”	or	
inactivate	genes.	It	is	inspired	by	a	naturally	occurring	
process	called	RNA	interference	(RNAi).	This	process	is	
triggered	by	a	short,	double	stranded	oligonucleotide	
known	as	short	interfering	RNA	(siRNA)	in	cells	where	
the	target	gene	is	expressed	and	when	such	expression	
is	undesirable.	
Our	scientists	improved	on	nature	by	chemically	
modifying	a	natural	siRNA,	to	create	a	proprietary	
form	of	siRNA	molecule	known	as	AtuRNAi.	These	
molecules	have	been	demonstrated	to	be	more	stable	
and	less	immunostimulatory	than	unmodified	siRNAs,	
making	AtuRNAi	desirable	as	drugs	molecules.	
Additionally ,	our	scientists	developed	technology	
that	preferentially	delivers	AtuRNAi	to	the	vascular	
endothelium	(AtuPLEX),	the	lung	endothelium	(DACC)	
and	the	liver	(DBTC).
In	contrast	to	conventional	drugs	that	can	access	a	
limited	proportion	of	disease	targets,	we	believe	our	
technology	can	be	used	to	address	the	overexpression	of	
any	gene.	As	such,	our	technology	may	be	able	to	help	
more	patients	and	treat	more	diseases.	
Given	the	properties	of	our	technology ,	we	believe	it	
would	be	most	powerful	when	used	to	address	diseases	
with	established	and	well‑studied	links	between	
the	expression	of	a	specific	gene	(or	the	production	
of	a	specific	protein)	and	a	disease.	More	of	these	
opportunities	should	come	to	light	as	gene	sequencing	
technology	advances.	
I am pleased to be appointed Chief Executive of Silence Therapeutics, 
transitioning from my prior role at the company as Director of Corporate 
Strategy. With the completion of the Atu027 phase I study and a 
strengthened cash position, Silence Therapeutics is now ready to embark 
on the next step in a road well‑trodden by the pioneers of the biotechnology 
industry such as Amgen and Biogen.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
05
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
Pursuing new clinical development projects
Our	technology	provides	many	clinical	development	
opportunities.	W e	have	a	responsibility	to	patients	
and	shareholders	to	pursue	projects	with	the	highest	
chance	of	success.	T o	do	so,	we	will	adhere	to	the	
following	simple	principles:
•	 decision enabling experiments we 	 will 	 do 	 studies 	 that	
enable 	 go/no 	 go 	 decisions, 	 where 	 the 	 benchmark 	 for	
“go” 	 is 	 prospectively 	 defined, 	 and 	 we 	 will 	 stop 	 projects 	
that 	 are 	 not 	 worth 	 doing 	 as 	 soon 	 as 	 practicable
•	 efficacy signals early we 	 will 	 target 	 conditions	
where 	 it 	 is 	 possible 	 to 	 know 	 early 	 whether 	 the 	 drug	
works. 	 For 	 example, 	 where 	 clinical 	 outcome 	 would 	 be	
obvious 	 in 	 small 	 uncontrolled 	 studies, 	 or 	 where 	 there	
are 	 well‑accepted 	 surrogate 	 endpoints 	 for 	 clinical	
outcome. 	 Importantly , 	 early 	 efficacy 	 signals 	 may 	
enable 	 accelerated 	 path 	 to 	 approval 	 for 	 the 	 benefit 	 of 	
patients 	 and 	 value 	 creation 	 for 	 shareholders
•	 found patient population we	are	better	able	to	
help	patients	if	they	are	already	known	to	treating	
physicians	because	their	diseases	are	obvious	
enough	that	they	seek	medical	help,	or	their	diseases	
are	screened	routinely
•	 in target tissues we	will	pursue	diseases	where	the	
undesirable	gene	expression	and	protein	production	
are	in	the	vascular	endothelium,	lung	endothelium,	
liver ,	or	wherever	else	our	technology	can	take	us	in	
the	future
•	 necessary before	we	embark	on	any	clinical	
development	project,	we	will	establish	the	necessary	
efficacy	and	safety	parameters	for	a	new	drug	that	
will	be	meaningful	to	patients	in	light	of	existing	
options	and	more	advanced	potential	therapies.	
The	target	profile	will	inform	our	study	design,	
so	we	can	know	as	early	as	possible	whether	our	
drug	can	make	a	difference	to	patients.	Clear	
characterisation	of	unmet	medical	needs	may	also	
allow	us	to	take	advantage	of	certain	accelerated	
regulatory	pathways
•	 elucidated biology we	plan	to	pursue	disease	where	
the	link	between	the	undesirable	gene	expression	
and	disease	is	already	well‑studied,	preferably	by	
multiple,	independent	groups
How Atu027 fits into our future portfolio
Currently , 	 we 	 have 	 one 	 clinical 	 stage 	 project, 	 Atu027, 	 an	
AtuRNAi 	 against 	 PKN3, 	 delivered 	 by 	 AtuPLEX, 	 to 	 the	
vascular 	 endothelium. 	 By 	 acting 	 against 	 PKN3 	 in 	 the	
vascular 	 endothelium, 	 it 	 is 	 hypothesised 	 that 	 metastatic	
spread 	 would 	 decrease, 	 thereby 	 slowing 	 progression 	 and	
improving 	 survival 	 rates 	 of 	 cancer 	 patients.
W e	have	demonstrated	the	safety	of	Atu027	in	
34	patients.	In	2012,	we	completed	a	phase	I,	
monotherapy ,	one‑month	safety	study	of	Atu027	in	
a	variety	of	solid	tumour	patients.	
The	phase	I	study	showed	that	none	of	the	34	patients	
experienced	a	serious	adverse	event	directly	associated	
with	Atu027.	
The	next	logical	step	in	the	development	of	Atu027	is	to	
combine	its	presumed	ability	to	stop	cancer	spread	with	
chemotherapy	agents	that	kill	tumours,	to	better	clarify	
Atu027’ s	efficacy	profile	when	used	as	intended.	In	
April	2013,	we	initiated	dosing	of	cancer	patients	with	
the	chemotherapy	agent	gemcitabine	in	combination	
with	Atu027.	As	such	further	studies	are	being	
planned,	we	will	pay	special	attention	to	cancers	where	
patients	experience	spread	of	disease	or	death	within	
a	relatively	short	period	of	time,	even	on	best	current	
available	therapy .	
If	successful,	Atu027	could	help	cancer	patients	at	
risk	from	developing	metastasis,	thereby	slowing	
progression	of	disease	and	improve	survival.	
Demonstration	of	these	effects	will	ultimately	require	
sizable	randomised	controlled	trials	using	progression	
free	survival	or	overall	survival	as	endpoints.	At	this	
time,	the	early	indicators	of	efficacy	that	are	normally	
available	to	drugs	with	tumour	killing	properties	(e.g.	
tumour	regression)	are	not	available	to	Atu027	given	
its	mechanism	of	action.	Therefore,	we	consider	Atu027	
to	be	a	high‑risk	but	high‑reward	opportunity .
W e	will	therefore	be	looking	to	balance	the	
pipeline	appropriately .
Enabling infrastructure
W ith	its	solid	scientific	foundation,	Silence	is	well	
positioned	to	develop	impactful	new	treatments	for	
patients	that	would	also	generate	shareholder	value.	
The	next	stage	of	our	development	will	require	
further	expertise.
W e	have	identified	two	near ‑term	needs	for	
the	company:
•	 run	clinical	trials	in	a	cost‑efficient	way	to	reach	
value	inflection	points	early
•	 identify	diseases	where	there	is	a	significant	medical	
need,	and	the	required	target	profile	for	new	drugs
W e	have	taken	steps	to	recruit	the	appropriate	
personnel	to	address	the	aforementioned	needs.	
Conclusion
The	next	year	will	be	critical	for	Silence	Therapeutics	
in	its	transition	to	a	drug	development	company ,	
including	an	update	on	our	clinical	development	plan.	
I	look	forward	to	providing	you	with	further	updates	
throughout	the	year .	
Ali Mortazavi
Chief	Executive	
28	May	2013 Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
06
www.silence-therapeutics.com
The fund raisings in 2012 totalled £10.7m before expenses. 
A further £19.0m before expenses was raised post year end, 
and will allow the company to significantly advance both 
its clinical and preclinical programmes.
Revenue
Revenue	generated	during	the	year	reduced	by	£0.5m	
to	£0.2m.	
Research and development expenditure
Research	and	development	expenses	during	the	year	
remained	unchanged	at	£3.4m	(2011:	£3.4m),	and	
comprised	the	expenditure	on	both	our	clinical	and	
preclinical	development	programmes.
Administrative expenses
Administrative	expenses	during	the	year	also	
remained	virtually	unchanged	at	£2.6m	(2011:	£2.7m).	
A	cost	reduction	programme	was	undertaken	in	
London	during	the	summer	period,	but	due	to	
associated	one	off	costs	the	benefit	of	these	will	not	
be	seen	until	2013	and	future	years.
Impairment of intangible assets
The	impairment	charge	of	£20.5m	(2011:	£nil)	
related	to	the	impairment	of	goodwill,	write	down	of	
intangibles	and	trade	payables.
Restructuring charge
There	was	no	restructuring	charge	in	the	current	year	
(2011:	£0.5m).
Financial income
Financial	income	during	the	year	was	lower	mainly	due	
to	lower	average	cash	balances	during	the	year .
Tim Freeborn
Finance	Director
“Silence significantly improved its 
cash position through a number 
of cash raisings, and undertook 
cost restructuring which will 
benefit the company in 2013 
and beyond.”
FINANCIAL REVIEW Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
07
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
Taxation
No	corporation	tax	was	payable	in	either	2012	or	2011.
Liquidity, cash, cash equivalents  
and money market investments 
The	group’ s	cash	position	at	year	end	was	£8.9m.	At	the	
end	of	2011,	Silence	had	cash	of	£3.7m.	A	total	of	
£10.3m	after	expenses	was	raised	during	2012	through	
placings	and	open	offers	which	involved	the	issue	of	
1,089,088,220	shares	at	0.5p	and	200,000,000	shares	
at	2.5p.
The	net	cash	outflow	from	operating	activities	in	
2012	was	£4.9m	(2011:	£5.1m)	against	an	operating	
loss	of	£26.3m	(2011:	£5.8m),	which	reflects	the	
impairment	charge.	
T rade	and	other	receivables	at	year	end	were	£0.2m	
(2011:	£0.2m)	and	trade	and	other	payables	were	£1.0m	
at	year	end	(2011:	£1.3m).	
Goodwill	at	year	end	was	£7.3m	(2011:	£28.3m)	
following	a	reassessment	after	the	closure	of	Intradigm	
in	the	US.
Tim Freeborn
Finance	Director	and	Company	Secretary
28	May	2013 Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
08
www.silence-therapeutics.com
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1
3
5
2
4
1	 Jerry	Randall
2	 Ali	Mortazavi
3	 T im	Freeborn
4	 Mike	Khan
5	 David	Mack Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
09
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
Jerry Randall ACA
Chairman
Mr	Randall	is	an	entrepreneur	with	interests	in	
a	number	of	business	areas.	He	was	appointed	
Chairman	of	the	board	in	February	2010,	following	
the	resignation	of	Iain	Ross.	Currently	Mr	Randall	is	
founder	and	Chief	Executive	Officer	of	V enture	Life	
Group,	a	private	international	specialty	healthcare	
company	focusing	on	the	concerns	of	aging.	Until	
November	2009,	he	was	Chief	Financial	Officer	of	
Sinclair	Pharmaceuticals	plc,	which	he	joined	in	2000	
as	part	of	a	management	buy‐in	team.	Prior	to	this,	
Mr	Randall	worked	in	corporate	finance	and	was	
previously	involved	in	two	other	buy‐ins.	He	acted	as	
adviser	to	both	private	and	quoted	companies	between	
1993	and	2000,	in	both	the	capacity	of	nominated	
adviser	and	in	practice	with	KPMG.	During	this	
period,	he	was	involved	in	a	number	of	flotations	and	
transactions	on	the	Official	List,	Unlisted	Securities	
Market	and	the	Alternative	Investment	Market,	as	well	
as	raising	private	equity .	Mr	Randall	is	a	qualified	
chartered	accountant	and	Member	of	the	Institute	
of	Directors.	
Ali Mortazavi
Chief Executive
Mr	Mortazavi	has	over	17	years	of	experience	in	
financial	services.	He	started	his	career	as	a	T echnology	
Analyst	at	Duncan	Lawrie	then	Credit	L yonnais	
Securities.	In	2001,	he	co‑founded	Evolution	Securities	
and	ran	the	principal	trading	and	market	making	arm,	
leaving	in	2008.	He	has	extensive	experience	in	small	
companies	and	has	significant	stakes	in	UK	listed	
technology/biotech	ventures.	
Tim Freeborn BA ACA
Finance Director and Company Secretary
Mr	Freeborn	joined	the	company	in	August	2012	and	
became	full	time	in	October .	Previously	he	was	head	of	
research	at	Xcap	Securities	and	an	analyst	at	Evolution	
Securities.	After	qualifying	as	a	chartered	accountant	
he	left	practice	to	become	a	journalist.	For	twelve	
years	he	worked	in	the	Daily	Mail	City	Office	covering	
biotech,	electronics	and	real	estate.	
Michael Khan BSc, MBBS, PhD, FRCP
Director and Chief Medical Officer 
Dr	Khan	is	an	Associate	Professor	of	Medicine	at	the	
University	of	W arwick	and	a	Consultant	Physician	at	
University	Hospitals.	He	is	a	highly	cited	researcher	
and	experienced	clinician	with	a	long	track	record	
in	metabolic	medicine	and	cancer	biology	research	
as	well	as	in	the	running	of	clinical	trials.	He	has	
written	several	books	on	diabetes,	cholesterol	problems	
and	cancer	biology	and	teaches	postgraduates	and	
undergraduates	in	medicine	and	biological	sciences	in	
these	areas.	He	and	co‑workers	have	made	important	
contributions	to	further	the	understanding	of	
cancer	cell	biology	and	diabetes	and	are	working	on	
identifying	novel	tissue‑based	biomarkers	for	colorectal	
cancer	and	the	development	of	novel	diagnostic	tools.	
He	is	a	fellow	of	the	Royal	College	of	Physicians	of	
London	and	a	member	of	the	Association	of	Physicians,	
HEAR T ‑UK	and	Diabetes	UK	and	has	acted	as	an	
expert	adviser	to	numerous	national	and	international	
organisations	in	both	the	public	and	private	sectors.
David Mack PhD
Non-executive director
Dr	Mack	is	a	director	at	Alta	Partners	where	he	led	the	
investment	in	Angiosyn	as	a	director	and	acting	CEO	
(acquired	by	Pfizer	in	2005).	He	joined	Intradigm’ s	
board	in	May	2006	and	served	on	that	board	until	the	
merger	with	Silence	Therapeutics.	He	is	currently	
on	the	board	of	directors	of	Aerie	Pharmaceuticals,	
Ceregene	and	Proacta.	Prior	to	Alta,	Dr	Mack	
co‑founded	and	served	as	V ice	President	of	Genomics	
Research	at	Eos	Biotechnology	(acquired	by	Protein	
Design	Labs	in	2003).	From	1995	to	1997,	he	served	
at	Affymetrix	as	Head	of	Cancer	Biology	where	he	
oversaw	the	development	and	application	of	DNA	array	
technology	in	the	areas	of	oncology	and	inflammation.	
He	was	also	a	pivotal	member	of	the	Polymerase	Chain	
Reaction	(PCR)	invention	group	at	Cetus	(now	Chiron)	
in	the	mid	1980s.	Dr	Mack	received	his	PhD	in	1992	
from	the	University	of	Chicago.		 Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
10
www.silence-therapeutics.com
COMPANY INFORMATION AND ADVISERS
Secretary
T im	Freeborn	
Registered office
22	Melton	Street
London	NW1	2BW
Registered number 
02992058
Nominated advisers
Nplus1 Singer Advisory Ltd
One	Bartholomew	Lane
London	EC2N	2AX
Registrars
Capita IRG plc
Northern	House
W oodsome	Park
Fenay	Bridge
Huddersfield	HD8	0LA
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc
15	Canada	Square	
London	E14	5GL Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
11
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The	directors	present	their	report	and	the	financial	statements	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2012.
Principal activities
The	group	is	focused	on	the	development	of	RNAi	therapeutics	which	incorporates	its	structural	chemistry	and	
delivery	technologies.	The	group’ s	lead	product,	Atu027,	is	currently	in	a	phase	Ib/2a	clinical	trial.	
Review of the business and future developments
The	Chairman’ s	statement	provides	details	of	the	group’ s	progress	during	the	year	against	all	its	performance	
targets.	The	Chief	Executive’ s	review	describes	research	and	development	activity	during	the	year	as	well	
as	outlining	future	planned	developments.	Details	of	the	financial	performance,	including	comments	on	the	
cash	position	and	research	and	development	expenditure,	are	given	in	the	financial	review .	The	group’ s	key	
performance	indicators	are	the	cash	position	in	relation	to	cash	flow ,	the	expenditure	on	research	and	development	
activities	and	the	development	milestones	reached,	together	with	the	signing	of	research	collaborations	and	
licences	to	bring	in	both	development	partners	and	revenues.	
Health, safety and environment
The	directors	are	committed	to	ensuring	the	highest	standards	of	health	and	safety ,	both	for	their	employees	and	
for	the	communities	within	which	the	group	operates.	The	directors	are	also	committed	to	minimising	the	impact	
of	the	group’ s	operations	on	the	environment.	For	example,	the	group	has	implemented	paper	recycling	at	its	
head	office.
Employees
The	directors	are	committed	to	continuing	involvement	and	communication	with	employees	on	matters	affecting	
both	employees	and	the	company .	Management	conducts	regular	meetings	with	all	employees	on	site.
Subsequent events
A	description	of	subsequent	events	is	set	out	in	note	25	to	the	financial	statements.
Results and dividends
The	group	recorded	a	loss	for	the	year	before	taxation	of	£26.3m	(2011:	£5.7m).	Further	details	are	given	in	the	
preceding	financial	review .	The	group	is	not	yet	in	a	position	to	pay	a	dividend	and	the	loss	for	both	periods	has	
been	added	to	the	retained	loss.
Financial and non‑financial key performance indicators (“KPIs”)
The	directors	consider	cash	and	research	and	development	spend	to	be	the	group’ s	financial	KPIs	at	the	current	
stage	of	the	company’ s	development.	These	are	detailed	in	the	financial	review .	The	directors	consider	that	the	
most	important	non‑financial	KPIs	relate	to	the	number	of	drugs	in	development	by	stage	of	development	and	the	
number	of	pharmaceutical	collaborations,	both	of	which	are	detailed	in	the	Chief	Executive’ s	review .
Directors
The	directors	who	served	at	any	time	during	the	year	were:
	 Job	title	 	 	 	 	 Appointed		 Resigned	
J	Randall		 Chairman	 	
D	Mack		 Non‑executive	 	
T	Christely		 Chief	Executive	 	 	 	 	 9	February	
A	Clancy		 Non‑executive	 	 	 	 	 	 2	August
M	Herrmann		 Finance	 	 	 	 	 	 2	August
T	Sedgwick		 Chief	Executive	 	 	 	 9	February		 2	August	
A	Mortazavi		 Chief	Executive	 	 	 	 2	August		
T	Freeborn		 Finance	 	 	 	 	 8	October		
M	Khan		 Chief	Medical	Officer	 	 	 	 18	September		
The	interests	of	the	directors	in	the	share	options	of	the	company	are	set	out	in	note	18	to	the	financial	statements.	 Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
12
www.silence-therapeutics.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued
Substantial interests
At	31	December	2012	the	company	had	been	informed	of	the	following	substantial	interests	of	over	3%	in	the	
issued	share	capital	of	the	company:
	 	 	 	 	 Number	 Percentage	of	 	
	 	 	 	 	 issued		 share	capital
Robert	Keith	 	 	 	 	 488,325,844	 26.1%
Ora	Guernsey	Limited	 	 	 	 	 374,000,000	 	20.0%	
Henderson	Global	Investors	 	 	 	 	 160,000,000	 8.5%	
Richard	Griffiths	 	 	 	 	 125,746,105	 6.7%
Ali	Mortazavi		 	 	 	 	 82,400,000	 4.4%
Corporate governance
The 	 board 	 meets 	 regularly 	 and 	 has 	 ultimate 	 responsibility 	 for 	 the 	 management 	 of 	 the 	 group 	 and 	 sub‑committees,	
comprising 	 of 	 executive 	 and 	 non‑executive 	 directors, 	 who 	 meet 	 as 	 and 	 when 	 required 	 to 	 deal 	 with 	 remuneration 	 and	
audit 	 matters.
Committee structure
Remuneration,	audit,	nominations:	Jerry	Randall	(chair),	and	David	Mack.	
Remuneration Committee
The	board	of	directors	has	considered	the	Remuneration	Committee’ s	proposals	in	respect	of	the	remuneration	of	
the	directors	and	senior	executives	and	has	accepted	them	without	substantial	revision.
Audit Committee
The	board	seeks	to	present	a	balanced	and	understandable	assessment	of	the	group’ s	position	and	prospects	in	all	
half	year ,	final	and	price‑sensitive	reports	and	information	required	to	be	presented	by	statute.
The	Audit	Committee	comprises	the	Chairman	and	one	non‑executive	director	and	its	terms	of	reference	include	
keeping	under	review	the	scope	and	results	of	the	external	audit	and	its	cost‑effectiveness.	The	committee	reviews	
the	independence	and	objectivity	of	the	external	auditors,	KPMG	Audit	Plc,	including	the	nature	and	extent	of	any	
non‑audit	services	supplied	by	them	to	the	group.	
Our	auditor ,	KPMG	Audit	Plc	has	instigated	an	orderly	wind	down	of	its	business.	The	board	has	decided	to	put	
KPMG	LLP ,	the	successor	firm,	forward	to	be	appointed	as	auditors	and	a	resolution	concerning	their	appointment	
will	be	put	to	the	forthcoming	AGM	of	the	company	on	26	June	2013.
Shareholder communications
The	company	uses	its	corporate	website	(silence‑therapeutics.com)	to	ensure	that	the	latest	announcements,	press	
releases	and	published	financial	information	are	available	to	all	shareholders	and	other	interested	parties.
The	AGM	is	used	to	communicate	with	both	institutional	shareholders	and	private	investors	and	all	shareholders	
are	encouraged	to	participate.	Separate	resolutions	are	proposed	on	each	issue	so	that	they	can	be	given	proper	
consideration	and	there	is	a	resolution	to	approve	the	annual	report	and	financial	statements.	The	company	counts	
all	proxy	votes	and	will	indicate	the	level	of	proxies	lodged	on	each	resolution	after	it	has	been	dealt	with	by	a	
show	of	hands.
The	directors	who	held	office	at	the	date	of	approval	of	this	directors’	report	confirm	that,	so	far	as	they	are	each	
aware,	there	is	no	relevant	audit	information	of	which	the	company’ s	auditors	are	unaware;	and	each	director	has	
taken	all	the	steps	that	they	ought	to	have	taken	as	a	director	to	make	themselves	aware	of	any	relevant	audit	
information	and	to	establish	that	the	company’ s	auditors	are	aware	of	that	information. Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
13
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
Risk factors
The 	 group’ s 	 principal 	 activity 	 is 	 biotechnology 	 research 	 and 	 development. 	 As 	 with 	 any 	 business 	 in 	 this 	 sector , 	 there	
are 	 risks 	 and 	 uncertainties 	 relevant 	 to 	 the 	 group’ s 	 business. 	 Certain 	 of 	 these 	 risk 	 factors 	 affect 	 the 	 majority 	 of	
businesses, 	 some 	 are 	 common 	 to 	 businesses 	 in 	 the 	 biotechnology 	 sector 	 and 	 others 	 are 	 more 	 specific 	 to 	 the 	 group.
Risks common to most businesses
•	 failure	to	maintain	legal	and	regulatory	compliance
•	 new	accounting	standards	causing	a	material	adverse	impact	on	reported	financial	results
•	 failure	to	balance	product	portfolio	against	market	projections	and	demands
•	 increasing	cost	and	decreasing	availability	of	insurance
•	 lack	of	control	over	external	economic	factors	affecting	business
•	 unforeseen	events	which	would	be	classified	as	force	majeure,	e.g.	fire,	flood,	loss	of	utilities
•	 inability	to	access	sufficient	resources	to	trade	as	a	going	concern	
Risks applicable to the biotechnology sector and the group
Clinical and regulatory risk
•	 the	nature	of	pharmaceutical	development	is	such	that	drug	candidates	may	not	be	successful	due	to	an	
inability	to	demonstrate	in	a	timely	manner	the	necessary	safety	and	efficacy	in	a	clinical	setting	to	the	
satisfaction	of	appropriate	regulatory	bodies,	such	as	the	Food	and	Drug	Administration	(FDA)	in	the	US	and	
the	European	Medicines	Agency	(EMA)	in	Europe.	The	group	will	have	limited	control	over	the	type	and	cost	of	
trial	required	to	obtain	regulatory	approval	
•	 the	group	will	rely	on	third	parties	to	conduct	clinical	trials.	If	these	third	parties	do	not	successfully	carry	out	
their	contractual	duties	or	meet	expected	deadlines,	the	programmes	of	the	group	may	be	delayed	or	the	group	
may	not	be	able	to	obtain	regulatory	approval	for	its	products.	Any	failure	or	delay	of	projects	in	development	
or	clinical	trials	could	have	an	adverse	effect	on	the	business
•	 with	the	prime	focus	of	the	group	being	on	such	a	new	area	of	technology ,	there	can	be	no	assurance	that	the	
group’ s	products	will	receive	and	maintain	regulatory	approval
Product development risk
•	 the	group	is	involved	at	the	leading	edge	of	a	revolutionary	technology .	W ithin	the	pharmaceutical	sector	
more	drugs	fail	in	development	than	progress	to	market	and	there	is	no	guarantee	that	the	group	will	be	able	
to	successfully	develop	this	new	technology	or	bring	any	of	the	drug	candidates	it	is	developing	to	market.	
Further ,	the	drugs	that	the	group	does	bring	to	market	may	not	be	commercially	successful
•	 the	group	has	no	track	record	of	successful	development	and	registration	of	any	product	and	will	need	to	
acquire	or	gain	access	to	relevant	additional	expertise
•	 in	order	to	progress	the	group’ s	product	development	plans	it	may	be	desirable	or	necessary	to	find	
collaborators	on	certain	projects.	The	group	cannot	guarantee	that	it	will	be	able	to	find	and	maintain	suitable	
collaborators	under	acceptable	terms	or	that,	once	found,	such	collaborators	will	devote	sufficient	resources	to	
the	collaboration	to	make	it	commercially	successful
•	 the	group’ s	suppliers	may	encounter	unexpected	difficulties	in	the	design	and	construction	of	manufacturing	
processes	and	the	scale‑up	of	production	to	viable	commercial	levels	or	may	otherwise	be	unable	to	supply	
materials	to	the	group	in	a	timely	manner
•	 competition	for	talented	employees	in	the	biotechnology	sector	may	lead	to	increased	costs	or	decreased	
availability	of	staff.	As	a	result,	the	group	may	be	unable	to	recruit	or	retain	certain	important	employees.	This	
could	weaken	the	group’ s	scientific	and	management	capabilities	and	could	delay	or	halt	the	development	of	
products	and	technologies
Competition risk
•	 RNAi	technology	is	attracting	increased	interest	and	with	that	is	increased	competition.	Competitors	in	the	
sector	may	have	greater	financial,	human	and	other	resources	and	more	experience	to	develop	competing	
products	or	technology
•	 many	companies	are	trying	to	develop	competing	technologies	and	one	or	more	of	these	may	restrict	the	
potential	commercial	success	of	the	group’ s	products	or	render	them	obsolete
•	 increasing	competition	may	also	have	an	adverse	effect	on	the	timing	or	scale	of	commercialisation	of	the	
group’ s	technology Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
14
www.silence-therapeutics.com
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued
Risk factors continued
Risks applicable to the biotechnology sector and the group continued
Intellectual property risk
•	 intellectual	property	issues	from	challenges	by	others	or	lack	of	protection	for	its	own	products	may	negatively	
impact	the	group.	Other	companies	may	have	or	develop	intellectual	property	that	restricts	the	group’ s	freedom	
of	use	or	imposes	high	additional	costs	to	obtain	licences	
•	 the	group	may	be	unable	to	successfully	establish	and	protect	its	intellectual	property	which	is	significant	to	
the	group’ s	competitive	position
•	 the	group’ s	intellectual	property	may	become	invalid	or	expire	before	its	products	are	successfully	
commercialised
•	 the	group	may	be	unable	to	successfully	protect	its	competitive	position	through	the	establishment	and	
enforcement	of	intellectual	property;	the	lack	of	sufficient	intellectual	property	protection	for	the	group’ s	
technologies	may	have	a	material	adverse	effect	on	its	commercial	success.	In	particular ,	there	can	be	no	
assurance	that	the	group’ s	patent,	and	other	intellectual	property ,	applications	will	be	granted,	or	that	its	
granted	intellectual	property	(including	any	granted	in	future	further	to	those	applications)	are	or	will	be	valid	
or	of	sufficiently	broad	scope	to	provide	commercially	meaningful	protection	against	third	party	competition.	
The	group’ s	competitors	may	also	have,	or	acquire	in	future,	substantially	equivalent	technologies	to	those	on	
which	the	group	does	or	will	depend,	or	otherwise	design	around	the	group’ s	intellectual	property
•	 other	companies	may	have	or	acquire	intellectual	property	that	restricts	the	group’ s	freedom	to	operate	or	
imposes	high	additional	costs	for	the	group	in	obtaining	licences,	and	there	can	be	no	assurance	that	the	group	
will	be	able	to	design	around	such	intellectual	property	or	obtain	relevant	licences	on	commercially	acceptable	
terms,	if	at	all
•	 the	group	may	incur	substantial	costs	in	enforcing	its	intellectual	property ,	and	in	bringing	and	prosecuting	
opposition	or	interference	actions	to	seek	to	prevent	third	parties	from	obtaining	patent	or	other	protection.	
The	group	may	incur	substantial	costs	in	defending	against	such	actions.	There	can	be	no	guarantee	that	such	
actions	will	be	successful	for	the	group
•	 the	patent	landscape	in	the	field	of	RNAi	is	complex,	and	the	group	is	aware	of	the	issuance	and	the	pendency	
of	patents	and	patent	applications	in	Europe,	the	US	and	in	other	jurisdictions	that	are	owned	by	third	parties	
and	that	purport	to	cover	structurally‑defined	classes	of	siRNAs	and	their	uses.	This	patent	landscape	is	in	flux,	
with	ongoing	oppositions,	litigations,	and	continuing	prosecution	before	patent	offices	around	the	world,	and	
the	directors	cannot	be	certain	that	siRNA	claims	issued	to	third	parties	to	date	or	in	the	future	will	not	restrict	
the	group’ s	freedom	to	operate
•	 in	addition,	there	are	many	issued	and	pending	patents	that	claim	various	aspects	of	oligonucleotide	chemistry	
that	the	directors	may	need	to	apply	to	the	group’ s	siRNA	drug	candidates.	There	are	also	many	issued	patents	
that	claim	genes	or	portions	of	genes	that	may	be	relevant	for	siRNA	drugs	we	wish	to	develop.	There	are	
further	many	issued	and	pending	patents	that	claim	various	aspects	of	nucleic	acid	delivery	systems	that	the	
directors	may	need	to	licence	in	order	to	deliver	the	group’ s	siRNA	drug	candidates	topically	or	systemically	to	
the	appropriate	target	tissues.	Thus,	it	is	possible	that	one	or	more	third	parties	may	hold,	or	later	will	hold,	
patent	rights	to	which	the	group	will	need	a	licence.	If	those	parties	refuse	to	grant	the	group	a	licence	to	such	
patent	rights	on	reasonable	terms,	the	group	may	not	be	able	to	perform	research	with	or	market	products	
covered	by	these	patents
•	 the	group	also	relies	on	trade	secrets,	know‑how	and	technology ,	which	are	not	protected	by	patents,	to	
maintain	its	competitive	position.	If	any	trade	secret,	know‑how	or	other	technology	not	protected	by	a	patent	
were	to	be	disclosed	to	or	independently	developed	by	a	competitor ,	the	group’ s	business	and	financial	condition	
could	be	materially	adversely	affected
Retention of key personnel
•	 the	group’ s	success	is	largely	dependent	on	the	personal	efforts	and	abilities	of	the	group’ s	existing	senior	
management.	The	loss	of	key	employees	or	advisers	or	the	inability	to	attract	or	retain	other	qualified	
employees	or	advisers	could	have	a	material	adverse	effect	on	the	group’ s	results,	operations	and	financial	
condition Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
15
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
Financial risk
•	 there	are	very	high	costs	of	product	development,	where	products	have	lead	times	to	market	of	many	years
•	 the	lack	of	a	substantial	recurrent	revenue	stream	and	the	significant	resources	needed	for	ongoing	investment	
in	its	research	and	development	pipeline	require	the	group	to	gain	access	to	additional	funding	from	licensing,	
capital	markets	or	elsewhere.	There	can	be	no	assurances	that	such	funding	will	be	achieved	on	favourable	
terms,	if	at	all	
•	 additional	funding	will	be	required	to	give	the	group	time	to	reach	profitability .	If	the	group	is	unable	to	raise	
those	funds,	there	may	be	insufficient	finance	for	product	development	or	operations	and	consequent	delay ,	
reduction	or	elimination	of	development	programmes	could	result
•	 the	group	has	a	small	portfolio	of	products.	Success	or	failure	with	individual	products	could	have	a	
significant	impact	on	the	share	price.	This	in	turn	may	make	it	difficult	for	the	group	to	continue	funding	
its	development	programme
•	 the	group	may	be	unable	to	secure	adequate	insurance	at	an	acceptable	cost
•	 the	group	has	operations	in	the	UK	and	Germany	and,	therefore,	the	group	will	be	exposed	to	risks	associated	
with	foreign	currency	exchange	rates	and	fluctuation	therein
This	list	should	not	be	considered	an	exhaustive	statement	of	all	potential	risks	and	uncertainties
Going concern
The	financial	statements	have	been	prepared	on	a	going	concern	basis	that	assumes	that	the	group	will	continue	in	
operational	existence	for	the	foreseeable	future.
The	group	had	a	net	cash	inflow	for	2012	of	£5.2m	and	at	31	December	2012	had	cash	balances	of	£8.9m.	
Following	the	fundraising	announced	on	10	April,	during	which	a	further	£19.0m	of	cash	was	raised,	based	on	
current	forecasts	the	cash	on	hand	at	the	date	of	this	report	will	support	operations	into	2016.	
Political and charitable donations
The	group	made	no	political	or	charitable	donations	during	2012	(2011:	£nil).	
Payment of creditors
It	is	the	group’ s	policy	to	make	payments	to	creditors	in	accordance	with	individually	agreed	terms,	generally	
within	30	days	either	of	the	invoice	date	or	from	the	end	of	the	month	the	invoice	was	received.	Using	the	method	
set	out	in	the	Companies	Act,	the	ratio	for	the	group	of	trade	creditors	at	the	year	end	to	total	costs	was	42	days	
(2011:	49	days).	
On	behalf	of	the	board
Jerry Randall
Chairman	
28	May	2013
	
	 Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
16
www.silence-therapeutics.com
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The	directors	are	responsible	for	preparing	the	annual	report	and	financial	statements	in	accordance	with	
applicable	law	and	regulations.	Company	law	requires	the	directors	to	prepare	financial	statements	for	each	
financial	year .	As	required	by	the	AIM	Rules	of	the	London	Stock	Exchange	they	are	required	to	prepare	the	group	
financial	statements	in	accordance	with	International	Financial	Reporting	Standards	(“IFRS”)	as	adopted	by	the	
EU	(“EU‑IFRS”)	and	applicable	law	and	have	elected	to	prepare	the	parent	company	financial	statements	on	the	
same	basis.	
Under	company	law	the	directors	must	not	approve	the	financial	statements	unless	they	are	satisfied	that	they	
give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	state	of	affairs	of	the	group	and	parent	company	and	of	their	profit	or	loss	for	
that	period.	
In	preparing	each	of	the	group	and	parent	company	financial	statements,	the	directors	are	required	to:
•	 select	suitable	accounting	policies	and	then	apply	them	consistently
•	 make	judgements	and	estimates	that	are	reasonable	and	prudent
•	 state	whether	they	have	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	IFRS	as	adopted	by	the	EU
•	 prepare	 the	 financial	 statements	 on	 the	 going	 concern	 basis	 unless	 it	 is	 inappropriate	 to	 presume	 that	 the	 group	
and	the	parent	company	will	continue	in	business
The	directors	are	responsible	for	keeping	adequate	accounting	records	that	are	sufficient	to	show	and	explain	
the	parent	company’ s	transactions	and	disclose	with	reasonable	accuracy	at	any	time	the	financial	position	of	the	
parent	company	and	enable	them	to	ensure	that	its	financial	statements	comply	with	the	Companies	Act	2006.	
They	have	general	responsibility	for	taking	such	steps	as	are	reasonably	open	to	them	to	safeguard	the	assets	of	
the	group	and	to	prevent	and	detect	fraud	and	other	irregularities.
The	directors	are	responsible	for	the	maintenance	and	integrity	of	the	corporate	and	financial	information	
included	on	the	company’ s	website.	Legislation	in	the	UK	governing	the	preparation	and	dissemination	of	financial	
statements	may	differ	from	legislation	in	other	jurisdictions.
Tim Freeborn
Finance	Director
28	May	2013 W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
17
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
17
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
to the members of Silence Therapeutics plc
W e	have	audited	the	financial	statements	of	Silence	Therapeutics	plc	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2012	set	out	
on	pages	18	to	48.	The	financial	reporting	framework	that	has	been	applied	in	their	preparation	is	applicable	law	
and	International	Financial	Reporting	Standards	(IFRS)	as	adopted	by	the	EU	and,	as	regards	the	parent	company	
financial	statements,	as	applied	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	the	Companies	Act	2006.	
This	report	is	made	solely	to	the	company’ s	members,	as	a	body ,	in	accordance	with	Chapter	3	of	Part	16	of	the	
Companies	Act	2006.	Our	audit	work	has	been	undertaken	so	that	we	might	state	to	the	company’ s	members	those	
matters	we	are	required	to	state	to	them	in	an	auditor’ s	report	and	for	no	other	purpose.	T o	the	fullest	extent	
permitted	by	law ,	we	do	not	accept	or	assume	responsibility	to	anyone	other	than	the	company	and	the	company’ s	
members,	as	a	body ,	for	our	audit	work,	for	this	report,	or	for	the	opinions	we	have	formed.	
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As	explained	more	fully	in	the	directors’	responsibilities	statement	set	out	on	page	16,	the	directors	are	responsible	
for	the	preparation	of	the	financial	statements	and	for	being	satisfied	that	they	give	a	true	and	fair	view .	Our	
responsibility	is	to	audit,	and	express	an	opinion	on,	the	financial	statements	in	accordance	with	applicable	
law	and	International	Standards	on	Auditing	(UK	and	Ireland).	Those	standards	require	us	to	comply	with	the	
Auditing	Practices	Board’ s	Ethical	Standards	for	Auditors.	
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
A	description	of	the	scope	of	an	audit	of	financial	statements	is	provided	on	the	Financial	Reporting	Council’ s	
website	at	www .frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on financial statements 
In	our	opinion:	
•	 the	financial	statements	give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	state	of	the	group’ s	and	of	the	parent	company’ s	affairs	
as	at	31	December	2012	and	of	the	group’ s	loss	for	the	year	then	ended;	
•	 the	group	financial	statements	have	been	properly	prepared	in	accordance	with	IFRS	as	adopted	by	the	EU;	
•	 the	parent	company	financial	statements	have	been	properly	prepared	in	accordance	with	IFRS	as	adopted	by	
the	EU	and	as	applied	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	the	Companies	Act	2006;	and	
•	 the	financial	statements	have	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	requirements	of	the	Companies	Act	2006.	
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In	our	opinion	the	information	given	in	the	directors’	report	for	the	financial	year	for	which	the	financial	
statements	are	prepared	is	consistent	with	the	financial	statements.	
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
W e	have	nothing	to	report	in	respect	of	the	following	matters	where	the	Companies	Act	2006	requires	us	to	report	
to	you	if,	in	our	opinion:	
•	 adequate	accounting	records	have	not	been	kept	by	the	parent	company ,	or	returns	adequate	for	our	audit	have	
not	been	received	from	branches	not	visited	by	us;	or	
•	 the	parent	company	financial	statements	are	not	in	agreement	with	the	accounting	records	and	returns;	or	
•	 certain	disclosures	of	directors’	remuneration	specified	by	law	are	not	made;	or	
•	 we	have	not	received	all	the	information	and	explanations	we	require	for	our	audit.	
Richard Broadbelt 
Senior	Statutory	Auditor
For	and	on	behalf	of	KPMG	Audit	Plc 	
Statutory	Auditor	 	
Chartered	Accountants	 	
15	Canada	Square,	London	E14	5GL
28	May	2013 We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
18
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
year ended 31 December 2012
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
18
www.silence-therapeutics.com
	 				 Year ended 	 Y ear	ended	 	
	 				 31 December 	 31	December 	
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 	 	 	 Note	 £000s 	 £000s
Revenue	 			 3	 163 	 694
Research	and	development	costs	 	 	 	 	 (3,378) 	 (3,361)
Gross	loss	 		 	 	 		 (3,215) 	 (2,667)
Restructuring	charge	 	 	 	 	 —	 (472)
Impairment		 	 	 	 5	 (20,486) —
Administrative	expenses	 	 	 	 	 (2,613) 	 (2,647)
Operating	loss		 		 	 	 5,	6		 (26,314) 	 (5,786)
Finance	income	 	 	 	 7	 18 	 57
Gain	on	sale	of	assets	 	 	 	 	 12	5
Finance	expense	 	 	 	 	 —	 (13)
Loss for the period before tax	 				 (26,284) 	 (5,737)
T axation	credit	for	the	period	 	 	 	 8	 —	—
Retained loss for the period after taxation  
attributable to equity holders  transferred to reserves 			 (26,284) 	 (5,737)
Loss per ordinary equity share (basic and diluted) 	 	 	 9		 (2.7p) 		 (1.2p)
The	accompanying	accounting	policies	and	notes	form	an	integral	part	of	these	financial	statements.
	 			 Year ended 	 Y ear	ended 	
	 			 31 December	 31	December 	
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 				 £	£
Loss	for	the	period	after	taxation	 	 	 	 (26,284) 	 (5,737)
Other	comprehensive	income:	 	 	 	
Exchange	differences	arising	on	consolidation		 of	foreign	operations	 	 	 (714)	5
Total comprehensive income for the period 			 (26,998) 	 (5,732)
The	accompanying	accounting	policies	and	notes	form	an	integral	part	of	these	financial	statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
year ended 31 December 2012 W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
19
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
19
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at 31 December 2012
	 				 31 December 	 31	December 	
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 	 	 	 Note	 £000s 	 £000s
Non‑current assets    
Property ,	plant	and	equipment		 	 	 	 10	 157 	 225
Goodwill	 	 	 	 11	 7,333 	 28,342
Other	intangible	assets	 	 	 	 12	 526 	 971
	 				 8,016 	 29,538
Current assets	 			
T rade	and	other	receivables	 	 	 	 14	 148 	 174
Investments	held	for	sale		 	 	 	 	 2	 37
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	 	 	 	 15	 8,909 	 3,688
	 				 9,059 	 3,899
Current liabilities	 			
T rade	and	other	payables	 	 	 	 16	 (959) 	 (1,260)
Total assets less current liabilities 					 16,116 	 32,177
Net assets 	 				 16,116 	 32,177
Capital and reserves attributable to the company’s equity holders    
Share	capital	 	 	 	 18	 1,872 	 5,771
Capital	reserves	 	 	 	 20	 94,849 	 81,141
T ranslation	reserve	 	 	 	 	 2,323 	 3,037
Retained	loss	 	 	 	 	 (82,928) 	 (57,772)
Total equity 	 				 16,116 	 32,177
The	financial	statements	were	approved	by	the	board	on	28	May	2013.
Tim Freeborn
Finance	Director
The	accompanying	accounting	policies	and	notes	form	an	integral	part	of	these	financial	statements.
	 We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
20
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
20
www.silence-therapeutics.com
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
year ended 31 December 2012
	 	 Share	 Capital	 T ranslation	 Retained	 		
	 	 capital		 reserves	 reserve	 loss	 T otal	
	 	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s
At	1	January	2011	 	 2,799	 80,269	 3,032	 (53,831)	 32,269
Recognition	of	share‑based	payments	 	 —	 120	 —	 —	 120
T ransfer	upon:	 	 	
–	lapse	of	vested	options	in	the	year	 	 —	 (1,796)	 —	 1,796	 —
–	issued	warrants	in	the	year	 	 —	 1	 —	 —	 1
Shares	issued	in	period,	net	of	expenses	 	 2,972	 2,547	 —	 —	 5,519
T ransactions	with	owners		 	 2,972	 872	 —		 1,796	 5,640
Loss	for	the	year	to	31	December	2011	 	 —	 —	 —	 (5,737)	 (5,737)
Other comprehensive income
Exchange	differences	arising	on	 	
consolidation	of	foreign	operations	 	 —	 —	 5	 —	 5
At	31	December	2011	 	 5,771	 81,141	 3,037	 (57,772)	 32,177
Recognition	of	share‑based	payments	 	 —	 656	 —	 —	 656
T ransfer	to	capital	redemption	reserve		 	 (5,194)	 5,194	 —	 —	 —
T ransfer	upon:	 	 	 	 	
–	lapse	of	vested	options	in	period	 	 —	 (1,128)	 —	 1,128	 —
Shares	issued	in	period,	net	of	expenses	 	 1,295	 8,986	 —	 —	 10,281
T ransactions	with	owners		 	 (3,899)	 13,708	 —	 1,128	 10,937
Loss	for	the	year	to	31	December	2012	 	 —	 —	 —	 (26,284)	 (26,284)
Other comprehensive income	 					
Exchange	differences	arising	on	 	
consolidation	of	foreign	operations	 	 —	 —	 (714)	 —	 (714)
At 31 December 2012  1,872 94,849 2,323 (82,928) 16,116 W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
21
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
21
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
at 31 December 2012
	 				 31 December 	 31	December 	
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 	 	 	 Note	 £000s 	 £000s
Non‑current assets    
Property ,	plant	and	equipment	 	 	 	 10		 2	3
Investment	in	subsidiaries		 	 	 	 13	 34,204 	 54,218
	 				 34,206 	 54,221
Current assets	 			
T rade	and	other	receivables	 	 	 	 14	 39 	 79
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	 	 	 	 15	 8,463 	 3,323
	 				 8,502 	 3,402
Current liabilities	 			
T rade	and	other	payables	 	 	 	 16	 (153) 	 (182)
Total assets less current liabilities  				 42,555 	 57,441
Net assets 	 				 42,555 	 57,441
Capital and reserves attributable  to the company’s equity holders				
Share	capital	 	 	 	 18	 1,872 	 5,771
Capital	reserves	 	 	 	 20	 94,665 	 80,957
Retained	loss		 	 	 	 	 (53,982) 	 (29,287)
Total equity		 				 42,555 	 57,441
The	financial	statements	were	approved	by	the	board	on	28	May	2013.
Tim Freeborn
Finance	Director
The	accompanying	accounting	policies	and	notes	form	an	integral	part	of	these	financial	statements. 	
Company	number	02992058.
	
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						 We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
22
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
22
www.silence-therapeutics.com
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
year ended 31 December 2012
	 	 	 Share	 Capital	 Retained	 		
	 	 	 capital		 reserves	 loss	 T otal	
	 	 	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s
At	1	January	2011	 	 	 2,799	 80,085	 (30,189)	 52,695
Recognition	of	share‑based	payments	 	 	 —	 120	 —	 120
T ransfer	to	capital	redemption	reserve		 	 	 —	 —	 —	 —
–	lapse	of	vested	options	in	period	 	 	 —	 (1,796)	 1,796	 —
Shares	and	warrants	issued	in	period,	net	of	expenses	 	 2,972	 2,548	 —	 5,520
T ransactions	with	owners		 	 	 2,972	 872	 1,796	 5,640
Loss	for	the	year	to	31	December	2011	 	 	 —	 —	 (894)	 (894)
At	31	December	2011	 	 	 5,771	 80,957	 (29,287)	 57,441
Recognition	of	share‑based	payments	 	 	 —	 656	 —	 656
T ransfer	to	capital	redemption	reserve		 	 	 (5,194)	 5,194	 —	 —
–	lapse	of	vested	options	in	period	 	 	 —	 (1,128)	 1,128	 —
Shares	and	warrants	issued	in	period,	net	of	expenses	 	 1,295	 8,986	 —	 10,281
T ransactions	with	owners		 	 	 (3,899)	 13,708	 1,128	 10,937
Loss	for	the	year	to	31	December	2012	 	 	 —	 —	 (25,823)	 (25,823)
At 31 December 2012   1,872 94,665 (53,982) 42,555 W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
23
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
23
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2012
	 Group		 Company	
	 			
	 		 2012 	 2011	 2012 	 2011 	
	 		 £000s 	 £000s	 £000s 	 £000s
Cash flow from operating activities       
Loss before tax	 		 (26,284) 	 (5,737)	 (25,823) 	 (893)
Impairment	of	intangibles	 	 	 20,486 	 —	 —	—
Depreciation	charges	 	 	 63 	 91	 1 —
Amortisation	charges		 	 189 	 214	 —	—
Gain	on	sale	of	property ,	plant	and	equipment		 	 (12) 	 (6)	 —	—
	 Charge	for	the	year	in	respect	of	share‑based	payments		 656 	 121	 579 	 28
Charge	for	warrants		 	 	 32 	 —	 32	—
Foreign	exchange	charge	on	intragroup	loan	 	 —	 —	 200	—
Increase/(reduction)	in	impairment	provision	 	
against	investment	in	subsidiary	 	 	 —	 —	 24,135	3
Finance	income		 	 	 (18) 	 (56)	 (15) 	 (284)
Finance	expense		 	 	 —	 13	 —	—
	 		 (4,888) 	 (5,360)	 (891) 	 (1,146)
Decrease/(increase)	in	trade	and	other	receivables	 	 17 	 667	 40 	 (33)
Decrease/(increase)	in	inventory	 	 	 —	 27	 —	—
Increase/(decrease)	in	trade	and	other	payables		 	 (5) 	 (431)	 (29) 	 (68)
Cash	absorbed	by	operation		 	 	 (4,876) 	 (5,097) (880) 	 (1,247)
Interest	paid		 	 	 —	 (13)	 —	—
Net cash outflow from operating activities 		 (4,876) 	 (5,110)	 (880) 	 (1,247)
Cash flow from investing activities      
Assets	held	for	sale	–	proceeds	(cost)	 	 	 39 	 (6)	 —	—
	 Proceeds	from	sale	of	property ,	plant	and	equipment		 	 15 	 10	 —	—
Addition	to	loan	in	subsidiaries	 	 	 —	 —	 (4,243) 	 (3,513)
Interest	received		 	 	 15 	 27	 15 	 285
Addition	to	property ,	plant	and	equipment		 	 	 (3) 	 (27)	 —	 (4)
Addition	to	intangible	assets		 	 (199) 	 (248)	 —	—
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities			 (133) 	 (244)	 (4,228) 	 (3,232)
Cash flow from financing activities       
Proceeds	from	issue	of	share	capital		 	 	 10,248 	 5,519	 10,248 	 5,519
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 		 	 5,240 	 165	 5,140 	 1,040
Cash and cash equivalent at start of year  	 3,688 	 3,567	 3,323 	 2,283
Net	increase	in	the	year	 	 	 5,240 	 165	 5,140 	 1,040
Effect	of	exchange	rate	fluctuations	on	cash	held		 	 (19) 	 (44)	 —	—
Cash and cash equivalent at end of year  	 	 	8,909 	 	3,688		 8,463 	 3,323
The	accompanying	accounting	policies	and	notes	form	an	integral	part	of	these	financial	statements. We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
24
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
24
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
year ended 31 December 2012
1. General information
1.1 Group
Silence	Therapeutics	plc	(“Silence	Therapeutics”	or	“the	company”)	and	its	subsidiaries	(together	“the	group”)	are	
primarily	involved	in	the	research	and	development	of	novel	pharmaceutical	products.	Silence	Therapeutics	plc,	
a	Public	Limited	Company	incorporated	and	domiciled	in	England,	is	the	group’ s	ultimate	parent	company .	The	
address	of	Silence	Therapeutics’	registered	office	is	22	Melton	Street,	London	NW1	2EP	and	the	principal	place	of	
business	is	3	Shortlands,	London	W6	8DA.
1.2 Company income statement
The	company	has	taken	advantage	of	Section	408	of	the	Companies	Act	2006	and	has	not	included	its	own	income	
statement	in	these	financial	statements.	The	loss	for	the	financial	year	dealt	within	the	accounts	of	the	company ,	
including	provision	against	the	investments	in	subsidiary	companies,	were	as	follows:
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 				 £000s 	 £000s
		 					25,823 	 894	
2. Principal accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
Both	the	parent	company	and	the	group	financial	statements	have	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	
Companies	Act	2006	and	International	Financial	Reporting	Standards	(IFRS)	as	adopted	by	the	EU	under	the	
historical	cost	convention.	The	accounting	policies	set	out	below	have,	unless	otherwise	stated,	been	applied	
consistently	to	all	periods	presented	in	these	consolidated	financial	statements.	The	accounts	are	prepared	in	
pounds	sterling	and	presented	to	the	nearest	thousand	pounds.
The	following	standards	or	interpretations	have	not	yet	been	adopted	by	the	group.	The	group	does	not	currently	
believe	the	adoptions	of	these	standards	or	interpretations	would	have	a	material	impact	on	the	consolidated	
results	or	financial	position	of	the	group:
•	 IAS	1	(Amendment):	Presentation	of	financial	statements	amends	how	components	of	other	comprehensive	
income	are	presented.	The	amendments	require	the	grouping	of	items	of	other	comprehensive	income	into	items	
that	might	be	reclassified	to	the	income	statement	in	subsequent	periods	and	items	that	will	not	be	reclassified	
to	the	income	statement	in	subsequent	periods
•	 IFRS	7	(Amendment):	Financial	instruments:	Disclosures	amends	disclosure	requirements	to	require	
information	about	all	recognised	financial	instruments	that	are	set	off	in	accordance	with	paragraph	42	of	
IAS	32
•	 IFRS	9:	Financial	instruments	(not	yet	endorsed	by	the	EU)	the	primary	impact	of	which	is	to	remove	the	
multiple	classification	and	measurement	models	for	financial	assets	required	by	IAS	39	and	introduce	a	model	
that	has	only	two	classification	categories:	amortised	cost	and	fair	value
•	 IFRS	10:	Consolidated	financial	statements	replaces	the	guidance	of	control	and	consolidation	in	IAS	27	and	SIC	
12:	Consolidation	–	special	purpose	entities.	The	core	principle	that	a	consolidated	entity	presents	a	parent	and	
its	subsidiaries	as	if	they	were	a	single	entity	remains	unchanged,	as	do	the	mechanics	of	consolidation
•	 IFRS	12:	Disclosure	of	interests	in	other	entities	requires	enhanced	disclosures	of	the	nature,	risks	and	
financial	effects	associated	with	the	group’ s	interests	in	subsidiaries,	associates,	joint	arrangements	and	
unconsolidated	structured	entities
•	 IAS 	 27 	 (Revised): 	 Separate 	 financial 	 statements 	 (not 	 yet 	 endorsed 	 by 	 the 	 EU) 	 makes 	 revisions 	 to 	 the 	 requirements 	
for 	 separate 	 financial 	 statements 	 prepared 	 by 	 a 	 parent 	 or 	 an 	 investor 	 in 	 a 	 joint 	 venture 	 or 	 associate
The	principal	accounting	policies	adopted	are	set	out	below .
2.2 Basis of consolidation
The	group	financial	statements	consolidate	those	of	the	company	and	its	controlled	subsidiary	undertakings	
drawn	up	to	31	December	2012.	Control	is	achieved	where	the	company	has	the	power	to	govern	the	financial	and	
operating	policies	of	the	entity	so	as	to	obtain	benefits	from	its	activities.	The	parent	company	financial	statements	
present	information	about	the	company	as	a	separate	entity	and	not	about	its	group.
The	results	of	subsidiaries	acquired	or	disposed	of	during	the	year	are	included	in	the	consolidated	income	
statement	from	the	effective	date	of	acquisition	or	up	to	the	effective	date	of	disposal.
Where	necessary ,	adjustments	are	made	to	the	financial	statements	of	subsidiaries	to	bring	accounting	policies	
into	line	with	those	used	for	reporting	the	operations	of	the	group.	All	intra‑group	transactions,	balances,	income	
and	expenses	are	eliminated	on	consolidation.	 W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
25
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
25
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
2.3 Going concern
The	financial	statements	have	been	prepared	on	a	going	concern	basis	that	assumes	that	the	group	will	continue	in	
operational	existence	for	the	foreseeable	future.
The	group	had	a	net	cash	inflow	for	2012	of	£5.2m	(after	expenses)	and	at	31	December	2012	had	cash	balances	of	
£8.9m.	Since	the	year	end	the	company	has	raised	a	further	£18.7m	(after	expenses)	from	investors.	The	directors	
have	reviewed	the	working	capital	requirements	of	the	group	for	the	next	twelve	months	and	are	confident	that	
these	can	be	met.	
The	directors	consider	that	the	continued	adoption	of	the	going	concern	basis	is	appropriate	and	the	accounts	do	
not	reflect	any	adjustments	that	would	be	required	if	they	were	to	be	prepared	on	any	other	basis.
The	directors,	having	prepared	cash	flow	forecasts,	believe	that	existing	cash	resources	together	with	additional	
funds	provided	by	equity	fundraisings,	grants,	milestone	payments	and	licence	fees	will	provide	sufficient	funds	
for	the	group	to	continue	its	research	and	development	programmes	and	to	remain	in	operation	for	at	least	twelve	
months	from	the	date	of	approval	of	these	financial	statements.	
The	group’ s	business	activities,	together	with	the	factors	likely	to	affect	its	future	development,	performance	and	
position	are	set	out	in	the	Chief	Executive’ s	review	on	pages	4	and	5.	The	financial	position	of	the	group,	its	cash	
flows	and	liquidity	position	are	as	set	out	in	the	financial	review	on	pages	6	and	7.
2.4 Business combinations
There	were	no	business	activities	as	defined	by	IFRS	3	(revised)	during	2011	or	2012.
Business	combinations	which	occurred	in	2010	are	accounted	for	by	applying	the	acquisition	method	described	
in	IFRS	3	(revised)	as	at	the	acquisition	date,	which	is	the	date	on	which	control	is	transferred	to	the	group.	In	
arriving	at	the	cost	of	acquisition,	the	fair	value	of	the	shares	issued	by	the	company	is	taken	to	be	the	bid	price	of	
those	shares	at	the	date	of	the	issue.	Where	this	figure	exceeds	the	nominal	value	of	the	shares,	the	excess	amount	
is	treated	as	an	addition	to	the	merger	reserve.	
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
For	acquisitions	on	or	after	1	January	2010,	the	group	measures	goodwill	at	the	acquisition	date	as:
•	 the	fair	value	of	the	consideration	transferred;	plus	
•	 the	recognised	amount	of	any	non‑controlling	interests	in	the	acquiree;	plus
•	 the	fair	value	of	the	existing	equity	interest	in	the	acquiree;	less
•	 the	net	recognised	amount	(generally	fair	value)	of	the	identifiable	assets	acquired	and	liabilities	assumed.	
•	 when	the	excess	is	negative,	a	bargain	purchase	gain	is	recognised	immediately	in	the	income	statement.
•	 costs	related	to	the	acquisition,	other	than	those	associated	with	the	issue	of	debt	or	equity	securities,	are	
expensed	as	incurred.
Any	contingent	consideration	payable	is	recognised	at	fair	value	at	the	acquisition	date.	If	the	contingent	
consideration	is	classified	as	equity ,	it	is	not	remeasured	and	settlement	is	accounted	for	within	equity .	Otherwise,	
subsequent	changes	to	the	fair	value	of	the	contingent	consideration	are	recognised	in	the	income	statement.
On	a	transaction‑by‑transaction	basis,	the	group	elects	to	measure	non‑controlling	interests	either	at	its	fair	
value	or	at	its	proportionate	interest	in	the	recognised	amount	of	the	identifiable	net	assets	of	the	acquiree	at	the	
acquisition	date.
Acquisitions before 1 January 2010
For	acquisitions	which	occurred	before	1	January	2010,	goodwill	represents	the	excess	of	the	cost	of	the	
acquisition	over	the	group’ s	interest	in	the	recognised	amount	(generally	fair	value)	of	the	identifiable	assets,	
liabilities	and	contingent	liabilities	of	the	acquiree.	When	the	excess	was	negative,	a	bargain	purchase	gain	was	
recognised	immediately	in	the	income	statement.
T ransaction	costs,	other	than	those	associated	with	the	issue	of	debt	or	equity	securities,	that	the	group	incurred	
in	connection	with	business	combinations	were	capitalised	as	part	of	the	cost	of	the	acquisition. We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
26
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
26
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
2. Principal accounting policies continued
2.5 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill	is	stated	at	cost	less	any	accumulated	impairment	losses.	Goodwill	is	allocated	to	cash‑generating	units	
and	is	not	amortised	but	is	tested	annually	for	impairment.	
Goodwill	arising	on	the	acquisition	of	a	subsidiary	represents	the	excess	of	the	cost	of	acquisition	over	the	group’ s	
interest	in	the	net	fair	value	of	the	identifiable	assets,	liabilities	and	contingent	liabilities	of	the	subsidiary	at	the	
date	of	acquisition.	Goodwill	is	initially	recognised	as	an	asset	at	cost	and	is	subsequently	measured	at	cost	less	
any	accumulated	impairment	losses.	On	disposal	of	a	subsidiary ,	the	attributable	amount	of	goodwill	is	included	in	
the	determination	of	the	profit	or	loss	on	disposal.
Other intangible assets
Expenditure	on	internally	generated	goodwill	and	brands	is	recognised	in	the	income	statement	as	an	expense	as	
incurred.
Other	intangible	assets	that	are	acquired	by	the	group	are	stated	at	fair	value	less	accumulated	amortisation	and	
less	accumulated	impairment	losses.
Amortisation
Amortisation	is	charged	to	the	income	statement	on	a	straight‑line	basis	over	the	estimated	useful	lives	of	
intangible	assets	unless	such	lives	are	indefinite.	Intangible	assets	with	an	indefinite	useful	life	and	goodwill	are	
systematically	tested	for	impairment	at	each	balance	sheet	date.	Other	intangible	assets	are	amortised	from	the	
date	they	are	available	for	use.	The	estimated	useful	lives	are	as	follows:
Patents	and	trademarks	 10‑15	years
2.6  Research and development
Expenditure	on	research	activities	is	recognised	in	the	income	statement	as	an	expense	as	incurred.
2.7 Revenue recognition
The	group’ s	income	consists	of	licence	fees,	milestone	and	option	payments,	grant	income	and	fees	from	research	
and	development	collaborations.	Income	is	measured	at	the	fair	value	of	the	consideration	received	or	receivable.
Licence	fees,	option	and	milestone	payments	are	recognised	in	full	on	the	date	that	they	are	contractually	
receivable	in	those	circumstances	where:
•	 the	amounts	are	not	time	related	
•	 the	amounts	are	not	refundable
•	 the	licensee	has	unrestricted	rights	to	exploit	the	technology	within	the	terms	set	by	the	licence
•	 the	group	has	no	further	contractual	duty	to	perform	any	future	services	
Where	such	fees	or	receipts	require	future	performance	or	financial	commitments	on	behalf	of	the	group,	the	
revenue	is	recognised	pro	rata	to	the	services	or	commitments	being	performed.	Funds	received	that	have	not	been	
recognised	are	treated	as	deferred	revenue	and	recognised	in	trade	and	other	payables.
Revenues	from	work	or	other	research	and	testing	carried	out	for	third	parties	are	recognised	when	the	work	to	
which	they	relate	has	been	performed.	
Government	grants	are	dealt	with	as	per	note	2.8	below .
All	time	related	receipts	in	respect	of	annual	licence	fees	or	similar	technology	access	fees	are	recognised	as	
revenue	on	a	straight‑line	basis	over	the	period	of	the	underlying	contract.
2.8 Government grants
Government	grants	towards	the	cost	of	staff	employed	in	research	and	development	activities	are	recognised	as	
revenue	over	the	periods	necessary	to	match	them	with	the	related	costs.	No	government	grants	were	recognised	
as	revenue	in	the	year	ended	31	December	2012	(2011:	£nil).
Government	grants	towards	the	cost	of	plant	and	equipment	are	treated	as	a	reduction	in	the	cost	of	the	asset	to	
which	they	relate.	There	were	no	such	grants	for	the	year	ended	31	December	2012	(2011:	£nil). W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
27
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
27
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
2.9 Foreign currency translation
Silence	Therapeutics’	consolidated	financial	statements	are	presented	in	sterling	(£),	which	is	also	the	functional	
currency	of	the	parent	company .	The	individual	financial	statements	of	each	group	entity	are	presented	in	the	
currency	of	the	primary	economic	environment	in	which	the	entity	operates	(its	functional	currency).
In	preparing	the	financial	statements	of	the	individual	entities,	transactions	in	currencies	other	than	the	entity’ s	
functional	currency	(foreign	currencies)	are	recorded	at	the	rates	of	exchange	prevailing	on	the	dates	of	the	
transactions.	At	each	balance	sheet	date,	monetary	items	denominated	in	foreign	currencies	are	retranslated	at	
the	rates	prevailing	on	the	balance	sheet	date.	Non‑monetary	items	carried	at	fair	value	that	are	denominated	in	
foreign	currencies	are	retranslated	at	the	rates	prevailing	on	the	date	when	the	fair	value	was	determined.	
Exchange	differences	arising	on	the	settlement	of	monetary	items,	and	on	the	retranslation	of	monetary	items,	are	
included	in	the	income	statement	for	the	period.	When	a	gain	or	loss	on	a	non‑monetary	item	is	recognised	directly	
in	equity ,	any	exchange	component	of	that	gain	or	loss	is	also	recognised	directly	in	equity .	When	a	gain	or	loss	on	
a	non‑monetary	item	is	recognised	in	the	income	statement,	any	exchange	component	of	that	gain	or	loss	is	also	
recognised	in	the	income	statement.	
For	the	purpose	of	presenting	consolidated	financial	statements,	the	assets	and	liabilities	of	the	group’ s	foreign	
operations	(including	comparatives)	are	expressed	in	sterling	using	exchange	rates	prevailing	on	the	balance	
sheet	date.	Income	and	expense	items	(including	comparatives)	are	translated	at	the	average	exchange	rates	for	
the	period.	Exchange	differences	arising,	if	any ,	are	recognised	in	equity .	Cumulative	translation	differences	are	
recognised	in	profit	or	loss	in	the	period	in	which	the	foreign	operation	is	disposed	of.
Goodwill	and	fair	value	adjustments	arising	on	the	acquisition	of	a	foreign	operation	are	treated	as	assets	and	
liabilities	of	the	foreign	operation	and	translated	at	the	closing	rate.
2.10 Defined contribution pension funds
In	the	first	half	of	2012	the	group	paid	contributions	related	to	salary	to	certain	UK	employees’	individual	pension	
schemes.	The	pension	cost	charged	against	profits	represents	the	amount	of	the	contributions	payable	to	the	
schemes	in	respect	of	the	accounting	period.	UK	pension	contributions	have	now	ceased.	No	separate	provision	is	
made	in	respect	of	non‑UK	employees.
2.11 Property, plant and equipment
The	group	holds	no	property	assets.
All	plant	and	equipment	is	stated	in	the	accounts	at	its	cost	of	acquisition	less	a	provision	for	depreciation.
Depreciation	is	charged	to	write	off	the	cost	less	estimated	residual	values	of	plant	and	equipment	on	a	
straight‑line	basis	over	their	estimated	useful	lives.	All	plant	and	equipment	is	estimated	to	have	useful	economic	
lives	of	between	three	and	five	years.	Estimated	useful	economic	lives	and	residual	values	are	reviewed	each	year	
and	amended	if	necessary .
2.12 Other intangible assets and research and development activities
Intellectual property rights
Other	intangible	assets	include	both	acquired	and	internally	developed	intellectual	property	used	in	research	and	
operations.	These	assets	are	stated	at	cost	less	amortisation.	
Acquired 	 intellectual 	 property 	 rights 	 are 	 capitalised 	 on 	 the 	 basis 	 of 	 the 	 costs 	 incurred 	 to 	 acquire 	 the 	 specific 	 rights.
Internally	generated	intellectual	property	rights	are	recognised	as	intangible	assets,	stated	at	cost	incurred	to	
establish	and	maintain	those	rights,	and	are	subject	to	the	same	subsequent	measurement	method	as	externally	
acquired	intellectual	property .	However ,	until	completion	of	the	development	project,	the	assets	are	subject	
to	impairment	testing	only	as	described	below .	Amortisation	commences	upon	completion	of	the	asset.	Costs	
capitalised	relate	to	patent	prosecution	expenses	paid	to	third	parties.
Amortisation	is	applied	to	write	off	the	cost	less	residual	value	of	the	intangible	assets	on	a	straight‑line	basis	over	
their	estimated	useful	life.	The	principal	rates	used	are	6.7%	and	10%	per	annum.	Amortisation	is	included	within	
research	and	development	costs. We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
28
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
28
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
2. Principal accounting policies continued
2.12 Other intangible assets and research and development activities continued
Capitalisation of research and development costs
Costs	associated	with	research	activities	are	treated	as	an	expense	in	the	period	in	which	they	are	incurred.
Costs	that	are	directly	attributable	to	the	development	phase	of	an	internal	project	will	only	be	recognised	as	
intangible	assets	provided	they	meet	the	following	requirements:
•	 an	asset	is	created	that	can	be	separately	identified
•	 the	technical	feasibility	exists	to	complete	the	intangible	asset	so	that	it	will	be	available	for	sale	or	use	and	the	
group	has	the	intention	and	ability	so	to	do
•	 it	is	probable	that	the	asset	created	will	generate	future	economic	benefits	either	through	internal	use	or	sale
•	 sufficient	technical,	financial	and	other	resources	are	available	for	completion	of	the	asset
•	 the	expenditure	attributable	to	the	intangible	asset	during	its	development	can	be	reliably	measured
Careful	judgement	by	the	group’ s	management	is	applied	when	deciding	whether	recognition	requirements	
for	development	costs	have	been	met.	This	is	necessary	as	the	economic	success	of	any	product	development	is	
uncertain	and	may	be	subject	to	future	technical	problems	at	the	time	of	recognition.	Judgements	are	based	on	the	
information	available	at	each	balance	sheet	date.	
T o	date,	no	development	costs	have	been	capitalised	in	respect	of	the	internal	projects	other	than	costs	directly	
associated	 with	 arising	 intellectual	 property	 rights	 on	 the	 grounds	 that	 the	 costs	 to	 date	 are	 either	 for	 the	 research	
phase	of	the	projects	or ,	if	relating	to	the	development	phase,	then	the	work	so	far	does	not	meet	the	recognition	
criteria	set	out	above.	
2.13 Impairment testing of goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
At 	 each 	 balance 	 sheet 	 date, 	 the 	 group 	 assesses 	 whether 	 there 	 is 	 any 	 indication 	 that 	 the 	 carrying 	 value 	 of 	 any 	 asset	
may 	 be 	 impaired. 	 If 	 any 	 such 	 indication 	 exists, 	 the 	 recoverable 	 amount 	 of 	 the 	 asset 	 is 	 estimated 	 in 	 order 	 to 	 determine	
the 	 extent 	 of 	 the 	 impairment 	 loss 	 (if 	 any). 	 Where 	 it 	 is 	 not 	 possible 	 to 	 estimate 	 the 	 recoverable 	 amount 	 of 	 an 	 individual	
asset, 	 the 	 group 	 estimates 	 the 	 recoverable 	 amount 	 of 	 the 	 cash‑generating 	 unit 	 to 	 which 	 the 	 asset 	 belongs.
For	the	purposes	of	assessing	impairment,	assets	are	grouped	at	the	lowest	levels	for	which	there	are	separately	
identifiable	cash	flows	(cash‑generating	units).	Goodwill	is	allocated	to	those	cash‑generating	units	that	are	
expected	to	benefit	from	synergies	of	the	related	business	combination	and	represent	the	lowest	level	within	the	
group	at	which	management	controls	the	related	cash	flows.
Individual	assets	or	cash‑generating	units	that	include	goodwill	and	other	intangible	assets	with	an	indefinite	
useful	life,	or	those	not	yet	available	for	use,	are	tested	for	impairment	at	least	annually .	All	other	individual	assets	
or	cash‑generating	units	are	tested	for	impairment	whenever	events	or	changes	in	circumstances	indicate	that	the	
carrying	amount	may	not	be	recoverable.
An 	 impairment 	 loss 	 is 	 recognised 	 for 	 the 	 amount 	 by 	 which 	 the 	 asset’ s 	 or 	 cash‑generating 	 unit’ s 	 carrying 	 amount	
exceeds 	 its 	 recoverable 	 amount. 	 The 	 recoverable 	 amount 	 is 	 the 	 higher 	 of 	 fair 	 value, 	 reflecting 	 market 	 conditions 	 less 	
costs 	 to 	 sell, 	 and 	 value 	 in 	 use, 	 based 	 on 	 an 	 internal 	 discounted 	 cash 	 flow 	 evaluation. 	 Impairment 	 losses 	 recognised 	
for 	 cash‑generating 	 units 	 to 	 which 	 goodwill 	 has 	 been 	 allocated 	 are 	 credited 	 initially 	 to 	 the 	 carrying 	 amount 	 of	
goodwill. 	 Any 	 remaining 	 impairment 	 loss 	 is 	 charged 	 pro 	 rata 	 to 	 the 	 other 	 assets 	 in 	 the 	 cash‑generating 	 unit.	
2.14 Investments in subsidiaries
Investments	in	subsidiaries	comprise	shares	in	the	subsidiaries	and	loans	from	the	company .	Investments	in	
shares	of	the	subsidiaries	are	stated	at	cost	less	provisions	for	impairment	which	recognition	and	subsequent	
measurement	is	at	amortised	cost.	 W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
29
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
29
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
2.15 Financial instruments
Financial	assets	and	financial	liabilities	are	recognised	on	the	group’ s	balance	sheet	when	the	group	becomes	a	
party	to	the	contractual	provisions	of	the	instrument.
Financial	assets	can	be	divided	into	the	following	categories:	loans	and	receivables,	financial	assets	at	fair	value	
through	profit	or	loss,	available‑for ‑sale	financial	assets	and	held‑to‑maturity	investments.	Financial	assets	are	
assigned	to	the	different	categories	by	management	on	initial	recognition,	depending	on	the	purpose	for	which	the	
instruments	were	acquired.	The	designation	of	financial	assets	is	re‑evaluated	at	every	reporting	date	at	which	a	
choice	of	classification	or	accounting	treatment	is	available.
De‑recognition	of	financial	instruments	occurs	when	the	rights	to	receive	cash	flows	from	investments	expire	or	
are	transferred	and	substantially	all	of	the	risks	and	rewards	of	ownership	have	been	transferred.	An	assessment	
for	impairment	is	undertaken	at	least	at	each	balance	sheet	date	whether	or	not	there	is	objective	evidence	that	a	
financial	asset	or	a	group	of	financial	assets	is	impaired.
Trade receivables
T rade	receivables	are	measured	at	initial	recognition	at	fair	value	plus,	if	appropriate,	directly	attributable	
transaction	costs	and	are	subsequently	measured	at	amortised	cost	using	the	effective	interest	method.	
Appropriate	allowances	for	estimated	irrecoverable	amounts	are	recognised	in	the	income	statement	when	there	is	
objective	evidence	that	the	asset	is	impaired.	The	allowance	recognised	is	measured	as	the	difference	between	the	
asset’ s	carrying	amount	and	the	present	value	of	estimated	future	cash	flows	discounted	at	an	effective	interest	
rate	computed	at	initial	recognition.
Loans receivable
Loans	receivable	are	non‑derivative	financial	assets	with	fixed	or	determinable	payments	that	are	not	quoted	in	
an	active	market.	They	arise	when	the	group	or	company	provides	money	directly	to	a	debtor	with	no	intention	
of	trading	the	receivables.	Loans	receivable	are	measured	at	initial	recognition	at	fair	value	plus,	if	appropriate,	
directly	attributable	transaction	costs	and	are	subsequently	measured	at	amortised	cost	using	the	effective	interest	
method,	less	provision	for	impairment.	Any	change	in	their	value	is	recognised	in	the	income	statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	comprise	cash	on	hand	and	demand	deposits	that	are	readily	convertible	to	a	known	
amount	of	cash	and	are	subject	to	an	insignificant	risk	of	change	in	value.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial	liabilities	and	equity	instruments	issued	by	the	group	are	classified	according	to	the	substance	of	the	
contractual	arrangements	entered	into	and	the	definitions	of	a	financial	liability	and	an	equity	instrument.	A	
financial	liability	is	a	contractual	obligation	to	either	deliver	cash	or	another	financial	asset	to	another	entity	or	
to	exchange	a	financial	asset	or	financial	liability	with	another	entity ,	including	obligations	which	may	be	settled	
by	the	group	using	its	equity	instruments.	An	equity	instrument	is	any	contract	that	evidences	a	residual	interest	
in	the	assets	of	the	group	after	deducting	all	of	its	liabilities.	The	accounting	policies	adopted	for	specific	financial	
liabilities	and	equity	instruments	are	set	out	below .
Financial liabilities
At	initial	recognition,	financial	liabilities	are	measured	at	their	fair	value	plus,	if	appropriate,	any	transaction	
costs	that	are	directly	attributable	to	the	issue	of	the	financial	liability .	After	initial	recognition,	all	financial	
liabilities	are	measured	at	amortised	cost	using	the	effective	interest	method.
Equity instruments
Equity	instruments	issued	by	the	group	are	recorded	at	the	proceeds	received	net	of	direct	issue	costs.
2.16 Operating leases
Leases	where	substantially	all	the	risks	and	rewards	of	ownership	remain	with	the	lessor	are	accounted	for	as	
operating	leases	and	are	accounted	for	on	a	straight‑line	basis	over	the	term	of	the	lease	and	charged	to	the	income	
statement.
2.17 Provisions
Provisions	are	recognised	when	the	group	has	a	present	obligation	as	a	result	of	a	past	event	and	it	is	probable	
that	the	group	will	be	required	to	settle	that	obligation.	Provisions	are	measured	at	the	directors’	best	estimate	
of	the	expenditure	required	to	settle	the	obligation	at	the	balance	sheet	date	and	are	discounted	to	present	value	
where	the	effect	is	material.	 We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
30
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
30
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
2. Principal accounting policies continued
2.18 Share-based payments
The	group	issues	equity‑settled	share‑based	payments	to	certain	employees	and	advisers.	Equity‑settled	
share‑based	payments	are	measured	at	fair	value	(excluding	the	effect	of	non	market‑based	vesting	conditions)	
at	the	date	of	grant.	The	fair	value	so	determined	is	expensed	on	a	straight‑line	basis	over	the	vesting	period,	
based	on	the	group’ s	estimate	of	the	number	of	shares	that	will	eventually	vest	and	adjusted	for	the	effect	of	non	
market‑based	vesting	conditions.	The	value	of	the	change	is	adjusted	to	reflect	expected	and	actual	levels	of	award	
vesting,	except	where	failure	to	vest	is	as	a	result	of	not	meeting	a	market	condition.	Cancellations	of	equity	
instruments	are	treated	as	an	acceleration	of	the	vesting	period	and	any	outstanding	charge	is	recognised	in	full	
immediately .	Fair	value	is	measured	using	a	binomial	pricing	model.	The	key	assumptions	used	in	the	model	have	
been	adjusted,	based	on	management’ s	best	estimate,	for	the	effects	of	non‑transferability ,	exercise	restrictions	and	
behavioural	considerations.	
2.19 Equity 
Share	capital	is	determined	using	the	nominal	value	of	shares	that	have	been	issued.
The	share	premium	account	includes	any	premiums	received	on	the	initial	issuing	of	the	share	capital.	Any	
transaction	costs	associated	with	the	issuing	of	shares	are	deducted	from	the	share	premium	account,	net	of	any	
related	income	tax	benefits.
The	merger	reserve	represents	the	difference	between	the	nominal	value	and	the	market	value	at	the	date	of	issue	
of	shares	issued	in	connection	with	the	acquisition	by	the	group	of	an	interest	in	over	90%	of	the	share	capital	of	
another	company .
Equity‑settled	share‑based	payments	are	credited	to	a	share‑based	payment	reserve	as	a	component	of	equity	until	
related	options	or	warrants	are	exercised.
Foreign	currency	translation	differences	are	included	in	the	translation	reserve.
Retained	loss	includes	all	current	and	prior	period	results	as	disclosed	in	the	income	statement.
2.20 Taxation
The	tax	currently	payable	is	based	on	taxable	profit	for	the	year .	T axable	profit	differs	from	profit	as	reported	in	
the	income	statement	because	it	excludes	items	of	income	or	expense	that	are	taxable	or	deductible	in	other	years	
and	it	further	excludes	items	that	are	never	taxable	or	deductible.	The	group’ s	liability	for	current	tax	is	calculated	
using	tax	rates	that	have	been	enacted	or	substantively	enacted	by	the	balance	sheet	date.
T ax	receivable	arises	from	the	UK	legislation	regarding	the	treatment	of	certain	qualifying	research	and	
development	costs,	allowing	for	the	surrender	of	tax	losses	attributable	to	such	costs	in	return	for	a	tax	rebate.
Deferred 	 tax 	 is 	 recognised 	 on 	 differences 	 between 	 the 	 carrying 	 amounts 	 of 	 assets 	 and 	 liabilities 	 in 	 the 	 financial 	
statements 	 and 	 the 	 corresponding 	 tax 	 bases 	 used 	 in 	 the 	 computation 	 of 	 taxable 	 profit, 	 and 	 is 	 accounted 	 for 	 using 	
the 	 balance 	 sheet 	 liability 	 method. 	 Deferred 	 tax 	 liabilities 	 are 	 generally 	 recognised 	 for 	 all 	 taxable 	 temporary	
differences 	 and 	 deferred 	 tax 	 assets 	 are 	 recognised 	 to 	 the 	 extent 	 that 	 it 	 is 	 probable 	 that 	 taxable 	 profits 	 will 	 be 	
available 	 against 	 which 	 deductible 	 temporary 	 differences 	 can 	 be 	 utilised. 	 Such 	 assets 	 and 	 liabilities 	 are 	 not	
recognised 	 if 	 the 	 temporary 	 difference 	 arises 	 from 	 initial 	 recognition 	 of 	 goodwill 	 or 	 from 	 the 	 initial 	 recognition	
(other 	 than 	 in 	 a 	 business 	 combination) 	 of 	 other 	 assets 	 and 	 liabilities 	 in 	 a 	 transaction 	 that 	 affects 	 neither 	 the 	 taxable	
profit 	 nor 	 the 	 accounting 	 profit.
Deferred	tax	liabilities	are	recognised	for	taxable	temporary	differences	arising	on	investments	in	subsidiaries	and	
associates,	and	interests	in	joint	ventures,	except	where	the	group	is	able	to	control	the	reversal	of	the	temporary	
difference	and	it	is	probable	that	the	temporary	difference	will	not	reverse	in	the	foreseeable	future.
The	carrying	amount	of	deferred	tax	assets	is	reviewed	at	each	balance	sheet	date	and	reduced	to	the	extent	that	it	
is	no	longer	probable	that	sufficient	taxable	profits	will	be	available	to	allow	all	or	part	of	the	asset	to	be	recovered.
Deferred	tax	is	calculated	at	the	tax	rates	that	are	expected	to	apply	in	the	period	when	the	liability	is	settled	or	the	
asset	realised.	Deferred	tax	is	charged	or	credited	to	the	income	statement,	except	when	it	relates	to	items	charged	
or	credited	directly	to	equity ,	in	which	case	the	deferred	tax	is	also	dealt	with	in	equity .
Deferred	tax	assets	and	liabilities	are	offset	when	there	is	a	legally	enforceable	right	to	set	off	current	tax	assets	
against	current	tax	liabilities	and	when	they	relate	to	income	taxes	levied	by	the	same	taxation	authority	and	the	
group	intends	to	settle	its	current	tax	assets	and	liabilities	on	a	net	basis. W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
31
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
31
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
2.21 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In	the	process	of	applying	the	entity’ s	accounting	policies,	management	makes	estimates	and	assumptions	
that	have	an	effect	on	the	amounts	recognised	in	the	financial	statements.	Although	these	estimates	are	based	
on	management’ s	best	knowledge	of	current	events	and	actions,	actual	results	may	ultimately	differ	from	
those	estimates.
The	key	assumptions	concerning	the	future,	and	other	key	sources	of	estimation	uncertainty	at	the	balance	sheet	
date,	that	have	a	significant	risk	of	causing	a	material	adjustment	to	the	carrying	amounts	of	assets	and	liabilities	
within	the	next	financial	year ,	are	those	relating	to:	
•	 the	capitalisation	or	otherwise	of	development	expenditure
•	 the	ability	of	the	group	to	operate	as	a	“going	concern”
•	 the	carrying	value	of	the	company’ s	investment	in	its	subsidiaries
•	 the	future	recoverability	of	goodwill	and	other	intangible	assets
•	 the	corresponding	review	for	impairment	of	those	assets
The	group	expends	considerable	sums	on	its	development	projects,	with	its	total	research	and	development	costs	
for	2012	amounting	to	£3.4m	(2011:	£3.4m).	The	board	has	decided	not	to	capitalise	any	development	costs	to	
date	as	it	would	not	be	able	to	prove	reliably	that	such	costs	could	be	recovered	due	to	the	risk	factors	involved.	
Therefore,	all	such	costs	have	been	treated	as	expenses	as	they	were	incurred.	Any	decision	to	treat	part	of	those	
costs	as	capital	items	could	have	a	significant	impact	on	the	group’ s	results	and	balance	sheet.	
As	explained	in	note	2.3	above,	the	accounts	are	drawn	up	on	the	going	concern	basis	which	assumes	that	the	
group	will	be	able	to	access	sufficient	funds	to	continue	to	operate	for	the	foreseeable	future.	If	the	accounts	
were	to	be	drawn	up	on	the	basis	that	this	assumption	was	not	valid	then	there	could	be	material	changes	to	the	
carrying	values	of	both	assets	and	liabilities.
The	group’ s	main	activities	are	carried	out	by	subsidiary	companies	which	are	financed	by	ongoing	investment	by	
the	parent	company .	These	investments	are	carried	in	the	books	of	the	parent	company	at	cost	less	provisions	for	
impairment.	The	carrying	value	at	31	December	2012	is	£34.2m	(2011:	£54.2m).	The	key	assumptions	concerning	
the	carrying	value	of	the	investments	in,	and	loans	to,	subsidiaries	relate	to	the	continuing	progress	of	the	
research	and	development	programmes.	As	noted	below ,	there	are	a	number	of	risks	and	uncertainties	around	
those	assumptions	and	the	crystallisation	of	any	of	those	risks	could	have	a	significant	impact	on	the	assessment	
of	the	carrying	value	of	the	investment	shown	in	the	accounts	of	the	parent	company .
Goodwill	is	carried	in	the	accounts	at	a	value	of	£7.3m	(2011:	£28.3m).
Other	intangible	assets	have	a	carrying	value	at	31	December	2012	of	£0.5m	(2011:	£1.0m)	and	details	of	the	
movement	in	the	year ,	the	capitalisation	and	amortisation	policy	and	the	basis	of	the	impairment	review	are	set	out	
in	note	12.
The	key	assumptions	concerning	the	carrying	value,	or	otherwise,	for	both	the	goodwill	and	other	intangible	
assets	relate	to	the	continuing	progress	of	the	group’ s	research	and	development	programmes,	which	are	subject	
to	risks	common	to	all	biotechnology	businesses.	These	risks	include	the	impact	of	competition	in	the	specific	
areas	of	development,	the	potential	failure	of	the	projects	in	development	or	clinical	trials	and	the	possible	inability	
to	progress	projects	due	to	regulatory ,	manufacturing	or	intellectual	property	issues	or	the	lack	of	available	funds	
or	other	resources.	Furthermore,	the	crystallisation	of	any	of	these	risks	could	have	a	significant	impact	on	the	
assessment	of	the	value	of	both	goodwill	and	other	intangible	assets.
3. Revenue
Revenue	in	the	year	was	from	licence,	grant	and	service	fees	generated	by	both	European	and	US	operations.	
The	analysis	of	revenues	by	geographical	destination	is:
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 				 £000s 	 £000s
Europe	 	 	 	 127 	 504
North	America	 	 	 	 	 36 	 14
Asia/Pacific	 	 	 	 	 —	 176
	 				 163 	 694 We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
32
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
32
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
4. Segment reporting
In	2012,	the	group	operated	solely	in	the	specific	technology	fields	of	RNAi	therapeutics.	These	activities	were	
carried	out	across	the	group	companies	but	operated	as	a	single	business.	
Due	to	the	nature	of	its	licencing	activities,	the	group’ s	revenues	in	any	one	year	often	derive	from	a	small	number	
of	customers	that	change	year	by	year .	During	2012,	£0.07m	or	43%	of	group	revenues	(2011:	£0.47m	or	68%	of	
group	revenues)	arose	from	a	single	customer	with	£0.04m	or	26%	of	group	revenues	(2011:	£1.00m	or	42%	of	
group	revenues)	coming	from	a	second	customer .	During	2011,	the	comparative	figures	for	those	two	customers	
were	£nil	and	£nil	respectively .
Non-current assets
	 	 	 	 US	 UK		 Germany 	
	 	 	 	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s
As at 31 December 2012    — 2 8,014
As	at	31	December	2011	 	 	 	 21,224	 3	 8,310
Segment	profit	used	by	the	board	in	its	assessment	of	the	entity	is	profit	before	tax.
Business segments
   RNAi  Group Consolidated 
   Therapeutics Immunotherapy unallocated data 
2012   £000s £000s £000s £000s
Revenue	from	external	customers	 	 	 163 — —  163
Operating	(loss)/profit	 	 	 (24,160) — (2,154) (26,314)
Interest	income	 	 	 3 — 15 18
Interest	expense	 	 	 — — — —
Gain	on	sale	of	asset	 	 	 12 — — 12
Segment	loss	for	the	year	before	taxation	 	 	 (24,872) — (1,412) (26,284)
Segment	assets	 	 	 8,570 — 8,504 17,074
Segment	liabilities	 	 	 806 — 153 959
Costs	to	acquire	property ,	plant	and	equipment	 	 3 — — 3
Costs	to	acquire	intangible	assets	 	 	 199 — — 199
Depreciation	and	amortisation	 	 	 251 — 1 252
Charge	for	non‑cash	expenses:	share‑based	payments	charge	 77 — 579 656
Segment	non‑current	assets	 	 8,016 — — 8,016
	 	 	 RNAi	 	 Group	 Consolidated 	
	 	 	 Therapeutics	 Immunotherapy 	 unallocated	 data 	
2011	 	 	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s
Revenue	from	external	customers	 	 	 694	 —	 —		 694
Operating	(loss)/profit	 	 	 (4,821)	 (1)	 (964)	 (5,786)
Interest	income	 	 	 32	 —	 25	 57
Interest	expense	 	 	 (13)	 —	 —	 (13)
Gain	on	sale	of	assets	 	 	 6	 —	 —	 6
Segment	loss	for	the	year	before	taxation	 	 	 (4,797)	 (1)	 (939)	 (5,737)
Segment	assets	 	 	 30,032	 —	 3,406	 33,438
Segment	liabilities	 	 	 1,078	 —	 182	 1,260
Costs	to	acquire	property ,	plant	and	equipment	 	 23	 —	 4	 27
Costs	to	acquire	intangible	assets	 	 	 248	 —	 —	 248
Depreciation	and	amortisation	 	 	 305	 —	 —	 305
Charge	for	non‑cash	expenses:	share‑based	payments	charge		 93	 —	 27	 120
Segment	non‑current	assets	 	 	 29,535	 —	 3	 29,538 W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
33
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
33
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
5. Operating loss 
This	is	stated	after	charging:
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 				 £000s 	 £000s
Depreciation	of	property ,	plant	and	equipment	 	 	 	 63 	 91
Amortisation	of	intangibles	 	 	 	 	 189 	 214
Restructuring	expenses	 	 	 	 	 —	 472
Share‑based	payments	charge	 	 	 	 	 656 	 121
Auditors’	remuneration:	 	
	–	Audit	of	these	financial	statements	 	 	 	 	 68 	 48
	–	Audit	of	subsidiaries	pursuant	to	legislation	 	 	 	 13 	 17
	–	T axation	 	 	 	 	 8	 11
Operating	lease	payments	on	offices	 	 	 	 	 266 	 298
Gain	on	sale	of	PPE	 	 	 	 	 (12) 	 (5)
T axation	services	consist	of	tax	compliance	services.	No	information	on	auditor	remuneration	in	respect	of	the	
company	has	been	given	as	the	group	accounts	are	required	to	give	on	a	group	basis	the	disclosures	required	
by	regulation.
Impairment
	 					 2012 	
	 	 	 	 	 Note	 £000s
Goodwill	impairment	 	 	 	 	 12	 	(20,314)
Intangible	write	off	 	 	 	 	 13	 	(441)
T rade	payable	write	off	 	 	 	 	 	 269
Exceptional writedown       (20,486) We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
34
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
34
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
6. Directors and staff costs
Staff	costs,	including	directors’	remuneration,	during	the	year	were	as	follows:
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 				 £000s 	 £000s
W ages	and	salaries	 	 	 	 	 1,613 	 2,258
T ermination	benefits	 	 	 	 	 295 	 472
Social	security	costs	 	 	 	 	 378 	 323
Charge	in	respect	of	share‑based	payments	 	 	 	 	 656 	 121
Pension	costs	 	 	 	 	 26 	 18
		 				 2,968 	 3,192
The	average	number	of	employees,	including	both	executive	and	non‑executive	directors,	during	the	year	was	34	
(2011:	37).
Apart	from	the	directors,	the	average	number	of	employees	of	the	parent	company	was	2	(2011:	1).
Management	remuneration	paid	and	other	benefits	supplied	to	the	directors	during	the	year	were	as	follows:
	 	 		 	 2012 	 2011	 	
	 			 Total  T otal 	
	 	 Salary	 T ermination		excluding 2012 	 excluding	 2011 	
	 	 and	fees	 pay pensions 	 Pensions 	 pensions	 Pensions 	
	 	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s £000s 	 £000s	 £000s
P	Haworth		 	 —	 —	 — — 	 336	 —
J	Randall	 	 39	 —	 39 	 —	 60	 —
M	Herrmann	 	 105	 31	 136 11 	 180	 18
T	Christely	 	 18	 211	 229 	 —	 64	 —
A	Clancy	 	 15	 —	 15 	 —	 30	 —
D	U’Prichard	 	 —	 —	 — — 	 30	 —
T	Sedgwick	 	 101	 48	 149 15	—	—
A	Mortazavi	 	 4	 —	 4 	 —	—	—
T	Freeborn	 	 30	 —	 30 	 —	—	—
M	Khan		 	 3	 —	 3 	 —	—	—
	 	 315	 290	 605 26 	 700	 18
No	bonuses	will	be	paid	to	directors	in	respect	of	the	year	ended	31	December	2012.
The	directors	of	the	group	are	the	same	as	key	management	personnel,	as	defined	by	IAS	24:	Related	Party	
T ransactions.	
Details	of	share	options	granted	to	directors	are	detailed	in	note	19.
7.  Finance income   
The	finance	income	comprises:	 	
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 				 £000s 	 £000s
Bank	interest	receivable		 	 	 	 	 18 	 27
Gain	on	security	held	for	resale		 	 	 	 	 —	 30
	 				 18 	 57 W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
35
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
35
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
8. Taxation  
Reconciliation	of	income	tax	credit	at	standard	rate	of	UK	corporation	tax	to	the	current	tax	charge:
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 				 £000s 	 £000s
Loss	per	accounts		 	 	 	 	 (26,284) 	 (5,737)
T ax	credit	at	the	standard	rate	of	UK	corporation	tax	of	24.5%	(2011:	26%)	 	 6,440 	 1,492
Effect	of	overseas	tax	rate	(Germany	and	US)		 	 	 239 	 312
Impact	of	costs	disallowable	for	tax	purposes		 	 	 	 (4,977) 	 (113)
Impact	of	unrelieved	tax	losses	not	recognised	 	 	 	 (1,702) 	 (1,691)
	 				 —	—
Estimated	tax	losses	of	£82.4m	(2011:	£76.4m)	are	available	for	relief	against	future	profits.
The	deferred	tax	asset	not	provided	for	in	the	accounts	on	the	estimated	losses	and	the	treatment	of	the	equity	
settled	share‑based	payments,	net	of	any	other	temporary	timing	differences	is	approximately	£26.5m	(£25.5m).	
The	2013	Budget	on	20	March	2013	announced	that	the	UK	corporation	tax	rate	will	fall	to	20%	by	
2015.	A	reduction	in	the	rate	from	24%	to	23%	(effective	from	1	April	2013)	was	substantively	enacted	on	
3	July	2012.	The	further	reduction	to	21%	from	1	April	2014	and	to	20%	from	1	April	2015	have	not	been	
substantively	enacted.	Minimal	impact	is	expected	from	this	change	given	the	group	is	loss	making.
9.  Loss per share
The	calculation	of	the	loss	per	share	is	based	on	the	loss	for	the	financial	year	after	taxation	of	£26.3m	
(2011:	loss	£5.7m)	and	on	the	weighted	average	of	984,406,050	(2011:	466,864,698)	ordinary	shares	in	issue	
during	the	year .	
The	options	outstanding	at	31	December	2012	and	31	December	2011	are	considered	to	be	non‑dilutive	in	that	
their	conversion	into	ordinary	shares	would	not	increase	the	net	loss	per	share.	Consequently ,	there	is	no	diluted	
loss	per	share	to	report	for	either	year .	
10.  Property, plant and equipment 
Equipment and furniture 
	 	 	 	 	 Group	 Company 	
	 	 	 	 		 £000s	 £000s
Cost 
At	1	January	2011	 	 	 	 	 3,567	 —
Additions	 	 	 	 	 27	 4
Disposals	 	 	 	 	 (156)	 —
T ranslation	adjustment	 	 	 	 	 (131)	 —
At	31	December	2011	 	 	 	 	 3,307	 4
Additions	 	 	 	 	 3	 —
Disposals	 	 	 	 	 (320)	 —
T ranslation	adjustment	 	 	 	 	 (78)	 —
At 31 December 2012     2,912 4
Depreciation 	
At	1	January	2011	 	 	 	 	 3,280	 —
Charge	for	the	year	 	 	 	 	 91	 1
Eliminated	on	disposal	 	 	 	 	 (164)	 —
T ranslation	adjustment	 	 	 	 	 (125)	 —
At	31	December	2011	 	 	 	 	 3,082	 1
Charge	for	the	year	 	 	 	 	 63	 1
Eliminated	on	disposal	 	 	 	 	 (317)	 —
T ranslation	adjustment	 	 	 	 	 (73)	 —
At 31 December 2012     2,755 2
Net book value  
As	at	31	December	2011	 	 	 	 	 225	 3
As at 31 December 2012     157 2 We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
36
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
36
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
11.  Goodwill  
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 				 £000s 	 £000s
Balance	at	start	of	year	 	 	 	 28,342 	 28,346
Impairment	 	 	 	 	 (20,314)	—
T ranslation	adjustment	 	 	 	 	 (695) 	 (4)
Balance	at	end	of	year	 	 	 	 	 7,333 	 28,342
The	carrying	amount	of	goodwill	is	attributable	to	the	acquisition	of	Silence	Therapeutics	AG	in	2005	and	
Intradigm	Corporation	in	2010.
In	accordance	with	IAS	36:	Impairment	of	Assets,	the	carrying	value	of	goodwill	has	been	assessed	comparing	its	
carrying	value	to	its	recoverable	amount.	The	recoverable	amount	has	been	calculated	by	the	directors	as	being	the	
value	in	use.	
T o	arrive	at	the	value	in	use,	the	directors	have	performed	risk	adjusted	discounted	cash	flow	analyses	of	the	
RNAi	therapy	business	area.	In	the	prior	year ,	the	goodwill	related	to	Silence	Therapeutics	AG	and	Intradigm	
Corporation	was	tested	as	a	single	“cash	generating”	unit.
Goodwill	was	reassessed	following	the	closure	of	Intradigm	in	the	US.	This	led	to	an	impairment	of	the	
carrying	value.
The	recoverable	amount	of	the	RNAi	therapy	business	has	been	calculated	with	reference	to	its	value	in	use.	
The	key	assumptions	of	this	calculation	are	shown	below:	
	 					 2012
Period	on	which	management	approved	forecasts	are	based	 	 	 	 2013 – 2035
Growth	rate	applied	beyond	approved	forecast	period	 	 	 	 	 n/a
Discount	rate	 	 	 	 	 16%
T erminal	valuation	multiple	(price/earnings)	 	 	 	 	 nil
Management	have	used	an	approved	forecast	period	of	greater	than	five	years	because	of	the	long‑term	nature	of	
revenue	streams	from	clinical	development	stage	pharmaceutical	drug	candidates.	The	discount	rate	used	is	based	
on	a	conservative	rate	used	by	professionals	to	value	publicly	traded	equities	and	corporate	market‑specific	risk.	
Sensitivity	analysis	has	been	carried	out	on	both	the	discount	rate	and	sales	assumptions	used	to	calculate	the	net	
present	value	of	the	goodwill	for	Silence	Therapeutics	AG.	A	25%	reduction	in	sales,	being	the	key	sensitivity ,	still	
gives	a	net	present	value	in	excess	of	the	carrying	value.	 W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
37
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
37
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
12.  Other intangible assets
	 	 	 	 	 Internally 	
	 	 	 	 Licences	 generated	 T otal 	
		 	 	 		 £000s	 £000s	 £000s
Cost	 			
At	1	January	2011	 	 	 	 2,690	 1,073	 3,763
Additions	 	 	 	 134	 114	 248
T ranslation	adjustment	 		 	 	 (73)	 (35)	 (108)
At	31	December	2011	 	 	 	 2,751	 1,152	 3,903
Additions	 	 	 	 47	 152	 199
Zamore	write	down	 	 	 	 (505)	 —	 (505)
T ranslation	adjustment	 	 	 		 (59)	 (30)	 (89)
At 31 December 2012     2,234 1,274 3,508
Amortisation    
At	1	January	2011	 	 	 	 2,357	 460	 2,817
Charge	for	the	year	 	 	 	 57	 157	 214
T ranslation	adjustment	 	 	 		 (81)	 (18)	 (99)
At	31	December	2011	 	 	 		 2,333	 599	 2,932
Zamore	write	down		 	 	 	 (64)	 —	 (64)
Charge	for	the	year	 	 	 	 23	 166	 189
T ranslation	adjustment	 		 	 	 (59)	 (16)	 (75)
At 31 December 2012     2,233 749 2,982
Net book value     
As	at	31	December	2011		 		 	 	 418	 553	 971
As at 31 December 2012    1 525 526
The	licences	included	above	have	finite	useful	lives	estimated	to	be	of	10‑14	years	from	the	date	of	acquisition,	over	
which	period	the	licences	are	amortised.	The	group’ s	internally	generated	patent	costs	above	represent	expenses	
connected	with	filings	for	patent	registration	in	respect	of	technology	that	has	been	developed	by	the	group	for	use	
in	revenue‑generating	activities.	These	costs	are	amortised	on	a	straight‑line	basis	over	10‑14	years,	commencing	
upon	the	completion	of	the	asset.	The	charge	for	amortisation	is	included	in	the	research	and	development	costs	in	
the	income	statement.	
The	group	tests	for	impairment	of	definite	life	intangible	assets	on	a	regular	basis.	If	indicators	of	impairment	
exist,	such	as	a	change	of	use	of	the	asset,	a	reduction	in	operating	cash	flow	or	a	change	in	technology ,	the	
company	compares	the	discounted	cash	flows	related	to	the	asset	to	the	carrying	value	of	the	asset.	If	the	carrying	
value	is	greater	than	the	discounted	cash	flow	amount,	an	impairment	charge	is	recorded	for	the	amount	
necessary	to	reduce	the	carrying	value	of	the	asset	to	fair	value.	Fair	value	for	the	purpose	of	the	impairment	
tests	is	determined	based	on	current	market	value	or	discounted	future	cash	flows.	In	determining	the	fair	value,	
certain	assumptions	are	made	concerning,	for	example,	estimated	cash	flows	and	growth	of	the	group’ s	operations.	
Intangible	assets	include	intellectual	property	relating	to	AtuPlex	and	AtuRNAi	technologies	which	are	already	
subject	to	commercial	licences.	 We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
38
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
38
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
13.  Investments 
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
Company	 	 	 	 	 £000s 	 £000s
Investment	in	subsidiary	undertakings	 	 	 	 34,204 	 54,218
The	investment	in	subsidiary	undertakings	is	made	up	as	follows:	 	
	 	 	 	 Investment	 Impairment	 Net 	
	 	 	 	 at	cost	 provision	 total 	
		 	 	 	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s
Shares and loans in subsidiary undertakings   
At	31	December	2010	 	 	 	 73,224	 (22,609)	 50,615
Additions	 	 	 	 3,606	 (3)	 3,603
At	31	December	2011	 	 	 	 76,830	 (22,612)	 54,218
Additions	 	 	 	 4,121	 (24,135)	 (20,014)
At 31 December 2012    80,951 (46,747) 34,204
At	31	December	2012,	a	non‑interest	bearing	unsecured	loan	of	£22.4m	(2011:	£22.4m)	was	outstanding	
from	Silence	Therapeutics	plc	to	Stanford	Rook	Ltd.	This	has	been	fully	provided	for	in	both	2011	and	2012.	
A	subordinated	5%	interest	bearing	loan	from	Silence	Therapeutics	plc	to	Silence	Therapeutics	AG	of	£10.9m	
(2011:	£6.9m)	was	outstanding.	
Subsidiary companies
The	principal	activity	of	all	subsidiaries	is	the	research	and	development	of	pharmaceutical	products.
	 	 	 	
	 	 	 Proportion	of 	
	 Place	of	incorporation	 	 ownership 	
Name	 and	operation	 Principal	technology	area	 interest
Silence	Therapeutics	AG		 Germany		 RNAi	therapeutics		 100%
Intradigm	Corporation		 US		 RNAi	therapeutics		 100%
Stanford	Rook	Ltd		 England		 Immunotherapy		 100%
Innopeg	Ltd		 England		 Not	active		 100%
The	company	has	made	additional	investments	during	the	year	in	its	operating	subsidiaries	Silence	Therapeutics	
AG	and	Intradigm	Corporation.	Silence	Therapeutics	plc	has	made	an	impairment	provision	against	the	
investment	and	loans	to	Stanford	Rook	Limited	and	Innopeg	Limited	to	the	extent	that	they	are	deemed	to	be	
not	recoverable.	No	impairment	provision	has	been	made	against	the	investment	in	Silence	Therapeutics	AG	or	
Intradigm	Corporation	as	the	directors	believe	that	the	fair	value	exceeds	the	cost	of	investment	to	date.
14.  Trade and other receivables
	 2012 		 2011	
	 			
	 		 Group 	 Company 	 Group	 Company 	
	 		 £000s 	 £000s 	 £000s	 £000s
T rade	receivables	 	 	 2 — 	 36	 —
Other	receivables	 	 70 20 	 29	 33
Prepayments		 	 	 76 19 	 109	 46
T otal	trade	and	other	receivables	 	 	 148 39 	 174	 79
The	directors	consider	that	the	carrying	amount	of	trade	and	other	receivables	approximates	to	their	fair	value.	
T rade	and	other	receivables	were	all	payable	within	90	days.	Fair	values	have	been	calculated	by	discounting	cash	
flows	at	prevailing	interest	rates.	
No	interest	is	charged	on	outstanding	receivables. W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
39
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
39
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
15.  Cash and cash equivalents
Cash	at	bank	comprises	balances	held	by	the	group	in	current	and	short‑term	bank	deposits	with	a	maturity	of	
three	months	or	less.	The	carrying	amount	of	these	assets	approximates	to	their	fair	value.	The	deposits	held	at	
bank	are	treated	as	cash	equivalents	under	the	definitions	of	IAS	7:	Cash	Flow	Statements.	
	 2012 		 2011	
	 			
	 		 Group 	 Company 	 Group	 Company 	
	 		 £000s 	 £000s 	 £000s	 £000s
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	 	 	 8,909 8,463 	 3,688	 3,323
16.  Trade and other payables 
	 2012 		 2011	
	 			
	 		 Group 	 Company 	 Group	 Company 	
	 		 £000s 	 £000s 	 £000s	 £000s
T rade	payables	 	 105 40 	 450	 85
Social	security	and	other	taxes	 	 	 275 15 	 392	 20
Deferred	revenues	 	 	 343 — 	 418	 —
Accruals	and	other	payables		 	 	 236 98 	 —	 77
		 959 153 	 1,260	 182
T rade	payables	and	accruals	principally	comprise	amounts	outstanding	for	trade	purchases	and	continuing	costs.	
The	directors	consider	that	the	carrying	amount	of	trade	and	other	payables	approximates	to	their	fair	value.	
17.  Deferred tax
The	following	are	the	major	deferred	tax	liabilities	and	assets	recognised	by	the	group:
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 				 £000s 	 £000s
Deferred	tax	liability:	 	
–	in	respect	of	intangible	assets	 	 	 	 	 155 	 327
Less:	offset	of	deferred	tax	asset	below	 	 	 	 	 (155) 	 (327)
Liability	 	 	 	 	 — 	—
Deferred	tax	asset:	 	
–	in	respect	of	available	tax	losses	 	 	 	 	 27,278 	 24,390
–	in	respect	of	share‑based	payments	 	 	 	 276 	 1,136
Less:	offset	against	deferred	tax	liability	 	 	 	 	 (155) 	 (327)
	 				 27,399 	 25,199
–	provision	against	asset	 	 	 	 	 (27,399) 	 (25,199)
Asset	 	 	 	 	 —	 	—
Due	to	the	uncertainty	of	future	profits,	a	deferred	tax	asset	was	not	recognised	at	31	December	2012	(2011:	£nil). We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
40
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
40
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
18.  Share capital 
	 				 2012 	 2011 	
	 				 £000s 	 £000s
Allotted,	called	up	and	fully	paid		 	 	 	 	
1,871,552,737	(2011:	577,114,517)	ordinary	shares	par	value	0.1p	 	 	 1,872 	 5,771
The	group	has	only	one	class	of	share.	All	ordinary	shares	have	equal	voting	rights	and	rank	pari	passu	for	the	
distribution	of	dividends.
Details	of	the	shares	issued	by	the	company	during	the	current	and	previous	years	are	as	follows:
	
Number	of	shares	in	issue	at	1	January	2011	 		 	 	 	 279,891,452	
Shares	issued	during	2011:	
–	issue	of	shares	for	cash	at	2p	per	share	 	 	 	 	 	 296,693,065
–	issue	of	shares	at	1p	per	share	 	 	 	 	 	 530,000
T otal	issued	in	year	 	 	 	 	 	 297,223,065
Number of shares in issue at 31 December 2011     577,114,517
Shares	issued	during	2012:	
–	issue	of	shares	for	cash	at	0.5p	 	 	 	 		 1,089,088,220
–	exercise	of	warrants	at	1p		 	 	 	 	 	 4,000,000
–	issue	of	shares	for	cash	at	2.5p	 	 	 	 	 	 200,000,000
Options	at	2.07p	 	 	 	 	 	 1,350,000
T otal	issued	in	year	 	 	 	 	 	 1,294,438,220
Number of shares in issue at 31 December 2012     1,871,552,737
The	group	operates	both	an	Inland	Revenue	Approved	Share	Option	Scheme	and	an	Unapproved	Share	Option	
Scheme.	All	directors	and	UK	employees	are	eligible	for	both	schemes.	The	group	has	also	granted	options	to	
certain	directors	and	employees	under	the	auspices	of	an	Enterprise	Management	Incentive	Scheme	and	by	
individual	contract.
At	31	December	2012	there	were	options	outstanding	over	164,129,490	(2011:	41,762,447)	unissued	ordinary	
shares	and	6,830,000	(2011:	462,963)	warrants	outstanding	over	unissued	ordinary	shares. W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
41
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
41
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
Details	of	the	options	outstanding	are	as	follows:
Exercisable	from	 	 	 	 Exercisable	until	 Number	 Exercise	price	
Any	time	until		 	 	 24	July	2015	 	1,000,000		 	23.00	
Any	time	until		 	 	 26	July	2016	 	532,272		 	12.75	
Any	time	until		 	 	 24	November	2016	 	400,000		 	43.00	
Any	time	until		 	 	 24	July	2015	 	10,000		 	109.00	
Any	time	until		 	 	 14	December	2017	 	10,000		 	109.00	
Any	time	until		 	 	 	5	December	2018	 	10,000		 	109.00	
Any	time	until		 	 	 26	July	2017	 	500,000		 	127.00	
Any	time	until		 	 	 14	December	2017	 	55,000		 	67.75	
Any	time	until		 	 	 7	May	2018	 	19,999		 	41.50	
Any	time	until		 	 	 25	September	2018	 	215,000		 	29.50	
Any	time	until		 	 	 5	December	2018	 	1,722,588		 	20.00	
Any	time	until		 	 	 5	January	2020	 	500,000	 	21.23	
Any	time	until	 	 	 13	October	2021	 	2,433,334	 1.80
13	October	2013	 	 	 13	October	2021	 	2,541,665	 1.80
13	October	2014	 	 	 13	October	2021	 2,433,334	 1.80
27	July	2014	 	 	 27	July	2024	 	9,500,000		 	0.50	
In	24	equal	monthly	tranches	ending	1	August	2014	 	 31	July	2024	 	50,000,000		 	0.50	
1	August	2014	 	 	 31	July	2024	 	88,246,298		 	0.50	
1	January	2015	 	 	 31	December	2024	 	4,000,000		 	2.50	
Total options outstanding      164,129,490  
			 We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
42
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
42
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
18.  Share capital continued
The	options	held	by	directors	at	the	beginning	and	the	end	of	the	year	are	as	follows:
	 	 1	January	 	 	 	 31 December 	 	 Latest	date 	
Director	 	 2012	 Exercised	 A warded	 Lapsed	 2012 	 p	 of	exercise
A Clancy       
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 200,000	 —	 —	 (200,000)	 —	 29.50p	 —
J A P Randall       
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 200,000	 —	 —	 —	 	200,000 		 29.50p	 25	Sep	18
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 —	 —	 51,842,399	 —	 51,842,399 	 0.50p	 31	Jul	24
T Christely       
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 1,300,000	 —	 —	 (1,300,000)	 —	 23.00p	 —
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 200,000	 —	 —	 (200,000)	 —	 43.00p	 —
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 500,000	 —	 —	 (500,000)	 —	 127.00p	 —
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 750,000	 —	 —	 (750,000)	 —	 20.00p	 —
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 300,000	 —	 —	 (300,000)	 —	 21.25p	 —
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 9,100,000	 —	 —	 (9,100,000)	 —	 1.85p	 —
M Herrmann       
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 1,700,000	 (1,133,333)	 —	 (566,667)	 —	 2.07p	 —
–	Approved	Scheme	 	 1,666,666	 —	 —	 (1,666,666)	 —	 1.80p	 —
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 1,633,334	 —	 —	 (1,633,334)	 —	 1.80p	 —
A Mortazavi        
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 —	 —	 86,403,899	 —	 86,403,899 	 0.50p	 31	Jul	24
T Freeborn        
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 —	 —	 9,500,000	 —	 9,500,000 	 0.50p	 27	Jul	24
M Khan        
–	Unapproved	Scheme	 	 —	 —	 4,000,000	 —	 4,000,000 	 2.50p	 31	Dec	24
Total 	 	 17,550,000	 (1,133,333) 	 151,746,298 	 (16,216,667)	 151,946,298 	 	 	
None	of	the	options	granted	under	any	of	the	schemes	have	any	future	performance	or	qualifying	conditions	
attached	to	them,	other	than	remaining	as	an	employee.	The	board	did	not	believe	that	the	inclusion	of	such	
conditions	for	staff	or	directors	was	appropriate	at	the	time	of	granting	these	options.
The	market	price	of	the	shares	at	the	year	end	was	4.4p	(2011:	2.1p).	During	the	year	the	minimum	and	maximum	
prices	were	0.7p	and	4.9p.	
At	31	December	2012	the	group	had	net	outstanding	warrants	over	3,500,000	shares	at	1.0p,	which	have	been	
exercised	since	year	end,	and	3,330,000	at	1.5p	which	are	exercisable	until	11	July	2015. W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
43
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
43
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
19.  Equity‑settled share‑based payments 
The	company	has	two	share	option	schemes	open	to	all	employees	of	the	group.	Options	are	exercisable	at	a	price	
equal	to	the	market	price	of	the	company’ s	shares	on	the	date	of	grant.	
In	the	Inland	Revenue	Approved	Scheme	the	vesting	period	is	three	years	and	should	the	options	remain	
unexercised	they	lapse	after	ten	years	from	the	date	of	grant.	The	options	also	lapse	after	six	months	following	the	
employee	leaving	the	group.	
Under	the	Unapproved	Share	Option	Scheme,	the	options	vest	at	dates	set	by	the	board	at	the	time	the	option	is	
granted.	The	options	also	lapse	after	six	months	following	the	employee	leaving	the	group,	or	twelve	months	in	
the	case	of	options	granted	in	2012.
	 2012 		 2011	
	 			
	 			Weighted  W eighted 
  		 average 	 	 average 	
	 			 exercise price 	 	 exercise	price 	
	 		 Number 	 p 	 Number	 p
Options	 				
Outstanding	at	the	beginning	of	the	year	 	 	41,762,447 10.57 	 24,674,843	 28.40
Granted	during	the	year	 	 151,746,298 0.55 29,725,000	 1.87
Lapsed	during	the	year	 	 	(28,029,255) 19.70 	 (12,637,396)	 24.87
Exercised	during	the	year	 	 	(1,350,000) 2.07 		 —	 —
Outstanding	at	the	year	end	 	 	164,129,490 1.64 	 41,762,447	 10.57
Exercisable	at	the	year	end	 	 	22,799,859 8.34 		 11,853,069	 31.18
Warrants	 				
Outstanding	at	the	beginning	of	the	year	 	 462,963 27.00	—	—
Granted	during	the	year	 	 	10,830,000 1.15 	 462,963	 27.00
Lapsed	during	the	year	 	 (462,963) 27.00	—	—
Exercised	during	the	year	 	 	(4,000,000) 1.00	—	—
Outstanding	at	the	year	end	 	 	6,830,000 1.24 	 462,963		 27.00	
Exercisable	at	the	year	end	 	 	6,866,000 1.24 	 462,963		 27.00	
The	options	outstanding	at	the	year	end	have	a	weighted	average	remaining	contractual	life	of	11.2	years	
(2011:	8.7	years).
The	group	granted	151,746,298	options	during	the	year .	The	fair	value	of	options	granted	were	calculated	using	a	
binomial	model	and	inputs	into	the	model	were	as	follows:
	 				 2012 	 2011
Fair	value	at	grant		 	 	 	 1.39p 	 1.41p
W eighted	average	share	price	 	 	 	 	 1.48p 	 1.92p
W eighted	average	exercise	price	 	 	 	 	 0.55p 	 1.87p
Expected	volatility		 	 	 	 115% 	 100%
Risk‑free	rate	 	 	 	 	 1.61‑1.87% 	 1.49‑1.53%
Expected	dividend	yield		 	 	 	 	 nil 	 nil
Expected	volatility	was	determined	using	as	a	base	the	share	price	movements	recorded	over	the	previous	four	
years	and	taking	into	account	any	specific	factors	impacting	during	that	period.
The	expected	life	used	in	the	model	has	been	adjusted,	based	on	management’ s	best	estimate	for	the	effects	of	
non‑transferability ,	exercise	restrictions	and	behavioural	considerations.	
The	group	recognised	total	charges	of	£0.7m	(2011:	£0.1m)	related	to	equity‑settled	share‑based	payment	
transactions	during	the	year .	 We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
44
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
44
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
20. Capital reserves           
	 Share		 	 Share‑based	 		 Capital 	
	 premium	 Merger	 payment	 W arrant	 redemption	 	
	 account		 reserve	 reserve		 reserve	 reserve		 T otal 	
Group	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s
At	1	January	2011	 	54,189		 	22,248		 	3,832		 —		 	—	 	80,269	
On	shares	issued	in	the	year:		 	2,974		 —	 —	 —	 —	 	2,974	
–	less	cost	of	shares	issued	 (427)		 —	 —	 —	 —	 (427)	
On 	 options 	 in 	 issue 	 during 	 the 	 year	 —	 —	 	120		 —	 —	 120	
On	vested	options	lapsed	 	
during	the	year	 —	 —	 (1,796)		 —	 —	 (1,796)	
On	issued	warrants	 	
during	the	year		 —	 —	 —	 	1		 —	 	1	
Movement	in	the	year		 	2,547		 —	 (1,676)		 1		 —		 	872	
At	31	December	2011	 	56,736		 	22,248		 	2,156		 1	 —		 	81,141	
On	shares	issued	in	the	year:		 	9,219		 —	 —	 —	 —	 	9,219
–	less	cost	of	shares	issued		 (265)		 —	 —	 —	 —	 (265)
On	transfer	to	capital	 	
redemption	reserve		 —	 —	 —	 —	 	5,194		 	5,194	
On 	 options 	 in 	 issue 	 during 	 the 	 year	 —	 —	 	656		 —	 —	 	656	
On	vested	options	lapsed	 	
during	the	year	 —	 —	 (1,128)	 —	 —	 (1,128)
On	options	exercised	 	
during	the	year	 24	 —	 (24)		 —	 —	 —
On	issued	warrants	during	the	year		 —		 —	 —	 	32		 —	 	32
Movement	in	the	year		 	8,978		 	—	 (496)		 	32		 	5,194		 	13,708
At 31 December 2012  65,714   22,248   1,660   33   5,194   94,849 W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
45
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
45
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
	 Share		 	 Share‑based	 		 Capital 	
	 premium	 Merger	 payment	 W arrant	 redemption	 	
	 account		 reserve	 reserve		 reserve	 reserve		 T otal 	
Company	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s	 £000s
At	1	January	2011	 	54,189		 	22,064		 	3,832		 —		 	—	 	80,085	
On	shares	issued	in	the	year:		 	2,974		 —	 —	 —	 —	 	2,974	
–	less	cost	of	shares	issued	 (427)		 —	 —	 —	 —	 (427)	
On 	 options 	 in 	 issue 	 during 	 the 	 year	 —	 —	 	120		 —	 —	 120	
On	vested	options	lapsed	 	
during	the	year	 —	 —	 (1,796)		 —	 —	 (1,796)	
On	issued	warrants	 	
during	the	year		 —	 —	 —	 	1		 —	 	1	
Movement	in	the	year		 	2,547		 —	 (1,676)		 1		 —		 	872	
At	31	December	2011	 	56,736		 	22,064		 	2,156		 1	 —		 	80,957	
On	shares	issued	in	the	year:		 	9,219		 —	 —	 —	 —	 	9,219
–	less	cost	of	shares	issued		 (265)		 —	 —	 —	 —	 (265)
On	transfer	to	capital	 	
redemption	reserve		 —	 —	 —	 —	 	5,194		 	5,194	
On 	 options 	 in 	 issue 	 during 	 the 	 year	 —	 —	 	656		 —	 —	 	656	
On	vested	options	lapsed	 	
during	the	year	 —	 —	 (1,128)	 —	 —	 (1,128)
On	options	exercised	 	
during	the	year	 24	 —	 (24)		 —	 —	 —
On	issued	warrants	during	the	year		 —		 —	 —	 	32		 —	 	32
Movement	in	the	year		 	8,978		 	—	 (496)		 	32		 	5,194		 	13,708
At 31 December 2012  65,714   22,064   1,660   33   5,194   94,665
The	capital	redemption	reserve	was	created	last	year	following	the	reduction	of	nominal	share	capital	to	0.1p	per	
share.	It	is	required	under	Section	733	of	the	Companies	Act	2006,	held	to	maintain	the	capital	of	the	company	
when	shares	are	bought	back	and	subsequently	cancelled	without	court	approval.	
Due	to	the	size	of	the	retained	loss,	the	company	has	no	distributable	reserves.
The	share	premium	account	reflects	the	premium	to	nominal	value	paid	on	issuing	shares	less	costs	related	to	
the	issue.
The	merger	reserve	was	created	on	issuance	of	share	relating	to	the	acquisition	of	Silence	Therapeutics	AG.
The	share‑based	payments	reserve	reflects	the	cost	to	issue	share‑based	compensation,	primarily	employee	
stock	options.
21.  Capital commitments and contingent liabilities
There	were	no	capital	commitments	or	contingent	liabilities	at	31	December	2012	(2011:	£nil).
22.  Commitments under operating leases
At	31	December	the	group	and	company	had	a	three	month	commitment	on	its	serviced	office	in	Mayfair ,	London,	
equal	to	£0.01m	(2011:	£0.01m).	
No	amounts	are	payable	between	one	to	five	or	greater	than	five	years. We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
46
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
46
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
23.  Financial instruments and risk management
The	group’ s	financial	instruments	comprise	primarily	cash	and	various	items	such	as	trade	debtors	and	trade	
creditors	which	arise	directly	from	its	operations.	The	main	purpose	of	these	financial	instruments	is	to	provide	
working	capital	for	the	group’ s	operations.	The	group	does	not	utilise	complex	financial	instruments	or	hedging	
mechanisms	in	respect	of	its	non‑sterling	operations.	The	group	assesses	counterparty	risk	on	a	regular	basis.	
Board	approval	is	required	for	adoption	of	any	new	financial	instrument	or	counterparty .	The	primary	focus	of	the	
treasury	function	is	preservation	of	capital.	
Financial assets by category
The	categories	of	financial	assets	(as	defined	by	IAS	39:	Financial	Instruments:	Recognition	and	Measurement)	
included	in	the	balance	sheet	and	the	heading	in	which	they	are	included	are	as	follows:
	 2012 		 2011	
	 			
		 Group Company 	 Group	 Company 	
	 		 £000s 	 £000s 	 £000s	 £000s
Current assets    
T rade	and	other	receivables	  148 39 	 64	 33
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	 	 	 8,909 8,463 	 3,688	 3,323
Categorised	as	loans	and	receivables	 	 	 9,057 8,502 	 3,752	 3,356
All	amounts	are	short	term	and	none	are	past	due	dates	at	the	reporting	date.
	 2012 		 2011	
	 			
		 Group Company 	 Group	 Company 	
	 		 £000s 	 £000s 	 £000s	 £000s
Current liabilities  
T rade	and	other	payables		 	 959 153 	 1,260	 182
All	amounts	are	short	term	and	payable	in	zero	to	three	months.	 	 	
The	maximum	exposure	to	credit	risk	at	the	reporting	date	by	class	of	financial	asset	was:		
	 2012 		 2011	(restated)	
	 			
	 		 Group 	 Company 	 Group	 Company 	
	 		 £000s 	 £000s 	 £000s	 £000s
Loans	and	receivables	 	 72 20 	 65	 33
Capital management
The	group	considers	its	capital	to	be	equal	to	the	sum	of	its	total	equity .	The	group	monitors	its	capital	using	a	
number	of	key	performance	indicators	including	cash	flow	projections,	working	capital	ratios,	the	cost	to	achieve	
preclinical	and	clinical	milestones	and	potential	revenue	from	existing	partnerships	and	ongoing	licensing	
activities.	The	group’ s	objective	when	managing	its	capital	is	to	ensure	it	obtains	sufficient	funding	for	continuing	
as	a	going	concern.	The	group	funds	its	capital	requirements	through	the	issue	of	new	shares	to	investors,	
milestone	and	research	support	payments	received	from	existing	licensing	partners	and	potential	new	licensees.	
Interest rate risk
The	nature	of	the	group’ s	activities	and	the	basis	of	funding	are	such	that	the	group	has	significant	liquid	
resources.	The	group	uses	these	resources	to	meet	the	cost	of	future	research	and	development	activities.	
Consequently ,	it	seeks	to	minimise	risk	in	the	holding	of	its	bank	deposits	while	maintaining	a	reasonable	rate	
of	interest.	The	group	is	not	financially	dependent	on	the	income	earned	on	these	resources	and	therefore	the	
risk	of	interest	rate	fluctuations	is	not	significant	to	the	business.	Nonetheless,	the	directors	take	steps	to	secure	
rates	of	interest	which	generate	a	return	for	the	group	by	depositing	sums	which	are	not	required	to	meet	the	
immediate	needs	of	the	group	in	interest‑bearing	deposits.	Other	balances	are	held	in	interest‑bearing,	instant	
access	accounts.	All	deposits	are	placed	with	main	clearing	banks	to	restrict	both	credit	risk	and	liquidity	risk.	
The	deposits	are	placed	for	the	short	term,	between	one	and	three	months,	to	provide	flexibility	and	access	to	the	
funds	and	to	avoid	locking	into	potentially	unattractive	interest	rates.	
Liquidity risk
The	group’ s	liquid	resources	are	invested	having	regard	to	the	timing	of	payments	to	be	made	in	the	ordinary	
course	of	the	group’ s	activities.	All	financial	liabilities	are	payable	in	the	short	term	(between	zero	and	three	
months)	and	the	group	maintains	adequate	bank	balances	in	either	instant	access	or	short‑term	deposits	to	meet	
those	liabilities	as	they	fall	due. W e	are	evaluating	further	studies	for	Atu027	in	
combination	with	other	chemotherapy	agents	in	a	
variety	of	tumour	types.	W e	plan	to	initiate	further	
programmes,	and	will	provide	updates	in	due	course.	
In	addition	to	this	exciting	clinical	program,	we	are	
evaluating	preclinical	opportunities	in	areas	that	begin	
to	take	us	outside	oncology ,	showcase	the	strength	of	
our	technology ,	as	well	as	take	advantage	of	various	
accelerated	clinical	and	regulatory	pathways.	These	
programs	may	make	use	of	our	DBTC	and	DACC	
delivery	systems	targeted	towards	the	liver	and	lung	
endothelium,	respectively .
Finally ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	our	partner	Quark	
Pharmaceuticals	(Quark)	continues	to	make	progress	
in	the	two	projects	covered	under	our	license	
agreements,	PFE‑4523655	in	diabetic	macular	edema	
(under	a	licensing	agreement	between	Quark	and	
Pfizer),	and	QPI‑1002	in	delayed	graft	function	post	
kidney	transplantation	(under	an	option	agreement	
between	Quark	and	Novartis).		The	results	of	these	
studies,	if	they	warrant	continued	development	by	
Pfizer	and	Novartis,	respectively ,	could	yield	milestone	
payments	for	us	in	2014	to	2015.		If	these	molecules	
are	commercialised,	we	would	be	entitled	to	further	
economics	in	the	form	of	royalties.		
Operations
During	2012	we	were	able	to	significantly	restructure	
the	head	office	costs	in	London,	reducing	the	costs	
and	ensuring	more	of	our	cash	resources	are	focussed	
on	developing	the	assets	of	the	company .		At	the	same	
time,	we	have	added	the	appropriate	personnel	to	
support	our	progression	into	a	product	company .
The	development	team	in	Berlin,	headed	by	Dr	Klaus	
Gieise,	has	continued	to	make	significant	progress	with	
our	pipeline	and	technology	assets,	and	I	am	excited	
about	the	developments	and	their	future	potential.	
In	July	2012,	T ony	Sedgwick,	Chief	Executive	Officer	
and	Max	Herrmann,	Chief	Financial	Officer	left	the	
company .	
Ali	Mortazavi	joined	us	as	Director	of	Corporate	
Strategy ,	T im	Freeborn	as	Finance	Director ,	and	I	
moved	from	Non‑Executive	to	Executive	Chairman.		Ali	
brings	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	capital	markets	as	
well	as	small	cap	companies,	and	has	been	instrumental	
in	the	development	of	Silence	since	he	has	joined.	T im	
has	a	wealth	of	experience	in	the	financial	markets	
and	as	an	analyst	and	qualified	accountant.	He	has	
already	undertaken	significant	streaming	of	the	finance	
function.	
Ali	is	now	moving	to	the	position	of	Chief	Executive	
Officer ,	and	I	am	sure	he	will	continue	to	shape	and	
develop	Silence	as	he	has	done	already	in	his	short	time	
with	us.	
Capital Raising
During	2012	we	have	continued	to	receive	strong	
support	from	key	shareholders	and	undertook	two	
capital	raisings,	£5.7	million	before	expenses	in	July ,	
and	£5.0	million	before	expenses	in	November .	In	
addition,	as	announced	in	April	2013	a	further	£19	
million,	before	expenses,	was	raised.		These	capital	
raisings	have	demonstrated	the	continued	strong	
support	of	our	existing	key	shareholders,	and	also	
now	some	significant	new	investors.	On	behalf	of	
the	Board	of	the	company	I	would	like	to	thank	our	
shareholders	for	their	continued	support	and	input	to	
the	development	of	Silence	in	2012	and	into	the	future.	
As	a	Board	we	are	committed	to	maximising	the	value	
of	the	company	and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.
Looking Forward
Thanks	to	the	work	in	the	last	12	months	by	the	whole	
team	and	key	shareholders	of	the	company ,	Silence	
is	progressing	in	its	transformation	into	a	product	
company	using	our	expertise	in	chemical	modifications	
of	siRNA	and	delivery	technologies.		At	the	same	time,	
the	field	of	RNA‑based	therapeutics	continues	to	see	
positive	developments,	which	in	our	view ,	validates	the	
approach.				
As	a	Board	we	are	incredibly	excited	about	2013	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	our	preclinical	
excellence	today	into	clinical	results	and	products.	
W e	look	forward	very	positively	to	2013	and	the	
development	of	our	pipeline	and	business,	and	to	
translating	that	into	true	growth	in	shareholder	value.
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
[•]	May	2013
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
47
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
get 
signature
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
47
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements
Currency risk
The	group	operates	in	a	global	market	with	income	possibly	arising	in	a	number	of	different	currencies,	
principally	in	sterling	or	euros.	The	majority	of	the	operating	costs	are	incurred	in	euros	with	the	rest	
predominantly	in	sterling.	The	group	does	not	hedge	potential	future	income	since	the	existence,	quantum	and	
timing	of	such	income	cannot	be	accurately	predicted.
Financial	assets	and	liabilities	denominated	in	euros	and	translated	into	sterling	at	the	closing	rate	were:
	 2012 		 2011	
	 			
	 		 Group 	 Company 	 Group	 Company 	
	 		 £000s 	 £000s 	 £000s	 £000s
Financial	assets	 	 	 554 — 	 403	 —
Financial	liabilities	 	 	 (373) — 	 (308)	 —
Net	financial	assets	 	 181 — 	 95	 —
				
Financial	assets	and	liabilities	denominated	in	US	dollars	and	translated	into	sterling	at	the	closing	rate	were:
	 2012 		 2011	
	 			
	 		 Group 	 Company 	 Group	 Company 	
	 		 £000s 	 £000s 	 £000s	 £000s
Financial	assets	 	 4 — 	 298	 —
Financial	liabilities	 	 	 (136) — 	 (769)	 —
Net	financial	assets	 	 	 (132) — 	 (471)	 —
The	following	table	illustrates	the	sensitivity	of	the	net	result	for	the	year	and	the	reported	financial	assets	of	the	
group	in	regards	to	the	exchange	rate	for	sterling:euro.
During	the	year	sterling	appreciated	by	5%	versus	the	euro.	The	table	shows	the	impact	of	a	further	strengthening	
or	fall	of	sterling	against	the	euro	by	20%.
     If sterling If sterling 
    As reported  rose 20% fell 20% 
2012    £ £ £
Group	result	for	the	year	 	 	 	 (26,284) (25,579) (26,989)
Euro	denominated	net	financial	assets	 	 	 	 181 151 217
T otal	equity	at	31	December	2012	 	 	 	 16,116 14,750 18,189
			
	 	 	 	 	 If	sterling	 If	sterling 	
	 	 	 	 As	reported	 	rose	20%	 fell	20% 	
2011		 	 	 	 £	 £	 £
Group	result	for	the	year	 	 	 	 (5,737)	 (5,095)	 (6,698)
Euro	denominated	net	financial	assets	 	 	 	 95	 79	 119
T otal	equity	at	31	December	2011	 	 	 	 32,177	 32,017	 32,418
The	group	no	longer	has	a	material	operating	exposure	to	the	US	dollar .	 We are transforming Silence from a technology company to a product 
company, and developing a clinical capability that will match and exploit 
our expertise in preclinical development.
2012	has	been	a	year	of	significant	positive	change	
and	development	for	Silence.		W ith	the	support	of	key	
long	term	supportive	shareholders	we	have	been	able	
to	restructure	the	company	and	provide	a	significant	
runway	of	cash	to	enable	the	company	to	both	progress	
its	Atu027	clinical	asset	and	to	broaden	its	preclinical	
pipeline.	The	transformation	of	Silence	from	a	
technology	company	to	a	product	company	continues,	
and	we	are	evaluating	opportunities	to	match	and	
exploit	our	expertise	in	preclinical	development.
In	the	last	18	months,	we	have	seen	clinical	progress	
for	RNA‑based	drugs	in	development,	including:
•	 Completion	of	our	Atu027	phase	I	trial,	showing	
safety	and	tolerability	in	man
•	 Data	showing	ALN‑TTR02	can	robustly	knockdown	
relevant	serum	protein,	in	July	2012
•	 Data	showing	eteplirsen	has	a	clinical	impact	in	
patients,	in	October	2012.
•	 Approval	of	the	first	gene	silencing	drug	Kynamro,	
in	the	US,	in	January	2013.
•	 Progression	into	the	clinic	of	microRNA	mimetic,	
MRX34,	in	April	2013.
Silence	is	well	positioned	to	take	advantage	of	this	
return	of	positive	sentiment	as	it	builds	its	clinical	and	
preclinical	pipeline,	and	broadens	it	to	include	areas	
outside	of	oncology .
Clinical development
Our	development	strategy	with	our	siRNAs	makes	drug	
development	significantly	cheaper ,	quicker	and	more	
efficient	than	traditional	drug	development:
•	 Broad	applicability:	the	ability	to	target	any	gene
•	 Specificity:	the	ability	to	block	only	selected	genes	
without	interfering	with	others
•	 Simplicity:	after	identification	of	the	gene	target,	
path	to	phase	I	is	relatively	simple	and	well	defined	
This	is	in	contrast	to	traditional	development	where	
there	is	a	risk	of	off‑target	effects,	multiple	cycles	
of	optimisation	and	design	before	a	drug	candidate	
is	identified	for	Phase	I	study .		Additionally ,	relative	
to	other	oligonucleotide‑based	technologies,	our	
technology	has	the	potential	to	be	used	at	much	lower	
doses.
During	2012	we	completed	the	Phase	I	clinical	study	
for	Atu027,	which	we	believe	has	anti‑metastatic	
effects.		A	total	of	34	patients	were	treated,	and	the	
excellent	safety	and	tolerability	observed	in	the	study	
underpins	our	technology .	Atu027	is	believed	to	
block	the	extravasation	and	intravasation	of	cancer	
cells	necessary	for	the	spread	of	cancer .		This	activity	
represents	a	novel	cancer	treatment	paradigm	versus	
many	other	anti‑cancer	drugs,	which	target	tumour	
directly .		The	potential	for	Atu027	when	used	with	
conventional	anti‑cancer	drugs	is	a	very	exciting	
proposition	for	us.
The	next	stage	for	Atu027	is	a	phase	Ib/IIa	trial	that	
combines	Atu027	with	a	chemotherapy	agent.	Our	
preclinical	work	on	this	combination	has	demonstrated	
a	reduction	in	total	tumour	burden,	including	visible	
metastatic	spread.		W e	were	given	ethical	committee	
approval	for	this	phase	Ib/IIa	early	in	2013	for	this	
trial,	and	dosed	the	first	patient	in	April	2013.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
48
www.silence-therapeutics.com
“RNAi Therapeutics are 
Succeeding.”
Jerry Randall 
Non‑executive	Chairman
Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2012
48
www.silence-therapeutics.com
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
year ended 31 December 2012
24.  Related party transactions
During	the	year	the	company	charged	a	fee	to	its	subsidiary	company	Silence	Therapeutics	AG	amounting	to	
£0.2m	(2011:	£0.2m).	
During	the	year	the	company	paid	£0.1m	to	Fast	W eb	Media	for	supporting	the	website.	Fast	W eb	Media	is	
controlled	by	Robert	Keith,	a	major	shareholder .	
The	company	issued	3.33m	warrants	exercisable	at	1.5p	to	Darwin	Strategic	Limited	(“Darwin”)	in	consideration	
for	an	equity	funding	facility .	Darwin	is	37%	owned	by	Ali	Mortazavi,	Chief	Executive	of	Silence	Therapeutics	plc.	
In	the	summer	2012	refinancing,	Robert	Keith,	a	major	shareholder ,	bought	a	£1.0m	loan	note	at	nil	yield	
convertible	into	shares	at	0.5p	from	the	company .	The	loan	note	was	converted	in	December	2012.
25.  Subsequent events
During	April	2013,	Silence	Therapeutics	raised	£18.7m	after	expenses	with	an	issue	of	475.6m	shares	at	4p	
per	share.
In	addition,	during	April	2013	the	company	consolidated	its	shares	from	50	into	1.
