 Annual report 
Year ended 31July 2008
Opportunities to create value Smiths is a global technology company
listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
A world leader in the practical application
of advanced technologies, Smiths Group
delivers products and services for the
threat and contraband detection, energy,
medical devices, communications and
engineered components markets
worldwide. Our products and services
make the world safer, healthier and
more productive.
Smiths Group plc
Contents
1 Group at a glance
1 Opportunities to increase value
4 Smiths Group: A global business
6 Smiths divisions
8 Summary performance
9 Chairman’s statement
10 Chief Executive’s statement
12 Business review
13 Business review: Smiths Detection
16 Business review: John Crane
19 Business review: Smiths Medical
22 Business review: Smiths Interconnect
24 Business review: Flex-T ek
26 Financial review
29 Legal issues
30 Risks and uncertainties
32 Corporate responsibility
36 Board of directors
37 Group directors’ report
43 Corporate governance report
47 Directors’ remuneration report
57 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
58 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Smiths Group plc
59 Consolidated income statement
60 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
61 Consolidated balance sheet
62 Consolidated cash-flow statement
63 Accounting policies
69 Notes to the accounts
109 Group financial record under IFRS 2005-2008
110 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Smiths Group plc
111 Company balance sheet
112 Accounting policies
114 Notes to the Company accounts
ibc Financial calendar
The purpose of this Report is to provide information to the members of the Company . 
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the
operations, performance and financial condition of the Group. By their nature, these
statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results
and developments to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking
statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation 
of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these 
forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed 
as a profit forecast.
Headline* results for continuing operations
2008 2007
Sales Proﬁts Sales Profit
£m £m £m £m
Detection 509 85.6 438 78.6
Medical 703 127.8 691 127.3
Specialty Engineering:
– John Crane 626 95.9 532 75.3
– Specialty – Other 483 71.3 500 66.4
T otal sales 2,321 2,161
Headline* operating profit 380.6 347.6
Interest (41.0) (36.4)
Pensions financing 41.7 33.7
Post-tax loss of associate (1.0) (0.5)
Headline* pre-tax profit 380.3 344.4
Headline* earnings
per share (basic) 74.5p 47.0p
*Before exceptional items (including impairment of assets), amortisation of acquired
intangible assets, profit or loss on disposal of businesses and financing gains or losses from
currency hedging.
Statutory results for continuing operations
2008 2007
Sales Proﬁts Sales Profit
£m £m £m £m
Detection 509 85.0 438 65.1
Medical 703 106.1 691 106.0
Specialty Engineering:
– John Crane 626 38.8 532 1.3
– Specialty – Other 483 95.8 500 60.7
Profit on sale
of financial assets 24.0
T otal sales 2,321 2,161
Operating profit/(loss) 325.7 257.1
Interest (41.0) (36.4)
Pensions financing 41.7 33.7
Share of post-tax loss
of associate (1.0) (0.5)
Financing gains/(losses) (6.1) 2.1
Pre-tax profit 319.3 256.0
Earnings per share (basic) 63.0p 36.9p 1 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Opportunities to increase value
Smiths has opportunities to create value for shareholders by improving
performance and growing our businesses.
Expand our
margins through 
a programme of
self help
Taking advantage 
of opportunities
Self help is taking many forms
at Smiths. T o improve efficiency
and remove a layer of
management the Smiths
Specialty Engineering division
has been disbanded. T o improve
customer focus, operating
divisions’ headquarters are
relocating from London to be
close to 
their operations. T o reduce
costs and improve lines of
accountability the corporate
centre has been halved in size,
focusing its activities where it
can add value. T o improve
service levels and deliver the
necessary data and information
a new Global IT Service Delivery
organisation has been created. 
Support top-line
growth by
increasing
manufacturing and
service capacity
Expanding capacity for 
airport checkpoint systems
Over the past year, Smiths
Detection has deployed new
checkpoint X-ray machines that
for the first time automatically
detect explosives and liquids in
carry-on bags. Now located in
most major UK airports, these
aTiX systems are being rolled
out in the USA and globally . 
T o achieve the necessary
manufacturing capacity to meet
this demand, the Smiths
Detection facility in Wiesbaden,
Germany, has been expanded
substantially . In less than 12
months, the team has designed
and completed an extension
dedicated to the production of
new equipment such as the
aTiX system. 2 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Create top-line
growth by
expanding activity
in developing
markets 
Building capacity in Asia
Flex-T ek is broadening its
footprint in Asia, where its
existing plant in Malaysia
continues to expand. Over the
past year it has added to this
with new manufacturing
facilities in Bangalore, India, 
in the Clark Special Economic
Zone, Philippines and
Changzhou, China. The facilities
in India and Philippines are
aimed at better serving its
aerospace customers, following
increased demand due to the
growth of air traffic in Asia. 
The facility in Changzhou is
focused on the growing HVAC
and household appliance
market in China.
Deliver efficiencies
by restructuring
our organisation
and using our
scale more
effectively
Creating one global 
John Crane
A project launched in June 2008
is bringing together the two
geographic John Crane
organisations. Unifying John
Crane – with a head office
located in Morton Grove, US –
will enhance performance and
improve customer service, while
implementing a truly global
product portfolio. The leadership
team is creating an organisation
that can more effectively deliver
state-of-the-art solutions
anywhere in the world. 
In this way John Crane has the
capacity to provide customers
with a global operations
platform, assuring rapid delivery
of products while improving
service support capabilities.  3 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Grow our
technology and
geographic
footprint through
bolt-on
acquisitions
Expanding in the world’s
major telecoms market
Some 70% of the world’s
wireless telecommunications
infrastructure equipment is
manufactured in China. T o
expand its footprint in the region,
Smiths Interconnect acquired
Allrizon, a Shanghai-based
communications equipment
firm. Allrizon together with
Triasx – an Australian based
business also with Chinese
operations and acquired
recently – complement and
extend Smiths Interconnect’s
microwave business. They add
not only Chinese manufacturing
capacity but also strong design
teams and good relationships
with key wireless telecoms
infrastructure customers.
Drive growth 
in our technology
businesses by
investing in
targeted R&D
Developing new medical
products
Smiths Medical is increasing
R&D in order to boost new
product development. 
With a strong pipeline in place,
new products are reaching 
the market. Recent innovations
include UniPerc™, a unique
tracheostomy tube designed 
for patients with larger necks –
a problem increasingly faced by
clinicians due to rising obesity
levels among patients. When it
comes to delivering medication,
the new Medfusion 4000™
system helps to treat patients
with cancer and painful
conditions. It features wireless
connectivity to enable clinicians
to monitor the performance 
of the machine remotely . 4 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Smiths Group: A global business
Flex-Tek 
Piloting a new EHS
programme in
Tennessee, USA
Flex-T ek business Tutco,
based in Cookeville,
T ennessee, is piloting a
new Environment Health
and Safety programme 
in a drive to become
OHSAS 18001 certified. 
The programme seeks 
to eliminate injuries 
and reduce hazards in 
the workplace. The results
are already encouraging as
the number of recordable
injuries has been reduced
to zero and recordable
incidents have reduced by
25%, while operating costs
at the facility have also
been cut. 
Smiths Detection 
Manufacturing expansion
in Maryland, USA
Smiths Detection has
expanded its
manufacturing capacity at
its Edgewood site by 50%
to fulfil increased demand
from the US Department 
of Defense Chemical
Biological Protection
Shelters (CBPS)
programme. CBPS
provides contamination
free, environmentally
controlled working areas
for medical and combat
services personnel in
operational circumstances.
Smiths Medical 
Automation in New
Hampshire, USA
Each year around 150
million safety needles are
produced at our Smiths
Medical manufacturing
facility in Keene. This is
largely thanks to an
investment in advanced
high-speed automated
robotics which has yielded
record production rates,
helping to reduce back
orders at the facility to zero.
9
Location of assets %
North America
UK
Europe other
Rest of World
27
14
50
21
Group sales by destination %
North America
UK
Europe other
Rest of World
25
6
48
Analysis excludes cash and cash equivalents 5 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
John Crane 
Servicing customers 
in Saudi Arabia
John Crane is expanding
its global service and
support network. In
addition to opening new
facilities in Finland, Dubai
and Morocco, it has
inaugurated a new service
centre and training facility
in Saudi Arabia for Middle
East customers.
Smiths Interconnect 
Opening up in Tunisia
Smiths Interconnect
recently opened a new 
low-cost manufacturing
facility in Tunisia to serve
its European customers.
The facility consolidates
and expands manufacturing
capacity for connectors
which are deployed in
military, commercial
avionics, medical, space,
and test and measurement
applications.
9
Divisional sales %
Smiths Detection
John Crane
Smiths Medical
Smiths Interconnect
Flex-T ek
11
31
22
27
6
Divisional headline operating profit %
13
34
22
25
Smiths Detection
John Crane
Smiths Medical
Smiths Interconnect
Flex-T ek
Smiths Group major
manufacturing and
service locations 
by division
Smiths Detection
John Crane
Smiths Medical
Smiths Interconnect
Flex-Tek
Analysis is based on revised operating structure for 2008/09 (see page 72)
Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs
Analysis is based on revised operating structure for 2008/09 (see page 72) 6 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Smiths divisions
Customers 
Our technology is 
deployed at nearly 80% 
of the world’s commercial
airports. Some 85% of
sales are influenced 
by more than 100
governments and 
their agencies globally,
including homeland
security authorities,
customs authorities,
emergency responders
and the military . This
includes the US
Department of Defense,
US Transportation Security
Administration (TSA), UK
Ministry of Defence, and
airport operators such 
as BAA in the UK.
Key strengths
• Global market growth 
• Strong technology
positions
• Good access to growing
markets
• Investment in R&D
increasing 
Employees
2,300
Smiths Detection is a world-leading
designer and manufacturer of
sensors that detect and identify
explosives, narcotics, weapons,
chemical agents, biohazards 
and contraband. 
With governments seeking more
advanced ways to counter terror
threats, our world leading X-ray
screening equipment is continuously
evolving to help keep passengers
safe across the globe. 
Customers 
John Crane serves oil and
gas companies, refineries,
pump and compressor
manufacturers, chemical
and other process
industries. Its main
customers include BP,
Chevron, China Petroleum,
ConocoPhillips,
ExxonMobil, Gazprom,
Qatargas, Saudi Aramco,
Shell, T otal, Dresser, Elliot,
Flowserve, GE Nuovo
Pignone, ITT, Mitsubishi,
Siemens, Solar turbines,
Sulzer, Y ork, BASF, Bayer,
Dow, Koch Industries and
Lyondell.
Key strengths
• Two-thirds of revenue 
from after-market
service 
• Market leader in its field,
blue chip customer base
• Largest segment is fast-
growing petrochemical
industry 
• Good positions in key
growth markets
Employees
6,400
John Crane is a world-leading
provider of products and services 
for the major process industries,
these include the oil and gas,
chemical, pharmaceutical, pulp 
and paper, and mining sectors. 
Growth opportunities
• Creation of a single John
Crane customer-facing
organisation
• Expand technology
footprint through
acquisitions
• Build new upstream
services business that
uses existing global
network 
• Increase original
equipment sales and
manufacturing capacity
and extend global
customer service
network
In the petrochemical industry, 
our advanced mechanical seals 
are deployed on oil and gas pipelines
and refineries, helping to deliver
energy efficiently to millions of
homes and businesses around 
the world. 
Smiths Detection John Crane
Smiths Group has five divisions:
Smiths Detection, John Crane,
Smiths Medical, Smiths
Interconnect and Flex-T ek. Our
businesses are highly competitive,
with strong technology positions,
and operate in sectors with
excellent opportunities for growth. 
Smiths has evolved substantially
since its foundation. Now
employing over 22,000 people in
more than 50 countries, we serve
a diverse range of global
customers including governments
and their agencies, petrochemical
companies, hospitals,
telecommunications companies
and manufacturers in a variety 
of sectors around the world.
We bring technology to life.
Contribution 
to 2008 sales*
22%
Contribution to 2008
headline operating
profit*#
22%
Contribution 
to 2008 sales*
27%
Contribution to 2008
headline operating
profit*#
25%
Growth opportunities
• Bring new technologies
to market
• Develop biological 
and millimetre wave
detection technology
• Seek acquisitions
• Deliver efficiencies:
implement single
enterprise wide software
system and smarter
sourcing initiative
*Analysis is based on revised operating structure 
for 2008/09 (see page 72)
#Percentage relates to headline operating profit 
before corporate costs 7 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Customers 
We estimate that around
three-quarters of our end
customers are hospitals
with the remainder
comprising the alternate
care market such as home
care and other surgery
centres. We have a direct
sales presence in 20
countries with distribution
arrangements in many
others.
Key strengths
• Consistent market
growth
• Global sales & marketing
network 
• Established brands 
with practitioner loyalty
• Increasing roll-out 
of new products
• Focusing increased 
R&D investment on
higher growth segments
and markets
Employees
8,400
Customers 
Smiths Interconnect
supplies to multiple levels
of the supply chain and 
its blue chip customers
include primes and service
providers, OEMs and
system suppliers, and 
sub-system manufacturers.
Amongst our largest
customers are Raytheon,
Finmeccanica, BAE
Systems, AAI/T extron,
Northrop Grumman,
Ericsson, Motorola, Sprint
Nextel, ZTE, GE Medical
and Alstom.
Key strengths
• T echnical differentiation
providing barriers to
entry for competition
• Strong brands
recognised by customers
as partners and solution
providers
• Excellent military
programme positions
• Positive market dynamics
in wireless infrastructure
and defence
Employees
3,100
Customers 
Flex-T ek serves mainly
domestic appliance
manufacturers and 
the US construction
industry . Its large
customers include
Whirlpool, Trane, Pratt
& Whitney, Carrier,
Boeing, Electrolux,
Respironics, GE
Aerospace, Airbus,
Panasonic, Hoover 
and Dyson.
Key strengths
• Lean manufacturing
culture
• Good performance 
in markets other
than US construction
market, civil and
military aircraft
demand rising 
Employees
2,400
Smiths Medical is a leading supplier
of specialist medical devices and
equipment for global markets. 
Our products are focused in the
medication delivery, vital care and
safety devices market segments.
Growth opportunities
• Ageing population and
increasing prosperity
• Safety legislation and
regulation
• Healthcare industry
productivity needs and
increasing use of IT
• Leverage global product
development process 
and increase percentage
of sales from products
under three years old 
• Scope to reduce costs
and improve margins
In healthcare, our products help
prevent needlestick injuries and
reduce the risk of cross infections,
while our revolutionary medication
delivery equipment helps to ease
patients’ pain and prevent accidental
overdoses.
Smiths Interconnect designs and
manufactures specialised electronic
and radio frequency products that
connect, protect and control critical
systems for the global wireless
telecommunications, aerospace,
defence, space and medical markets. 
Flex-T ek provides engineered
components that heat and move
fluids for the aerospace, medical,
industrial, construction and 
domestic markets. 
Growth opportunities
• Expand globally from 
US base
• Leverage market
knowledge and customer
relationships throughout
the business 
• Add new technologies
and territories through
bolt-on acquisitions from
fragmented sector
• Rationalise
manufacturing and
accelerate move to 
lower costs
In communications, our
sophisticated technology helps to
keep people and systems connected
and protected.
Growth opportunities
• Expand non-construction
market activities eg
aerospace and medical
• Exploit growth potential
in Asian industrial and
appliance markets
• Further rationalise sites
Our engineered components 
heat and move fluids in a wide
range of different industries 
from aircraft and racing cars 
to medical devices.
Smiths Medical Smiths Interconnect Flex-Tek
Contribution 
to 2008 sales*
31%
Contribution to 2008
headline operating
profit*#
34%
Contribution 
to 2008 sales*
11%
Contribution to 2008
headline operating
profit*#
13%
Contribution 
to 2008 sales*
9%
Contribution to 2008
headline operating
profit*#
6% 8 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Summary performance
Sales +7%
£2,321m
Headline pre-tax profit +10%
£380m
Statutory pre-tax profit
£319 .3m
Headline earnings per share
74.5p
Dividend per share
34.0p 
Statutory earnings per share
63.0p
2006 2007 2008
Sales £m
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
2006 2007 2008
Headline pre-tax profit £m
400
300
200
100
0 9 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Chairman’s statement
As I indicated in last year’s report, the Board appointed Philip Bowman
as Chief Executive of the Group in December 2007. Philip brings a new
energy to the Group and already some significant changes to the
operation of the Group have been announced following his initial review
at all levels. All businesses benefit from fresh eyes and the Board has
been delighted by the way in which Philip has further energised the
management team.
Each of the Group’s businesses brings technology based products and
solutions to a range of highly sophisticated customers. The Board has
continued to ensure that these customers are to be found in areas of
significant and profitable growth opportunity including security, oil & gas,
medical devices and wir eless communications. These opportunities have
to be turned into value for our shareholders and to this end the Chief
Executive has instigated major changes that are aimed at substantially
increasing value creation across the Group’s portfolio of businesses. 
The programme of changes set out in the Chief Executive’s statement
and the other narrative in this report explain these opportunities and
how they will be exploited. The Board has encouraged the new approach
to ensure that operationally the Group develops its potential to the full.
At the forefront of this structure is clear delegated accountability for
achievement in each of our businesses with executive reward clearly
linked to value creating performance. 
The smaller corporate centre of the Group guides the strategy and
leverages benefits of scale across the Group. It retains the task, on behalf
of the Board, of ensuring that the divisions comply with all of the systems
and processes that protect shareholders’ interests. Each division will
now hold monthly Divisional Board Meetings: included on these boards
will be an Investor Director from one of the Chief Executive’s direct
reports who will have a mandate that includes monitoring compliance
with Group policies.
The business leadership teams deliver the operational performance
which translates into improved shareholder returns. This clarity is
important in developing a more performance-driven culture in Smiths.
There is a corresponding increase in the demands made of all
management to perform.
On 28 July, an Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders adopted
proposals that substantially change how the senior teams both at the
centre and in each of the divisions are rewarded. These changes place
a premium on the creation of shareholder value. They strengthen the link
between pay and performance, they link remuneration to long-term
value creation at divisional level and they provide exceptional reward only
if there is exceptional performance.
In the past year there have been notable operational projects across the
business as a whole addressing new customers and generating new
products. Examples from across the businesses of these are to be found
in this report; but it would be wrong at this time, when everyone is
focused on safety, not to mention the major breakthrough achieved by
our Detection business with its new aTix system security machines
which are now being rolled out from Heathrow Airport in the UK to
airports all around the world. It is a relief not to have to take out laptops
where these machines are installed!
I have said in past reports that the Board is mindful of its role as guardian
of shareholders’ money. As well as ensuring operating excellence the
Board remains restless in its hunt for shareholder value and will
continue to monitor each of our businesses to ensure that the Group is
their most appropriate owner .
The past year has seen a number of changes to the composition of the
Board. On the executive side, the arrival of Philip Bowman in December
2007 was preceded by the retirement of Keith Butler-Wheelhouse, as I
discussed last year . In addition, David Lillycrop resigned from the Board
in June 2008, standing down from his role as General Counsel and
Company Secretary. David had been a member of the Board since the
merger with TI Group and I would like to thank him for his major
contribution to Smiths Group and for the help he has given me.
On the non-executive side, in April 2008 Peter Loescher resigned as a
non-executive director at his own request so that he could concentrate
on his responsibilities as Chief Executive of Siemens AG. The Board
benefitted from his wisdom and wish him well in his executive role.
At the half year we explained that in light of the prevailing market
conditions and the scope for investment in organic growth and
acquisitions, the Board intends to grow dividends consistent with
increasing cover to around 2.5 times in the medium term. As a result the
interim dividend was unchanged year-on-year . 
The Board has considered the final dividend in the light of this policy and
has decided to propose a dividend of 23.5p, making a total of 34.0p for
the year, unchanged from last year .
The final dividend will be paid on 21 November to shareholders
registered at the close of business on 24 October . The ex-dividend date
is 22 October .
This report is being published at a time of turmoil in financial markets
and anxieties for world growth. This is putting pressure on sales and
margins for many businesses. It is not by chance that Smiths Group is
positioned in markets that the Board believes are better equipped to
resist the pressures of a global downturn. Neither the Board nor
management are complacent and the businesses have embarked on
an extensive programme of self-help that aims over the course of the
next 24 months not only to withstand any effects from the downturn but
also to deliver increased value to shareholders. The Group remains
therefore both strong and dynamic.
Donald Brydon
Chairman 10 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Chief Executive’s statement
We have delivered strong sales and profit
growth driven by good performances from
John Crane, Smiths Detection and Smiths
Interconnect. A performance improvement
programme is underway to address the
operational issues that have held back
Smiths Medical over the past two years.
The portfolio has been strengthened this
year through one divestment and seven
acquisitions which bring new technologies
and extend Smiths geographic footprint –
particularly in developing markets.
Our focus is on top-line growth and margin
enhancement while there are significant
opportunities to improve performance and
generate value across the Group. We have 
begun a substantial restructuring
programme that will deliver operating
efficiencies and improve customer service.
The scale of the opportunities is
demonstrated by the new divisional targets
set out here for the first time.
The sustained upheaval in the world
economy is creating uncertainty in many
markets and may disrupt government
spending patterns – particularly in the 
US and India where there are forthcoming
elections. However, Smiths Group is well
placed among global businesses to meet 
these challenges.
Looking at this year’ s results, sales rose by 7% and the headline pre-tax
profit increased by 10%; after adjusting for currency translation and
acquisitions and disposals the underlying improvement was 6% and 8%
respectively. The headline numbers exclude various exceptional items
which are detailed in the Business Review; one of these is a charge of
£40m in respect of John Crane, Inc. litigation, a full explanation of which
is on page 29.
Since joining Smiths some nine months ago, I have undertaken a
thorough review of operations. It is a Group with a strong set of
technology-based businesses applying some of the world’s most
advanced industrial sciences – from airport X-ray scanning machines to
mechanical seals for the oil industry . In addition, the businesses operate
in markets sustained by long-term secular growth: Smiths Medical’s
market is growing as populations age and increase in prosperity, John
Crane by energy consumption, and Interconnect by the need for
increased bandwidth and upgraded wireless infrastructure. Smiths
Detection is driven by demand for increased security and protection.
Although Flex-Tek is exposed to more cyclical markets such as US
housing, it has a portfolio of high-performance products that supply the
aerospace market.
My review of operations identified significant opportunities to improve
performance progressively over a two-year period and maximise value
for shareholders. T o deliver these benefits, the Board has already taken
some key decisions:
• manage the Group as five divisions from 1 August 2008 and restructure
each to improve customer service and deliver efficiencies;
• restructure and reduce the corporate centre to cut cost and focus it on
delivering returns from the business;
• improve business systems and data-flow which, over time, will support
data-driven decision-making and enable the Group to be more
responsive to changing market conditions and opportunities;
• build the business through acquisitions which will add complementary
technologies, expand the geographic footprint or leverage existing
scale;
• increase investment in research and development and focus it more
intensely on higher growth areas that will deliver greater returns; and
• introduce an incentive scheme for senior management that reinforces
our new culture of performance improvement and delivery against
recently established divisional targets.
In June, we announced that the Specialty Engineering division would be
disbanded so that its three constituent businesses – John Crane,
Interconnect and Flex-T ek – report directly to me. This reduces cost and
gives greater accountability to each of the businesses. In addition, all
Smiths divisions will now be managed from divisional headquarters that
are closer to their operations, key markets and customers.
We also aim to realise value by restructuring the divisions themselves.
For example, John Crane which had historically been managed as two
separate operations from the UK and US, is now combined under the
leadership of Paul Cox and headquartered at Morton Grove, near
Chicago. In Medical, the management structure in the US will be
simplified and we will introduce a global approach to R&D. There are
also further opportunities to re-organise Flex-Tek’s portfolio of
businesses to drive efficiencies and improve operational effectiveness.
At the same time, we have defined more clearly the roles of the divisions
and their interface with the corporate centre. These changes will reduce
substantially the size of the corporate office and improve the way we
work by introducing better defined governance and decision-making.
The small head office will concentrate on three areas: setting the
Group’ s strategic direction and capital allocation; leveraging the Group’ s
scale where appropriate; and ensuring compliance as a UK-listed
company . In future, we will report the corporate centre costs separately
which will give greater clarity to the underlying margins of the divisions
and provide a clear incentive to minimise corporate costs. 11 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Philip Bowman
Chief Executive
T aken together, these restructuring programmes are expected to deliver
annual cost savings of £47m once they are complete in three years 
time. The cost of delivering these programmes will be £48m which will 
be treated as an exceptional item. Further details are given in the
divisional reviews.
We are also investing more to improve data-flow and speed up decision-
making through the implementation of better information systems. For
example, ERP systems are currently being deployed in Detection, John
Crane and Medical. At a Group level, a new information platform is being
introduced which will help capture operational data from the divisions.
This creates opportunities to leverage the scale of the Group for the first
time by group-wide procurement of travel, IT, and other services. We
have already launched a programme to consolidate IT service delivery
across the Group, improving service quality and cutting costs. We have
also signed a deal with AT&T to supply a range of communication
services such as mobile telephones, remote access, etc. which will
deliver annual savings of at least $5m.
Our management team has also been strengthened. Reflecting the
importance of the IT investment, Brian Jones has joined us as Chief
Information Officer . He brings many years’ experience in implementing
ERP systems and improving information flow within large organisations.
Michael Herlihy has been appointed General Counsel and is also a
member of the Executive Committee and Peter Durman has joined to
lead an invigorated investor relations programme. The mix of talent at
Smiths will continue to be refreshed and reinforced with external
appointments bringing different competencies and innovative ideas to
the Group.
There are valuable opportunities to build Smiths through bolt-on
acquisitions – particularly in John Crane, Interconnect and Detection.
Such acquisitions bring complementary technologies, support
geographic expansion or leverage existing infrastructure. John Crane
acquired Indufil, a specialist in filtration systems, and Sartorius Bearing
T echnology, a leading provider of high performance rotating equipment
for the oil and gas industry; both have added valuable new technologies
that can be leveraged through John Crane’ s global network of more than
220 sales and service centres. John Crane also acquired Fiberod which
further extends our upstream energy services capability and
complements the CDI acquisition made last year . In addition, John Crane
expanded its presence in Japan, the world’s second largest market for
OEM pump manufacturers, by increasing its ownership share of John
Crane Japan from 49% to 70%. In Interconnect, the acquisitions of
Shanghai-based Allrizon T ongguang and Brisbane-based T riasx Pty Ltd
have strengthened its position in the growing Asian market. Flex-T ek’s
acquisition of Fast Heat has extended its range of specialty heating
solutions.
We are also driving higher levels of revenue growth organically through
an increase in research and development (R&D) investment focused
more tightly on growth areas that can deliver the most attractive returns.
R&D investment for the Group increased by 8%, or £7m, to £86m. In
Detection, our spend has been focused on X-ray detection systems for
both airports and cargo screening, while we have extended our portfolio
of chemical and trace detectors. We are at the cutting edge of a number
of technologies – X-ray screening, millimetre wave imaging and
biological detection. In Medical, we have launched a number of new
products during the year as we begin to benefit from the introduction of
a streamlined product development process. It has resulted in a 50%
increase in the number of product launches this year .
To reinforce our new culture of performance improvement, we have
established tar gets for sales gr owth and mar gins for each of the divisions.
These are the ranges we anticipate the divisions will operate within over
the next three years, based on organic growth at constant currency and
assume a financial and macro-economic environment consistent with
that of recent years. Alongside this, we have introduced a new incentive
plan for senior management and divisional leadership. It more closely
links remuneration with performance and, ultimately, value creation and
places much greater accountability on the divisional leadership for the
performance of their businesses. The new incentive plan means that
each division will have its own targets to meet, reward will be bound
together by one common currency, the Smiths share price. In that way
we will reflect the value-creating performance of each division.
Sales
2008* 2008 T arget
£m growth
#
growth range
#
Detection 509 12% 10-12%
John Crane 626 8% 6-8%
Medical 703 0% 3-5%
Interconnect 261 13% 6-10%
Flex-T ek 206 (4%) 0-7%
Total 2,305
Headline operating profit
2008* 2008 T arget
£m margin margin range
Detection 93 18% 17-20%
John Crane 104 17% 17-22%
Medical 140 20% 20-24%
Interconnect 54 21% 21-23%
Flex-T ek 24 12% 11-16%
Corporate centre (35)
Total 380
*The above analysis reflects the revised operating structure for 2008/09, see page 72, and
excludes three months of trading for Marine Systems which was sold in November 2007.
#
Organic growth at constant currency 
Delivering these returns will be a team effort and I would like to thank
our 22,000 employees around the world for their hard work and support
during a time of very real change both within Smiths Group and the wider
economy .
In summary, I believe that most divisions have the opportunity to improve
margins significantly. The greater responsibility, accountability and
incentivisation of the divisional management teams, combined with the
availability of better data to underpin management decisions, should
progressively unlock value for the benefit of shareholders. 12 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Business review
Group activities
Smiths is a global technology business serving the detection, medical
devices mechanical seals, electronic product and engineered
component markets.
Strategy
Smiths is committed to creating long-term value for shareholders by
building and sustaining strong businesses in growth sectors.
The Group’s objective is to create value from organic growth and from
reinvestment of self-generated cash-flow . Adjustments are made to the
business mix through both acquisitions and disposals to enhance value
for shareholders.
Performance of continuing operations
The continuing operations comprise the Detection and Medical divisions
together with John Crane, Smiths Interconnect and Flex-T ek which until
31 July 2008 made up the Specialty Engineering division.
Following the restructuring of the roles of the divisions and the corporate
centre set out in the Chief Executive’s statement and the adoption of
IFRS8 from 1 August 2008, the divisional information in this review will
largely reflect the new operating arrangements in order to assist
shareholder understanding.
The key Smiths performance indicators, which are closely monitored
throughout the year and measured against pre-set targets, are: 
• sales and headline profits; 
• cash generation; and 
• return on investment. 
The table below shows the overall performance of continuing operations.
2008 2007
£m £m Movement
Sales 2,321 2,161 7%
Headline:
– operating profit 381 348 10%
– pre-tax profit 380 344 10%
– earnings per share 74.5p 47.0p
Statutory:
– operating profit 326 257
– pre-tax profit 319 256
– earnings per share 63.0p 36.9p
Cash conversion 72% 75%
Return on shareholders’ funds 
(page 27) 16.7% 14.9%
Sales
Sales increased by £160m to £2,321m. Currency translation on overseas
sales contributed £46m of this increase while the net impact of
acquisitions and disposals lowered sales by £6m.
On an underlying basis, excluding the effects of currency translation and
acquisitions and disposals, sales increased by £120m or 6%. This £120m
increase was driven by:
• Smiths Detection (£55m) reflecting the new contracts for airport
checkpoint detection systems; high energy cargo screening and the
Joint Chemical Agent Detector (JCAD);
• John Crane (£43m) as a result of strong demand from the
petrochemical industry;
• Specialty – Other (£23m) – driven by Smiths Interconnect and its new
contracts for USA 4G wireless broadband and new military
programmes; and
• A decline of £1m in Smiths Medical reflects the operational challenges
of supply chain disruption and product recalls.
Profit
Headline operating profit increased by £33m to £381m. Headline
operating margin increased to 16.4% (2007: 16.1%). The £33m increase
in headline operating profit comprises £7m from favourable currency
translation, £3m from the net impact of acquisitions and disposals made
during the year and a £23m, or 6%, increase in underlying headline
operating profit.
The main drivers of the £23m underlying growth in operating profit are:
• John Crane (£10m) reflecting strong volume growth and price
increases;
• Specialty – Other – comprising Interconnect and Flex-T ek (£9m) driven
by volume and price;
• Smiths Medical (£2m) benefited from positive mix partly offset 
by higher costs as a result of supply chain problems and product
recalls; and 
• Detection (£2m) as a result of strong volume growth offset by adverse
currency transaction and mix.
Operating profit on a statutory basis, after taking account of the items
excluded from the headline figures was £326m (2007: £256m).
The net interest charge increased from £36m to £41m reflecting the
prior year benefit of £18m of interest income from the proceeds of the
Aerospace sale. There was a pensions financing gain of £42m (2007:
£34m) which reflected the funding position of the company’ s retirement
benefit schemes at July 2007.
Headline profit before tax increased by £36m to £380m. The Group’ s tax
rate on headline profit for the period was 24.0% (2007: 25.1%). Headline
earnings per share were 74.5p (2007: 47.0p). The comparison in earnings
per share is distorted by the share consolidation carried out in June last
year as part of the Aerospace disposal; on a pro-forma basis, earnings
per share grew by 15%.
Cash generation
Headline operating cash flow totalled £273m, representing 72% of
headline operating profit, and reflects investment in capital projects and
increased working capital to support business growth. The working
capital investment was particularly driven by the timing and nature of
contracts in Detection and John Crane. Net debt has increased since
July 2007 by £181m to £771m as a result of acquisitions and investment
in fixed and working capital to support growth.
Outlook
Although the world economy is facing sustained upheaval and continued
uncertainties, Smiths Group is well placed among global businesses to
meet the challenges. Smiths Detection is expected to deliver growth
although there is likely to be some variability in the timing and pattern
of order flow – particularly in the US and India where there are
forthcoming elections. John Crane and Smiths Interconnect will
continue to benefit from their strong market positions. The creation of
a unified John Crane also offers cost benefits and enhanced customer
service in the future. The performance improvement programme in
Smiths Medical is a key part of delivering better results. Flex-T ek will be
held back by the recession in the US construction market.  13 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Business review: Smiths Detection
Sales by sector %
Transportation
Ports & borders
Military
Emergency responders
Critical infrastructure
Non-security
15
5
11
8
23
38
Stephen Phipson
President
Smiths Detection is a world leading
designer and manufacturer of sensors
that detect and identify explosives,
weapons, chemical agents,
biohazards, narcotics and contraband.
Our technology helps customers in 
the global transportation, ports and
borders, critical infrastructure, military
and emergency responder markets.
We have the most comprehensive
range of detection technologies in 
the world, including trace detection,
millimetre-wave, infra-red, biological
detection and diagnostics.
Employees
2,300
Principal operating regions 
Our eight manufacturing centres 
are concentrated in North America,
Germany, France and the UK. We sell
to over 100 markets around the world
either through a sales and marketing
company or a third party distributor .
Customers
Our technology is deployed at nearly
80% of the world’ s commercial airports.
Some 85% of sales are influenced by
more than 100 governments and their
agencies, including homeland security
authorities, customs authorities,
emergency responders and the military .
These include the US Department of
Defense, US Transportation Security
Administration (TSA), UK Ministry of
Defence, and airport operators such 
as BAA in the UK.
#Based on revised operating structure for 2008/09
(see page 72) 
+Percentage relates to headline operating profit
before corporate costs
2005 2006 2007 2008
Sales performance £m
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
Contribution to 2008 Group sales#
22%
Contribution to 2008 Group headline
operating profit#+
22%
Competitors
Data published by IMS Research*
shows that, in the combined
Transportation, Critical infrastructure
and Ports & Borders sectors, Smiths
Detection has a 29% market share,
with GE Security (15.5%), L3 Security &
Detection Systems (12.5%), Rapiscan
Systems (8.5%) and Nuctech (8%) the
main competitors. In the Military and
Emergency responder markets (not
included in this data), the main
competitors are General Dynamics,
Bruker, Environics and Canberra.
*The World Market for Explosives, Weapons &
Contraband Detection Equipment 2007 Edition
Markets 
Homeland security is a top priority in western countries, with 11% per
annum market growth expected. The worldwide market for Smiths
Detection products and services is estimated to be worth £3.5 billion. 
Smiths Detection’s products serve the transportation, critical
infrastructure, ports and borders, military and emergency responder
markets. The Group also adapts technology developed for these markets
for carefully selected industrial applications in life sciences, food quality
and safety .
The transportation sector, which includes airports, is the largest
representing 38% of total sales. The airport security market is expected
to grow in response to: 
• projected growth in air traffic; 
• new security threats; and 
• customer pressure for faster throughput at checkpoints and an
improved passenger experience.
The critical infrastructure market is diversified with varying growth rates
in the different segments. Smiths Detection focuses on three key areas:
mass transit, sports and events and government and military facilities.
Smiths Detection has a growing invol vement in helping protect a number
of important metro systems in both the US and Europe.
The ports and borders market is a rapidly expanding sector driven by
government objectives of enhancing security screening and protecting
tax revenues. Customers require mobile and fixed units capable of
detecting explosives, weapons, radioactive materials, narcotics and
contraband.
The military market for UK and US technology is restricted by export
controls, and these two governments form a large part of the market
which is characterised by tendering opportunities for large individual
contracts that typically run for several years. Smiths Detection intends
to develop new business by expanding systems integration activity,
offering improved functionality in protective shelters and introducing
new technologies through government funded partnerships.
The emergency responder market is smaller than the others, with US
sales accounting for more than 50% of global demand. This market is
characterised by more localised purchasing decisions and steadier
growth.
A possible future market is with biological detection and its application
to veterinary diagnostics. Smiths Detection’s expertise in producing
rugged portable sensor equipment has enabled the development of a
field-based device which can detect a range of animal infections such as
foot-and-mouth and avian flu. It could also be developed for clinical
applications.
The markets served by Smiths Detection are particularly influenced by
specific events and the perception of the threat of terrorist activity or
other security issues. This perception itself has been and is likely to
remain variable. 14 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Business review: Smiths Detection continued
Performance
2008 2007 Reported Underlying
£m £m growth growth
Sales 509 438 16% 12%
Headline operating profit 86 79 9% 2%
Headline operating margin 16.8% 18.0%
Statutory operating profit 85 65
Reported sales grew by 16% and headline operating profit increased by
9%. Currency translation benefited sales by £17m and headline
operating profit by £5m. On an underlying basis, excluding the impact of
currency translation, sales grew by 12% and headline operating profit
increased by 2%. The key drivers of growth were contract wins for airport
checkpoint explosive detection systems, for cargo screening systems
and for JCAD, the advanced chemical point detector . Headline operating
margin declined from 18.0% to 16.8% reflecting the impact of currency
transaction and the timing and mix of new contracts compared to last
year . We also incurred additional costs associated with the scaling-up of
our manufacturing to meet the strong customer demand for new
products. The year-on-year impact of adverse currency transaction
amounted to some £9m which, if excluded, would give an underlying
operating profit margin of 18%.
The year had a very strong start with underlying sales growth of 21%
compared with 6% in the second half. This is a result of winning some
particularly large contracts in the first half of the year and some delays
to contracts at the year end. It demonstrates the increasingly volatile
nature of the order flow of this government contracting business. In
addition, the strong growth in Detection, coupled with the increasing size
and changing payment terms of the new contracts, has raised its
working capital requirements.
In transportation, we have benefited from the introduction of a new
generation of airport checkpoint explosive detection systems. Unlike
conventional X-ray systems, this equipment captures multiple views of
carry-on bags in a single sweep. The system also includes powerful
software that helps the system operator detect potential threats and it
can easily be upgraded to meet future threats. Smiths Detection has
won substantial contracts in the UK and US for this new equipment
which is helping airports to speed up passenger security checks. To
support future demand, a new 4,000 square metre high-tech production
plant was completed in Wiesbaden, Germany, in July. Overall,
Wiesbaden produced a record 5,000 X-ray scanning units during 
the year .
Our results also benefited from strong demand in the ports and borders
segment for advanced, high-energy cargo screening solutions to inspect
inbound and outbound shipping containers and trucks. Deliveries to the
Russian authorities from the St Petersburg facility were completed in
December, while a major order from US Customs and Border Protection
is now being fulfilled.
In the military segment, the recently developed JCAD programme has
begun to roll-out with further orders received from the US Department
of Defense. Orders totalling $52.3m were received during the year . The
JCAD is an advanced chemical point detector designed to help safeguard
troops by automatically detecting, identifying and quantifying both
chemical warfare agents and toxic industrial chemicals. We have begun
to expand production in the US with an extension of our facility at
Edgewood. Construction began in 2008 and is expected to be completed
by January 2009.
The implementation of a new ERP system began during the second half
following 18 months of planning and preparation. This single system will
replace 14 legacy business software systems and provide a common
information platform to support data-driven decision making. Nine sites
in the military and emergency responder area went live with the new
system in May 2008. The project is expected to conclude by the end of
calendar year 2009. Investment to date has been £15m, with a total
budget of £22m. We anticipate that once complete the project will
generate efficiencies in working capital of £11m and annual cost savings
of £8m. 15 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
New technology
enhances cargo
scanning 
Our investment in R&D
continues to drive advances 
in cargo screening. The HCV
series of high-energy screening
equipment identifies both
contraband and security
hazards hidden in trucks and
other freight. The HCV Passthru,
recently sold in the US, features
advanced high throughput
technology which can scan 
200 trucks per hour, enabling
customers to implement 100%
cargo screening processes. 
The new Datasets Management
System (DMS) enables customs
officers to analyse images and
information taken at the
container’s departure point
remotely, allowing them to clear
the container before its arrival
in the destination country .
Research and development
Smiths leadership in the sector is maintained by ongoing product
innovation developed by in-house R&D, government-funded research
and through partnerships and licences. Company-funded R&D
increased by 10% to some £29m or 5.6% of sales (2007: 5.9% of sales).
This includes £8m of capitalised projects. Smiths Detection actively
seeks customer and government support for R&D which totalled £9m
in the period (2007: £7m). T otal R&D spend was £38m (2007: £33m) or
7% of sales.
Key R&D projects
X-ray screening continues to be a focus for our investment. This has
supported the development of a new generation of cargo screening
which will be launched in the coming year . We have also continued to
invest in the development of our airport checkpoint explosive detection
systems particularly to address new threats.
We have continued to invest heavily in chemical and trace detection. In
September 2008, we launched two new handheld detectors for the
military and emergency responder markets. High-Performance
Radioisotope Identifier (HPRID) is our first portable handheld radiation
detector which can be used for highly enriched uranium, plutonium and
other radioactive substances. We also launched the Multi-Mode Threat
Detector (MMTD), a portable device that detects a range of explosives
including the materials most commonly used in homemade bombs.
Smiths Detection is developing technology that detects weapons,
explosives and other potentially dangerous items concealed under layers
of clothing without physical contact. The new system is based on
patented millimetre-wave technology and creates video images that
reveal a far wider range of concealed weapons and hazards than is
possible with traditional people screening technologies. With trials and
testing underway, the system will offer a fast and efficient way of
scanning people as they enter airport checkpoints, high profile buildings
or other facilities that require protection.
Diagnostics has also been an area of focus with the development of a
portable biological detection system that enables veterinarians to carry
out on-site diagnosis of animal diseases such as foot-and-mouth and
avian flu. The technology is now being developed for clinical applications
such as the detection and identification of MRSA, sepsis or other medical
conditions.
Outlook
Looking ahead, the sector is set for continued growth and Smiths
Detection should benefit from its leadership position and the roll-out of
new technologies. We are well-positioned for future growth although
the increasing size of contracts coupled with the irregular timing of
government contracting – particularly where there are elections –may
cause variability in the pattern of contract wins and working capital
requirements from period to period. 16 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Business review: John Crane
Sales by sector %
Petrochemical
Chem/Pharma
Commercial & refrigeration
Industrial, pulp and paper, mining
Other energy
6
23
4
17
51
Paul Cox
President
John Crane is a world-leading provider
of products and services for the major
process industries, these include the
oil and gas, chemical, pharmaceutical,
pulp and paper, and mining sectors. 
We help to enhance customer
productivity by providing advanced
technology mechanical products
backed by an exceptional global service
network. 
Employees
6,400
Principal operating regions 
John Crane is a global business with 
a presence in more than 50 countries.
Customers
John Crane serves oil & gas
companies, refineries, pump and
compressor manufacturers, chemical
and other process industries. Its main
customers include BP, Chevron, China
Petroleum, ConocoPhillips,
ExxonMobil, Gazprom, Qatargas, Saudi
Aramco, Shell, T otal, Dresser, Elliot,
Flowserve, GE Nuovo Pignone, ITT,
Mitsubishi, Siemens, Solar Turbines,
Sulzer, Y ork, BASF, Bayer, Dow, Koch
Industries and Lyondell.
#Based on revised operating structure for 2008/09
(see page 72) 
+Percentage relates to headline operating profit
before corporate costs
Contribution to 2008 Group sales#
27%
Contribution to 2008 Group headline
operating profit#+
25%
Competitors
For rotating technologies in oil & gas,
John Crane’s main competitors are,
Flowserve and EagleBurgmann
Industries (mechanical seals),
Kingsbury, Osborne Engineering &
Waukesha (engineered bearings), Pall,
Hydac and Boll (filtration systems),
Thomas, Turboflex and Kopflex
(couplings). For equipment in
upstream energy John Crane’s
principal competitors include
Weatherford, Norris, UPCO, Cameron
and Quinn.
Markets
John Crane sustains the effective operation of customers’ rotating
equipment and other machinery with products that include mechanical
seals, seal support systems, engineered bearings, power transmission
couplings and specialist filtration systems. John Crane also helps
maintain oil and gas productivity through the provision of down-hole
pumping hardware. All this technology is supported by a global sales
and service network that provides performance enhancing services.
Using expertise developed from decades of experience, service teams in
more than 50 countries maintain and support customer assets
throughout their economic lifetime.
John Crane is experiencing strong demand for its products and services,
particularly in the oil, gas and petrochemical sector, which is its largest
market. John Crane’s robust business model stems largely from the
aftermarket, which represents two-thirds of revenue. At this stage in the
capital investment cycle, the growth is in the sale of original equipment
for new production facilities. This will provide aftermarket opportunities
in the future, which are expected to generate attractive margins. Global
capital spending in the energy sector is projected to continue growing in
the long term in response to increasing energy demand. 
John Crane already has a global presence, with local service centres in
more than 50 countries and hardware installed throughout the supply
chain: for example, liquefied natural gas (LNG) produced in Qatar and
ultimately drawn from the UK gas grid by consumers will have passed
through John Crane seals and other technology at every point in its
journey . It is building on this platform in two ways. 
First, it is increasing its technological footprint by adding new product
lines. These products typically also have a similar customer profile and
have strong aftermarkets.
Second, there are approximately 850,000 wells around the world and
many of these require oil and gas reserves to be brought to the surface
using artificial lift. John Crane is broadening into upstream energy
services which address a segment of this £700m per annum market
and leverage John Crane’s strong global service and support
infrastructure. 
Over the past 12 months there have been significant developments in
both these areas. The markets for these products are experiencing
significant growth resulting from the increasing consumption of oil. This
growth is coming in both International and Domestic markets. In
addition, we are also experiencing strong growth in the gas markets, as
artificial lift systems are being used to de-water gas wells.
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
2005 2006 2007 2008
Sales performance £m 17 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Performance
2008 2007 Reported Underlying
£m £m growth growth
Sales 626 532 18% 8%
Headline operating profit 96 75 27% 12%
Headline operating margin 15.3% 14.1%
Statutory operating profit 39 1
John Crane grew reported sales by 18% and headline operating profit by
27%. Sales benefited from currency translation (£20m) and from
acquisitions (£30m) giving underlying sales growth of 8%. Similarly,
headline operating profit benefited from currency translation (£4m) and
from acquisitions (£7m) leaving an underlying growth rate of 12%.
Margins increased by 120 basis points to 15.3%. This strong growth has
been driven by high levels of investment by the petrochemical industry,
reflecting the strong global demand for oil and gas.
The growth in the petrochemical sector has increased original
equipment orders to record levels. To help meet these requirements
John Crane has invested over £5m worldwide to increase manufacturing
capacity by over 20%.
The provision of maintenance and repair services to customers through
the aftermarket represents two-thirds of John Crane’s sales. The sale
of original equipment for new production facilities creates subsequent
aftermarket service opportunities that are delivered via John Crane’s
network of service centres, and the business has continued to build its
global service base. Local service centres are now sited in 52 countries
worldwide. This capability allows us to provide a range of added value
services including repair, root cause analysis, alignment and condition
monitoring, all designed to improve the performance of our customers ’
rotating equipment and reduce downtime. Current developments are
focused on key growth markets. For example, in Saudi Arabia, we have
a new service centre in Jubail and are building a new service, sales,
training and manufacturing facility in Dammam. The Dammam facility
features an upgraded gas seals test capability and adds significant
service capacity in an area where extensive investment is planned by the
petrochemical industry over the next 10 years.
Production capacity has been increased by the creation of a new 5,600
square metre, 60 person manufacturing facility in Mexico. This factory
provides machining of seal parts, seal welding and assembly in support
of the markets throughout the Americas. The increased capacity takes
advantage of the low cost base and availability of skilled machinists in the
Mexico City area, and is well positioned for future expansion. 
Another growth opportunity is China where we expect to complete a new
facility in Tianjin by the end of 2009. This will support further growth and
enable the relocation and consolidation of two existing businesses to a
single site. This new facility will accommodate sophisticated
manufacturing including assembly, testing and enhanced product
development, as well as providing a sales and service centre for the vast
domestic Chinese market.
Major oil companies are making significant investments to develop the
Canadian oil sands in northern Alberta and Saskatchewan, where the 
oil reserves are thought to equal those of Saudi Arabia. John Crane
continues to add manufacturing capacity and support capabilities
throughout its Canadian operations, particularly in Edmonton, to service
the construction and maintenance of the refineries that bring this oil 
to market.
Helping ensure the
world’s oil and gas
keeps flowing
John Crane invested £2.4m 
in a world-leading high
pressure seal testing facility 
at its manufacturing site in
Slough, UK. One of the most
advanced of its kind in the
world, the facility can test high
specification mechanical seals
under near-field conditions at
pressures of up to 800 bar .
Using a new remote web-link
the facility enables customers
to witness their seals being
tested in real-time from
wherever they are in the world.
The facility is also being used by
the John Crane R&D team to
help develop new technologies,
such as high-pressure seals
that are increasingly requested
by customers. 18 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Business developments
Our customers are increasingly demanding larger and higher pressure
gas seals so we have invested in dry gas seal facilities in Slough, UK and
Morton Grove, USA to support our customers’ objectives. At the same
time one of the world’ s most advanced high-pressure test rigs has come
onstream.
In pursuit of its policy to increase its technological footprint, John Crane
completed a number of bolt-on acquisitions. The acquisition of Sartorius
Bearing Technology in November 2007 expands John Crane’s offering
into the area of rotating bearings for turbo machinery, while the
acquisition of Indufil in March 2008 adds specialist filtration systems.
The bearing business is a leading provider of engineered bearings for
high performance rotating equipment for the oil and gas industry based
in Goettingen, Germany. The acquisition cost of £13m was satisfied in
cash. Indufil was acquired for £71m and had sales of £25m in the
financial year ending 31 December 2007. It designs and manufactures
filtration systems for rotating equipment in the oil and gas, chemical
and power sectors. Both businesses serve similar customers to John
Crane with a strong aftermarket for their products, a combination which
fits well with John Crane’s business model.
The acquisition of CDI Energy Services in March 2007 expanded John
Crane’s upstream energy services capability. This was boosted in
December 2007 with the acquisition of FiberComposite Company Inc
(Fiberod) for £46m. In calendar year 2007, Fiberod reported sales of
£12m. It is the world’s leading manufacturer of fibreglass sucker rods,
complementing the CDI service offering. 
As a sign of our solid commitment to both the Japanese and the wider
Asia Pacific markets, in December 2007 we increased our shareholding
in John Crane Japan, a venture with Starlite Co Limited, to become the
majority shareholder. The increased shareholding and operational
control gives John Crane a greater presence in what is the second
largest market after the United States. Our new majority shareholding
will help us accelerate the levels of growth and investment in new
technologies which we are able to make in Japan
The implementation of a new ERP system is underway across Europe
with 10 markets now successfully online. The project will be rolled out
across Europe and then into the Middle East and Asia. Investment to
date has been £17m out of a total project cost of £22.5m. The project is
due for completion in June 2010 after which it should generate annual
cost savings of £9.5m.
During the second half, we began a restructuring programme to create
a global John Crane business by merging the two existing regional
businesses. Through the creation of a global operations platform, we
can provide better capacity and rapid delivery of products and services.
We will also improve our service centre support capabilities and provide
distributed global account management teams for greater co-ordination
around the world. Going forward, the product line will be managed
globally which will enhance service delivery to customers. The project is
expected to cost £24m and deliver annual savings of £26m once
complete. This initiative comes at a time when John Crane is strong and
performing well, an ideal time to build for greater success.
Outlook
Looking ahead, sustained growth in demand for oil and gas is likely to
continue to drive investment by petrochemical companies and original
equipment manufacturers into new technology and facilities. The
addition of adjacent technologies to the portfolio will also support
growth.
Investment in equipment for new facilities not only provides short term
growth, but provides the foundation for long term aftermarket business.
With over 60% of our business derived from the aftermarket, and new
equipment having an installed life of over 30 years, we are well placed
for continued growth in this area.
Business review: John Crane continued 19 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Business review: Smiths Medical
Smiths Medical is a leading supplier 
of specialist medical devices and
equipment for global markets.
In medication delivery, our devices 
help to treat cancer patients, deliver
insulin to diabetics and provide relief 
to those in pain. Our vital care products
reduce hospital acquired infections,
manage patients’ airways before,
during and after surgery, maintain
body temperature and assist
reproduction through IVF therapy . Our
safety products keep health workers
safe by helping to prevent needlestick
injuries and reduce cross infections. 
Employees
8,400
Principal operating regions 
Manufacturing is concentrated 
in Mexico, the US, the UK, Italy and
Germany . We sell to over 100 markets
worldwide with the US being our
largest single market with 49% 
of sales.
Customers
We estimate that around three-
quarters of our end customers are
hospitals with the remainder
comprising the alternate care market
such as home care, clinics and other
surgery centres. We have a direct sales
presence in 20 countries with
distribution arrangements in many
others.
#Based on revised operating structure for 2008/09
(see page 72) 
+Percentage relates to headline operating profit
before corporate costs
Srini Seshadri
President
Sales by sector %
Medication delivery
Vital care
Safety devices
23
41
36
2005 2006 2007 2008
Sales performance £m
750
600
450
300
150
0
Contribution to 2008 Group sales#
31%
Contribution to 2008 Group headline
operating profit#+
34%
Competitors
The competitive landscape for 
Medical is complex as we compete
with different businesses across 
the wide range of product areas. 
Our competitors include Covidien,
T eleflex/Arrow, B Braun, Becton
Dickinson, Hospira, Cardinal (Alaris),
Vital Signs, Medtronic among many
others. In many of these examples, 
we only compete with a small 
portion of their medical businesses 
so comparison between peers 
is complex.
Markets
Healthcare spending continues to increase worldwide, driven by
demographics – aging populations and increasing prosperity,
particularly in Asia. The overall world market for devices and equipment
of the type supplied by Smiths Medical is estimated to be worth £3.5
billion and is growing consistently . Smiths Medical has a global reach in
the design, production and distribution of medical device products, with
sales and marketing activities in over 100 countries. Its product ranges
serve three main markets – medication delivery, vital care and safety . 
Medication delivery
Smiths Medical designs and manufactures drug delivery systems that
relieve acute and chronic pain (CADD and Medfusion), chemotherapy
delivery systems to treat cancer patients (CADD) and patient-friendly
pumps to deliver insulin to diabetics (Cozmore). The global market for
medication delivery products is estimated to be worth £1.5 billion and
growing at around 4-7% per annum. This growth is due to the increase
in treatment of chronic conditions, integrating medication delivery
devices with hospital IT systems, and the move to treating patients
outside hospitals. We are a leader in ambulatory infusion, with a strong
position in hospital infusion particularly in the syringe pump market.
Vital care
Smiths Medical’s products manage patient airways during and after
surgery (Portex), aid patients with breathing difficulties (Portex,
Pneupac), help to maintain body temperature (Level 1), monitor vital
signs such as blood pressure and heart rate (BCI, Medex) and assist
reproduction through IVF therapy (Wallace). The market for vital care
products is showing annual growth of around 2-4%, partly due to a
steady increase in the incidence of chronic respiratory diseases and
obesity. Demand is increasing for single use devices such as Portex
airway management products. The market is expected to continue
growing as the number of operations and intensive care beds both
increase. This market is currently worth about £1.5 billion a year . We are
a market leader in airway products.
Safety devices
Smiths Medical makes effective safety devices that prevent needlestick
injuries and reduce cross infections. These cover a range of functions
including drawing blood samples (Jelco) administering injections and
vaccinations (Jelco) and delivering intravenous drugs (Deltec). The global
market for safety products is estimated to be worth £500m and growing
at 3-5% per annum. Smiths Medical is one of the world’s leading
suppliers of safety needles and catheters.
In the US, Smiths Medical is benefiting from the move towards treatment
of illnesses in their chronic, rather than acute stages. A number of
airway management products and ambulatory pumps already address
this trend – such as the CADD ambulatory infusion pump range and the
Portex Acapella respiratory therapy system – and it is becoming a focus
for our vital care products.
The advantages of using safety devices are well understood in the US,
and there is now greater recognition of the contribution safety devices
make to improving the safety and productivity of healthcare employees.
In other geographic markets, conversion to safety products is in its
infancy, with opportunities for rapid future growth. Safety products are
also being introduced into other areas of healthcare, such as dentistry . 20 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Business review: Smiths Medical continued
On a geographic basis, our largest market is the US which accounts for
49% of sales, and has experienced a 2.6% fall in sales as a result of the
supply chain disruption and product recall issues. In Europe, sales have
grown by 2.4%. W e have seen double digit growth, albeit from a low base,
in emerging markets served via our distributors, particularly in Latin
America, and Saudi Arabia. Last year’ s investment in new infrastructure
for Greater China contributed to a 30% growth in sales in that territory .
In the US, a number of significant two- or three-year contracts were
agreed across the product portfolio during the period. These include a
three-year Group Purchasing Organisation (GPO) contract with Premier
Purchasing Partners, to supply PORT-A-CATH® implantable access
systems to Premier’s 1,700 hospitals and almost 50,000 other
healthcare sites across the US. A new three-year agreement has also
been signed with MedAssets for five categories of anaesthesia products
and a contract has been secured with Amerinet, for respiratory products.
We secured major GPO contracts with HPG and Broadlane for syringe
pumps. In addition, we signed a number of agreements from across the
portfolio with Cardinal Health which includes a ground-breaking
initiative for the co-branding of Smiths EDGE safety needles. Over the
past year, these and other GPO contracts totalling $32m have been
secured.
There is an ongoing focus on margin improvement through cost control
and efficiencies. The manufacturing rationalisation programme has
resulted in site closures at Hythe, UK; and Duluth, Georgia, USA. Over
the past two years, the proportion of all employees working in low-cost
countries has increased from 24% in July 2006 to 35%. Of our direct
manufacturing employees, 62% are now working in Mexico, compared
with 44% in July 2006.
The implementation of an ERP system was restarted in June 2008 after
a period of stabilisation since the project was halted in 2007. The Benelux
markets successfully went live in August 2008 such that more than 50%
of global sites are now operating on the new system. The project, due for
completion in March 2010, will improve the quality of management
information and support inventory reductions, global sourcing and
deliver savings. The total budget is £32m, of which £18m has been spent
to date. Once complete, the project is expected to deliver annual cost
saving of £15m.
Business developments
We have announced a restructuring programme that will merge the two
existing operational units in the US. This will create a more efficient
organisational structure and a single route to market, giving a more
coherent customer-facing organisation. The project is expected to cost
£4m and, once complete, generate annualised savings of £2m. 
Performance
2008 2007 Reported Underlying
£m £m growth growth
Sales 703 691 2% 0%
Headline operating profit 128 127 0% 2%
Headline operating margin 18.2% 18.4%
Statutory operating profit 106 106
At reported exchange rates, Smiths Medical’s sales grew 2% while
headline operating profit remained in line with last year . Excluding the
impact of currency translation, the underlying growth in profit was 2%
on flat sales. Operating profit margins reduced slightly by 20 basis points.
Performance has been severely affected by three product recalls and by
supply chain disruption caused by several long-term initiatives. The
simultaneous relocation of manufacturing to lower cost regions, the
integration of the Medex acquisition, and the implementation of a new
ERP system have all posed operational challenges over the past two
years. These factors combined to disrupt deliveries which in turn have
had an adverse impact on relationships with major customers. A 24-
month performance improvement programme has begun and a new
global operations team recruited to address these issues. Unfulfilled
customer orders peaked in June 2007 but, as a result of the
performance improvement initiatives, have since fallen by 90% back to
normal levels. Our immediate priority is the rebuilding of relationships
with customers and the delivery of the performance improvement
programme.
While overall underlying sales growth was flat, Medication Delivery grew
by 3.4% but was offset by declines in Vital Care of 1% and Safety Devices
of 2.9%.
Medication Delivery benefited from good growth in its infusion product
range, particularly outside the US. Its performance in the US was held
back temporarily ahead of the launch of CADD Solis which began in
April. The access franchise, which includes some new product launches
such as POWER ports and Gripper Micro, grew well. Cozmore, which
serves the diabetes market, delivered strong growth outside the US but
sales were held back in the US by a product recall caused by a faulty
motor from a supplier. The pain management franchise grew well
outside the US but supply chain problems and restructuring in the US
constrained overall growth.
Vital Care’ s performance was affected by supply chain disruption and by
a product recall in temperature management. The airway franchise
grew well in spite of supply chain problems and the assisted
reproduction area also delivered strong growth reflecting the growing
global demand. However, these performances were offset by declines
in temperature management, caused by a product recall and aggressive
competitor pricing; and declines in pressure monitoring caused by
supply chain disruption.
The performance of Safety Devices was affected by declines in our
peripheral intravenous catheter franchise. These declines were caused
largely by disruption to production schedules as a result of a problem
with resin from a supplier . The problem was quickly identified and no
faulty products entered the supply chain, but supplies to our customers
were interrupted. Sales of safety needles also fell within the US market
but saw growth outside the US. The decline in US sales was caused by
the conclusion of some large OEM contracts during the year . 21 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Research and development 
T otal R&D investment has risen by 6%, and as a proportion of sales has
increased from 3.5% to 3.7%. Looking forward, we expect this
commitment to increase further . We are now focusing our investment
more tightly on product areas and segments which will deliver higher
growth. For example, the largest increase benefited Medication Delivery
where our R&D investment in infusion pumps is typically much higher
at around 7% of sales. In contrast, our R&D investment in Safety
remained constant at 1.5% of sales which is in line with many of
competitors. However, we have invested in automated machinery to
drive capacity. In summary, we have increased the number of new
product launches by about 50% in the current year .
We have increased the rate of product launches with an improved new
product development process. Over the past year, we have launched
several new products. CADD®-Solis, a next generation ambulatory
pump system, replaces a 10 year old platform and features error
detection software and data connectivity to hospital IT systems. We also
launched the Saf-T Closed Blood Collection System® Devices, the dual-
lumen implantable access systems (P .A.S. PORT® T2 POWER P .A.C.
and PORT-A-CATH® II POWER P.A.C), the Theraheat heated
humidification system and the GRIPPER® Micro Safety Needle. A full
range of EDGE safety needles was also launched, together with the
latest closed blood sampling product, Hemodraw, which is already
winning market share in the US. Since the year end, we have launched
SmartX®, a wireless blood pressure monitoring system; UniPerc™, a
tracheostomy tube for patients with large necks; SACETT, which helps
to reduce hospital acquired infections and two lower cost intubation
devices for the Chinese market. 
Outlook
The key priority for Smiths Medical is to improve customer service and
implement the performance improvement programme. The division will
focus on growth in developing markets and globally through the launch
of new products. The performance improvement programme will
support a return to sales growth in line with its end markets. The focus
in the short term will be on margin improvement through restructuring
and operating efficiencies. A planned review of portfolio profitability may
lead to the rationalisation of certain product lines and a short term
impact on revenue growth.
Revolutionising
portable
medication
delivery 
Smiths Medical’s revolutionary
CADD®-Solis portable
medication delivery system
eases patients’ pain enabling
them to stay mobile whilst
undergoing treatment.
CADD®-Solis is a clinically 
and technologically advanced
system that administers pain
relief medication, including
narcotics, to post-surgery,
trauma, cancer and labour
patients. Its innovative safety
software allows hospitals to
input their own standardised
pain management protocols 
for their patients, helping to
prevent accidental overdoses. 
CADD®-Solis was developed 
in cooperation with expert
clinicians and the University
Health Network in T oronto. 22 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Sales by sector %
Mil/aero
Wireless
Medical
Other
Smiths Interconnect is an electronic
components and sub-systems
business providing signal, power 
and microwave solutions that are
application specific and incorporate
innovative technologies to help 
our customers achieve ultimate
system performance.
We design and manufacture
specialised electronic and radio
frequency products that connect,
protect and control critical systems 
for the global wireless
telecommunications, aerospace,
defence, space and medical markets.
Employees 
3,100
Principal operating regions
Smiths Interconnect operates globally
and has locations in the US, Mexico,
Costa Rica, Ireland, UK, France,
Germany, Italy, Tunisia, India, China
and Australia.
Customers
Smiths Interconnect supplies to
multiple levels of the supply chain and
its blue chip customers include primes
and service providers, OEMs and
system suppliers, and sub-system
manufacturers. Amongst our largest
customers are Raytheon,
Finmeccanica, BAE Systems,
AAI/T extron, Northrop Grumman,
Ericsson, Motorola, Sprint Nextel, ZTE,
GE Medical and Alstom.
#Based on revised operating structure for 2008/09
(see page 72) 
+Percentage relates to headline operating profit
before corporate costs
Contribution to 2008 Group sales#
11%
Contribution to 2008 Group headline
operating profit#+
13%
Competitors
Smiths Interconnect operates in 
a fragmented market with many 
small and medium-sized competitors.
In Connectors, the competitors include
Amphenol, Deutsch, Radiall and
Souriau. Microwave Components
competes with, amongst others,
Anaren, Spectrum Control and 
parts of M/A-Com and Dover . 
The competitors of Microwave 
Sub-Systems include Cobham, EMS
T eledyne and L3. Protection competes
with Huber & Suhner, Dehn and parts
of SL Industries.
6
17
28
49
Markets
The two largest markets for Smiths Interconnect are defence and
wireless telecommunications. 
T ypical military applications for Smiths Interconnect technology include
unmanned aerial systems (UAS), next-generation ground vehicles,
communications systems, surveillance systems and self-protection
systems. Its rugged connectors and radio frequency products are
deployed in the most extreme environments, such as keeping military
personnel and systems connected in areas of conflict.
In the evolving field of mobile telecommunications, Smiths Interconnect
supplies niche microwave components used in the base stations and
cell sites as well as protection solutions to safeguard the high value
infrastructure from the effects of lightning strikes and power surges and
maintain network integrity . 
Other applications for Smiths Interconnect products include medical
equipment such as MRI scanners, space and satellites, commercial
aerospace and mass transit.
Smiths Interconnect comprises four focused technology areas:
• Connectors provides application-specific, high-reliability electrical
interconnect solutions from highly integrated assemblies to micro-
miniature connectors. 
• Microwave Components provides passive microwave products used
within the building blocks that generate, transmit, receive and process
high frequency signals for communication systems.
• Microwave Sub-Systems provides microwave and millimetre-wave
sub-assemblies, antennas and systems solutions for both defence
and commercial applications. 
• Protection provides signal and power integrity components that protect
high value electrical systems from surges caused by power spikes and
lightning strikes.
Performance
Smiths Interconnect delivered strong underlying sales and profit growth.
Sales growth was driven primarily by three technology areas: Protection,
Microwave Sub-Systems and Connectors.
The performance of the Protection technology group was enhanced by
sales of lightning and surge protection solutions supplied to major US
4G wireless broadband providers for mobile internet access. It benefited
from sales of protection solutions to medical and telecommunications
customers. The division has also made key wins in the defence sector
for protection of ground mobile communication systems.
Microwave Sub-Systems saw strong sales growth through several US
military programmes including the three-frequency band data link
(MDAS) which supports multiple unmanned aircraft systems. Positions
on three new satellite communications programmes for US forces were
also secured: one is a shipboard communications programme and the
other two are Satellite Communications On The Move (SOTM)
programmes and Warfighter Information Network-T actical (WIN T), the
US army system for reliable, secure and seamless high bandwidth
mobile communications in areas of conflict.
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
2005 2006 2007 2008
Sales performance £m
Business review: Smiths Interconnect
Ralph Phillips
President 23 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
The Connector group delivered good sales growth but profit was held
back by a slowdown in Italy. Key wins were secured on several major
defence programmes and our connectors were selected as the high
reliability standard for future NASA space applications. Major product
orders were also received for medical MRI scanners, civil aerospace and
rail traction.
The Microwave Components group delivered a small underlying
increase in sales as a result of a lower than expected demand from
Chinese and North American telecom operators. However, we have
seen continued strong demand for filters used to combat improvised
explosive devices and other components for a variety of applications
including commercial satellite programmes.
Smiths Interconnect successfully expanded its global capacity,
particularly in lower manufacturing cost environments. During the year
operations were opened in T unisia and India while we continued to build
our operating base in China, Mexico and Costa Rica. Over the last year,
the proportion of Smiths Interconnect products manufactured in low
cost countries has more than doubled.
Business developments 
Over the course of the past six months Smiths Interconnect has acquired
Shanghai-based Allrizon T ongguang and Brisbane-based T riasx Pty Ltd.
These strengthen our position in the growing Asian market. Allrizon
offers first-class technology, providing new channels to market and
enhanced relationships with the rapidly growing Chinese telecoms
manufacturers. In the 2007 calendar year, Allrizon posted sales of
£5.3m. T riasx has in-depth knowledge of the telecommunications radio
frequency market and an excellent R&D capability. Its strong filter
capabilities complement our existing products, particularly those from
Allrizon, while the Triasx interference testing devices fit well with 
our existing Summitek test and measurement business. In the year to
30 June 2008, Triasx reported sales of £12.5m.
Outlook
There are good opportunities for Smiths Interconnect to grow organically
– particularly in developing markets – and scope exists to improve the
portfolio and extend its geographic reach through bolt-on acquisitions.
Military communications is anticipated to be an area of continued
investment by governments and the further roll-out of wireless networks
is expected with the highest growth in developing markets. Smiths
Interconnect’ s markets remain robust and are set for continued growth.
The advanced Mobile
Directional Antenna System
(MDAS) is a sophisticated, multi-
band communication system
that facilitates communications
with Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
(UAVs). Designed and built by
Smiths Interconnect business
T ecom Industries, MDAS is 
a rugged, portable antenna,
which is typically mounted 
on vehicles.
UAVs are commonly used 
in reconnaissance missions 
to scout an area for threats
when the environment is too
dangerous for it to be patrolled. 
The MDAS system enables
tracking and communications
with multiple UAVs relaying real
time pictures and video to the
soldier and command forces.
Keeping soldiers
connected and
protected in
extreme
environments 24 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Flex-T ek provides engineered
components that heat and move fluids
for the aerospace, medical, industrial,
construction and domestic markets. 
Our flexible hosing and rigid tubing 
is deployed on commercial aircraft 
as well as in motorsport for fuel and
hydraulic applications. In the home our
technology can be found in domestic
equipment including vacuum cleaners
and HVAC systems support.
Employees 
2,400
Principal operating regions
Flex-T ek conducts a majority of
business in the US but also has
manufacturing in the UK, France,
Malaysia, India, China and Mexico.
Customers
Flex-T ek serves mainly domestic
appliance manufacturers and the 
US construction industry . Its large
customers include Whirlpool, Trane,
Pratt & Whitney, Carrier, Boeing,
Electrolux, Respironics, GE Aerospace,
Airbus, Panasonic, Hoover and Dyson.
#Based on revised operating structure for 2008/09
(see page 72) 
+Percentage relates to headline operating profit
before corporate costs
Contribution to 2008 Group sales#
9%
Contribution to 2008 Group headline
operating profit#+
6%
Tedd Smith
President
Sales by sector %
Housing
Appliances
Aerospace
Medical
General industry
3
25
21
25
26
Markets 
Flex-T ek designs and manufactures engineered components which heat
and move fluids and gases for aerospace, consumer products and
construction applications. Its products include proprietary hose and
tubing technology, engineered thermal systems and heating elements.
Flex-T ek manufactures specialised high-performance tubing for the civil
and military aerospace industry and supplies most major aircraft and
engine manufacturers. Flex-Tek’s customers also include leading
domestic appliance manufacturers and the US construction industry . In
addition, it supports specialised original equipment manufacturers
(OEMs) with a wide range of solutions for equipment used to treat sleep
disorders, semi-conductor manufacture, and temperature control in
extrusion and large commercial heating and ventilation.
Demand is normally a function of overall economic growth, the air
transport market, and the strength of the US construction industry .
Flex-T ek goes to market via three distinct technology areas:
Smiths Tubular Systems Aerospace
Meeting the aircraft industry’s need for rigid and flexible hydraulic and
fuel hose, STS Aerospace delivers high performance airframe fluid
management systems that are also deployed in the world of motorsport.
Flexible Solutions
Focusing on flexible hose assemblies for a range of domestic appliance
manufacturers, the Flexible Solutions group makes both high and low
pressure hose assemblies for OEMs. It also supplies ducting for
purposes ranging from chemical transfer to grain handling.
Heat Solutions
Comprising specialised heating elements and thermal systems, HVAC
ducting and gas delivery tubing, the Heat Solutions group’s products
serve customers that manufacture tumble dryers, HVAC equipment and
specialized OEM customers described above. Ducting and gas delivery
tubing is largely supplied to the construction industry via distributors.
Performance
Flex-Tek experienced declines in sales and profit as a result of the
recession in the US residential construction markets and household
appliances market. However, these declines were offset in part by the
strong growth in sales of components and services to the aerospace
market and by the benefit from the acquisition of Fast Heat in January .
Smiths Tubular Systems Aerospace delivered strong growth in sales
and profit. This technology group benefited from the high demand for
fluid distribution components and services for commercial and military
aircraft. For example, Flex-Tek secured an $18m contract for the
provision of flexible and rigid fuel and hydraulic hoses on the Boeing 787
Dreamliner . Through a combination of price rises to offset raw material
cost increases and a focus on cost management, we were able to
improve margins.
Flexible Solutions experienced declines in sales and profit as a result of
continued pressure in the household appliance and general industrial
sectors. The domestic appliance market has fallen by some 6% over the
past year while the general industrial market is tied to GDP .
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
2005 2006 2007 2008
Sales performance £m
Business review: Flex-Tek
Competitors
Smiths Tubular Systems Aerospace
competitors include Parker-Hannifin
and Eaton as well as outsourced
capacity from its key customers.
Flexible Solutions competes globally
with a number of smaller privately
owned businesses which manufacture
specialty hoses. Heat Solutions
domestic appliance and specialty
heating element competitors include
Emerson, Watlow and Chromalox.
Whilst the construction related
products competitors are comprised 
of Hitachi, Atco, Omega-Flex, 
Hart & Cooley and Goodman. 25 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Racing ahead in
world motorsport
In the competitive world 
of motorsport, Flex-T ek’s
advanced technology is helping
the winning teams to achieve
optimal performance. Flex-
T ek’s highly specialised tubing,
which provides fuel to engines
and hydraulic control for
landing gear and reverse
engine thrusters on aircraft
including the Boeing 787
Dreamliner, is also deployed 
on the winning cars in high
performance motorsport. 
Our highly engineered
components – manufactured 
at our facility in Laconia, New
Hampshire, USA, and Paris,
France – are designed for fuel
and braking in these very
demanding applications and 
are used by the major F1 
and NASCAR teams. 
The Heat Solutions group supplies heating components for tumble
dryers and HVAC ducting and related equipment to the US construction
market, primarily to the residential sector. The recession in the US
construction market saw a 30% decline year-on-year in building permits
and a 28% fall in housing starts. Similarly, the US electric dryer
appliance market declined by around 6%. Against this background, sales
and profit fell – although the impact on profit was partly mitigated
through careful cost management. At the beginning of the year, the
group completed a reorganisation and consolidation of manufacturing
in T ennessee which has cut costs and improved customer service.
Business developments
In January 2008, to extend Flex-Tek’s range of specialty heating
solutions, Smiths acquired Fast Heat for $18m. Now integrated into the
Heat Solutions group, this business manufactures heating elements
and controls used for plastic injection moulding and packaging
equipment employed in the manufacture of medical products and semi-
conductors.
Flex-T ek is broadening its global footprint particularly in Asia, where its
existing plant in Malaysia continues to expand. Over the past year it has
added new manufacturing facilities in Bangalore, India, the Clark
Freeport Zone, Philippines, and Changzhou, China. The facilities in India
and Philippines are aimed at better serving its aerospace customers,
following increased demand due to the growth of air traffic in Asia. The
facility in Changzhou is focused on the growing HVAC and household
appliance market in China.
As part of the Group restructuring, Flex-Tek has also announced a
programme to reorganise its operations to drive efficiency
improvements. The programme will cost £5m in total and once complete
will deliver annualised savings of £7m.
Outlook
Flex-Tek is facing continued uncertainty in the US residential
construction and household appliance markets. It will continue to
rationalise its portfolio of sites and reduce costs in order to deliver future
value when these markets improve. The growth opportunities in
aerospace and developing markets will also be a focus. 26 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Financial review 
Changes in Group composition
We continued to improve the portfolio and business mix through a
number of acquisitions and disposals during the year . In November,
Sartorius Bearing Technology, a leading provider of high performance
rotating equipment for the oil and gas industry, was acquired for £13m.
In November, Smiths sold its Marine Systems business for £44m, after
a working capital adjustment. In December, Smiths acquired the
majority ownership of the John Crane business in Japan for a
consideration of £5m, increasing its ownership share from 49% to 70%.
In February, the Heating Element division of Fast Heat was acquired for
£9m: it manufactures a wide range of specialty heating elements for
HVAC, industrial and medical applications. In April, John Crane acquired
Indufil BV for £71m, a Dutch-based specialist in filters for the
petrochemical and process industries. In May, Smiths Interconnect
acquired Allrizon T ongguang, a communications equipment firm based
in Shanghai which designs and manufactures radio frequency filters
and products for the wireless telecommunications market. The
acquisition of Fiber Composite Company Inc. (Fiberod), a Texas-based
specialist provider of lifting equipment for the oil and gas industry, was
completed in May . In July, Smiths Interconnect acquired Triasx Pty Ltd,
a firm based in Brisbane that designs and manufactures complex radio
frequency filter products for the wireless communications market.
Earnings per share 
Basic headline earnings per share from continuing activities were 74.5p
(2007: 47.0p) a rise of 59%. 
On a statutory basis, the basic earnings per share from continuing
activities were 63.0p (2007: 36.9p). 
These comparisons are distorted by the effect of the share consolidation
in June 2007 following the disposal of the Aerospace business. The
average number of shares in issue during that year was a reflection of
the capital structure appropriate to both the continuing and the
discontinued business.
Exceptional and other items relating to continuing activities 
excluded from headline profits 
These items amounted to £59m, compared to £88m in 2007. They
comprised:
• £4m in respect of restructuring corporate and divisional headquarters;
this cost is the initial part of a programme expected to cost
approximately £48m;
• £9m for integration costs associated with the Medex acquisition 
(2007: £9m);
• £54m (2007: £101m) in connection with John Crane, Inc. asbestos
litigation, including a £40m provision for adverse judgments (see
litigation paragraph on page 29);
• Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations
of £19m (2007: £15m). The amortisation relates principally to
technology and customer relationships; and 
• Profit on disposal of businesses of £27m (2007: loss of £5m).
Exceptional items in 2007 included insurance commutation proceeds
(£43m); profit on sales of TI Automotive shares (£24m) and other costs
of £26m.
Financing losses amounted to £2m (2007: gain of £1m). These represent
the results of derivatives and other financing instruments which are not
hedge accounted under IFRS. Of this sum, nil (2007: £1.5m) was charged
to operating profit.
Cash generation 
Headline operating cash-flow was £273m, representing 72% of headline
operating profit. This compares to operating cash of £259m in 2007 and
cash generation of 75%. The cash generation outcome this year reflects
investment in capital projects and increased working capital to support
business growth in the new year . 
On a statutory basis, net cash inflow from continuing operations was
£198m (2007: £205m). 
Cash expenditure on exceptional items was £26m, compared with an
£8m inflow in the previous year. The Group made special pension
contributions of £34m (2007: £56m). Free cash-flow from continuing
operations (after interest and tax but before acquisitions and dividends)
was £91m. 
Dividends paid in the year on ordinary shares amounted to £131m,
compared with £182m in 2007.
Interest and other financing costs 
For continuing operations, interest payable on debt, less interest on cash
deposits, was £41m, compared with £36m in 2007. Net interest costs
were 9.3 times covered by headline operating profits. 
The Group accounts for pensions using IAS19. As required by this
standard, a finance credit is recognised reflecting the expected return on
pension scheme assets and a finance charge is recognised reflecting
the unwinding of the discount on the future pension liability. The net
financing income for continuing operations was £42m in 2008, compared
with £34m in 2007. As a result of the reduction in pension surplus, the
amount in the coming year is likely to be approximately £35m lower .
Net debt 
Net debt at year end was £771m, up from £590m at the start.
Research and development 
Investment in research and development (R&D) drives future
performance and is a measure of the Group’ s commitment to the future
organic growth of the business. 
Smiths invested a total of £86m in R&D on continuing operations,
equivalent to 4% of sales. Of that total, £13m was funded by customers.
The comparative figures for 2007 were £79m and £8m. Under IFRS,
certain of these development costs are capitalised. The gross
capitalisation is shown as an intangible asset. Where customers
contribute to the costs of development, the contribution is included as
deferred income and disclosed within trade and other payables.  27 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Accounting policies 
The accounts in this report are prepared under International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union (EU).
The accounting policies used in preparing these accounts are set out
on pages 63 to 68. 
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates 
Applying accounting policies requires the use of certain judgements,
assumptions and estimates. The most important of these are set out
on page 63. 
The uncertainty affecting the estimation of provisions has increased
following the commutation of certain insurance policies in respect of
product liability . See legal issues section (page 29) for details.
Taxation 
The tax charge for the year represented an effective rate for continuing
operations of 24.0% on the headline profit before taxation, compared to
25.1% in 2007. The rate reduced due to taking advantage of global tax
incentives, the tax-efficient use of capital and active tax compliance
management. On a statutory basis, the tax charge on continuing
activities was £75m. 
The fundamental tenets of the Smiths approach to taxation are to
enhance the Company’s competitive position on a global basis, while
engaging with tax authorities around the world on a basis of full
disclosure, full co-operation and full legal compliance. The Board
considers and approves the management of the Company’s tax affairs
in the context of the Company’s commercial objectives. 
Accordingly, Smiths seeks to build open relationships with tax authorities
to bring about timely agreement of tax affairs and to remove uncertainty
on business transactions. 
In summary, the Company’s taxation strategy is to mitigate the burden
of taxation in a responsible manner for competitive advantage, and, in
this way, to enhance long-term shareholder value.
Cost of capital and return on shareholders’ funds 
Smiths uses its weighted average cost of capital as one measure to
appraise both internally-generated investment opportunities and
acquisitions. During 2007, the Company’s weighted average cost of
capital (WACC) decreased from 9% to 8% as a result of the lower cost of
equity . 
The after-tax headline return on shareholders’ funds for continuing
operations, including goodwill set-off against reserves, was 16.7% (2007:
14.9%).
Retirement benefits
As required by IFRS the balance sheet reflects the net surplus or deficit
in retirement benefit plans, taking assets at their market values at 
31 July 2008 and evaluating liabilities at year-end AA corporate bond
interest rates. 
The year-end retirement benefit position was:
2008 2007
Funded plans:
UK plans – funding status 106% 113%
US plans – funding status 89% 92%
Other plans – funding status 81% 83%
2008 2007
£m £m
Surplus/(deficit):
Funded plans 102 297
Unfunded plans (113) (114)
T otal surplus/(liability) (11) 183
Company contributions to the funded pension plans were £56m (2007:
£103m including discontinued operations). In 2008, special contributions
were made totalling £17m, including £4m in respect of the Aerospace
disposal. In 2007, special payments of £56m were made including £21m
in respect of the Aerospace disposal. During the year, the trustees of
the TI Group Pension Scheme invested £250m in annuities from Legal
& General which are matched with specific liabilities of the Scheme
thereby mitigating the longevity risk in respect of specific pensioners.
Full details of the retirement benefits are shown in note 10.
Exchange rates
The results of overseas operations are translated into sterling at average
exchange rates. The net assets are translated at year-end rates. The
principal exchange rates, expressed in terms of the value of sterling, are
shown in the following table.
2008 2007
Average rates:
US Dollar 2.00 1.95 Dollar weakened 2.5%
Euro 1.35 1.48 Euro strengthened 8.8%
Y ear-end rates:
US Dollar 1.98 2.04 Dollar strengthened 2.9%
Euro 1.27 1.49 Euro strengthened 14.7%
Dividend policy
An interim dividend of 10.5p per share was paid on 25 April 2008. A final
dividend of 23.5p per share is proposed.
The Board intends to grow dividends consistent with increasing cover to
around 2.5 times in the medium term. Dividend cover relative to headline
earnings for the year ending 31 July 2008 was 2.2 times. 28 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Goodwill and intangibles
Goodwill on acquisitions has been capitalised since 1998. Until 1 August
2004 it was amortised over a maximum 20-year period. Under IFRS
goodwill is no longer amortised but instead is subject to annual reviews
to test for impairment.
The goodwill balance was tested for impairment in 2008 and 2007.
Treasury
Smiths decentralises treasury management over its financial risks to
its subsidiary businesses, within a strong control environment. The
Board has approved a Treasury Policy, which governs the financial risk
profile, and Treasury permits appropriate delegated authorities across
the subsidiary companies. The Company uses financial instruments to
raise money for its operations and to manage the related financial risks.
Smiths neither speculates nor trades in derivative financial instruments
and all financial instruments are properly recognised on the balance
sheet. A treasury report is presented annually to the Audit Committee to
confirm compliance with policy .
The objectives of the treasury function are to:
1. To deliver the liquidity requirements of the businesses 
cost-effectively.
The Group aims to minimise the level of surplus cash but, where
surpluses arise, tight controls apply to ensure that they are securely
placed with highly-rated counterparties and are available for
redeployment at short notice. The Company is required under IFRS to
show gross borrowings and cash under its cash pooling arrangements,
despite these balances being netted for interest purposes, which
exaggerates the Company’s surplus cash balance. Liquidity is provided
to the Group by a committed revolving credit facility to 2012 which at 
31 July 2008 was £450m undrawn. Local working capital needs and capital
expenditure requirements are typically funded by local bank facilities.
2. To manage the central funding demands and provide a low cost 
of debt.
The Company’s funding requirements are largely driven by acquisition
activity and met by centrally arranged debt finance. Smiths has net debt
as at 31 July 2008 of £771m (2007: £590m) with average maturity of 4
years (2007: 5 years) and at an average effective interest rate after
interest and currency swaps of 5.1% (2007: 5.8%). Through the use of
interest rate swaps, Smiths maintains a broadly even mix of fixed and
floating rate debt. Credit ratings have been held at BBB+/Baa2 (stable)
with Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Accordingly, this
approach aims to reduce the cost of capital by optimising financial
liabilities
3. To develop and maintain strong and stable banking 
relationships and services.
Smiths has a core group of 11 leading global banks and financial
institutions that competitively tender for treasury business. Credit
exposures to any one bank are carefully controlled.
4. To provide reasonable protection from foreign 
currency volatility.
Smiths has adopted hedge accounting for the majority of the Group’s
business at its larger sites, thereby mitigating the impact of transactional
exposures in the income statement. Material cross-border sales or
purchase contracts in foreign currencies are hedged at their inception
by appropriate derivative financial instruments, principally forward
foreign exchange contracts and swaps, with the Group’s core banks as
counterparties. Whilst the trends of foreign currency movements cannot
be eliminated, this hedging programme reduces volatility, protecting
cash-flow and margins.
Smiths protects its reserves from foreign currency fluctuations by
ensuring that at least 75% of the total net overseas operational assets
are offset either by borrowings in the respective currency or by currency
swaps. This excludes goodwill which is only partly hedged. Overseas
earnings are translated at average currency rates for the year, which
smoothes the effect of currency volatility .
Therefore, treasury management in Smiths ensures a robust and
prudent financial profile while driving value for shareholders, with the
support of world-class banks.
Financial controls
While the Group’s decentralised organisation delegates day-to-day
control to local management, Smiths has comprehensive control
systems in place with regular reporting to the Board. The Group has
continuous formalised business risk management processes operating
at each business unit.
The internal audit department reviews all units over a rolling three-year
cycle, and its findings are reported to the Audit Committee. All
acquisitions are reviewed within 12 months of acquisition, to verify
compliance with Group procedures.
Further information regarding the Group’ s procedures to maintain strict
controls over all aspects of risk, including financial risk, are set out in the
Corporate governance report on pages 43 to 46.
Financial review continued 29 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Legal issues
Smiths is committed to operating within the law in all applicable
jurisdictions, and seeks to benefit from the rights and protections
afforded by relevant laws. The Company aims to anticipate and meet the
changing requirements of the markets it serves, as legal and regulatory
reforms impact those markets.
Smiths faces different types of legal issues in different jurisdictions. The
high level of activity in the US, for example, exposes the Company to the
likelihood of various types of litigation commonplace in that country,
such as ‘mass tort’ and ‘class action’ litigation, and legal challenges to
the scope and validity of patents. These types of proceedings (or the
threat of them) are also used to create pressure to encourage negotiated
settlement of disputes.
In addition, contracting with the US Government subjects a company to
numerous stringent regulatory obligations, calling for an active
programme of compliance, reporting and communication. By contrast,
the Company’s activities in some countries with less developed legal
systems pose challenges for the protection of corporate assets such as
real estate and intellectual property rights.
In order to address the challenges and exploit the opportunities arising
from these and other legal issues, Smiths employs experienced lawyers
in head office and certain operations, and retains the services of law
firms around the world.
John Crane, Inc. litigation
John Crane, Inc. (JCI) an indirect subsidiary of the Company, is one of
many co-defendants in numerous lawsuits pending in the USA in which
plaintiffs are claiming damages arising from alleged exposure to, or use
of, products containing asbestos. The JCI products generally referred to
in these cases consist of industrial sealing products, primarily packing
and gaskets. The asbestos was encapsulated within these products in
such a manner that, according to tests conducted on behalf of JCI, the
products were safe. John Crane ceased manufacturing products
containing asbestos in 1985.
JCI has resisted every case in which it has been named and intends to
continue its robust defence of asbestos-related claims based upon this
‘safe product’ defence. As a result of its defence policy, JCI has been
dismissed before trial from cases invol ving approximately 159,000 claims
over the last 29 years. JCI is currently a defendant in cases involving
approximately 136,000 claims. Despite these large numbers of claims,
JCI has had final judgments against it, after appeals, in only 70 cases,
amounting to awards of some US$70m over the 29 year period.
The 2007 Annual Report noted that JCI had secured the commutation
of certain liability insurance policies, resulting in proceeds of £43m.
While substantial excess liability insurance remains in place the exact
scope of the cover is currently the subject of litigation in the United States
in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois. In the meantime JCI has
begun to meet defence costs directly, and intends to recover appropriate
contribution from insurers in accordance with the terms of the
remaining policies in due course. The 2007 Annual report noted that JCI
has made a provision for defence costs of £101m based upon an
assessment of the probable costs of defending known and expected
future claims. In establishing this provision no account has been taken
of recoveries from insurers as their nature and timing are not yet
sufficiently certain to permit recognition.
During the current year, JCI has charged £5m in respect of adverse legal
judgments delivered. Despite JCI’s commitment to its safe product
defence, history shows that juries will occasionally return adverse
verdicts which can be difficult to overturn on appeal. A further £40m has,
therefore, been charged to establish a provision for future adverse
judgments. In deciding upon this amount, JCI has relied on expert advice
from a specialist in asbestos liability estimation. 30 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Risks and uncertainties
Smiths is exposed to the following principal risks. If any of these risks,
or other significant unforeseen risks, materialise, they could have a
significant adverse effect on not only our business and financial condition
but also our reputation and the trading prices and liquidity of our
securities. This could lead to a loss for investors of part or, in a worst case
all, of their investment.
Smiths seeks to mitigate significant identified risks through risk
management processes, appropriate Group policies and other
measures (including insurance where we regard it as appropriate and
economic) but there can be no assurance that such measures will be
effective in any particular case.
Competition, innovation and major projects
Smiths operates in highly competitive markets where some competitors
may have greater resources than we do and where the entry of new
competitors, the consolidation of competitors and changed or irrational
behaviour by competitors could all have a significant adverse impact on
our business. 
Continued development of new products and improvements to existing
products is critical to the future of the business and competitors may
innovate in these areas more effectively than we do with significant
adverse consequences for Smiths.
Smiths develops new technologies and introduces new products, in
some cases contracting to supply the products to the customer before
the design is established or proven. All new technologies and products
involve risk, including possible abortive expenditure, reputational risk,
and potential customer claims or onerous contracts. The same is true
for investment in new facilities and other major projects. Such risks, if
they materialise, may have significant adverse consequences for Smiths.
Raw materials and inability to supply
Smiths products contain various raw materials or purchased
components including electronic components, metals and plastics.
Increases or volatility in prices and shortages in supply could have a
significant adverse effect.
Inability to supply against contractual commitments is a risk, which
could materialise in a number of different scenarios and which could
have a significant adverse effect.
Given the competitive nature of the markets in which Smiths operates,
any loss of customer confidence resulting from failure to supply may be
difficult or impossible to recover .
Global political and economic conditions
Operating in over 50 countries, Smiths is exposed to political and
economic risks, including possible terrorist action.
Some 43% of total sales are to customers in the US, and the Group is
therefore particularly affected by US economic conditions.
Smiths may be impacted by adverse changes in general economic
conditions including interest rates, and the availability of credit, exchange
rates and inflation, and the effect of these could be significant. In
addition, demand for products from the Detection and Interconnect
divisions is significantly dependent on spending by governments and
government agencies, and aside from the impact of general economic
conditions, these businesses may suffer significant adverse effects if
these customers reduce their spending. 
Information technology
Smiths is dependent on information technology systems for both
internal and external communications and for the day to day
management of its operations with a number of key enterprise resource
planning projects in the course of implementation across the Group. Any
disruption to these systems, or delays or failures in the implementation
of these projects, could have significant adverse consequences for the
Group.
Acquisitions and disposals
Smiths is an active acquirer of other businesses and companies:
acquisitions may involve risks that might have a material impact on 
the Group.
The sale and purchase agreement governing the sale of the Aerospace
business to GE Aviation UK in 2007 contains certain warranties and
indemnities in favour of GE Aviation UK. If costs should be incurred under
any of these warranties or indemnities (or similar such provisions in
other agreements for the disposal of businesses) these could have a
significant adverse effect. 
Controls
Smiths information systems, personnel and facilities are subject to
security risk, and failures in security systems or processes could have
significant adverse consequences as could failures in the Group’s
various corporate governance and internal controls or non compliance
with the Smiths Code of Business Ethics.
Legislative and regulatory
Smiths is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and standards in
the jurisdictions in which it operates. Unexpected changes in these laws
or regulations or failure to comply with them could have significant
adverse consequences.
The Detection, Interconnect and Medical divisions are particularly
subject to regulation, with certain customers and regulatory or other
enforcement bodies routinely inspecting the Group’s practices,
processes and premises. A compliance problem arising in one of these
(or any other of Smiths) Divisions could have significant adverse
consequences for the Group as a whole. 
Litigation and product liability
Smiths is subject to litigation risk including but not limited to product
liability risks. Many Smiths products are used in critical applications
where the consequences of a failure could be extremely serious and, in
some cases, potentially catastrophic, with significant adverse
consequences for the Group.
Remediation of design, manufacturing or other product defects could
require Smiths to recall products with significant adverse consequences
for the Group.
John Crane, Inc., a subsidiary of Smiths, is currently one of many
defendants in litigation relating to products previously manufactured
which contained asbestos.
The outcome of legal action is always uncertain and there is always the
risk that it may prove more costly and time consuming than expected.
Both current and potential future litigation could have significant adverse
impact on the Group. 31 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Environmental and external
The environmental laws of the jurisdictions in which Smiths operates
impose actual and potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites,
including some sites no longer owned by Smiths. There is a risk that
remediation could prove more costly than expected or that further
contamination could be discovered with significant adverse
consequences for the Group. Because of the location of its operations,
Smiths is also exposed to a number of natural catastrophe risks, such
as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other types of storm, which like
other external events, such as terrorist attacks or a disease pandemic
could have significant adverse consequences for the Group.
Financial
Smiths is exposed to two types of currency risk: transaction risk in
respect of products manufactured in one currency region and sold in
another currency; and translation risk in that the results of non-UK
businesses will translate into differing pounds sterling values depending
on the exchange rate.
Smiths is exposed to credit risk particularly in relation to customers,
banks and insurers. Both currency and credit risk could result in
significant adverse consequences for the Group.
In addition, whilst in recent times Smiths has had an effective tax rate of
approximately 24%, there can be no guarantee that this rate will remain
below the prevailing tax rate applicable in the territories in which Smiths
operates. 
Pension funding
The Group operates significant pension plans as a result of which Smiths
is subject to various funding risks, including poor performance of the
investments (particularly equity investments), increased longevity of
members and changes in valuation and funding assumptions, any of
which could have significant adverse effects.
Human resources
Smiths employs approximately 22,000 people around the world and
faces considerable competition in recruiting and retaining the talented
individuals it needs to ensure that it is successful. Failure to recruit these
staff and/or a loss of key personnel could have significant adverse
consequences. 32 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Smiths Code of Business Ethics 
('the Code') is based on 12 principles:
1 Compliance with all applicable laws 
and regulations
2 Fair and vigorous competition in the
marketplace
3 Integrity and ethical conduct as the
standard of individual and corporate
business behaviour
4 Fair and honest treatment of suppliers,
business partners and customers
5 Proper and respectful treatment 
of employees
6 High standards for health, safety 
and security in the workplace
7 Respect for the environment
8 Contributing to the communities 
in which we live and work
9 Engaging appropriately with
government departments and agencies
10 Respect for human rights
11 Prudent and transparent public
accounting and reporting
12 A culture of compliance throughout 
the entire Smiths organisation embracing
all employees
The Code applies to all Smiths businesses and employees worldwide
and provides the framework for policies, programmes and procedures
for a range of corporate responsibility issues. It is endorsed and fully
supported by the Board. 
Compliance support to Smiths businesses is provided through legal
counsel serving the businesses and other experts who provide advice,
export control policies, education, training, guidance materials and risk
assessment tools. 
During the financial year ended 31 July 2008, Smiths retained the
consultancy URS to benchmark the Code against those of peer
companies and a gap analysis was completed. This work found that
there were no major omissions to the Code but a revised version has
been produced to more fully reflect the current challenges facing a
global company. The revised Code, although expanded, retains the 12
core principles that were central to its predecessor’s structure and has
the simplified title ‘Code of Business Ethics ’. It has been produced in all
of the main Smiths operating languages, and is being made available to
each employee in both hard copy format and on the Smiths intranet.
Managing corporate responsibility
The Code is monitored by the Business Ethics Compliance Council,
which reports to the Audit Committee of the Board and has
representation from each of the divisions. Responsibility for managing
specific areas of activity depends on the nature of the issue and how it
can most effectively be managed:
• environment, health and safety issues are managed through a Group-
wide steering committee, a technical implementation committee and
local co-ordinators;
• security is managed in each business by line management;
• employee issues are managed by line management and through the
human resources function;
• supplier and customer programmes are managed by each business;
and
• community programmes are principally managed locally, although
there is also some Group-level activity . 
Corporate responsibility 33 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Health and safety
Smiths is committed to conducting all its activities in a manner which
achieves the highest practicable standards of health and safety . 
In 2007 Smiths made the commitment to achieve certification to the
occupational health and safety management system standard
OHSAS18001 by July 2010 at all of its facilities with more than 50
employees. This financial year has seen pilot programmes, the
development of standard materials and training workshops to support
this programme. The success of OHSAS18001, together with other
targeted initiatives is measured against the recordable incident rate
performance where a rate of better than 1.5 recordable incidents per
100 employees is expected.
Performance against targets
T arget (August 2007 - July 2010) 2008 result
Recordable incident rate
Better than 1.5 per 100 employees 1.27
Lost time incident rate
No target set 0.57
OHSAS18001 certiﬁcation 17 out of 83
Certification at all sites with more certiﬁed
than 50 employees by July 2010
Last year we reported on three incidents that resulted in extended
hospital stays for the injured parties. We are pleased to report that we
have had no incidents of the same severity this year .
Following a concerted effort, driven from the highest levels of the
organisation, our safety performance, as measured through recordable
incident and lost time incident rates, continues to improve. The
improvements are supported by enhanced incident investigation and
return to work programmes. The financial year that we have just
completed has been the safest on record for Smiths.
Environment
Smiths is committed to ensuring that, as far as is reasonably practicable,
any detrimental effects of its activities, products and services upon the
environment are minimised. In practice, this means using performance-
based environmental management systems to drive improvement
throughout the business.
The environmental management system ISO14001 has been
implemented at all Smiths manufacturing sites with more than 50
employees. New acquisitions, or businesses that grow above the 50
employee threshold, are required to seek certification. ISO14001 ensures
that a culture of continual improvement is embedded throughout the
organisation. 
Three-year targets were set in August 2007 to be achieved by July 2010
for greenhouse gas emissions, waste disposal and water consumption.
Progress is reported below.
Performance against targets
T arget (August 2007 - July 2010) 2008 result
ISO14001 certiﬁcation All targeted sites
for all sites with more than 50 employees have been certiﬁed
Greenhouse gas emissions 3% reduction
No absolute increase over the 2007 baseline
Total non-recycled waste 25% reduction
9% reduction over three years 
normalised against turnover
Water consumption 12% reduction
9% reduction over three years 
normalised against turnover
Each of our key indicators shows improvement during the year and we
will report on further progress and initiatives to ensure that this progress
is maintained. 34 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Smiths Medical is increasing 
its R&D investment to boost 
the number of new product
launches and drive sales. 
It is currently developing a
revolutionary breathing circuit
which was tested on Mount
Everest as part of a ground
breaking medical study that
Smiths Medical supported 
in collaboration with Great
Ormond Street Hospital and
University College London. 
The system is undergoing
clinical trials and regulatory
assessments. If approved, 
it will for the first time enable
patients with chronic breathing
difficulties to stay active whilst
receiving treatment, greatly
improving their chances 
of recovery .
High level
investigation may
help improve
breathing
Corporate responsibility continued
Employees
It is the Company's policy to provide equal opportunities for employment.
Smiths recruits, selects and promotes employees on the basis of their
qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude. In employment-related
decisions, Smiths complies with all applicable anti-discrimination
requirements in the relevant jurisdictions including concerning matters
of race, colour, national origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation,
religious belief, age, or physical or mental disability . Disabled people are
given full consideration for employment and subsequent training, career
development and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities. 
All Smiths employees are treated with respect and dignity . Accordingly,
any harassment or bullying is unacceptable. Smiths respects the right
of each employee to join or not to join a trade union or other bona fide
employee representative organisation. Smiths believes in good
communications with employees and in promoting consultation, 
co-operation and teamwork on matters of mutual concern. 
Smiths offers employees in the US and the UK opportunities to
participate in share plans that enable employees to benefit from
increases to the company’ s share price and to align their interests more
closely with those of shareholders. 
Reaching full potential
Smiths invests in employees' skills and capabilities, which in turn helps
the Company and its businesses to succeed. Current priorities for
Smiths are talent development, succession planning and employee
engagement.
Developing talent
Smiths has a number of development programmes designed to evaluate
and enhance core leadership competencies. These development
programmes are designed and tailored to address a wide range of
learning styles, incorporating workshops, experiential learning,
mentoring, team working and project experience.
Smiths continues to be actively involved in training and developing young
people, including initiatives designed to ease the transition from school
or study to work. For example, Horizons is a two-year programme for
newly and recently appointed graduates and those early in their career .
It provides an understanding of the Group and the business world in
general, and develops personal and team working skills. 35 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Succession management
Smiths operates a systematic succession management process for
leadership roles. Our businesses identify leadership talent and
development needs using common tools and a consistent language.
Development plans are monitored by senior management to optimise
effective succession opportunities.
Employee engagement
Smiths provides information to and communicates with employees as
an important part of doing business. Employees are regularly provided
with a wide range of information concerning the performance and
prospects of the business in which they are involved by means of
employee councils, information and consultation forums, and other
consultative bodies that allow their views to be taken into account.
Communities
Smiths contributes positively to the communities in which we operate.
In addition to providing employment opportunities and playing a
beneficial role in local economies, we support community involvement
through charitable giving and education initiatives.
This activity is primarily managed at a divisional level. However, Smiths
does offer some support to community and charitable organisations
from a central budget. Consideration is given to charities and
organisations that demonstrate how a donation will enhance the
wellbeing of people through improved education, health and welfare or
environment. Projects local to our operational facilities or connected to
the industries in which we operate are the primary focus of Smiths
support. 
Education is a major recipient of our support. For example together with
the Royal Academy of Engineering in the UK, the Smiths Technology
Education Programme is now in its second year. Through the
programme, school students are offered the opportunity to participate
in summer school courses in engineering and technology. Those
students who then go on to take an engineering or technology degree
course at university are eligible to receive Smiths bursaries. Smiths also
supports the Centre for the Study of T errorism and Political Violence at
St Andrews University by funding a research assistant. 
Smiths divisions also deliver significant support. The Smiths Medical
Chair of Anaesthesia and Critical Care at University College London is
an important example of long-term funding that has enhanced medical
care.
In addition to donations, Smiths people devote time to local community
projects around the world. For further information, please see the 2008
Corporate Responsibility Report at www.smiths.com/responsibility .
Controls on defence sales
All sales of defence equipment are undertaken in accordance with
government export and approval procedures and regulations, such as
the International Traffic in Arms Regulation and the Export
Administration Regulations in the USA. These laws prohibit export of
certain items to specific countries. Smiths adheres to all relevant
government guidelines designed to ensure that products are not
incorporated into weapons or other equipment used for the purposes of
terrorism or abuse of human rights, with internal controls to ensure
compliance with these guidelines.
FTSE4Good
In 2008, Smiths was awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index
which recognises companies that meet globally recognised corporate
responsibility standards. Whilst we are not complacent about the
ongoing work required, we were pleased to receive this external
recognition of our corporate responsibility initiatives and business ethics
programme. 36 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Board of directors
1 Donald Brydon, CBE
Chairman †#
Aged 63. British. Donald Brydon was appointed to the Board in April
2004, becoming Chairman in September 2004. He was previously Chief
Executive of AXA Investment Managers SA and prior to that had been
Chairman and Chief Executive of BZW Investment Management. He is
Chairman of the London Metal Exchange, Chairman of Taylor Nelson
Sofres plc and a Member of the Board of AXA Investment Managers SA.
He was formerly Chairman of Amersham plc. 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
2 Philip Bowman
Chief Executive
Aged 55. Australian. Philip Bowman was appointed Chief Executive in
December 2007. He is currently the senior independent director of
Burberry Group plc and is a non-executive director of Berry Brothers
and Rudd Limited, as well a member of the Advisory Board of Alchemy
Partners. He previously held the positions of Chief Executive at Scottish
Power plc from early 2006 until mid 2007 and Chief Executive at Allied
Domecq plc between 1999 and 2005. Past board appointments include
Scottish & Newcastle plc, British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and Coles
Myer Limited as well as Chairman of Liberty plc and Coral Eurobet plc.
His earlier career includes five years as a director of Bass plc (now
Mitchells & Butler plc and Intercontinental Hotel Group plc), where he
held the roles of Chief Financial Officer and subsequently Chief Executive
of Bass T averns.
3 David Challen, CBE
Non-executive director *†
Aged 65. British. David Challen was appointed to the Board in September
2004. He is Vice-Chairman of Citigroup European Investment Bank and
former Chairman of J Henry Schroder & Co Ltd. He is Senior
Independent Director at Anglo American and Deputy Chairman of the
T akeover Panel.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
4 Stuart Chambers
Non-executive director †
Aged 52. British. Stuart Chambers was appointed to the Board in
November 2006. He was Chief Executive of Pilkington plc and became
Group Chief Executive of Nippon Sheet Glass in June 2008. Prior to
joining Pilkington plc in 1996, he spent ten years at Mars Corporation,
latterly as Vice President, Sales & Marketing – Mars Electronics
International. A chemical engineer by training, he previously spent ten
years at Shell in a variety of European roles. He is also Chairman of the
North West Business Leadership T eam.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
5 Peter Jackson
Non-executive director †*#
Aged 61. British. Peter Jackson was appointed to the Board as a non-
executive director in December 2003 and as senior independent director
in September 2004. He was formerly Chief Executive of Associated
British Foods plc. He is Chairman of Kingfisher plc and chair of the
Disabilities Trust.
Senior independent director .
6 John Langston
Finance Director
Aged 58. British. John Langston was appointed to the Board in
December 2000 on the Company’s merger with TI Group plc. A
Chartered Accountant, he was appointed Finance Director in September
2006. He previously held positions as head of Sealing Solutions, Group
Managing Director of Detection and Group Managing Director of
Specialty Engineering. He joined TI Group in 1993, becoming Chief
Executive of Bundy Automotive in 1996 and Chief Executive of TI Specialty
Polymer Products in 1998. He was appointed a director of TI Group plc
in October 1998. He formerly worked for Lucas Industries.
7 Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG
Non-executive director †*#
Aged 61. British. Sir Kevin Tebbit was appointed to the Board in June
2006. He served widely in policy, management and finance posts in the
Foreign & Commonwealth Office, NATO and finally the Ministry of
Defence, where he was Permanent Under-Secretary of State from July
1998 to his retirement in November 2005. He is Chairman of
Finmeccanica UK. He is also Visiting Professor at Queen Mary, University
of London.
Committees
* Audit Committee
† Remuneration Committee
# Nomination Committee
12
456
3
7 Principal activities
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries (the Group) are and, during the year ended 31 July 2008, were the development,
manufacture, sale and support of:
• advanced security equipment, including trace detection, millimetre-wave, infra-red, biological detection and diagnostics, that detect and identify
explosives, narcotics, weapons, chemical agents, biohazards and contraband;
• mechanical seals, seal support systems, engineered bearings, power transmission couplings, specialist filtration systems and other hardware
for the oil & gas, chemical, pharmaceutical, pulp & paper and mining sectors;
• medical devices aligned to specific therapies, principally airway, pain and temperature management, infusion, needle protection, critical care
monitoring and vascular access; 
• specialised electronic and radio frequency products that connect, protect and control critical systems for the global wireless telecommunications,
aerospace, defence, space and medical markets; and
• engineered components including ducting, hose assemblies and heating elements that move and heat fluids for the aerospace, medical, industrial,
construction and domestic markets.
The main manufacturing operations are in the UK, the Americas, Continental Europe and China. 
Business review/future development/research and development
The business review is on pages 12 to 35 and is incorporated by reference, forming part of this directors ’ report. This is a review of the development
and performance of the business of the Group, including the financial performance during the financial year ended 31 July 2008; key performance
indicators; and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group. It also includes information on likely future developments and activities in
the field of research and development. The cautionary statement set out on the inside front cover of this Annual Report forms part of this Annual
Report and is incorporated by reference into the business review.
Results and dividends
The results for the financial year ended 31 July 2008 are set out in the Consolidated income statement on page 59. Sales for the year amounted to
£2,321m (2007: £2,161m). The profit for the year after taxation amounted to £268.8m (2007: £1,728.1m). 
An interim dividend of 10.5p per ordinary share of 37.5p was paid on 25 April 2008. The directors recommend for payment on 21 November 2008
a final cash dividend of 23.5p on each ordinary share of 37.5p, making a total dividend of 34p for the financial year . 
The retained profit of £268.8m was transferred to Reserves.
Changes in the Company and its interests during the financial year
On 19 September 2007 the Company announced that it was no longer proceeding with the conditional agreement with GE to form Smiths GE
Detection, due to differences over a strategic vision for the combined businesses.
On 3 November 2007 the Company sold the issued share capital of Kelvin Hughes Limited and its associated companies for £44m in cash, after a
working capital adjustment.
On 15 October 2007 the Company acquired the issued share capital of Sartorius Bearing T echnology GmbH for ¤19m in cash.
On 21 December the Company acquired a further 21% of the issued share capital of John Crane Japan Limited for ¥862m in cash, bringing its interest
in John Crane Japan to 70%.
On 4 February 2008 the Company acquired the business and assets of Fast Heat, Inc. for US$18m in cash.
On 17 April 2008 the Company completed the purchase of 4,467,437 B shares for 365p per share, in cash, and cancelled the shares. 459,157 B shares
currently remain in issue.
On 28 April 2008 the Company acquired the issued share capital of Indufil BV for ¤90m in cash.
On 2 May 2008 the Company acquired the business and assets of The Fiber Composite Company, Inc. (known as Fiberod) for US$91m in cash.
On 7 May 2008 the Company acquired the issued share capital of Allrizon T ongguang Communication Equipment (Shanghai) Co Ltd for RMB 135m
in cash. 
On 1 July 2008 the Company acquired the issued share capital of Triasx Pty Ltd for Aus$29m in cash.
On 28 July 2008 the shareholders in general meeting approved the adoption of new Articles of Association, which take effect on 1 October 2008; a
new share incentive plan, the Smiths Group Value Sharing Plan; and amendments to the Smiths Group Co-Investment Plan. Details of the Value
Sharing Plan and the amendments to the Co-Investment Plan are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 56.
37 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Group directors’ report  Post balance sheet event
On 1 September 2008 the Company completed the sale of land in Basingstoke for £16m in cash. A further amount of up to £12m will be paid
depending on the final terms of such amended planning permission as may be granted.
Charitable and political donations
During the financial year the Company made donations of £469,000 for charitable purposes including payments totalling £150,000 for the Smiths
Medical Chair of Anaesthesia and Critical Care and other donations made by the Company’ s businesses worldwide to miscellaneous charities. No
political donations were made. 
Directors
On 10 December 2007 Mr K.O. Butler-Wheelhouse retired as a director and Chief Executive and Mr P . Bowman was appointed in his stead. Mr P .H.
Loescher resigned as a non-executive director on 4 April 2008 and Mr D.P . Lillycrop resigned as an executive director and Company Secretary on
3 June 2008. Messrs D.H. Brydon; D.J. Challen; S.J. Chambers; P .J. Jackson; J. Langston; and Sir Kevin T ebbit all served throughout the year . 
Reappointment of director
Mr P . Bowman will retire from office at the Annual General Meeting (AGM), having been appointed by the Board since the AGM in 2007. Mr Bowman
is willing and eligible to stand for re-election and a resolution will be proposed at the AGM to re-elect him.
Directors’ remuneration report
The Directors’ remuneration report is on pages 47 to 56. 
An ordinary resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Directors’ interests in contracts
Details of the executive directors ’ service contracts are as disclosed in the service contracts section of the Directors ’ remuneration report on pages
52 and 53. Details of the interests of the executive directors in the Company’s share option schemes and plans are shown in the Directors’
remuneration report on pages 54 to 56.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined by section 309B of the Companies Act 1985) have remained in force for the directors during
the financial year ended 31 July 2008 and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the current directors in relation to certain losses
and liabilities which they may incur (or may have incurred) to third parties in the course of their professional duties.
Apart from the exceptions referred to above, no director had an interest in any contract to which the Company or its subsidiaries was a party during
the year .
Interests in voting rights
As at 19 September 2008 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the FSA ’ s Disclosure & T ransparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting
rights in its issued share capital:
Percentage
of issued
ordinary share 
No. of shares capital*
AXA S.A. 21.3m 5.5%
Legal & General Group plc 15.7m 4.1%
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 19.1m 4.9%
Newton Investment Management Limited 15.2m 3.9%
*Percentage of ordinary share capital in issue on 19 September 2008.
The Company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in its own shares other than in connection with the 2007 Return of Cash scheme. Details
of shares purchased and cancelled pursuant to that scheme are shown on page 41.
The interests of the directors, their families and any connected persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on page 52. 
38 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Group directors’ report continued Corporate governance
The report on corporate governance is on pages 43 to 46. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has reviewed the Company’ s statements as to compliance
with the June 2006 issue of the Combined Code, to the extent required by the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules. The results of its review are set
out on page 58.
Financial instruments
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group; the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which hedge
accounting is used; and the exposure of the Group to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash-flow risk are outlined in note 21 of the Group
financial statements.
Going concern
The Board’s review of the accounts, budgets and forward plans, together with the internal control system, lead the directors to believe that the
Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. The accounts are therefore prepared on a going concern basis. 
Policy on payment of creditors
The Company’ s policy and practice is to pay creditors promptly in accordance with agreed terms of business. The average time taken to pay an invoice
was 33 days (2007: 35) for the parent Company and 43 days (2007: 43) for the Group as a whole. 
Share capital and control
As at 31 July 2008, the Company’s authorised share capital was £200,228,879.995, divided into 533,333,333 ordinary shares of 37.5p each nominal
value (ordinary shares), representing 99.9% of the total share capital, and 22,888,012 non-cumulative preference shares of 1p (preference shares),
representing 0.1% of the total share capital. On 31 July 2008 there were 387,879,181 ordinary shares and 459,157 preference shares in issue. The
ordinary shares and the preference shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company’ s reports and accounts; to attend and speak at General Meetings of the Company;
to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. The holders of preference shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at a General Meeting only
if the business of the meeting includes the winding-up of the Company or if, at the date of the notice of the meeting, the B share Continuing
Dividend under Article 126* has remained unpaid for at least six months. Preference shareholders are entitled to receive the B share Continuing
Dividend and have priority over ordinary shareholders on a return of capital on a winding-up of 365p per preference share. The Company has the
right to purchase and thereafter cancel preference shares or to convert them into ordinary shares at any time after 30 April 2008. 
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carries any special rights with regard to control of the Company. The only restrictions on voting rights are those that apply to
the preference shares, as described in the preceding paragraph. There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person
other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements or restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights. The Company
operates an employee benefit trust, with an independent trustee, to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Company’ s
share schemes and plans. On 31 July 2008 the trust held 1,095,965 ordinary shares in the Company . The trust waives all but 0.1p per share of each
dividend entitlement on its holding and abstains from voting the shares at general meetings.
The table on page 38 sets out the notifications received by the Company pursuant to the FSA ’ s Disclosure & T ransparency Rules, as at 19 September
2008, from persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company’s share capital.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association. Changes to the Articles of
Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time. New Articles of Association were
approved by the Company in general meeting on 28 July 2008. These take effect on 1 October 2008 and have been adopted primarily to take account
of changes in English company law brought about by certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which have already come into force or which
will come into force on 1 October 2008.
The powers of the directors are determined by English law and the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company in force from time
to time. The directors have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Articles 6, 7 and 126*, and preference shares, pursuant
to Article 126*. The directors have authority to make market purchases of ordinary and preference shares. The powers under Articles 6 and 7 are
referred to the shareholders at the AGM for renewal. At the AGM the shareholders are also requested to renew the power to make market purchases
of ordinary shares. Any ordinary shares so purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury . Article 126* authorises the purchase of preference shares.
The Company has in place credit facility agreements under which a change in control would trigger prepayment clauses and has bonds in issue
the terms of which would allow bondholders to exercise put options and require the Company to buy back the bonds at their principal amount plus
interest if a rating downgrade occurs at the same time as a change of control takes effect. The Company’s share schemes and plans contain
clauses which cause options and awards to vest on a change in control. The Company is not party to any other significant agreements that would
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid. 
39 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 If there is a change in control of the Company prior to 10 December 2010, the terms of Mr Bowman’ s service contract allow him, at any time during
the three months following the change in control, to resign and treat himself as redundant. In this event, (i) Mr Bowman would be entitled to receive
the sum payable on a Company-elected termination of his employment, as described on page 52, save that his bonus entitlement for the period
from the start of the bonus year in which the termination falls to the end of any unserved notice period would be a minimum of 75% of base salary
(less any amount already paid to him in respect of the bonus year) and (ii) all available discretions will be exercised under the Company’s share
schemes and in default the Company must indemnify Mr Bowman for the value of any awards that do not vest on the change in control. 
No other director or employee is contractually entitled to compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a change in control except
that provisions of the Company’s share schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a change
in control.
*Article 126 is renumbered as Article 129 from 1 October 2008 when the new Articles of Association, approved by the Company in general meeting on 28 July 2008, take effect.
Corporate responsibility
The Company has Group policies on environmental, health and safety matters and operates a Code of Business Ethics. The Company seeks to
minimise, as far as is reasonably practicable, any detrimental effects on the environment of its operations and products. The Group HR director
has responsibility for environmental, health and safety matters, which are subject to preventative, investigatory and consultative systems, overseen
by the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee, and reports regularly to the Board on these matters. Issues relevant to the Company
pension schemes are likewise covered by means of structured committees, including representation from recognised trade unions. 
Further information on environmental and employee health and safety matters, including key performance indicators, is contained in the Corporate
responsibility summary in the business review on pages 32 to 35. The full Corporate responsibility report is available online at
www.smiths.com/responsibility .
Annual General Meeting
The 2008 AGM will be held at The Thomas Lord Suite, Lord’s Cricket Ground, Grace Gate, St John’s Wood Road, London NW8 8QN on Tuesday 
18 November 2008 at 2:30 p.m.
Authority to issue shares
At the AGM shareholders will be asked to renew the authority, given to the directors at the last AGM, to allot relevant securities for the purposes
of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985. The authority proposed will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company
or, if earlier, on 17 February 2010. The amount of relevant securities to which this authority relates (£48,510,168 nominal of ordinary share capital)
represents one third of the ordinary share capital in issue on 19 September 2008. The ordinary resolution is set out in the Notice of AGM.
Also in the Notice is the special resolution to renew the power granted to directors under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985. The new authority
sought will be on substantially similar terms to those attaching to the existing authority and will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the
Company or, if earlier, on 17 February 2010. It will permit the directors to allot equity securities for cash:
• in connection with a rights issue pro rata to the rights of the existing shareholders;
• pursuant to the terms of any share scheme or plan approved by the shareholders in General Meeting; and
• for any other purpose (including the sale on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares the Company may hold in treasury for cash) provided that 
the aggregate nominal value of such allotments does not exceed £7,276,525 (approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital on 
19 September 2008).
The directors intend seeking renewal of these authorities annually . 
The directors have no present intention of exercising these authorities, except for allotments of shares pursuant to the Company’s share option
schemes, and would not seek to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital in the Company in any rolling three year period without prior
consultation with the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and National Association of Pension Funds.
During the financial year ended 31 July 2008, the following shares in Smiths Group plc were issued:
• 2,268,348 ordinary shares of 37.5p pursuant to the terms of the Company’s shareholder-approved share option schemes; and
• 112,560 ordinary shares of 37.5p pursuant to the terms of TI Group share option schemes.
40 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Group directors’ report continued Authority to purchase shares
At the AGM the Company will seek to renew the authority, granted at the last AGM to the directors, to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares in
the market. The authority will be limited to 10% of the ordinary share capital in issue on 19 September 2008 and will be renewed annually . The price
that may be paid for the shares will be not less than the nominal amount of 37.5p per share and not more than the higher of 5% above the average
of the middle market quotations of the Company’s ordinary shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five
business days prior to any purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5(1) of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003. On 19 September
2008 options over approximately 8.4m shares were outstanding under the Company’s share option schemes, representing approximately 2.2% of
the then issued share capital. If the existing authority to purchase shares and the new authority being sought at the AGM were to be used in full
and the purchased shares were cancelled, then the outstanding options would represent approximately 2.7% of the reduced issued share capital.
Under the Companies Act 1985, any shares purchased under this authority may be cancelled or held as treasury shares. Treasury shares may be
subsequently sold or used to satisfy applications under share schemes. 
The directors will exercise the authority only if they are satisfied that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the ordinary share capital
in issue and will be in the interests of the shareholders. The directors will also give careful consideration to the gearing levels of the Company and
its general financial position. It is the Company’ s present intention that, in the event that any shares were to be purchased under this authority, such
shares would be cancelled. The directors will, however, have regard to any guidelines issued by investor groups which may be published at the time
of any such purchase regarding the merits of the cancellation of such shares as against holding them as treasury shares.
Purchase of shares
In accordance with the authorities given at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 11 June 2007 in connection with the Return of Cash to
shareholders from the sale of the Aerospace division, on 17 April 2008 the Company purchased 4,467,437 non-cumulative preference shares of 1p
each (90.7% of the then issued preference share capital) for an aggregate consideration of £16,306,145.05 and immediately cancelled them.
Political donations
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew and revise the authority, granted by the shareholders in 2004 to the Company and its subsidiaries,
to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure. The new authority will follow the provisions of Part 14 of the
Companies Act 2006 (the 2006 Act) and permit the Company and its subsidiaries, present and future, to make donations (i) to political parties; (ii)
to other political organisations or independent election candidates; and (iii) to incur political expenditure. The authority will expire at the conclusion
of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, on 17 February 2010 and will be limited to £50,000 in respect of each of items (i) to (iii) above. As was
the case in 2004, the proposal of this resolution is a precautionary measure in the light of the wide definitions of political donations and expenditure
contained in the 2006 Act. The resolution proposed is in general terms and does not purport to authorise particular donations. The Company has
not made any political donations in the past under the expiring resolution and it is not the present intention of the Company to make any political
donations or incur any political expenditure in the foreseeable future. The directors intend seeking renewal of this authority annually .
Auditor
Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditor and to authorise the directors to determine the
auditor’s remuneration. 
Disclosure of information to the auditor
As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’ s auditor is unaware. Each
director has taken all the steps as he should have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Electronic communications at www.smiths.com
The Companies Act 2006 recognises the growing importance of electronic communication (“e-communication”) and enables companies to provide
documentation and communications to shareholders via their websites, except to those shareholders who elect to receive hard (printed paper) copies
by post. E-communication allows shareholders faster access to important information about the Company; saves the Company considerable
overheads, by reducing its print production costs and postage; and helps the environment by saving the energy and raw materials that would
otherwise be used in producing and dispatching printed documents. At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 11 June 2007 shareholders
approved the adoption of electronic communications. 
Electronic copies of the Annual Report 2008 and the Notice of AGM are posted on the Company’s website, www.smiths.com. The Company’s
announcements to the Stock Exchange and press releases are available online through the website. Shareholding details and practical help on
share transfers and changes of address can be found at www.shareview.co.uk.
Shareholders wishing to change their election and receive documents in hard copy form can do so at any time by contacting the Company’s
Registrar (see the inside back cover for contact details) or by logging on to www.shareview.co.uk.
41 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Electronic proxy voting
The Company continues to provide electronic proxy voting for this year’s AGM. Shareholders who are not Crest members can appoint a proxy and
vote online for or against (or consciously not vote on) the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM by visiting the website www.sharevote.co.uk. The
onscreen instructions will give details on how to complete the appointment and voting process. Crest members, Crest personal members and other
Crest sponsored members should consult the Crest Manual or their sponsor or voting service provider for instructions on electronic proxy
appointment and voting. The Company may treat as invalid a Crest proxy voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of
the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Paper proxy cards have been distributed with the Notice of AGM to all shareholders other than those who have elected for notification by e-mail. 
Shareholders who will not be able to attend the AGM on 18 November 2008 in person are encouraged to vote their shares by appointing a proxy
and issuing voting instructions (either electronically or by completing and returning their proxy cards). Electronic and paper proxy appointments
and voting instructions must be received by the Company’s Registrar not later than 48 hours before the AGM in order to be valid.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that (i) if a corporate
shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the
directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give
voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate representative in accordance with those directions;
and (ii) if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not
appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated from those
corporate representatives who attend to vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate
representative. Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies
and corporate representatives (www .icsa.org.uk) for further details of this procedure. The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter
if the chairman is being appointed as described in (i) above.
Registrar
On 1 October 2007 Advent International acquired Lloyds TSB Registrars and changed its name to Equiniti Limited. Equiniti Limited continues to
act as the Company’s Registrar and to provide shareholder services to the members of Smiths Group plc. The address and contact details of
Equiniti Limited are listed on the inside back cover of this report. Individual shareholders ’ access to their personal shareholder information continues
to be available online, through the www.shareview.co.uk website. Dividend payments will continue to be made through Lloyds TSB Bank. The
shareholder helpline telephone number has changed to 0871 384 2943. (Note: calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a UK BT
landline. Other telephony providers’ costs may vary .) 
Important information
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take in relation to the resolutions being proposed at the AGM, you are recommended to consult
your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000. If you received this document in printed form from the Company and have recently sold or transferred all your shares in Smiths
Group plc, please pass this document to the purchaser or transferee or to the agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission
to the purchaser or transferee.
Recommendation
Y our directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole
and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions. The directors intend to vote in favour of the resolutions in respect of their own
beneficial holdings.
By Order of the Board
Sarah Cameron
Secretary
765 Finchley Road
London NW11 8DS
23 September 2008
42 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Group directors’ report continued Compliance with the Combined Code
Throughout the period 1 August 2007 to 31 July 2008 the Company has been in full compliance with the June 2006 issue of the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance (the Code) except that the value of any fees received by executive directors in respect of external non-executive directorships
is not disclosed in the Remuneration Report, as this is not considered relevant to the Company . 
Directors
The Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the Company’s success. The Board’s role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of
controls that allow risk to be assessed and managed. The Board sets strategic aims and the Company’s values, ensuring that obligations to
shareholders are met. Non-executive directors have a particular role in overseeing the development of strategy, scrutinising management
performance and ensuring the integrity of financial information and systems of risk management. The Board is satisfied that it has met these
requirements.
During the last financial year the membership of the Board has changed. Mr K.O. Butler-Wheelhouse retired as Chief Executive on 10 December
2007 and was succeeded on that date by Mr P . Bowman. Mr P .H. Loescher, who had been a non-executive director since 1 June 2007, resigned on
4 April 2008. Mr D.P . Lillycrop, who was appointed as an executive director on 4 December 2000 and as Company Secretary on 11 December 2000,
resigned from both offices on 3 June 2008. Ms S.L. Cameron was appointed as the Company Secretary on 1 July 2008.
As at 19 September 2008, the Board comprises Mr Brydon (Chairman), Mr Bowman (Chief Executive), one other executive director and four
independent non-executive directors. Mr Jackson is the senior independent director . Biographies of these directors, giving details of their experience
and other main commitments, are set out on page 36. The wide-ranging experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors ensure that
they can debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both the development of strategy and the evaluation of performance
against the goals set by the Board.
The Board normally holds formal meetings at least six times a year to make and review major business decisions and monitor current trading
against plans which it has approved. It additionally exercises control by determining matters specifically reserved to it in a formal schedule which
only the Board may change: these matters include the acquisition of significant companies, the issue of shares, significant contractual commitments,
the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes and major capital expenditure. Once a year, the Board meets with a particular focus
on long-term strategy and developments affecting the Company . Additional meetings are arranged as necessary to deal with urgent items.
The Board sets the Company’s values and standards and has adopted a Code of Business Ethics which is referred to on page 32.
The Chairman meets the non-executive directors without the executive directors present at least three times per annum. The senior independent
director meets the other non-executive directors without the Chairman present at least annually . 
Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy .
The following table shows the number of scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings held during the financial year ended 31 July 2008 and
opposite each director’s name the number of meetings they were eligible to attend and the number actually attended. However, directors attend
many other meetings and make site visits during the year . The Board views directors’ contributions as measured beyond meeting attendance
records.
Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to
Name attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended
D H Brydon 77––5544
P Bowman (appointed 10/12/2007) 55––––––
D J Challen 773355––
S J Chambers 77––55––
P J Jackson 77333344
J Langston 77––––––
Sir Kevin T ebbit 66223233
K O Butler-Wheelhouse (retired 10/12/2007) 22––––––
D P Lillycrop (resigned 03/06/2008) 66––––––
P H Loescher (resigned 08/04/2008) 42––21––
– indicates not a member of that Committee in 2007/08
Chairman and Chief Executive
The Board has established clearly defined roles for the Chairman and the Chief Executive, in writing. The Chairman is responsible for leadership
of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda. Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief Executive’ s responsibility to ensure
delivery of the strategic and financial objectives.
43 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Corporate governance report Board balance and independence
There is a balance of executive and non-executive directors such that no individual or small group can dominate the Board’s decision taking.
Throughout the financial year at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, has comprised independent non-executive directors.
In deciding the chairmanship and membership of the Board Committees, the need to refresh membership of the Committees is taken into account.
All the non-executive directors are considered to be independent and Mr Brydon was considered independent at the time of his appointment as
Chairman.
Appointments to the Board
The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, which are made on merit and
against objective criteria.
Information and professional development
The Board is provided with detailed information several days in advance on matters to be considered at its meetings and non-executive directors
have ready access to the executive directors. Regular site visits are arranged and non-executive directors are encouraged to visit sites independently .
During site visits, briefings are arranged and the Board is free to discuss aspects of the business with employees at all levels.
Newly-appointed directors undergo an induction programme to ensure that they have the necessary knowledge and understanding of the Company
and its activities. They undertake briefing sessions on corporate governance, strategy, stakeholder issues, finance and risk management and HR
strategy, as well as meetings and site visits to business locations in the UK and overseas. Each director’ s individual experience and background is
taken into account in developing a programme tailored to his own requirements.
Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary . The suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary who is charged
with facilitating the induction of new directors and with assisting in the ongoing training and development of directors.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to take independent professional
advice at the Company’s expense should this be required.
Performance evaluation
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and the directors. It is confirmed
that all the non-executive directors have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company, that the Chairman does not hold the office of
chairman of another FTSE 100 company and that no executive director holds more than one non-executive directorship of another FTSE 100
company .
A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and the directors was conducted by means of detailed questionnaires
completed by each director . The answers to the questionnaires formed the basis of a review by the whole Board, led by the Chairman.
The performance evaluation of the Chairman was led by the senior independent director who obtained the views of both the executive and non-
executive directors.
Re-election
Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified term of three years and re-election for a second term is not automatic. In exceptional
circumstances and only after rigorous review, a non-executive director may serve for a third term. Any non-executive director who has served for
more than nine years is subject to annual re-election. Directors stand for re-election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting (AGM)
following their appointment and subsequently at least every three years.
Remuneration
Information regarding the Remuneration Committee is set out on page 46 and the Directors’ remuneration report is on pages 47 to 56.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and prospects in the Annual Report and
in interim and other public reports. The Board is satisfied that it has met this obligation. A summary of the directors ’ responsibilities for the financial
statements is set out on page 57.
The ‘going concern’ statement required by the Code is set out in the Group directors’ report on page 39.
Internal control
The Board maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Company’s assets. The effectiveness of
the internal control system is reviewed at least annually, covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls
and risk management systems, and the Board reports to shareholders that it has done so. The Financial Reporting Council’s report, “Internal
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code (October 2005)” provides guidance.
The Company’ s internal control is based on assessment of risk and a framework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor compliance
with procedures. The procedures for accountability and control are outlined below.
44 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Corporate governance report continued The Company’s internal control systems are designed to meet the Company’s particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and, by their
nature, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material loss to the Company or material misstatement in the financial
accounts.
The Group has an embedded process for the identification, evaluation and management of significant business risks. The process is reviewed
through the Audit Committee and monitored by the Group Internal Audit Department. The Company has during the year identified and evaluated
the key risks under three categories – Strategic; Operational; and Corporate Responsibility, including ethical matters and information provision –
and has ensured that effective controls and procedures are in place to manage these risks.
In the highly regulated environment of the industries in which the Company operates, procedures are codified in detailed operating procedures
manuals and are reinforced by regular educational programmes. These are designed to ensure compliance not only with the regulatory
requirements but also with general principles of business integrity .
A key element in any system is communication: the executive directors and senior corporate staff meet regularly with representatives from the
businesses to address financial, human resource, risk management and other control issues.
Throughout the financial year the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the effectiveness of internal control and the management of risks.
In addition to financial and business reports, the Board has reviewed medium and longer-term strategic plans; capital expenditure and development
programmes; management and product development programmes; reports on key operational issues; tax; treasury; risk management; insurance;
legal matters; and Audit Committee reports, including internal and external auditor reports.
Audit Committee and Auditor
The Audit Committee makes formal and transparent arrangements for considering how financial reporting and internal control principles are
applied and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with shareholders
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Director, Investor Relations communicate with institutional investors through analysts ’ briefings and
extensive investor roadshows in the UK, US and continental Europe, as well as timely Stock Exchange announcements, meetings with management
and site visits. Members of the Board, and in particular non-executive directors, are kept informed of investors ’ views in the main through distribution
of analysts’ and brokers’ briefings. At least twice a year a report is made to the Board on the number and types of meetings held with institutional
shareholders. The Chairman and the non-executive directors are available in the event of shareholder concerns which cannot be addressed through
management. On appointment, new non-executive directors are available to meet shareholders on request.
Constructive use of the AGM
All directors normally attend the Company’s AGM and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors after
the formal proceedings have ended. It is intended that there shall be a poll vote on each resolution at the 2008 AGM. Shareholders will be advised
as to the provisional results of the poll vote on each resolution immediately after each poll is taken. The audited, final results of the poll votes will
be released to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Company’ s website, www .smiths.com, as soon as is practicable after the conclusion
of the AGM.
The Chairmen of the Audit and Nomination Committees were available at the 2007 AGM to answer shareholders’ questions. Mr Chambers, the
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, was not able to attend the meeting: Mr Brydon, a member of the Committee, was available to answer
shareholders’ questions in his stead. All the directors, apart from Mr Chambers, were in attendance. The notice of the AGM and related papers
were sent to shareholders 20 working days before the meeting.
Board Committees
The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees are available upon request and on the Company’s website, www.smiths.com.
Audit Committee
The members of the Committee during the financial year were Mr Challen (Chairman), Mr Jackson and Sir Kevin T ebbit. 
The Board has determined that the Committee members have the skills and experience necessary to contribute meaningfully to the Committee’s
deliberations. In addition, the Chairman of the Committee has requisite experience in accounting and financial management.
The Committee meets at least three times per year to monitor the integrity of the Company’s financial statements and the effectiveness of the
external audit process, Corporate Governance issues and, in particular, the implementation of the Company’s Code of Business Ethics and the
arrangements for employees to raise confidentially (and anonymously, if they so choose) concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting
and other matters. It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Company and the external auditor is maintained,
including reviewing non-audit services and fees and implementing the Company’s audit partner rotation policy. The Committee has primary
responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor .
The Committee also reviews annually the Group’ s systems of internal control; the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group;
and the effectiveness of the internal audit function: it is responsible for approving the appointment and removal of the Director, Internal Audit. The
Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and its effectiveness and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such
review.
In July 2008 the annual review of the Committee’s terms of reference resulted in a number of largely clarificatory changes. 
45 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 In the year to 31 July 2008, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by reviewing:
• the Group’s financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval and the external auditor’s detailed reports thereon;
• the audit fee and non-audit fees payable to the Group’s external auditor;
• the external auditor’ s effectiveness and plan for the audit of the Group’ s 2007/08 accounts, which included confirmations of auditor independence
and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit;
• an annual report on the Group’s systems of internal control and their effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results of the review and
receiving regular updates on key risk areas of financial control;
• the risks associated with major business programmes; and
• the internal audit function’s terms of reference, its 2007/08 work programme and regular reports on its work during the year .
The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information and to obtain
external professional advice at the cost of the Company .
No one other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings. However, the Chairman and the non-executive directors
who are not members of the Committee, the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Director, Internal Audit and external
auditor are normally invited to attend. Others may be invited to attend by the Committee. The papers for and Minutes of each Committee Meeting
are sent to all directors. At least once a year, there is an opportunity for the external auditor, the Director, Internal Audit and the Director of Business
Ethics to discuss matters with the Committee without any executive management being present. The Director, Internal Audit, the Director of
Business Ethics and the external auditor have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
The Committee reviews the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor in order to ensure that objectivity and
independence are maintained. Under the audit independence policy, approved by the Committee, certain non-audit services may not be provided
by the external auditor, certain services require the approval of the Finance Director and other services require the approval of the Chairman of the
Committee. Where the cost of the services is expected to exceed £100,000, the engagement will normally be subject to competitive tender . The
external auditor has in place processes to ensure that its independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure that where it does provide
non-audit services, its independence is not threatened. The external auditor has written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in its opinion, it
is independent.
Remuneration Committee
Mr Brydon and Mr Challen were members of the Committee throughout the financial year . Mr Chambers served as Chairman of the Committee
throughout the year . Mr Loescher was a member of the Committee until his resignation as a director on 4 April 2008. Mr Jackson and Sir Kevin
T ebbit were appointed as members of the Committee on 16 April 2008.
The Committee’s responsibilities and terms of reference are described in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 47.
Nomination Committee
During the financial year the members of the Committee were: Mr Brydon, as Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jackson and Sir Kevin T ebbit.
The Committee leads the process for identifying, and makes recommendations to the Board regarding, candidates for appointment as directors
of the Company and as Company Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group. It also makes
recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nomination Committee and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees. It reviews regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and
experience and the independence of the non-executive directors, and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Committee meets periodically when required. No one other than members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings but the non-
executive directors who are not members of the Committee and the Chief Executive are normally invited to attend and external advisers may be
invited by the Committee to attend.
The Committee has access to such information and advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems
necessary. This may include the appointment of external search consultants, where appropriate. The Committee reviews annually its terms of
reference and effectiveness and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review. In July 2008 the annual review of the
Committee’s terms of reference resulted in a number of revisions.
The procedures referred to above, including the use of an external search consultant, were used by the Nomination Committee in recommending
the appointment of Mr Bowman as the Chief Executive on 10 December 2007.
46 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Corporate governance report continued The Directors’ remuneration report is presented to shareholders by the Board. The report complies with the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002 (the Regulations). A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 18 November 2008 inviting them to
approve this report.
Remuneration policy and arrangements
The Remuneration Committee
Responsibilities of the Committee include making recommendations to the Board on the Group’ s executive remuneration policy and determining,
on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration packages for the executive directors and Chairman. The Committee operates within agreed terms
of reference which are available for inspection on the Company’s website. The Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code 2006
on Corporate Governance relating to directors’ remuneration throughout the financial year except as is disclosed on page 43.
In 2007/08 the Committee consisted of: Mr S.J. Chambers (Chairman of the Committee); Mr D.H. Brydon; Mr D.J. Challen; Mr P .J. Jackson (member
from 16 April 2008); Mr P .H. Loescher (resigned on 4 April 2008); and Sir Kevin T ebbit (member from 16 April 2008).
Mr Brydon is absent when his own remuneration as Chairman of the Company is under consideration. The Chief Executive attends meetings of
the Committee by invitation; he is absent when his own remuneration is under consideration. 
During the year, the Committee received material assistance and advice from the Chief Executive, the General Counsel (who was also Secretary
to the Committee until 3 June 2008) and the HR Director (who was also Secretary to the Committee from 3 June 2008).
During the year, the Committee received advice from Kepler Associates, who succeeded T owers Perrin as the independent executive remuneration
advisers to the Committee in March 2008, and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP . Kepler Associates did not provide any other advice to the
Group. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, who were appointed by the Company, also advised the Group on various legal matters during the year .
Remuneration policy
The Committee applies a remuneration policy which has at its core the following objectives:
• to align the interests of executives with those of shareholders
• to focus on top line growth, improving margins and capital discipline
• to link a significant proportion of remuneration to financial and individual performance, both in the short-term and long-term
• to provide strong linkage between remuneration and performance
• to ensure remuneration is market-competitive and helps attract and retain executives of the highest calibre.
Remuneration arrangements
The remuneration of senior executives balances fixed, variable, short-term and long-term remuneration, and is reviewed each year to ensure that
they are appropriately incentivised to achieve the Group’s objectives.
For 2007/08, executive directors’ remuneration comprised basic salary, benefits in kind, annual bonus and pension benefits. In addition, executive
directors and senior executives participated in share-based incentive schemes, which in 2007/08 included the Smiths Group Sharesave Scheme,
the Smiths Group Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Smiths Group Co-Investment Plan (CIP).
During the year, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the Group’ s senior executive remuneration arrangements with a view to ensuring that they
support the new strategy of focusing on value creation at both Group and Divisional levels.
On 28 July 2008, shareholders approved the Value Sharing Plan (VSP), a one-off long-term incentive plan rewarding executives for value creation
at Group and Divisional levels over three-year and four-year periods commencing with the financial year 2008/09. The two executive directors and
any other Corporate participants will be rewarded under the VSP for value creation at a Group level, whereas the executives with divisional
responsibilities will be rewarded for value creation within the division for which they are responsible. The CIP will continue to operate with some
amendments, also approved by shareholders. The participants in the VSP (including executive directors) will not be eligible for awards under the
Performance Share Plan in 2008/09 or 2009/10.
47 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Directors’ remuneration report The main elements of remuneration for executive directors in 2007/08 and 2008/09 are summarised below:
Element Objective 2007/08 policy 2008/09 policy
Base salary •Reflects individual performance •Reviewed annually •Frozen at current levels for
(see page 49) and experience; size and nature •2007/08 annual base salaries for at least 2 years
of the role current executive directors range
from £400,000 to £800,000 p.a.
Annual bonus •Incentivises short-term •Rewards Group and Divisional profit, •Increased weighting on
(see page 49) operational and financial cashflow and individual performance individual performance
performance •Maximum opportunity of 120% of •T ougher performance targets
salary for the Chief Executive and •Opportunity increased to 180% of salary
100% of salary for other executive for the Chief Executive and 150% of
directors salary for any other executive director
Co-Investment •Encourages executives to build •Voluntary investment opportunity of •Mandatory investment in Smiths shares
Plan (CIP) a shareholding in the Company up to 100% of net bonus earned of 50% of any net bonus earned
(see page 49) •Helps align interests of executives (or 25% of salary, if higher) in respect of 2008/09
and shareholders into Smiths shares •2-for-1 matching opportunity on invested
•1-for-1 matching opportunity on any shares after 3 years if average ROCE
invested shares if average 3-year exceeds WACC+3% p.a. (1-for-1 match 
ROCE exceeds WACC+1% p.a. for ROCE between WACC+1% and 
WACC+3% p.a.)
Performance •Incentivises executives to achieve •Annual conditional share awards •Replaced by VSP
Share Plan (PSP) superior long-term performance vesting 1/3rd on 3 year TSR relative (see below)
(see page 50) and commitment to the goals of to the FTSE100 (excluding financial
the Group services companies) and 2/3rds on
•Aligns executives’ interests 3-year EPS growth
with those of shareholders •Awards worth 133.3% of salary for
•Helps retain key talent the Chief Executive and 112.5% of
salary for other executive directors
Value Sharing Plan •Incentivises senior executives •Not applicable •One-off incentive rewarding value
(VSP) to drive value creation creation over 3 years and 4 years
(see page 49) •Reinforces and rewards delivery •Executives receive a pre defined 
of strategic goals number of shares per £5m of ‘surplus
value created’.
•For executive directors, 1/3rd of an award
is based on growth in TSR relative to the
FTSE100 (excluding financial services
companies) and 2/3rds on the growth in
internal value above the cost of equity
Pension •Provides competitive retirement •Varies between executive directors •As for 2007/08
(see page 50) benefits according to what was agreed at 
time of appointment
Share ownership •Requires executives to build •150% of salary for executive •Increase share ownership guideline for
guidelines and maintain a significant directors the Chief Executive to 200% of salary
(see page 50) shareholding in Smiths •150% of salary for other executive
•Supports alignment with directors
shareholder interests
The executive directors’ remuneration packages in 2007/08 and 20/08/09 include fixed and variable elements. The fixed element is salary, which
remains unchanged for both the Chief Executive and Finance Director, as described above: the variable elements assume that target annual
bonuses will be achieved in respect of each year and include fair-value assessments of the long term incentive components of the packages
awarded in each year . Approximately 60% of the executive directors ’ total remuneration for 2007/08 is expected to come from the variable elements
of their packages: the changes outlined above for 2008/09 are anticipated to increase the proportion of their remuneration that is derived from
variable elements to approximately 70%.
48 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Directors’ remuneration report continued Elements of Remuneration
Base salary and benefits
Executive directors ’ salaries have typically been reviewed annually, taking into account individual performance and experience, the size and nature
of the role, the relative performance of the Company, remuneration policy within the Company and salaries at comparator companies. The salaries
for all participants in the Value Sharing Plan, including executive directors, will be frozen at current levels until 2010. Executive directors’ base
salaries for 2008/09 are, therefore, unchanged from 2007/08 at the following levels:
Executive director Salary last reviewed 2008/09 salary
Mr P Bowman 10 December 2007 £800,000
Mr J Langston 1 August 2007 £424,000
Benefits include a fully expensed company car, or an allowance in lieu, and health insurance.
Annual bonus
2007/08
Executive directors were eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan based on a combination of corporate financial goals (Group and Divisional
profit and cashflow) and individual performance. The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive was 120% of salary and for other
executive directors was 100% of salary. Bonuses to be paid to executive directors in respect of the 2007/08 financial year are set out in the
emoluments table on page 51.
2008/09
Maximum annual bonus opportunities will be increased to 180% of salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of salary for any other executive director .
Targets will be made commensurately more demanding, and one-third of the bonus opportunity will be linked to the achievement of personal
objectives. 50% of any net bonus earned must be invested in Smiths shares under the rules of the CIP .
Co-Investment Plan (CIP)
2007/08
Executive directors and selected senior executives were invited to participate in the CIP . Participants were able to invest up to 100% of their net earned
annual bonus (or, if greater, 25% of salary) into Smiths shares. Invested amounts were eligible for a 1-for-1 matching share award after three years
(based on the pre-tax amount of salary or deferred bonus in question), subject to continued employment in the Group and the Company’ s average
return on capital employed (ROCE) over the performance period exceeding the Company’ s weighted average cost of capital (WACC) over the same
period by an average margin of at least 1% per annum. 
2008/09
Executive directors and selected senior executives will be required to invest 50% of any net bonus earned in respect of 2008/09 in Smiths shares.
The maximum matching opportunity will be increased to 2-for-1, subject to the average ROCE exceeding the WACC by at least 3% p.a. over three
years (with a 1-for-1 match if ROCE is between WACC+1% and WACC+3% p.a.). As a change to 2007/08, notional dividends will be paid on matching
shares that vest.
The Committee continues to regard ROCE as an appropriate performance condition for reflecting the operating efficiency of the Company .
Value Sharing Plans (VSPs)
The Group and Divisional VSPs are one-off, long-term incentive plans, designed to reinforce Smiths’ strategy of focusing on shareholder value
creation at the Group and Divisional levels.
Group VSP
Messrs Bowman and Langston are participants in the Group VSP, which rewards executive directors and selected senior executives with a pre
determined number of shares for every £5m of value created above a hurdle over the three-year and four-year performance periods from 1 August
2008 (or until a vesting event, if earlier). On 28 July 2008 Mr Bowman was granted an award under which he will be entitled to receive 1,250 Smiths
Group shares for each £5m of surplus value created in respect of each performance period. On the same date Mr Langston was granted an award
under which he will be entitled to receive 500 Smiths Group shares for each £5m of surplus value created in respect of each performance period.
– TSR Element
One-third of the award will depend on the growth, over each performance period, in Smiths’ market capitalisation plus net equity cashflows to
shareholders (i.e. dividends plus share buybacks less share issues) over and above the median total shareholder return of the FTSE100 companies
(excluding financial services companies).
– Earnings Element
The remaining two thirds of each award will be determined by the growth, over each performance period, in adjusted Profit Before Tax (PBT)
(2007/08: £338.6m) times a fixed multiple of 12 plus net equity cashflows to shareholders over and above a cost of equity hurdle return of 9.5% p.a.
Participants will only be entitled to a vesting of shares under the TSR Element if the Committee is satisfied that this is justified by the underlying
financial performance of the Company over the Performance Period.
No retesting of either performance condition is permitted.
49 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Divisional VSPs
In addition to the Group VSP, the Committee has introduced Divisional plans for each of the five divisions (Smiths Detection, Smiths Medical, John
Crane, Smiths Interconnect, and Flex-T ek). The plans are along the same lines as the Group VSP to help focus the most senior Divisional executives
on maximising the value of their divisions and returning surplus cash. Further details on the Divisional VSPs are contained in the Circular Letter
to Shareholders dated 4 July 2008.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
No awards will be made under the PSP to executive directors or any other participants in the VSP in 2008/09 and 2009/10. Grants to executive
directors in 2007/08 were between 112.5% and 133.3% of salary . An award of 150% of salary was made to Mr Bowman on his appointment.
Awards vest after three years, subject to performance conditions. One-third of the award vests based on the Company’ s TSR performance relative
to the FTSE100 companies (excluding financial services companies); the remaining two-thirds of the award vests subject to an earnings per share
(EPS) growth target (measured before exceptional items). 
Sharesave Scheme 
The Smiths Group Sharesave Scheme, which is open to all UK employees with at least 12 months’ service, is subject to UK legislation as to the
amount that can be saved. Participants save a fixed sum per month for three or five years and may use the sum generated by their savings contracts
to exercise the options which are usually granted at a 20% discount to the market price.
Share ownership guidelines
It is the Committee’s policy that executive directors should, over time, acquire a shareholding with a value equal to at least one and a half years’
gross salary and retain at least 50% of any net vested share awards (after sales to meet tax liabilities) until those values are achieved. In 2008/09,
the share ownership guideline will be increased to two years’ gross salary for the Chief Executive.
Share scheme dilution limits
The Company follows the guidelines laid down by the Association of British Insurers. These restrict the issue of new shares under all the Company’ s
share schemes in any 10-year period to 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital and under the Company’s discretionary schemes to 5 per
cent in any 10-year period. As at 31 July 2008, the headroom available under these limits was 3.8% and 0.1%, respectively (excluding the conditional
share awards granted under the VSP on 28 July 2008). 
Pension
The Company operates appropriate pension arrangements for executive directors. In the case of Mr Bowman, the Company pays a monthly salary
supplement of a percentage of salary approved by the Committee to enable him to make his own pension provision. In the case of Mr Langston, a
final salary scheme provides a pension of up to two-thirds of final pensionable salary . The Company continues to apply an earnings cap, on a basis
similar to the pre-2006 statutory limit, to determine the proportion of overall pension payable by the regulated pension scheme, with the balance
of pension provided by the Company . This arrangement substantially represents a continuation of pre-2006 practice and involves no additional cost
for the Company . In appropriate cases, the Company permits the waiver of salary and pension supplement entitlements where the arrangement
does not involve additional cost for the Company . Where such waivers are made, incentives and pension entitlements continue to be calculated by
reference to salaries prior to these reductions. Details of the salary supplements, waiver and other pension provisions are set out in the tables on
pages 51 and 52. 
Five-year historical TSR performance
The following graph shows the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance over the past five years compared to the FTSE100 Index.
The FTSE100 Index, of which the Company has been a member throughout the period, has been selected to reflect the TSR performance of other
leading UK-listed companies. The values of hypothetical £100 investments in the FTSE100 Index and Smiths Group plc shares (after adjustment
for the Return of Cash in June 2007) were £165 and £166 respectively .
50 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Value of hypothetical £100 holding
£200
£180
£160
£140
£120
£100
£80
July 03 July 04 July 05 July 06 July 07 July 08
Smiths Group plc
FTSE 100 Remuneration
The total remuneration of directors, excluding the value of shares to which certain directors may become entitled under the Performance Share
Plan and Co-Investment Plan and also defined benefit pension arrangements, was as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Fees, salaries and benefits, compensation for loss of office 4,098 2,740
Performance-related bonuses 1,232 1,943
Aggregate gain from exercise of share options and vesting of share awards 2,026 3,479
Incremental gain from deferred share scheme exercises 109 363
Payments in lieu of pension contribution 362 544
7,827 9,069
The emoluments of the directors are set out below:
Compensation Payments in
for loss lieu of pension
Fees/salary of office Benefits Bonus contribution T otal emoluments
2008 2007 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Chairman
D H Brydon 295 273 – 22–– 317 293
Chief Executive
P Bowman (appointed 10/12/07) 516 – – 14 608 217 1,355 –
Executive director
J Langston 424 400 – 38 346 – 808 788
Non-executive directors
D J Challen 67 65 –––– 67 65
S J Chambers (appointed 27/11/06) 62 40 –––– 62 40
P J Jackson 67 65 –––– 67 65
Sir Kevin T ebbit (appointed 14/06/06) 52 50 –––– 52 50
Directors who resigned in 2007/08
K O Butler-Wheelhouse (retired 10/12/07 – note 4) 310 840 1,748 46 – 145 2,249 2,132
D P Lillycrop (resigned 03/06/08 – note 5) 337 359 – 70 278 – 685 787
P H Loescher 
(appointed 01/06/07; resigned 08/04/08) 36 8 –––– 36 8
Directors who resigned in 2006/07 (in aggregate) – 412 ––––– 999
2,166 2,512 1,748 190 1,232 362 5,698 5,227
1. Shares which may be awarded under the Performance Share Plan; Co-Investment Plan; and the Group Value Sharing Plan are as set out in the
directors’ share options and awards table on pages 54 to 56.
2. Under the arrangements approved by the Remuneration Committee, Mr Butler-Wheelhouse waived entitlements to certain of his emoluments
in return for the Company making equivalent amounts of contributions to the Smiths Industries Pension Scheme to provide money purchase
benefits, which does not involve additional cost for the Company . Under these arrangements, Mr Butler-Wheelhouse waived £38,905.79 during the
year . The amounts waived would otherwise have been paid to Mr Butler-Wheelhouse as payments in lieu of pension contributions and are included
in the table above.
3. In common with other UK employees participating in the relevant pension schemes, the salaries of Messrs Langston and Lillycrop were each
reduced by £8,580 and the Company paid the same amount directly to the pension schemes during the year . The salaries shown in the table above
for these directors are the amounts they would have been paid if they had not given up these salary entitlements.
4. Mr Butler-Wheelhouse retired on 10 December 2007. The salary, benefits and pension contribution information in the table above relates to his
employment from 1 August 2007 to 10 December 2007. Further information on Mr Butler-Wheelhouse’ s termination arrangements, including his
bonus payment for 2007/08, is set out below.
5. Mr Lillycrop remained in service on his existing terms and conditions following his resignation from the board. The information in the table
reflects salary and benefits up to his resignation and the proportion of the 2007/08 bonus attributable to his period of service as a director within
that year . During the period 4 June to 31 July 2008, Mr Lillycrop received £63,388 in salary and benefits to the value of £13,164 as an employee: 
the proportion of his 2007/08 bonus attributable to that period was £53,395. Further information on Mr Lillycrop’ s termination arrangements is set
out below.
51 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Payments in
lieu of pension Directors’ pension entitlements
Accrued annual pension under defined benefit schemes
Transfer Transfer Transfer
Additional value of value of value of The amount of
pension earned accrued accrued accrued (A – B) less
during the benefits at benefits at benefits at contributions
Accrued year (excluding 31 July 2008 31 July 2007 31 July 2007 made by Accrued
entitlement at any increase (New basis) (MFR basis) (New basis) the director entitlement
Age at 31 July 2007 for inflation) (A) (B) (C) in 2008 at 31 July 2008
31 July 2008 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 p.a.
J Langston 58 212 20 5,670 3,656 4,183 2,014 241
D P Lillycrop (resigned 03/06/08) 52 156 24 3,414 2,058 2,267 1,356 186
1. An executive director’s normal retirement age is 60. An early retirement pension, based on actual service completed, may be paid after age 50
and may be subject to a reduction on account of early payment. On death, a spouse’s pension of two-thirds of the director’s pension (or for death-
in-service his prospective pension at age 60) is payable. All pensions in excess of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) are guaranteed to
increase at the lesser of (i) 7% per annum compound and (ii) the annual increase in the Retail Prices Index. There has, however, been a long-standing
practice of granting additional discretionary increases on pensions in excess of the GMP to bring them into line with price inflation.
2. See Note 3 above. The benefits provided under the relevant pension schemes were not affected by these arrangements.
3. Transfer values of the accrued benefits have been calculated in accordance with actuarial guidance (GN11), and represent the amount that the
pension scheme would pay to another pension provider if the member elects to transfer all of his benefits out of the scheme. The transfer values
do not represent sums payable or due to the individual directors and therefore cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
4. The transfer basis changed with effect from August 2007 and therefore the transfer value at 31 July 2007 is shown on the revised basis for
comparison purposes (see Column (C) in the table above).
Directors’ interests in the Company’s shares
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares
of 37.5p each of 37.5p each
31 July 2008 1 August 2007
D H Brydon 8,000 8,000
P Bowman (appointed 10/12/07) 20,000 3,000
†
D J Challen 1,333 1,333
S J Chambers 1,333 1,333
P J Jackson 0 0
J Langston 175,650 112,824
Sir Kevin T ebbit 0 0
K O Butler-Wheelhouse (retired 10/12/07) 317,368* 400,732
D P Lillycrop (resigned 03/06/08) 91,598* 80,623
P H Loescher (resigned 04/04/08) 0* 0
*Indicates holding of ordinary shares of 37.5p each at date of resignation.
†Indicates holding of ordinary shares of 37.5p each at date of appointment
These interests include beneficial interests of the directors and their families in the Company’ s shares held in trusts and holdings through nominee
companies. None of the directors has disclosed any non-beneficial interests in the Company’s shares.
The Company has not been notified of any changes to the holdings of the current directors, their families and any connected persons between 
1 August and 19 September 2008.
Service contracts
The Company’s policy is that executive directors are normally employed on terms which include a one-year rolling period of notice and provision
for the payment of a predetermined sum in the event of termination of employment in certain circumstances (but excluding circumstances where
the Company is entitled to dismiss without compensation).
Mr Bowman is employed under a service contract with the Company dated 15 November 2007 and effective from 10 December 2007. The service
contract is for an indefinite term expressed to end automatically on his anticipated normal retirement date (age 60), but may be terminated by 12
months ’ notice given by the Company (save that during the first 12 months of employment, the notice period shall expire on the second anniversary
of the effective date) or six months’ notice given by Mr Bowman. The Company may elect to terminate the contract by making a payment in lieu of
notice equal to 150% of Mr Bowman’s basic salary in respect of the unserved notice period. In this event, the contract provides that Mr Bowman’s
bonus entitlement for the financial year in which termination occurs and for the unserved notice period will be the subject of a separate, good faith
discussion between Mr Bowman and the Chairman; the contract also specifies that Mr Bowman will be treated as a “good leaver” for the purposes
of relevant share plans. In certain constructive dismissal events, Mr Bowman is entitled to resign and be treated in the manner set out above.
52 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Directors’ remuneration report continued Mr Langston is employed under a service contract with the Company dated 26 September 2001. The service contract is for an indefinite term
expressed to end automatically on the anticipated normal retirement date (age 60), but may be terminated by 12 months’ notice given by the
Company or six months’ notice given by Mr Langston. The Company may at its discretion elect to terminate the contract by making a payment in
lieu of notice on the following terms: 
1. the salary receivable during the notice period; 
2. an amount equal to 50% of the maximum bonus potential receivable under the executive bonus scheme for the then current bonus year; 
3. the annual cost to the Company of providing all other benefits to which Mr Langston is entitled under his contract, which has been pre-agreed
as 10% of basic salary; and
4. an amount equal to the cost of securing one year’ s pensionable service in the appropriate pension scheme(s). In addition, the Company has given
its irrevocable consent to early payment of Mr Langston’s pension from age 50 and without actuarial reduction from age 55. 
Mr Lillycrop, who resigned as a director on 3 June 2008, remains employed under a service contract dated 26 September 2001. Under a compromise
agreement dated 14 August 2008, it has been agreed that Mr Lillycrop will remain in service until 30 November 2008 (serving six months of his notice
period), continuing to receive normal salary and benefits until that date. In accordance with the termination provisions in his service contract (which
reflect those of Mr Langston’s service contract, as described above), he will on termination become entitled to a payment of £332,000 and the
credit of six months ’ additional pensionable service. The Company has agreed to the continuation of private healthcare cover for Mr Lillycrop’ s and
his spouse’s lifetimes and to approximately £50,000 of educational benefits for his children for the current academic year: he will also be entitled
to outplacement counselling and to payment of legal fees relating to the termination. In accordance with Mr Lillycrop’s service contract, his share
awards under the PSP and matching share awards under the CIP will be preserved and will be capable of vesting on the normal vesting dates without
application of time prorating. 
Mr Butler-Wheelhouse, who resigned as a director on 10 December 2007, was employed under a service contract with the Company dated 26
September 2001, as varied by a letter dated 31 July 2007. Although it had been anticipated that Mr Butler-Wheelhouse would be retiring on 31July
2008, such that no compensation would have been payable to him under his service contract on retirement, his employment was, in fact, terminated
on 10 December 2007 in order to facilitate handover arrangements to his successor as Chief Executive. He was accordingly entitled under his
contract to receive a termination payment of £833,055, representing his entitlement to salary, pension allowance and benefits in kind for the period
from 11 December 2007 to 31 July 2008, and a cash bonus of £915,363 (being an amount equal to the average of the annual bonuses paid to him
over the three financial years 2004/05, 2005/06 and 2006/07). He was also entitled to the continuation of private healthcare for his and his spouse’ s
lifetimes and to life cover and car benefits until 31 July 2008. In relation to Mr Butler-Wheelhouse’s share awards under the PSP and matching
share awards under the CIP, the Committee agreed to provide him with the most favourable treatment under the rules, so that his awards will be
preserved and capable of vesting on the normal vesting dates without application of time prorating. 
External appointments
Subject to the overriding requirements of the Company, the Committee is prepared to allow executive directors to accept external appointments
where it considers that such appointments will contribute to the director’ s breadth of knowledge and experience. Directors are permitted to retain
fees associated with such appointments. 
Chairman and non-executive directors
Non-executive directors (which term excludes the Chairman) were paid fees totalling £284,000 in the financial year ended 31 July 2008. Their
remuneration is determined by the Board in accordance with the Articles of Association, with the non-executive directors abstaining from voting.
During the year, the basic fee was £52,000 per annum. The Chairman and the non-executive directors are not eligible for bonuses or participation
in share schemes and no pension contributions are made on their behalf . The Chairman and the non-executive directors serve the Company under
letters of appointment and do not have contracts of service or contracts for services.
Auditable part
The directors’ remuneration tables and accompanying notes on page 51; the directors’ pensions table and accompanying notes on page 52; and
the directors’ share options and awards table on pages 54 to 56 have been audited.
The Directors’ remuneration report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
S J Chambers
23 September 2008
53 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Directors’ share options and long-term share plans
Options Options
and and
awards awards
held on held on
31 July 2008 31 July 2007 Option and award data Options exercised and awards vested 2007/08
Market price Market price
Performance Exercise Grant Vesting Expiry Exercise Exercise at date of at date of
Director and Scheme Number Number test price date date* date** date Number price grant*** exercise
P Bowman – appointed 10/12/07
PSP 75,543 0 x C n/a 11/12/07 13/11/10 13/11/10
37,771 0 x D n/a 11/12/07 13/11/10 13/11/10
J Langston
95 ESOS 38,462 38,462 A 806.00p 09/04/02 09/04/05 09/04/12
38,461 38,461 B 806.00p 09/04/02 09/04/05 09/04/12
PSP 0 44,547 C n/a 07/12/04 07/12/07 07/12/07 44,547 n/a 781.50p 1,059.00p
0 # 22,274 D n/a 07/12/04 07/12/07 lapsed 07/12/07
38,269 38,269 C n/a 07/10/05 20/10/08 20/10/08
19,135 19,135 D n/a 07/10/05 20/10/08 20/10/08
44,618 44,618 C n/a 29/09/06 25/10/09 25/10/09
22,309 22,309 D n/a 29/09/06 25/10/09 25/10/09
38,243 0 C n/a 13/11/07 13/11/10 13/11/10
19,121 0 D n/a 13/11/07 13/11/10 13/11/10
CIP 51,680 51,680 E n/a 25/10/05 24/09/08 24/09/08
31,881 31,881 E n/a 02/02/07 30/09/09 30/09/09
22,202 0 E n/a 13/11/07 29/09/10 29/09/10
SAYE 0 1,795 525.00p 05/05/04 01/08/07 01/08/07 1,795 525.00p 525.00p 1,025.00p
1,088 1,088 868.00p 18/05/07 01/08/10 01/02/11
DSS 0 17,922 0.10p 07/12/04 07/12/07 07/12/07 17,922 0.10p 784.17p 1,059.00p
TI 90 ESOS 0 # 18,691 1,219.80p 08/09/97 08/09/00 lapsed 08/09/07
D P Lillycrop – resigned 03/06/08
95 ESOS 37,221 z 37,221 A 806.00p 09/04/02 09/04/05 01/05/09
37,220 z 37,220 B 806.00p 09/04/02 09/04/05 01/05/09
PSP 0 42,491 C n/a 07/12/04 07/12/07 07/12/07 42,491 n/a 781.50p 1,059.00p
0 # 21,246 D n/a 07/12/04 07/12/07 lapsed 07/12/07 
36,503 z 36,503 C n/a 07/10/05 20/10/08 20/10/08
18,252 z 18,252 D n/a 07/10/05 20/10/08 20/10/08
40,060 z 40,060 C n/a 29/09/06 25/10/09 25/10/09
20,030 z 20,030 D n/a 29/09/06 25/10/09 25/10/09
36,057 z 0 C n/a 13/11/07 13/11/10 13/11/10
18,029 z 0 D n/a 13/11/07 13/11/10 13/11/10
CIP 45,362 z 45,362 E n/a 25/10/05 24/09/08 24/09/08
29,994 z 29,994 E n/a 02/02/07 30/09/09 30/09/09
19,934 z 0 E n/a 13/11/07 29/09/10 29/09/10
SAYE 0 1,539 645.00p 09/05/02 01/08/07 01/08/07 1,539 645.00p 645.00p 1,025.00p
1,185 z 1,185 554.00p 08/05/03 01/08/08 exercised 01/08/08
1,131 z 1,131 868.00p 18/05/07 01/08/10 01/05/09
899 z 0 724.00p 15/05/08 01/08/13 01/05/09
DSS 0 21,750 0.10p 07/12/04 07/12/07 07/12/07 21,750 0.10p 784.17p 1,059.00p
TI 90 ESOS 0 # 19,675 1,219.80p 08/09/97 08/09/00 lapsed 08/09/07
0 23,364 1,026.66p 13/03/98 13/03/01 29/10/07 23,364 1,026.66p 1,026.66p 1,122.90p
54 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Directors’ remuneration report continued
† Options Options
and and
awards awards
held on held on
31 July 2008 31 July 2007 Option and award data Options exercised and awards vested 2007/08
Market price Market price
Performance Exercise Grant Vesting Expiry Exercise Exercise at date of at date of
Director and Scheme Number Number test price date date* date** date Number price grant*** exercise
K O Butler-Wheelhouse – retired 10/12/07 
95 ESOS 86,849 z 86,849 A 806.00p 09/04/02 09/04/05 10/06/09
86,848z 86,848 B 806.00p 09/04/02 09/04/05 10/06/09
PSP 0 100,746 C n/a 07/12/04 07/12/07 07/12/07 100,746 n/a 781.50p 1,059.00p
0 # 50,373 D n/a 07/12/04 07/12/07 lapsed 07/12/07 
86,548z 86,548 C n/a 07/10/05 20/10/08 20/10/08
43,274z 43,274 D n/a 07/10/05 20/10/08 20/10/08
93,698z 93,698 C n/a 29/09/06 25/10/09 25/10/09
46,849z 46,849 D n/a 29/09/06 25/10/09 25/10/09
82,308z 0 C n/a13/11/0713/11/1013/11/10
41,154z 0 D n/a13/11/0713/11/1013/11/10
CIP 125,937z 125,937 E n/a 25/10/05 24/09/08 24/09/08
75,213z 75,213 E n/a 02/02/07 30/09/09 30/09/09
51,655z 0 E n/a13/11/0729/09/1029/09/10
SAYE 2,964z 2,964 554.00p 08/05/03 01/08/08 exercised 01/08/08
DSS 58,987z 58,987 0.10p 07/12/04 07/12/07 exercised 20/03/08
Value Sharing Plan
VSP awards VSP awards
held on held on
31 July 2008 31 July 2007 Award data Awards vested 2007/08
Shares Shares Market price Market price
per £5m per £5m Performance Exercise Grant Vesting Expiry Exercise Exercise at date of at date of
Director and Scheme surplus value surplus value test price date date* date** date Number price grant*** exercise
P Bowman – appointed 10/12/07
VSP 417 0 x F n/a 28/07/08 Oct 2011 Oct 2011
833 0 x G n/a 28/07/08 Oct 2011 Oct 2011
417 0 x F n/a 28/07/08 Oct 2012 Oct 2012
833 0 x G n/a 28/07/08 Oct 2012 Oct 2012
J Langston
VSP 167 0 F n/a 28/07/08 Oct 2011 Oct 2011
333 0 G n/a 28/07/08 Oct 2011 Oct 2011
167 0 F n/a 28/07/08 Oct 2012 Oct 2012
333 0 G n/a 28/07/08 Oct 2012 Oct 2012
Key
95 ESOS The Smiths Industries 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme
PSP The Smiths Group Performance Share Plan
CIP The Smiths Group Co-Investment Plan
SAYE The Smiths Group Sharesave Scheme
DSS The Smiths Industries Senior Executive Deferred Share Scheme
TI 90 ESOS The TI Group (1990) Executive Share Option Scheme
VSP The Smiths Group Value Sharing Plan
* The Vesting Dates shown above in respect of options granted under the 95 ESOS and awards made under the PSP, CIP and VSP are subject to the relevant performance test
being passed.
** Market price of a Smiths share at date of grant (if different from exercise price). The exercise price of an option under the Smiths Group Sharesave Scheme is set at 20% less
than the mid-market closing price of a Smiths share on the business day preceding the date on which employees are invited to participate in the grant. The market prices for
DSS options are actual prices paid for the matching shares purchased by the optionholders.
*** The expiry dates shown above apply in normal circumstances. No expiry date is shown if the option or award was exercised or vested or lapsed prior to 19 September 2008. In
the case of the two former directors, the expiry dates shown are specific to their particular circumstances.
† Mid-market closing quotation from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List or actual sale price, if applicable.
# Denotes an option that lapsed on the 10th anniversary of its date of grant or a conditional award that lapsed on the 3rd anniversary of the date of its grant.
x Options and awards held at date of appointment as a director of the Company .
z Options and awards held at date of cessation of appointment as a director of the Company .
‡ Indicates the number of shares that will be awarded for each £5m of surplus value created, subject to the performance test and hurdle. The operation of the VSP is explained
in detail above.
55 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
†
† ‡‡ Performance tests
A EPS growth versus UK RPI Index + 3% p.a.
B EPS growth versus UK RPI Index + 4% p.a.
C PSP Earnings Per Share growth test (see below)
D PSP T otal Shareholder Return rank test (see below)
E CIP Return on Capital Employed test (see above)
F Surplus Shareholder Value – VSP TSR T est (see above)
G Surplus Internal Value – VSP PBT T est (see above)
Notes
The high and low market prices of the ordinary shares during the period 1 August 2007 to 31 July 2008 were 1151p and 891.5p respectively .
The mid-market closing price on 31 July 2007 was 1047p and on 31 July 2008 was 1047p.
The mid-market closing price of a Smiths share on the date of awards made to directors under the PSP and CIP in the 2007/08 financial year was 1057p.
Of the 78,011 shares under options granted to and held by directors under 95 ESOS and SAYE at 31 July 2008, all shares were granted at exercise prices below the market price of a Smiths
Group share on 19 September 2008 (1108p).
None of the options or awards listed above was subject to any payment on grant.
Options and awards which lapsed during the financial year ended 31 July 2008 are indicated in the table above by a hash mark (#): no other options or awards held by any director lapsed
during the period 1 August 2007 to 31 July 2008. 
No other Director held any options over the Company’s shares during the period 1 August 2007 to 31 July 2008.
No options or awards have been granted to or exercised by directors or have lapsed during the period 1 August to 19 September 2008.
Executive directors received their final grants of options under the 95 ESOS in October 2003. From 2004 to 2007, senior executives, including directors, received awards under the PSP . The
final grant of options under the DSS was issued in December 2004: the DSS has been replaced by the CIP . 
PSP awards will be released after three years to the extent a performance condition is met. One-third of the award is subject to a TSR target relative to other FTSE 100 companies (excluding
financial companies and investment trusts). For full vesting, the Company’s TSR must be at or above the 75th percentile over the three year performance period. 25% of the award will vest
if the Company’s TSR is at median. Awards will vest on a straight-line pro rata basis between median and 75th percentile. The remaining two-thirds of the award will be subject to an
earnings per share (EPS) growth target (measured before exceptional items). For each of the three year cycles commencing in 2005/06, 2006/07 and 2007/08 full vesting will occur if the
compound annual growth in EPS is equivalent to 12% per annum. 25% vesting will occur if the compound annual growth in EPS is equivalent to 5% per annum, with vesting on a straight-
line basis between 5% and 12%. The Committee considered the use of two measures, in these proportions, to be appropriate. The TSR performance measure is dependent on the Company’ s
relative long-term share price performance and, therefore, brings a market perspective to the Performance Share Plan. This is balanced by a key internal measure, EPS growth, which is
critical to our long-term success and ties in with the Group’s strategic goals. The Committee determined the threshold and maximum vesting levels operated to date after considering the
Company’ s historic performance and future plans, and on the basis of external advice. There will be no retesting of the TSR and EPS performance measures. The VSP had replaced the PSP
and no awards will be made under the PSP in 2008/09 or 2009/10.
The performance criterion for EPS-element of the PSP Awards granted on 7 December 2004 was exceeded and the PSP-element of the Awards vested in full on 7 December 2007. The
performance criterion for the TSR-element of the 2004 PSP Awards was not passed and the TSR-element of all those Awards lapsed on 7 December 2007.
The performance tests for options granted the 95 ESOS up to and including December 2004 have all been passed with the sole exception of the grant on 9 April 2002, which failed its initial
test and two annual retests. No further retests of the April 2002 grant will be undertaken. The April 2002 grant can now only be exercised in the event of a change in control of the Company
or by certain good leavers, in which circumstances the performance tests will be waived.
Under the DSS executive directors were able to use their after tax bonus to purchase the Company’s shares at the prevailing market price. At the end of a three year period, if the Director
is still in office, he can exercise an option granted to him over matching shares, in respect of any shares retained for that period. The number of matching shares awarded was determined
by the Committee at the end of the year in which the bonus was earned by reference to annual bonus, and other corporate financial criteria. The last grant under the DSS was made on 
7 December 2004, in respect of bonus earned in the year to 31 July 2004, and matched shares purchased in the market by the grantee on that day . 
At 31 July 2008 the trustee of the Employee Share Trust held 1,095,965 shares of which 18,582 shares were held for the benefit of senior executives with extant DSS options (none of the
directors had an interest in these shares at 31 July 2008, as disclosed above). The market value of the shares held by the trustee on 31 July 2008 was £11.47m and dividends of approximately
£291,114 were waived in the year in respect of the shares held by the trustee during the year .
There are no performance criteria for the SAYE, DSS or the TI 90 ESOS.
Special provisions permit early exercise of options and vesting of awards in the event of redundancy, death, etc.
56 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Directors’ remuneration report continued Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company and the Group at the end of the year, and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those accounts, the directors are
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state that the consolidated financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards, and the Parent Company Financial
Statements comply with UK GAAP;
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts;
and
• prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of
the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the relevant provisions of the Companies Acts 1985 to 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention of fraud and 
other irregularities.
57 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Statement of directors’ responsibilities Independent auditors’ report to the members of Smiths Group plc
We have audited the group financial statements of Smiths Group plc for the year ended 31 July 2008 which comprise the consolidated income
statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash-flow statement,
the Accounting policies and the related notes. These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Smiths Group plc for the year ended 31 July 2008 and on the information
in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors ’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body
in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. W e do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our
prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our
opinion the information given in the Group directors' report is consistent with the group financial statements. The information given in the Group
directors’ report includes that specific information presented in the Business review that is cross referred from the Group directors’ report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether
the Board’ s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’ s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements. The
other information comprises only the Summary performance, Group at a glance, Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s statement, the
Business review, Board of directors, the Group directors ’ report, the unaudited part of the Directors ’ remuneration report, the Statement of directors ’
responsibilities, the Group financial record and the Financial calendar . We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group
financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Group’s
affairs as at 31 July 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Group directors' report is consistent with the group financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
23 September 2008
Notes
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
58 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Consolidated income statement
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
Notes £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 1 2,321.2 2,160.9
Cost of sales (1,265.5) (1,159.1)
Gross profit 1,055.7 1,001.8
Sales and distribution costs (311.8) (311.5)
Administrative expenses
– normal activities (396.4) (394.2)
– provision for John Crane, Inc. litigation 4 (49.0) (100.7)
Other operating income 2 66.9
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses 4 27.2 (5.2)
Operating proﬁt 2 325.7 257.1
Interest receivable 2.2 21.4
Interest payable (43.2) (57.8)
Other financing (losses)/gains 3 (6.1) 2.1
Other finance income – retirement benefits 41.7 33.7
Finance costs 5 (5.4) (0.6)
Share of post-tax losses of associated companies 14 (1.0) (0.5)
Proﬁt before taxation 319.3 256.0
Comprising
– headline profit before taxation 3 380.3 344.4
– exceptional items 4
• profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses 27.2 (5.2)
• commutation of insurance policies 42.9
• provision for John Crane, Inc. litigation (53.7) (100.7)
• other (13.6) (35.2)
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets (19.2) (14.8)
– other financing (losses)/gains (1.7) 0.6
– profit on sale of financial asset 24.0
319.3 256.0
T axation 6 (75.0) (53.1)
Proﬁt after taxation – continuing operations 244.3 202.9
Proﬁt after taxation – discontinued operations 7 24.5 1,525.2
Proﬁt for the period 268.8 1,728.1
Attributable to: 
Smiths Group shareholders 268.5 1,728.1
Minority interests 0.3
268.8 1,728.1
Earnings per share 9
Basic 69.3p 314.7p
Basic – continuing operations 63.0p 36.9p
Diluted 68.5p 310.3p
Diluted – continuing operations 62.3p 36.4p
References in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, consolidated balance sheet and
consolidated cash-flow statement relate to notes on pages 69 to 108, which form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
59 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
Notes £m £m
Exchange gain/(loss) 89.5 (72.2)
Cumulative exchange losses recycled on disposals 49.2
Fair value gain on acquisition of former associate 0.4
T axation recognised on exchange losses
– current 2.4
T axation recognised on share-based payment
– current 6 5.2 10.3
– deferred 6 (3.8) (9.4)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on retirement benefits 10 (254.5) 70.3
T axation recognised on actuarial (losses)/gains – deferred 6 75.5 (30.1)
Fair value (losses)/gains:
– on cash-flow hedges 21 (0.5) (11.9)
– on net investment hedges 21 (47.5) 8.2
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity (135.7) 16.8
Profit for the period 268.8 1,728.1
Total recognised income and expense 27 133.1 1,744.9
Attributable to: 
Smiths Group shareholders 132.8 1,744.9
Minority interests 0.3
133.1 1,744.9
60 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Consolidated balance sheet
2008 2007
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 1,253.2 1,021.3
Property, plant and equipment 13 296.3 260.9
Investments accounted for using the equity method 14 9.1 12.0
Financial assets – other investments 3.6 0.7
Retirement benefit assets 10 174.2 333.7
Deferred tax assets 6 96.2 94.0
Trade and other receivables 16 14.6 14.7
Financial derivatives 22 1.4 0.4
1,848.6 1,737.7
Current assets
Inventories 15 380.3 319.7
Trade and other receivables 16 565.4 489.8
Cash and cash equivalents 17 132.5 186.2
Financial derivatives 22 6.5 13.5
1,084.7 1,009.2
Assets of businesses held for sale 18 31.3
Total assets 2,933.3 2,778.2
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities:
– borrowings 20 (720.7) (567.1)
– financial derivatives 22 (0.1) (2.5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 23 (200.6) (143.4)
Retirement benefit obligations 10 (184.7) (150.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (64.3) (118.0)
Trade and other payables 19 (27.5) (22.5)
(1,197.9) (1,003.6)
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities:
– borrowings 20 (182.4) (212.1)
– financial derivatives 22 (21.5) (2.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 23 (70.0) (90.1)
Trade and other payables 19 (420.7) (412.6)
Current tax payable (122.6) (137.5)
(817.2) (855.1)
Liabilities of businesses held for sale 18 (16.2)
Total liabilities (2,015.1) (1,874.9)
Net assets 918.2 903.3
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital 26 145.5 144.6
Share premium account 27 303.6 289.0
Capital redemption reserve 27 5.8 5.7
Revaluation reserve 27 1.7 1.7
Merger reserve 27 234.8 234.8
Retained earnings 27 253.7 208.9
Hedge reserve 27 (29.2) 18.6
T otal shareholders’ equity 915.9 903.3
Minority interest equity 2.3
Total equity 918.2 903.3
The accounts on pages 59 to 108 were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 September 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
Philip Bowman John Langston
Chief Executive Finance Director
61 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Consolidated cash-flow statement
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
Notes £m £m
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 28 198.1 246.0
Cash-ﬂows from investing activities
Expenditure on capitalised development (19.8) (87.4)
Expenditure on other intangible assets (16.1) (29.6)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (64.2) (118.3)
Disposals of property, plant and equipment 2.7 25.6
Investment in financial assets (3.4)
Proceeds from sale of financial asset 1.1 15.0
Acquisition of businesses 29 (149.7) (34.9)
Disposal of Aerospace 7 (6.3) 2,495.0
Disposals of businesses 30 43.2 9.1
Net cash-ﬂow (used)/generated in investing activities (212.5) 2,274.5
Cash-ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Proceeds from exercise of share options 27 21.0 77.7
Purchase of own shares (20.7) (7.0)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 8 (131.4) (182.4)
Cash paid to shareholders under B share scheme (16.4) (2,090.9)
Increase in new borrowings 135.9 19.0
Reduction and repayment of borrowings (11.0) (284.7)
Net cash-ﬂow used in ﬁnancing activities (22.6) (2,468.3)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (37.0) 52.2
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 3.1 (51.1)
Exchange differences (6.1) 2.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 17 (40.0) 3.1
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period comprise:
– cash at bank and in hand 122.5 148.5
– short-term deposits 10.0 40.8
– bank overdrafts (172.5) (186.2)
(40.0) 3.1
Included in cash and cash equivalents per the balance sheet 17 132.5 186.2
Included in overdrafts per the balance sheet 17 (172.5) (186.2)
Included in the assets of the disposal group 18 3.1
17 (40.0) 3.1
The consolidated cash-flow statement includes cash-flows relating to discontinued operations. See note 7 for details of these cash-flows. 
62 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations, as adopted by the European
Union in response to the IAS regulation (EC 1606/2002), under the historic cost convention modified to include revaluation of certain financial
instruments, share options and pension assets and liabilities, held at fair value as described below. For Smiths Group plc there are no differences
between IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union and full IFRS as published by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial period except that the Group has adopted ‘IFRS 7: Financial
instruments: Disclosures ’ and the amendment to ‘IAS 1: Presentation of financial statements ’. Adoption of these standards has required additional
disclosures on the credit quality of trade receivables and capital management. 
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates
The preparation of the accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The key estimates
and assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Revenue recognition
The timing of revenue recognition on long-term funded contracts depends on the assessed stage of completion of contract activity at the balance
sheet date. This assessment requires the expected total contract revenues and costs to be estimated based on the current progress of the contract.
Revenue of £63.3m (2007: £58.1m) has been recognised in respect of contracts in progress at the year end with a total expected value of £197.5m
(2007: £141.5m). A 5% increase in the proportion of the contract activity recognised in the current year would have increased operating profit by an
estimated £0.6m (2007: £0.5m). 
Impairment
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment in accordance with the accounting policy for goodwill set out below. The recoverable amounts
of cash generating units are determined based on value in use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates including projected
future cash flows and other future events. See note 12 for details of the critical assumptions made and disclosures on the sensitivity of the
impairment testing to these key assumptions. 
Provisions for liabilities and charges
The consolidated financial statements include a provision for litigation of £163.7m (2007: £121.2m). 
As previously reported, John Crane, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, is one of many co-defendants in litigation relating to products previously
manufactured which contain asbestos. Provision has been made for the future legal defence costs which the Group is expected to incur and the
expected costs of potential future judgments against John Crane, Inc. The actual future costs could be materially higher or lower than this estimate,
depending on the progress of the claims that are ongoing. See note 23 for details. 
Retirement benefits
The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations. The costs and the present value
of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on such factors as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current employees,
the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities. The Group uses previous experience
and impartial actuarial advice to select the values of critical estimates. The estimates, and the effect of variances in key estimates, are disclosed
in note 10.
Taxation
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets relating to UK losses of £94m. The recognition of assets pertaining to these losses involves judgement
by management as to the likelihood of realisation of these deferred tax assets and this is based on a number of factors, which seek to assess the
expectation that the benefit of deferred tax assets will be realised, including appropriate taxable temporary timing differences and it has been
concluded that there are sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support recognition. 
Further detail on the Group’s deferred taxation position is included in note 6.
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies, as described below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the
Group’s share of the results of its associates.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a
shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which this power is transferred to the
Company . They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but does not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and
50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
63 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Accounting policies continued
Foreign currencies
The Company’s presentational currency is sterling. The results and financial position of all subsidiaries and associates that have a functional
currency different from sterling are translated into sterling as follows:
• assets and liabilities are translated at the rate of exchange at the date of that balance sheet;
• income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the period; and
• all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity .
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency
instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders ’ equity . When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative amount
of such exchange differences is recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Exchange differences arising on transactions are recognised in the income statement. Those arising on trading are taken to operating profit; those
arising on borrowings are classified as finance income or cost. 
Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, which is usually
when title passes. 
Revenue from services is recognised in accounting periods in which the services are rendered, by reference to completion of the specific transaction,
assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, net of trade discounts and sales taxes.
Long-term funded contracts
Where the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract
activity at the balance sheet date. The Group uses the ‘percentage of completion method’ to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a
given period. The assessment of the stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract, but will generally be based on the estimated
proportion of the total contract costs which have been incurred to date. If a contract is expected to be loss-making, a provision is recognised for the
entire loss.
Employee benefits
Pension obligations and post-retirement benefits
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
For defined benefit plans the liability for each scheme recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the
balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the
projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows
using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms
to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability . Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes
in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the income statement and are presented in the statement
of recognised income and expense. Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension
plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past service costs
are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory,
contractual or voluntary basis. Contributions are expensed as incurred. 
The Group also has certain post-retirement healthcare schemes which are accounted for on a similar basis to the defined benefit plans.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates a number of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation plans. 
The fair value of the shares or share options granted is recognised as an expense over the vesting period to reflect the value of the employee
services received. 
The fair value of options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions, is calculated using established option pricing models,
principally binomial models. The probability of meeting non-market vesting conditions, which include profitability targets, is used to estimate the
number of share options which are likely to vest. 
For cash-settled share-based payment a liability is recognised based on the fair value of the payment earned by the balance sheet date. For equity-
settled share-based payment the corresponding credit is recognised directly in reserves. 
In accordance with the transitional provisions of ‘IFRS 2: Share-based Payment’, no charge has been recognised for grants of equity instruments
made before 7 November 2002.
64 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Exceptional items
Items which are material either because of their size or their nature, and which are non-recurring, are presented within their relevant consolidated
income statement category, but highlighted separately on the face of the income statement. The separate reporting of exceptional items helps
provide a better picture of the Company’s underlying performance. Items which may be included within the exceptional category include:
• profits/(losses) on disposal of businesses;
• spend on the integration of significant acquisitions and other major restructuring programmes;
• significant goodwill or other asset impairments;
• income and expenditure relating to John Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation; and
• other particularly significant or unusual items.
Exceptional items are excluded from the headline profit measures used by the Group. The basis of calculation of these measures is explained in
note 3. 
Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of
operations that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Discontinued operations are presented on the income statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
Assets and businesses held for sale
Assets and businesses classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Impairment losses
on initial classification as held for sale and gains or losses on subsequent re-measurements are included in the income statement. No depreciation
is charged on assets and businesses classified as held for sale. 
Assets and businesses are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction rather
than through continuing use. The asset or business must be available for immediate sale and the sale must be highly probable within one year .
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired
subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions of subsidiaries after 1 August 1998 is included in intangible assets, tested annually for impairment and carried
at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the
entity sold. Goodwill arising from acquisitions of subsidiaries before 1 August 1998 was set against reserves in the year of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually . Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement. Subsequent reversals of
impairment losses for goodwill are not recognised.
Research and development
Expenditure on research and development is charged to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred with the exception of:
• amounts recoverable from third parties; and
• expenditure incurred in respect of the development of major new products where the outcome of those projects is assessed as being reasonably
certain as regards viability and technical feasibility . Such expenditure is capitalised and amortised straight line over the estimated period of sale
for each product, commencing in the year that sales of the product are first made.
Other intangible assets
The identifiable net assets acquired as a result of a business combination may include intangible assets other than goodwill. Any such intangible
assets are amortised straight line over their expected future lives.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Patents, licences and trademarks up to 20 years
T echnology 7 to 12 years
Customer relationships up to 7 years
The assets’ useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
65 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses. 
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation is provided on other assets estimated to write off the depreciable amount of relevant assets by equal annual
instalments over their estimated useful lives. In general, the rates used are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings – 2%; Short leasehold property
– over the period of the lease; Plant, machinery, etc. – 10% to 20%; Motor vehicles – 25%; T ools and other equipment – 10% to 33%. 
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. An asset’s carrying amount is
written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
No borrowing costs are capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment.
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments
made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The cost of finished
goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads (based on normal operating
capacity). It excludes borrowing costs. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable
selling expenses.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate provision for estimated
irrecoverable amounts. A provision is established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective evidence that amounts due under the original
payment terms will not be collected.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and highly liquid interest-bearing securities with maturities of three months or less.
In the cash-flow statement cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in liabilities on
the balance sheet. 
Provisions
Provisions for warranties and product liability, disposal indemnities, restructuring costs, vacant leasehold property and legal claims are recognised
when: the Company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to
settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is material.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, for example where a warranty provision has been given, the likelihood that an outflow will be
required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow
with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sub-let under terms such that the rental income is insufficient to meet all outgoings, provision is made
for the anticipated future shortfall up to termination of the lease, or the termination payment, if smaller .
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on profits for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method. A deferred tax asset is recognised where it is probable that future taxable
income will be sufficient to utilise the available relief. T ax is charged or credited to the income statement except when it relates to items charged
or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity .
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal
of the temporary differences is controlled by the Company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted. 
Financial assets
The classification of financial assets depends on the purpose for which the assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of an
asset at initial recognition and re-evaluates the designation at each reporting date. Financial assets are classified as: loans and receivables or
financial assets where changes in fair value are charged (or credited) to the income statement.
Financial assets are initially recognised at transaction price when the Group becomes party to contractual obligations. The transaction price used
includes transaction costs unless the asset is being fair valued through the income statement.
66 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Financial assets continued
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using
the effective interest method. Financial assets where changes in fair value are charged (or credited) to the income statement are subsequently
measured at fair value. Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the ‘financial assets at fair value through
the income statement’ category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise. 
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash-flows from the assets has expired, or has been transferred, and the Company
has transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial assets are classified as current if they are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Financial liabilities
Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the proceeds, net of related transaction costs. These transaction costs, and any discount or
premium on issue, are subsequently amortised under the effective yield method through the income statement as interest over the life of the loan,
and added to the liability disclosed in the balance sheet. Related accrued interest is included in the borrowings figure.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year
after the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising any resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the
nature of the item being hedged.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value hedge
Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with
any changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash-flow hedge
The effective portions of changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash-flow hedges are recognised in equity . The
gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged items will affect profit or loss (for instance
when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). If a forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (for
example, inventory) or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity reserves and included in the initial
measurement of the cost of the asset or liability .
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss
existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to
the income statement.
Net investment hedge
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash-flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument
relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity; the gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in
the income statement.
When a foreign operation is disposed of gains and losses accumulated in equity related to that operation are included in the income statement. 
Embedded derivatives
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics
are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at their fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on these
embedded derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are the amounts at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction
between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. 
The following methods are used to estimate the fair values of the financial instruments:
• cash, trade receivables and payables and floating rate borrowings – the carrying value is a good approximation of the fair value; 
• fixed rate borrowings – quoted market prices of equivalent instruments; and
• forward exchange contracts, currency swaps, interest rate instruments and embedded derivatives – net present value of the future cash-flows,
calculated using market data at the balance sheet date (principally exchange rates and yield curves).
Borrowings are carried on the balance sheet at amortised cost adjusted for fair value interest rate hedging. The fair value of fixed rate borrowings
is only used for supplementary disclosures.
67 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Accounting policies continued
Financial guarantees
Financial guarantees are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received. 
At each subsequent balance sheet date an estimate is made of the payments which will be required under the guarantee in accordance with ‘IAS
37: Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’. The guarantee is then valued at the higher of its initial value less revenue recognised
to date and the best estimate of the total payments which will be required under the contract. 
Any gains or losses on the contract are recognised in the income statement.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are authorised. The interim dividend is recognised when it is paid and the final
dividend is recognised when it has been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Recent accounting developments
The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and are likely to affect future annual reports and accounts.
‘IFRS 8: Operating Segments ’ was issued in February 2007 and will be adopted by Smiths from 1 August 2008. The new standard requires segment
information to be prepared on the same basis as information reported to management for decision-making purposes. Following the restructuring
of internal reporting from 1 August 2008, five divisions will be reported in the 2009 Annual report. In addition, the operating profit reported will be
calculated on the basis used for management reporting and some detailed disclosures will change.
Smiths will determine an appropriate implementation date for the following standards, amendments and interpretations after they have been
adopted by the European Union:
An amendment to ‘IAS 23: Borrowing costs’ was issued in March 2007. This eliminates the option, currently used by the Group, of expensing all
borrowing costs when they are incurred. As retrospective adoption is not required, there will be no changes to the information previously reported
when this standard is adopted. The impact of the new policy on future reported performance is expected to be limited because the only qualifying
assets have short construction periods.
‘IFRIC 12: Service concession arrangements ’ was issued in December 2006 and ‘IFRIC 13: Customer Loyalty Programmes ’ was issued in June 2007.
Neither interpretation is expected to have a material impact on the Group because it does not have any material contracts or programmes within
the scope of these interpretations. 
‘IFRIC 14: The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction’ was issued on 6 July 2007. This interpretation
provides guidance on the extent to which a pension scheme surplus should be recognised as an asset. Based on current actuarial advice, this
interpretation is not expected to reduce the assets recognised at 31 July 2008 in respect of pension schemes. 
‘IFRIC 15: Agreements for the construction of real estate’ was issued on 3 July 2008. The Group is not involved in the construction or sale of
residential real estate. However a review of contract accounting is being undertaken to establish whether or not the same principles apply to any
transactions undertaken by the Group. The impact of adopting this interpretation will be determined once this review has been completed. 
‘IFRIC 16: Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation’ was issued on 3 July 2007. An initial review of the Group’s net investment hedging
indicated that this interpretation is not likely to affect their accounting treatment. A detailed review of the impact of this interpretation is still 
in progress. 
‘IFRS 3: (Revised) business combinations’ and ‘IAS 27: (Revised) consolidated and separate financial statements’ were issued in January 2008.
Implementing IFRS 3 (revised) will significantly change the recognition of goodwill, acquisition costs and contingent consideration relating to
acquisitions. However it only applies to acquisitions made after it has been adopted. IAS 27 (revised) requires different accounting treatment for
minority interest but it is not expected to affect the Group’s financial results or position materially . 
An amendment to ‘IFRS 2: Share based payment’ was issued in January 2008. This provides a definition of vesting conditions and specifies the
accounting treatment for non-vesting conditions. It is not expected to materially affect the share based payment charge recognised in the Group
accounts because only a small proportion of awards under employee share schemes are affected by failures to comply with non-vesting conditions. 
‘IAS 1: (Revised) Presentation of financial statements’ was issued in January 2008. This changes the presentation requirements for other
comprehensive income and transactions with shareholders, and requires increased disclosures when there is a restatement of comparatives.
Adopting this standard will not affect the recognition, measurement or disclosure of any transactions or events. 
In February 2008 amendments to ‘IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and ‘IAS 1: (Revised) Presentation of financial statements’ 
were issued clarifying the treatment of puttable financial instruments. The adoption of these amendments is not expected to have any impact on
the Group. 
Parent company
The accounts of the parent company, Smiths Group plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP . The Company accounts are presented
in separate financial statements on pages 111 to 120.
The principal subsidiaries of the parent company are listed in the above accounts.
The ultimate parent company of the Group is Smiths Group plc, a company incorporated in England, and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
68 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts
1 Segment information
Analysis by business segments
For management purposes, the Group has been organised into three business segments – Detection, Medical and Specialty Engineering. These
business segments are the basis on which the Group reported its primary segment information. For reporting purposes Specialty Engineering is
analysed into two segments: John Crane and Specialty – Other . 
Y ear ended 31 July 2008
Specialty Engineering
Specialty
Detection Medical John Crane – Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 509.3 703.4 625.8 482.7 2,321.2
Headline operating profit 85.6 127.8 95.9 71.3 380.6
Exceptional operating items (note 4) (0.3) (10.0) (51.5) 26.4 (35.4)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (0.4) (11.3) (5.5) (2.0) (19.2)
Financing losses 0.1 (0.4) (0.1) 0.1 (0.3)
Operating profit 85.0 106.1 38.8 95.8 325.7
Exceptional finance costs – adjustment to discounted provision (note 4) (4.7) (4.7)
Net finance costs – other (0.7)
Share of post-tax (losses)/profits of associated companies (1.4) 0.4 (1.0)
Profit before taxation 319.3
T axation (75.0)
Profit for the period – continuing operations 244.3
Period ended 31 July 2007
Specialty Engineering
Specialty
Detection Medical John Crane – Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 437.5 690.6 532.4 500.4 2,160.9
Headline operating profit 78.6 127.3 75.3 66.4 347.6
Exceptional operating items (note 4) (13.0) (9.6) (73.2) (2.4) (98.2)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (0.4) (11.5) (0.6) (2.3) (14.8)
Financing losses (0.1) (0.2) (0.2) (1.0) (1.5)
65.1 106.0 1.3 60.7 233.1
Profit on sale of financial assets 24.0
Operating profit 257.1
Net finance costs (0.6)
Share of post-tax (losses)/profits of associated companies (1.1) 0.6 (0.5)
Profit before taxation 256.0
T axation (53.1)
Profit for the period – continuing operations 202.9
The Group’s revenue is analysed as follows:
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Sale of goods 2,077.8 1,965.2
Contracts 132.1 98.4
Services 111.3 97.3
2,321.2 2,160.9
69 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
1 Segment information continued
The non-cash expenditure included in operating costs by division is shown below:
Y ear ended 31 July 2008 Period ended 31 July 2007
Other non-cash Other non-cash
Goodwill and expenses Goodwill and expenses
other asset (excluding other asset (excluding
Depreciation Amortisation impairments impairments) Depreciation Amortisation impairments impairments)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Detection 7.8 4.4 2.7 6.2 2.5 1.8
Medical 26.5 16.6 0.3 4.1 18.3 18.9 3.6
Specialty Engineering:
John Crane 10.0 7.2 3.5 8.3 2.1 2.6
Specialty – Other 8.9 2.8 2.6 11.0 2.4 10.3 2.4
Continuing operations 53.2 31.0 0.3 12.9 43.8 25.9 10.3 10.4
Discontinued operations 8.4 3.8 3.5
Total 53.2 31.0 0.3 12.9 52.2 29.7 10.3 13.9
Included in goodwill and other asset impairments in 2007 is £8.1m relating to disposal group impairment of assets on re-measurement to fair value
less costs of sale. 
Capital expenditure
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Detection 32.3 25.9
Medical 37.8 42.5
Specialty Engineering:
John Crane 21.8 17.3
Specialty – Other 8.2 14.7
Continuing operations 100.1 100.4
Discontinued operations 127.7
100.1 228.1
Included in discontinued operations for the period ended 31 July 2007 is capital expenditure of £90.9m, incurred during the period after being
classified as a disposal group.
70 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 1 Segment information continued
Balance sheet
2008 2007
£m £m
Assets
Detection 711.7 604.8
Medical 912.1 899.9
Specialty Engineering:
John Crane 490.5 336.0
Specialty – Other 375.1 357.6
Operating assets by segment – continuing operations 2,489.4 2,198.3
Unallocated corporate assets 311.4 393.7
Cash and cash equivalents 132.5 186.2
T otal assets 2,933.3 2,778.2
Liabilities
Detection 143.6 164.2
Medical 93.0 136.2
Specialty Engineering:
John Crane 282.1 253.4
Specialty – Other 77.6 93.2
Operating liabilities by segment 596.3 647.0
Unallocated corporate liabilities 515.7 448.7
Borrowings 903.1 779.2
T otal liabilities 2,015.1 1,874.9
Unallocated corporate assets and liabilities include net taxation liabilities of £90.7m, r etir ement benefit assets of £174.2m, r etir ement benefit obligations
of £184.7m and property, plant and equipment of £16.8m. All these assets and liabilities are not directly attributable to the operating activities.
Analysis by geographical location
The Group's revenue by destination is shown below:
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
United Kingdom 148.3 134.6
North America 1,107.5 1,038.4
Europe 586.3 546.2
Other overseas 479.1 441.7
2,321.2 2,160.9
The following analysis shows the carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, and additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Additions to intangible
Segment assets and property,
assets plant and equipment
Y ear ended Period ended
2008 2007 31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 393.8 583.6 16.6 76.9
North America 1,405.5 1,276.4 53.4 118.8
Europe 746.3 554.0 20.0 13.3
Other overseas 255.2 178.0 10.1 19.1
2,800.8 2,592.0 100.1 228.1
Cash and cash equivalents 132.5 186.2
2,933.3 2,778.2 100.1 228.1
Included in additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment above were the following in relation to discontinued operations: United
Kingdom £nil (2007: £53.4m), North America £nil (2007: £66.7m), Europe £nil (2007: £0.6m), and Other overseas £nil (2007: £7.0m). Of the additions
relating to discontinued operations in 2007, the following amounts were incurred during the period after being classified as a disposal group:
United Kingdom £37.5m, North America £47.0m, Europe £nil, and Other overseas £6.4m.
71 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
1 Segment information continued
Additional voluntary segment disclosure of the impact of the restructuring
As set out in the Chief Executive’ s statement, the roles of the divisions and the corporate centre are being restructured with the new management
structure in place from 1 August 2008. The following information, which is presented with no comparatives, illustrates how the result would have
been reported if the new structure had been in place for the year ended 31 July 2008.
Y ear ended 31 July 2008
Detection John Crane Medical Interconnect Flex-Tek Other Corporate Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 509.3 625.8 703.4 260.6 206.1 16.0 2,321.2
Headline operating profit 93.3 103.8 139.6 54.0 24.3 0.8 (35.2) 380.6
Exceptional operating items (note 4) 0.1 (51.0) (9.4) (1.3) (0.1) 28.3 (2.0) (35.4)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (0.4) (5.5) (11.3) (2.0) (19.2)
Financing losses (0.4) 0.1 (0.3)
Operating profit 93.0 47.3 118.5 50.7 24.3 29.1 (37.2) 325.7
Exceptional finance costs – adjustment 
to discounted provision (note 4) (4.7) (4.7)
Net finance costs – other (0.7)
Share of post-tax (losses)/profits 
of associated companies (1.4) 0.4 (1.0)
Profit before taxation 319.3
T axation (75.0)
Profit for the period – continuing operations 244.3
The assets and liabilities of the five new operating segments are set out below: 
Y ear ended 31 July 2008
Other 
unallocated & Cash &
Detection John Crane Medical Interconnect Flex-Tek corporate borrowings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets 711.7 490.5 912.1 267.4 106.2 312.9 132.5 2,933.3
Liabilities (143.6) (282.1) (93.0) (47.0) (29.2) (517.1) (903.1) (2,015.1)
Net assets 568.1 208.4 819.1 220.4 77.0 (204.2) (770.6) 918.2
2 Operating proﬁt is stated after charging
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,776.4 1,582.1
Employee costs (note 11) 662.4 645.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment including impairment of £0.3m (2007: £8.1m) 53.5 51.9
Amortisation of intangible assets including impairment of £nil (2007: £2.2m) 31.0 28.1
Impairment losses recognised in the period on receivables 0.6 1.3
Research and development expense 52.7 52.3
Operating leases
– land and buildings 20.2 18.9
– other 7.9 7.2
Fair value movements on derivatives
– embedded 0.8
– held for trading 0.3 0.7
For the period ending 31 July 2007 other operating income comprises the income received following the commutation of insurance policies (£42.9m
– see note 4) and the profit on sale of a financial asset.
72 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 2 Operating proﬁt is stated after charging continued
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated accounts 0.5 0.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services: 
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 3.5 3.6
– other services pursuant to legislation 0.1
4.0 4.1
T ax services
– compliance services 0.1 0.1
– advisory services 0.1 0.7
Services in relation to corporate acquisition and disposal transactions
– sale of Aerospace 1.8
– aborted transaction 1.1
– B-share issue 0.3
– due diligence 0.1 0.9
All other services 0.2 0.2
Other services relate to one-off projects. 
3 Headline profit measures
The Company seeks to present a measure of underlying performance which is not impacted by exceptional items or items considered non-
operational in nature. This measure of profit is described as ‘headline’ and is used by management to measure and monitor performance. 
The following items have been excluded from the headline measure:
• exceptional items, including income and expenditure relating to John Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation;
• amortisation of intangible assets acquired in a business combination – the amortisation charge is a non-cash item, and the directors believe that
it should be added back to give a clearer picture of underlying performance; and
• other financing gains and losses, which represent the potentially volatile gains and losses on derivatives and other financial instruments which
do not fall to be hedge accounted under IAS 39.
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Other ﬁnancing gains and losses
Financing gains and losses on financial instruments (1.4) 2.1
Exceptional finance costs – adjustment to discounted provision (note 4) (4.7)
(6.1) 2.1
Financing gains and losses reported in operating proﬁt
Financing gains and losses on financial instruments (0.3) (1.5)
(6.4) 0.6
73 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
4 Exceptional items
An analysis of the amounts presented as exceptional items in these financial statements is given below:
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Operating items
Restructuring of corporate and divisional headquarters (4.5)
Integration of acquisitions (9.1) (9.0)
Impairment of goodwill and other assets (10.3)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses (note 30) 27.2 (5.2)
Aborted transaction costs (12.7)
Litigation: 
– Commutation of insurance policies (note 23) 42.9
– Provision for John Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation (note 23) (49.0) (100.7)
– Provision for other litigation (note 23) (8.6)
– Class action settlement 5.4
(35.4) (98.2)
Financing items
Exceptional finance costs – adjustment to discounted provision (note 23) (4.7)
(40.1) (98.2)
Y ear ended 31 July 2008
On 3 June 2008 the Company announced a number of changes to its corporate centre and divisional headquarters. The total cost of this
restructuring, including redundancy, relocation and consolidation of manufacturing, is considered exceptional by virtue of its size. It is expected to
amount to approximately £48m over the period to 2010, of which £4.5m has been charged in the current year . 
In addition, restructuring costs in connection with the integration of Medex amounting to £9.1m have been incurred in the period. No further costs
relating to this restructuring are anticipated. 
The operating charge of £49.0m in respect of John Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation comprises a £40.0m provision for the expected costs of future
asbestos judgments, £5.2m in respect of adverse legal judgments (net of insurer contributions previously lodged as collateral) and £3.8m arising
from movements in the discounting due to changes in US interest rates (see note 23).
Period ended 31 July 2007
Restructuring costs in connection with the integration of Medex amounting to £9.0m were incurred in the period.
Impairment of goodwill and other assets includes £8.1m in respect of the impairment of a disposal group (John Crane Automotive) prior to its
eventual sale.
Costs of £12.7m in relation to the proposed joint venture with GE were written off in the light of the decision not to proceed with the joint venture. 
John Crane, Inc. commuted certain insurance policies and received £42.9m in cash for the period. At the same time, a provision of £100.7m in respect
of legal defence costs for asbestos cases was established (note 23). 
The progression of other litigation cases arising in 2007 gave rise to an exceptional charge.
The exceptional charge recognised in 2006 in respect of the class action settlement has now been finalised. That element of the provision which
was surplus was therefore released.
74 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 5 Net finance costs
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Interest receivable 2.2 21.4
Interest payable
– bank loans and overdrafts (19.6) (28.5)
– other loans (23.6) (29.3)
Interest payable (43.2) (57.8)
Other financing (losses)/gains
– fair value losses on hedged debt (4.0) (1.0)
– fair value gains on fair value hedge 4.0 1.0
– net foreign exchange (losses)/gains (1.4) 2.1
– exceptional finance costs – adjustment to discounted provision (4.7)
Other financing (losses)/gains (6.1) 2.1
Retirement benefits
– return on plan assets 217.3 191.2
– interest cost (175.6) (157.5)
Retirement benefits 41.7 33.7
Net ﬁnance costs (5.4) (0.6)
6 Taxation
Continuing Continuing Discontinued Discontinued
Y ear ended Period ended Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007 31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m £m £m
The taxation charge for the year comprises
– current income taxation 67.0 13.6 87.6
– deferred taxation 8.0 39.5 2.3 0.6
Total taxation expense in the income statement 75.0 53.1 2.3 88.2
Current income taxation
– UK corporation tax
– foreign tax 67.0 13.6 62.6
– discontinued tax 25.0
67.0 13.6 87.6
75 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
6 Taxation continued
Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense on the profit for the period is different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 29.3% (2007: 30%). The difference is
reconciled as follows:
Continuing Continuing Discontinued Discontinued
Y ear ended Period ended Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007 31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m £m £m
Proﬁt before tax 319.3 256.0 26.8 1,613.4
Notional taxation expense at UK rate of 29.3% (2007: 30%) 93.7 76.8 7.9 484.0
Effect of overseas taxation 8.2 15.7 5.0
Compliance benefits (12.4) (16.5) (4.0)
Local incentives (16.1) (16.1) (7.0)
Sale of investment (7.2)
T ax effect of other non-headline items 1.6 0.4
T ax effect of Aerospace sale (5.6) (389.8)
75.0 53.1 2.3 88.2
Comprising
– taxation on headline profit 91.3 86.4
– tax relief on non-headline loss (16.3) (33.3)
– taxation on discontinued profit 36.9
– tax on sale of discontinued operations 2.3 51.3
Total taxation expense in the income statement 75.0 53.1 2.3 88.2
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Tax on items charged/(credited) to equity
Current tax credit
– share-based payment (5.2) (10.3)
– exchange gains (2.4)
(5.2) (12.7)
Deferred tax (credit)/charge
– retirement benefit schemes (75.5) 30.1
– share-based payment 3.8 9.4
(76.9) 26.8
76 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 6 Taxation continued
Deferred taxation
Excess tax
depreciation Retirement Capitalised
on fixed assets Share-based benefit development
and goodwill payment obligations expenditure Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 5 August 2006 (45.9) 24.5 32.7 (11.8) 43.1 42.6
(Charge)/credit to income statement (41.3) 2.3 (55.6) 22.8 31.7 (40.1)
Charge to equity (9.4) (30.1) (39.5)
Other (1.5) (1.5)
Disposals 12.0 (22.0) 27.4 17.4
Exchange adjustments 3.1 (1.7) (2.2) 0.8 (2.9) (2.9)
At 31 July 2007 (72.1) 15.7 (55.2) (10.2) 97.8 (24.0)
Deferred tax assets 11.1 12.7 (4.4) 74.6 94.0
Deferred tax liabilities (83.2) 15.7 (67.9) (5.8) 23.2 (118.0)
At 31 July 2007 (72.1) 15.7 (55.2) (10.2) 97.8 (24.0)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 9.7 0.3 (31.3) (1.6) 12.6 (10.3)
Charge to equity (3.8) 75.5 71.7
Other 6.0 6.0
Disposals (12.8) (12.8)
Exchange adjustments (1.9) 0.5 (0.2) 2.9 1.3
At 31 July 2008 (64.3) 12.2 (10.5) (12.0) 106.5 31.9
Deferred tax assets (2.6) 0.3 19.7 (4.6) 83.4 96.2
Deferred tax liabilities (61.7) 11.9 (30.2) (7.4) 23.1 (64.3)
At 31 July 2008 (64.3) 12.2 (10.5) (12.0) 106.5 31.9
Included in Other above is a deferred tax liability of £9.3m (2007: £10m) relating to unremitted overseas earnings. No additional tax liabilities have
been recognised because the Group is in a position to control the timing of other temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will
not reverse in the future. Other deferred tax also includes the tax benefits of losses carried forward amounting to £26.7m (2007: £15.4m).
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of £102.2m (2007: £17.9m), due to uncertainty as to their recoverability . The
expiry date of operating losses carried forward is dependent upon the law of the various territories in which the losses arise. A summary of expiry
dates for losses in respect of which restrictions apply is set out below.
Restricted losses
2008 Expiry of 2007 Expiry of
£m losses £m losses
T erritory
– Americas 10.7 2019-2025 10.6 2019-2025
– Europe 5.0 2014
T otal restricted losses 10.7 15.6
Unrestricted losses:
– operating losses 91.5 No expiry 2.3 No expiry
Total 102.2 17.9
77 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
7 Discontinued operations
On 5 May 2007, the Company sold its Aerospace operations to General Electric Company . The Aerospace operations sold comprised the Aerospace
business segment as reported in previous annual reports and accounts plus the US microwave company previously reported in Specialty – Other .
The revenue and profit before taxation of the US microwave company in the period ended 31 July 2007 were £32.2m and £7.6m respectively . As the
Aerospace operations represented a separate business segment, the disposal group was treated as a discontinued operation in the 2007 Annual
report and accounts. The post-tax result of the Aerospace operations was disclosed as a discontinued operation in the consolidated income
statement. In the cash-flow statement, the operating cash-flows of the Aerospace Group for the period ended 31 July 2007 were aggregated with
those of the continuing operations, but are shown separately in the note below.
Profit on disposal of operation
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
T otal consideration 6.1 2,585.4
Foreign exchange recycled to the income statement on disposal (48.4)
Provisions and disposal costs 17.1 (76.0)
Pension curtailment gains 63.3
Provision for settlement loss 3.6 (24.3)
26.8 2,500.0
Net assets disposed (1,030.4)
Pre-tax profit on disposal 26.8 1,469.6
£m
Cash received from disposal of Aerospace operations 3.0 2,585.4
Disposal costs (9.3) (31.9)
Cash and cash equivalents of subsidiaries disposed (62.5)
Borrowings of subsidiaries disposed 4.0
Net cash (outflow)/inflow on disposal (6.3) 2,495.0
The £6.1m consideration recognised in the year ended 31 July 2008 arises from the finalisation of the working capital adjustment. 
The provisions and disposal costs movement for the year ended 31 July 2008 include £4.3m other finance income relating to retirement benefits
and £12.7m relating to the reassessment of the carrying value of other assets and liabilities 
Assets and liabilities of discontinued operations at the date of disposal
£m
Assets
Intangible assets 553.0
Property, plant and equipment 256.1
Retirement benefit assets 6.8
Inventories 297.0
Trade and other receivables 1,357.1
Inter-company receivables 1,024.5
Cash and cash equivalents 62.5
Financial derivatives 12.1
Total assets 3,569.1
Liabilities
Financial liabilities
– borrowings (4.0)
– financial derivatives (2.5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (20.6)
Retirement benefit obligations (0.5)
Deferred tax liabilities (17.4)
Trade and other payables (2,493.7)
Total liabilities (2,538.7)
Net assets 1,030.4
78 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 7 Discontinued operations continued
Financial information for the Aerospace operations after Group eliminations is presented below.
Results from discontinued operations
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Revenue 955.6
Cost of sales (667.9)
Gross proﬁt 287.7
Sales and distribution costs (29.9)
Administrative expenses (116.6)
Loss on disposal of business
Operating proﬁt 141.2
Interest payable (1.2)
Other financing gains 0.7
Other finance income – retirement benefits 3.1
Proﬁt before taxation 143.8
T axation relating to performance of discontinued operations (note 6) (36.9)
Profit on disposal 26.8 1,469.6
Attributable tax charge (note 6) (2.3) (51.3)
Proﬁt for the period 24.5 1,525.2
Earnings per share from discontinued operations – pence
Basic 6.3p 277.8p
Diluted 6.2p 273.9p
The profit before taxation for the period ended 31 July 2007 represents the results of the operations for the period to the date of disposal.
Analysis by geographical location
The Group's revenue from discontinued operations by destination is shown below:
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Revenue
United Kingdom 125.7
North America 688.6
Europe 95.0
Other overseas 46.3
955.6
The Group operating profit from discontinued operations was after charging:
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 594.6
Employee costs (note 11) 342.5
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8.4
Amortisation of intangible assets 3.8
Impairment losses recognised in the period on receivables 0.1
Research and development costs 29.4
Operating leases
– land and buildings 4.1
– other 1.0
Fair value movements on derivatives
– embedded (0.1)
– held for trading 0.7
79 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
7 Discontinued operations continued
Cash-flows from discontinued operations
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Profit before taxation (including profit on disposal of Aerospace operations) 26.8 1,613.4
Net interest payable 1.2
Financing (gains)/losses
– charged to financing (0.7)
Other finance income – retirement benefits (3.1)
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations (26.8) (1,469.6)
141.2
Amortisation of intangible assets 3.8
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2
Profit on disposal of business
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8.4
Share-based payment expense 3.5
Retirement benefits (22.6)
Increase in inventories (51.0)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (17.3)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (16.4)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (1.1)
Cash generated from operations 48.7
Interest (1.2)
T ax paid (6.9)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 40.6
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Operating activities 40.6
Investing activities (6.3) 2,373.1
Financing activities 14.2
(6.3) 2,427.9
8 Dividends
The following dividends were declared and paid in the period:
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Ordinary final dividend of 23.5p for 2007 (2006: 21.5p) paid 23 November 2007 90.8 122.3
Ordinary interim dividend of 10.5p for 2008 (2007: 10.5p) paid 25 April 2008 40.6 60.1
131.4 182.4
The final dividend for the year ended 31 July 2008 of 23.5p per share was declared by the Board on 23 September 2008 and will be paid to
shareholders on 21 November 2008. This dividend has not been included as a liability in these accounts and is payable to all shareholders on the
register of Members at close of business on 24 October 2008.
80 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company by the
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year .
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Profit attributable to equity shareholders for the year
– continuing 244.0 202.9
– total 268.5 1,728.1
Average number of shares in issue during the year 387,446,186 549,153,733
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by 391,851,712 (2007: 556,934,401) ordinary
shares, being the average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period adjusted by the dilutive effect of employee share schemes. For the
year ended 31 July 2008 options over 1,376,331 (2007: 847,762) shares were excluded from this calculation because their effect was anti-dilutive
for continuing operations. 
The average number of shares in issue has reduced as a result of the share consolidation in June 2007 following the disposal of the Aerospace
business. The average number of shares in issue during the period ended 31 July 2007 was a reflection of the capital structure appropriate to both
the continuing and the discontinued business.
A reconciliation of basic and headline earnings per share – continuing is as follows:
Y ear ended 31 July 2008 Period ended 31 July 2007
EPS EPS
£m (p) £m (p)
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company 244.0 63.0 202.9 36.9
Exclude
– exceptional operating items (note 4) 35.4 98.2
– (profit on sale)/impairment of financial asset (24.0)
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets 19.2 14.8
– financing gains – charged to administrative expenses 0.3 1.5
– exceptional finance cost – adjustment to discounted provision (note 4) 4.7
– charged to financing 1.4 (2.1)
61.0 88.4
– less tax (16.3) (33.3)
44.7 11.5 55.1 10.1
Headline 288.7 74.5 258.0 47.0
Headline EPS – diluted (p) 73.7 46.3
81 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
10 Post-retirement benefits
Smiths operates a number of defined benefit plans throughout the world. The principal schemes are in the United Kingdom and in the United States
and assets held in separate trustee-administered funds. The Group also provides a defined contribution (401K) plan for its US employees.
Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally-qualified actuaries. The most recent actuarial valuations
of the two principal UK schemes were performed using the Projected Unit Method as at 31 March 2006. The most recent valuations of the six
principal US pension and post-retirement healthcare plans were performed at 1 January 2008. These valuations have been updated by independent
qualified actuaries in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes as at 31 July 2008. Scheme assets are stated at their market values.
Contributions to the schemes are made on the advice of the actuaries with the objective that the benefits be fully funded during the scheme
members’ average working lives. 
The principal assumptions used in updating the valuations are set out below:
2008 2007
UK US Other UK US Other
Rate of increase in salaries 4.1% 3.8% 3.7% 4.1% 3.8% 3.0%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.6% n/a 1.4% 3.1% n/a 1.0%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.5% n/a 0.7% 3.1% n/a 0.6%
Discount rate 6.6% 6.8% 6.0% 5.8% 6.4% 5.1%
Inflation rate 3.6% 3.3% 2.5% 3.1% 2.8% 1.6%
Healthcare cost increases 5.0% * 3.8% 5.0% ** 2.7%
*8% p.a. reducing 0.5% p.a. to 5% in 2014
**9% p.a. reducing 1% p.a. to 5% in 2012
The assumptions used are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may not
necessarily occur in practice. For countries outside the UK and USA these are disclosed as a weighted average. 
The mortality assumptions used in the UK schemes are based on the recent actual mortality experience of members within each scheme. The
assumptions are based on the PA92 birth year tables with relevant scaling factors based on the experience of the schemes. The assumption also
allows for future improvements in life expectancy in line with the medium cohort and a 1% underpin. The assumptions are that a member who
retires next year at age 65 will live on average for a further 22 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 25 years if they are female.
For a member who is currently 45, when they retire in 20 years’ time they are assumed to live on average for a further 23 years after retirement if
they are male and for a further 27 years if they are female.
The mortality assumptions used in the principal US schemes are based on the most recent mortality study table produced for retired pensioners
in the US (RP 2000 table). The table selected allows for future mortality improvements and applies an adjustment for job classification (blue collar
versus white collar). The assumptions are that a member who retires at age 65 will live on average for a further 18 years after retirement if they
are male and for a further 20 years after retirement if they are female. For a member who is currently 45, when they retire in 20 years time they
are assumed to live on average for a further 19 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 21 years if they are female. 
The assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return as at 31 July 2008 were:
2008
UK schemes US schemes Other countries
Long-term Value Long-term Value Long-term Value
rate of return £m rate of return £m rate of return £m
Equities 8.2% 1,165.8 8.8% 187.5 8.8% 7.1
Government bonds 4.8% 445.1 5.3% 83.8 6.6% 4.9
Corporate bonds 6.6% 258.4 6.8% 25.8 7.1% 1.8
Insured liabilities 6.6% 271.4 6.8% 1.5 n/a
Property 7.2% 188.7 7.2% 3.2% 0.2
Other 5.8% 289.0 6.0% 17.9 5.0% 11.0
T otal market value 2,618.4 316.5 25.0
Present value of funded scheme liabilities (2,468.8) (357.0) (30.7)
Surplus/(deficit) 149.6 (40.5) (5.7)
Unfunded pension plans (34.3) (3.7) (16.4)
Post-retirement healthcare (15.2) (42.0) (0.8)
Unrecognised asset due to surplus restriction (1.5)
Net pension asset/(liability) 100.1 (86.2) (24.4)
During the year, the Trustees of the TI pension scheme invested £250.0m in annuities which are matched with specific liabilities of the fund, As a
result, this investment category is separately analysed. 
Other assets in the UK and US comprise cash and current assets. 
82 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 10 Post-retirement benefits continued
2007
UK schemes US schemes Other countries
Long-term Value Long-term Value Long-term Value
rate of return £m rate of return £m rate of return £m
Equities 8.2% 1,624.1 8.8% 202.9 8.2% 7.1
Government bonds 4.9% 591.6 5.0% 94.9 6.5% 3.6
Corporate bonds 5.8% 364.9 6.4% 23.8 7.7% 2.5
Property 7.2% 201.8 n/a n/a
Other 6.0% 186.7 5.0% 6.0 4.1% 9.0
T otal market value 2,969.1 327.6 22.2
Present value of funded scheme liabilities (2,637.6) (355.0) (26.6)
Surplus/(deficit) 331.5 (27.4) (4.4)
Unfunded pension plans (33.6) (3.8) (14.1)
Post-retirement healthcare (15.9) (45.4) (0.9)
Unrecognised asset due to surplus restriction (2.4)
Net pension asset/(liability) 282.0 (76.6) (21.8)
The scheme assets do not include any of the Group’ s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, nor other assets used by, the Group.
The expected rates of return on individual categories of scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant industries. The overall rate of
return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the scheme’s investment portfolios. 
Amounts recognised in the income statement – continuing and discontinued operations
Y ear ended 31 July 2008 Period ended 31 July 2007
Unfunded Unfunded 
pension/post- pension/post-
retirement retirement 
healthcare healthcare
Funded deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes plans Funded defined benefit pension schemes plans
UK US Other UK US Other
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost 11.3 7.6 1.3 2.4 28.2 10.6 1.2 2.6
Past service cost 1.0 0.1 0.7 0.2 0.4
Settlement losses/(gains) 20.7 (0.4) 2.8
Curtailment gains (1.1) (36.5) (20.6) (9.3)
T otal charge/(credit) 30.9 8.6 1.4 2.4 (8.0) (7.0) 1.2 (6.3)
Expected return on pension scheme assets (199.5) (24.5) (1.5) (179.6) (24.2) (1.2)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 148.3 23.0 1.5 6.7 136.3 23.5 1.4 7.0
Net return (51.2) (1.5) 6.7 (43.3) (0.7) 0.2 7.0
T otal (credited)/charged to income statement (20.3) 7.1 1.4 9.1 (51.3) (7.7) 1.4 0.7
The actual return on scheme assets was a loss of £124.5m (2007: gain of £300.7m).
83 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
10 Post-retirement benefits continued
The operating cost is charged as follows:
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Cost of sales 6.6 7.3
Sales and distribution costs 5.0 4.4
Administrative expenses 12.1 11.3
Discontinued operations 20.7 20.5
Exceptional operating items (0.3)
Profit on disposal of business/curtailment gain (1.1) (63.3)
Actuarial losses of £254.5m (2007: gains of £70.3m) have been reported in the statement of recognised income and expense. This includes a gain
of £0.9m (2007: loss of £1.9m) in respect of unrecognised assets owing to surplus restriction. Cumulative actuarial losses from 1 August 2004
reported in the statement of recognised income and expense are £113.1m (2007: cumulative gain of £141.4m).
During the year, the pension settlement relating to the active Aerospace employees was completed, resulting in a £20.7m settlement charge to
discontinued operations. In 2007 a provision of £24.3m was made to cover the expected costs of this settlement. The balance of the provision has
been released in the current year . 
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet
Y ear ended 31 July 2008 Period ended 31 July 2007
Unfunded Unfunded 
pension/post- pension/post-
retirement retirement 
healthcare healthcare
Funded deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes plans Funded defined benefit pension schemes plans
UK US Other UK US Other
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of funded obligations (2,468.8) (357.0) (30.7) (2,637.6) (355.0) (26.6)
Fair value of scheme assets 2,618.4 316.5 25.0 2,969.1 327.6 22.2
149.6 (40.5) (5.7) 331.5 (27.4) (4.4)
Present value of unfunded obligations (112.4) (113.7)
Irrecoverable surplus (1.5) (2.4)
Net asset/(liability) recognised in the balance sheet 149.6 (40.5) (7.2) (112.4) 331.5 (27.4) (6.8) (113.7)
Changes in present value of defined benefit obligations
Y ear ended 31 July 2008 Period ended 31 July 2007
Unfunded Unfunded 
pension/post- pension/post-
retirement retirement 
healthcare healthcare
Funded deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes plans Funded defined benefit pension schemes plans
UK US Other UK US Other
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At beginning of period (2,637.6) (355.0) (26.6) (113.7) (2,630.1) (394.3) (11.4) (126.8)
Transfers in of territories outside UK and USA (0.1) (5.2) (7.1)
Liabilities assumed on acquisitions (0.1) (1.3) (0.2)
Liabilities transferred on disposal 0.3
Current service cost (11.3) (7.6) (1.3) (2.4) (28.2) (10.6) (1.2) (2.6)
Interest on obligations (148.3) (23.0) (1.5) (6.7) (136.3) (23.5) (1.4) (7.0)
Employee contributions (0.2) (0.2) (0.4) (0.2)
Past service cost (1.0) (0.1) (0.7) (0.2) (0.4)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on liabilities 66.7 20.3 0.9 6.7 (14.0) (10.4) (9.3) 10.2
Curtailment gain 1.1 36.5 20.6 9.3
Liabilities extinguished on settlements 131.3 12.7 23.6
Exchange adjustments (1.3) (9.7) (2.7) (3.8) 24.0 0.8 3.7
Benefits paid 130.8 19.0 0.9 8.6 122.9 15.8 1.3 7.2
At end of period (2,468.8) (357.0) (30.7) (112.4) (2,637.6) (355.0) (26.6) (113.7)
84 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 10 Post-retirement benefits continued
Changes in present value of scheme assets
Y ear ended 31 July 2008 Period ended 31 July 2007
Unfunded Unfunded 
pension/post- pension/post-
retirement retirement 
healthcare healthcare
Funded deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes plans Funded defined benefit pension schemes plans
UK US Other UK US Other
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At beginning of period 2,969.1 327.6 22.2 2,770.4 332.8 7.8
Transfers in of territories outside UK and USA 5.1
Expected return on assets 199.5 24.5 1.5 179.6 24.2 1.2
Actuarial (losses)/gains on scheme assets (312.1) (35.4) (2.5) 67.2 20.4 8.1
Employer contributions 43.5 10.0 2.6 8.6 86.7 13.9 1.9 7.2
Employee contributions 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.2
Assets distributed on settlements (152.0) (12.3) (26.4)
Exchange adjustments 1.0 8.8 1.9 (21.5) (0.8)
Benefits paid (130.8) (19.0) (0.9) (8.6) (122.9) (15.8) (1.3) (7.2)
At end of period 2,618.4 316.5 25.0 2,969.1 327.6 22.2
Cash contributions
Company contributions to the funded defined benefit pension plans for 2008 totalled £56.1m (2007: £102.5m). 2008 included special UK contributions
of £17.1m (2007: £55.9m) including: £13.1 (2007: £13.1m) for special covenant payments; £4.0m (2007: £20.6m) arising from the sale of Aerospace;
and £nil (2007: £22.2m) in respect of back-dated payments resulting from trustee valuations. Cash payments in 2009 are expected to be £51.7m.
History of schemes
2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Balance sheet
Present value of defined benefit obligation (2,968.9) (3,132.9) (3,162.6) (3,127.4)
Fair value of scheme assets 2,959.9 3,318.9 3,111.0 2,890.8
Unrecognised asset due to surplus restriction (1.5) (2.4) (0.5)
(Deficit)/surplus (10.5) 183.6 (52.1) (236.6)
Post-retirement assets 174.2 333.7 183.7 134.6
Post-retirement liabilities (184.7) (150.1) (235.8) (371.2)
(Deficit)/surplus (10.5) 183.6 (52.1) (236.6)
Y ear ended Period ended Period ended Y ear ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007 5 August 2006 31 July 2005
£m £m £m £m
Experience gains/(losses)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities (6.4) (57.6) 17.6 0.5
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme assets (350.0) 95.7 76.6 242.9
Movement on restricted surplus 0.9 (1.9) (0.5)
The disclosures above are determined prospectively from 2005. The experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities have been represented to
exclude gains and losses arising from changes in actuarial assumptions. 
85 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
10 Post-retirement benefits continued
Balance sheet reconciliation
The balance sheet records the retirement assets and liabilities as follows: 
2008 2007
£m £m
UK surplus 149.6 331.5
US deficit (40.5) (27.4)
Other countries deficit (7.2) (6.8)
Unfunded (112.4) (113.7)
(Deficit)/surplus (10.5) 183.6
Post-retirement assets 174.2 333.7
Post-retirement liabilities (184.7) (150.1)
(Deficit)/surplus (10.5) 183.6
At 31 July 2008 the net UK funded pension surplus of £149.6m (2007: £331.5m) represented individual plan surpluses of £174.2m (2007: £333.7m)
and deficits of £24.6m (2007: £2.2m).
Sensitivity 
Valuation of post-retirement schemes involves judgements about uncertain future events. Sensitivities in respect of the key assumptions used to
measure the principal pension schemes as at 31 July 2008 are set out below . These sensitivities show the hypothetical impact of a change in each
of the listed assumptions in isolation, with the exception of the sensitivity to inflation which incorporates the impact of certain correlating assumptions
such as salary increases. While each of these sensitivities holds all other assumptions constant, in practice such assumptions rarely change in
isolation and the impacts may offset to some extent.
(Increase)/
Profit before tax Increase/ decrease in
for year ended (decrease) in scheme
31 July 2009 scheme assets liabilities
£m £m £m
Rate of mortality – 1 year increase in life expectancy (6.0) (86.8)
Rate of mortality – 1 year decrease in life expectancy 6.3 89.8
Rate of inflation – 0.25% increase (5.0) (65.8)
Discount rate – 0.25% increase 1.3 100.7
Expected return on scheme assets – 0.25% increase 7.4
Market value of scheme assets – 2.5% increase 5.0 73.9
Healthcare cost trends – 1% increase (0.6) (5.4)
Healthcare cost trends – 1% decrease 0.5 4.7
The effect on profit before tax reflects the impact of current service cost, interest cost and expected return on assets. 
Defined contribution plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution plans. The total expense recognised in the income statement in respect of these plans was
£13.7m (2007: £19.1m).
86 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 11 Employees
Y ear ended 31 July 2008 Period ended 31 July 2007
Total 
(all continuing) Continuing Discontinued T otal
£m £m £m £m
Staff costs during the period
Wages and salaries 545.8 528.1 295.6 823.7
Social security 67.3 62.4 25.4 87.8
Share-based payment (note 31) 12.9 10.4 3.5 13.9
Pension costs (including defined contribution schemes) (note 10) 36.4 44.3 18.0 62.3
662.4 645.2 342.5 987.7
The average number of persons employed was:
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
Detection 2,300 2,100
Medical 8,400 8,000
Specialty Engineering:
John Crane 6,400 5,600
Specialty – Other 5,500 5,100
Continuing operations 22,600 20,800
Discontinued operations 8,300
22,600 29,100
Key management
The key management of the Group comprises Smiths Group plc Board directors and Group Managing Directors who are not Board members
during the year and their aggregate compensation is shown below . Details of directors ’ remuneration are contained in the report of the Remuneration
Committee on pages 47 to 56.
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Key management compensation
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 7.6 6.6
Cost of post-retirement benefits 1.0 1.2
Cost of share-based incentive plans 5.6 2.8
No member of key management had any material interest during the period in a contract of significance (other than a service contract or a qualifying
third party indemnity provision) with the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Options and awards held at the end of the period by key management
in respect of the Company’s share-based incentive plans were:
Y ear ended 31 July 2008 Period ended 31 July 2007
Number of Number of
instruments Weighted instruments Weighted
’000 average price ’000 average price
CIP 306 £0.00 425 £0.00
DSS 109 £0.00
ESOS 177 £8.06 413 £8.57
PSP 795 £0.00 1,067 £0.00
SAYE 9 £8.32 14 £6.96
The disclosure above does not include options held by individuals who retired before the year end.
87 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
12 Intangible assets
Acquired
intangibles
Development (see table on
Goodwill costs next page) Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 6 August 2006 1,241.6 293.7 139.1 112.5 1,786.9
Exchange adjustments (39.2) (1.9) (8.5) (1.7) (51.3)
Business combinations 16.8 12.1 28.9
Adjustments to prior year business combinations 0.9 (0.9)
Additions* 2.2 44.1 18.0 64.3
Transfers to disposal group held for sale at year end (1.2) (1.1) (2.3)
Transfer to disposal group sold by the year end (301.0) (283.5) (10.4) (50.2) (645.1)
Disposals (0.1) (1.2) (1.3)
At 31 July 2007 921.3 51.2 131.3 76.3 1,180.1
Exchange adjustments 65.4 2.5 5.7 3.3 76.9
Business combinations 87.0 74.5 0.7 162.2
Adjustments to prior year business combinations (1.7) 1.3 (1.3) (1.7)
Additions 19.8 16.1 35.9
Disposals (0.2) (0.8) (1.0)
At 31 July 2008 1,071.8 73.5 212.8 94.3 1,452.4
Amortisation
At 6 August 2006 133.7 39.5 20.2 62.9 256.3
Exchange adjustments (2.9) (0.4) (1.3) (1.6) (6.2)
Charge for the period* 6.6 15.0 8.1 29.7
Impairment 2.2 2.2
Transfers to disposal groups held for sale at year end (0.4) (0.4)
Transfer to disposal group sold by the year end (56.0) (33.2) (4.8) (28.7) (122.7)
Disposals (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 July 2007 77.0 12.5 29.1 40.2 158.8
Exchange adjustments 5.3 0.7 1.8 2.5 10.3
Adjustments to prior year business combinations 0.5 (0.5)
Charge for the year 5.6 19.2 6.2 31.0
Disposals (0.2) (0.7) (0.9)
At 31 July 2008 82.1 18.8 50.6 47.7 199.2
Net book value at 31 July 2008 989.7 54.7 162.2 46.6 1,253.2
Net book value at 31 July 2007 844.3 38.7 102.2 36.1 1,021.3
Net book value at 6 August 2006 1,107.9 254.2 118.9 49.6 1,530.6
*For the period ending 31 July 2007 the additions and amortisation include the respective costs and charge for discontinued operations and disposal groups for the period prior to
becoming a disposal group.
88 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 12 Intangible assets continued
In addition to goodwill, the acquired intangible assets comprise:
Patents, licences Customer T otal acquired
and trademarks T echnology relationships intangibles
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 6 August 2006 38.9 58.6 41.6 139.1
Exchange adjustments (2.8) (3.7) (2.0) (8.5)
Business combinations 3.6 8.5 12.1
Adjustments to prior year business combinations 0.6 0.2 (1.7) (0.9)
Transfer to disposal group sold by the year end (10.4) (10.4)
Disposals (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 July 2007 40.2 55.1 36.0 131.3
Exchange adjustments 1.1 1.9 2.7 5.7
Business combinations (note 29) 12.0 18.8 43.7 74.5
Adjustments to prior year business combinations 1.3 1.3
At 31 July 2008 53.3 77.1 82.4 212.8
Amortisation
At 6 August 2006 3.4 6.9 9.9 20.2
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (0.6) (0.6) (1.3)
Charge for the period 2.3 5.6 7.1 15.0
Transfer to disposal group sold by the year end (4.8) (4.8)
At 31 July 2007 5.6 11.9 11.6 29.1
Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.7 0.9 1.8
Adjustments to prior year business combinations 0.5 0.5
Charge for the year 2.7 6.1 10.4 19.2
At 31 July 2008 8.5 19.2 22.9 50.6
Net book value at 31 July 2008 44.8 57.9 59.5 162.2
Net book value at 31 July 2007 34.6 43.2 24.4 102.2
Net book value at 6 August 2006 35.5 51.7 31.7 118.9
Significant cash generating units
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment at least annually . Value in use calculations are utilised to determine the recoverable amount
of goodwill held within each cash generating unit (CGU). Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted post-tax
cash-flows of the CGU in which the goodwill is contained, applying a discount rate based on the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital
of 8% adjusted where appropriate for risks specific to the CGU. This approximates to applying a pre-tax discount rate to pre-tax cash-flows. These
forecast cash-flows are based on approved budgets and represent a best estimate of future performance.
The goodwill held in the Smiths Medical Critical Care and Smiths Detection Civil CGUs, with net book values of £291.5m (2007: £283.7m) and
£288.8m (2007: £252.0m) respectively, is considered significant in comparison to the total carrying value of goodwill. Following a reorganisation of
the management of the Detection business the allocation of goodwill to CGUs was updated. The Detection Civil CGU incorporates the business
activities reported as Smiths Detection Imaging Systems in 2007. The comparative net book value has been restated to reflect the new allocation. 
The following key assumptions were used in the discounted cash-flow projections for the Critical Care and Detection Civil CGUs:
• growth rates of 2.25% (2007: 2.00%) have been used for the Critical Care and Detection Civil CGUs to extrapolate beyond the most recent forecasts,
representing a view of the long-term average growth rates for the industries in which the businesses operate. The growth rates used to estimate
future performance beyond the periods covered by our annual planning and strategic planning processes do not exceed the long-term average
growth rates for similar projects and do not reflect long-term planning assumptions used by the Group for investment planning; and
• in addition to discount rates and long-term growth rates, the key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amounts of the Critical Care
and Detection Civil CGUs include future sales prices and volumes (with reference to specific customer relationships and product lines), operating
margins, the cost structure of each CGU and the ability to realise planned productivity improvements.
The assumptions used in the discounted cash-flow forecasts incorporate past performance and historical growth rates and margins achievable in
our key markets as a guide. 
Sensitivity analysis performed around the base case assumptions has indicated that no reasonable changes in key assumptions would cause the
carrying amount of the Critical Care and Detection Civil CGUs to exceed their respective recoverable amount.
The balance of the goodwill represents smaller individual amounts which have been allocated to specific operating companies and smaller CGUs.
These amounts are tested for impairment at this level. 
89 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
13 Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures,
fittings,
Land and Plant and tools and
buildings machinery equipment T otal
£m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 6 August 2006 245.1 653.0 337.3 1,235.4
Exchange adjustments (5.0) (13.8) (4.6) (23.4)
Reclassification 14.6 (14.6)
Business combinations 1.0 1.0 2.0
Additions* 9.4 40.3 23.2 72.9
Transfers to disposal groups held for sale at year end (0.7) (6.6) (7.3)
Transfer to disposal group sold by the year end (89.1) (338.5) (161.5) (589.1)
Disposals (4.2) (13.7) (14.7) (32.6)
At 31 July 2007 155.5 342.9 159.5 657.9
Exchange adjustments 8.4 18.1 10.8 37.3
Reclassification 1.0 (1.8) 0.8
Business combinations 2.8 2.9 2.2 7.9
Additions 9.9 31.2 23.1 64.2
Disposals (4.8) (10.1) (7.2) (22.1)
Adjustments to acquisitions and disposals in prior years (1.4) 6.7 5.3
At 31 July 2008 171.4 389.9 189.2 750.5
Depreciation
At 6 August 2006 78.3 407.0 252.3 737.6
Exchange adjustments (2.3) (8.2) (3.5) (14.0)
Reclassification 10.4 (10.4)
Charge for the period* 5.4 28.6 18.2 52.2
Impairment charge 5.9 2.2 8.1
Transfers to disposal groups held for sale at year end (0.2) (4.2) (4.4)
Transfer to disposal group sold by the year end (23.7) (210.7) (128.5) (362.9)
Disposals (0.3) (10.1) (9.2) (19.6)
At 31 July 2007 63.1 219.2 114.7 397.0
Exchange adjustments 2.6 12.1 7.7 22.4
Reclassification 0.8 (1.1) 0.3
Charge for the year 5.4 28.9 18.9 53.2
Impairment charge 0.3 0.3
Disposals (3.7) (7.3) (6.6) (17.6)
Adjustments to acquisitions and disposals in prior years (7.8) 6.7 (1.1)
At 31 July 2008 60.7 258.5 135.0 454.2
Net book value at 31 July 2008 110.7 131.4 54.2 296.3
Net book value at 31 July 2007 92.4 123.7 44.8 260.9
Net book value at 6 August 2006 166.8 246.0 85.0 497.8
*For the period ending 31 July 2007 the additions and the depreciation charge include the respective costs and charge for discontinued operations and disposal groups for the period prior
to becoming a disposal group.
The impairment charge of £8.1m in the period ended 31 July 2007 arose when property, plant and equipment was written down to fair value less
costs to sell prior to being classified as being held for sale. The charge has been recognised in the results of John Crane. 
2008 2007
£m £m
Capital expenditure commitments – contracted but not provided for 11.5 16.9
90 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 14 Investments accounted for using the equity method
2008 2007
£m £m
Investments in associated companies
At start of period 12.0 14.0
Exchange adjustment 2.3 (0.3)
Share of results after tax (1.0) (0.5)
Dilution of interest (0.9) (1.2)
Acquisition of a controlling interest (3.3)
At end of period 9.1 12.0
The Group acquired a controlling interest in an associate on 21 December 2007, and it has been consolidated as a subsidiary since that date.
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Group share of results of associated companies
Revenue 17.6 25.3
Operating costs and other income (18.8) (25.0)
Profit/(loss) before taxation (1.2) 0.3
T axation 0.2 (0.8)
Share of post-tax result from associated companies (1.0) (0.5)
Net assets and liabilities of associated companies
2008 2007
£m £m
Non-current assets 20.1 9.9
Current assets 24.8 36.9
T otal assets 44.9 46.8
Non-current liabilities (6.2) (5.0)
Current liabilities (7.9) (16.5)
T otal liabilities (14.1) (21.5)
Net assets 30.8 25.3
The above table principally represents the assets and liabilities of Cross Match T echnologies, Inc. The Group share of those assets and liabilities
attributable to Smiths Group is 34% (2007: 37%).
In 2007 the interest in Cross Match T echnologies, Inc. was diluted as a result of warrants and options being exercised in the period.
15 Inventories
2008 2007
£m £m
Inventories comprise
Raw materials and consumables 149.7 114.2
Work in progress 68.0 58.0
Finished goods 173.5 158.5
391.2 330.7
Less: payments on account (10.9) (11.0)
380.3 319.7
The Group consumed £1,776.4m (2007: £2,176.7m) of inventories during the period. £11.8m (2007: £13.4m) was recognised as an expense resulting
from the write-down of inventory and £1.5m (2007: £4.0m) was released to the income statement from inventory provisions charged in earlier
years but no longer required.
91 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
16 Trade and other receivables
2008 2007
£m £m
Non-current
Trade receivables 8.8 8.9
Prepayments and accrued income 1.6 0.8
Other debtors 4.2 5.0
14.6 14.7
Current
Amounts due from customers for contract work 5.3
Trade receivables 509.1 427.2
Other debtors 19.8 16.6
Prepayments and accrued income 36.5 40.7
565.4 489.8
Trade receivables do not carry interest. Management considers that the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates the fair value. 
T rade and other receivables, including prepayments, accrued income and other debtors qualifying as financial instruments are classified as “loans
and receivables”. The maximum credit exposure arising from these financial assets is £536.7m (2007: £450.1m).
Credit risk is managed separately for each customer and, where appropriate, a credit limit is set for the customer based on previous experience
of the customer and third party credit ratings.
Provision for bad and doubtful debts
Trade receivables are disclosed net of a provision for bad and doubtful debts. Movement on the provision is as follows: 
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Balance at the beginning of the period 10.5 16.3
Exchange differences 0.8 (0.3)
Charged 4.4 3.0
Utilised (1.4) (2.8)
Released (3.1) (2.9)
Disposal of businesses (2.8)
Balance at the end of the period 11.2 10.5
The provision for bad and doubtful debts is based on specific risk assessment and reference to past default experience.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of customers. The largest single customer is
the US Federal Government representing less than 7% (2007: 4%) of group turnover . 
Ageing of trade receivables
2008 2007
£m £m
Trade receivables which are not impaired and not yet due 412.4 313.1
Ageing analysis of trade receivables which are overdue but not impaired:
– less than three months 79.2 93.4
– more than three months 22.6 24.1
Gross value of partially and fully provided debtors 14.9 16.0
529.1 446.6
Provision for bad and doubtful debts (11.2) (10.5)
Trade receivables 517.9 436.1
92 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 17 Cash and cash equivalents
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand – including impact of cash pooling gross up: £100.6m (2007: £123.2m) 122.5 148.5
Short-term deposits 10.0 40.8
Cash and cash equivalents 132.5 189.3
Cash included in assets of disposal group (note 18) (3.1)
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet 132.5 186.2
Cash and cash equivalents 132.5 189.3
Bank overdrafts (172.5) (186.2)
Net cash and cash equivalents (40.0) 3.1
Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less. 
18 Disposal group
During the second half of 2007, the Company invited offers for the purchase of its marine operations, which formed part of Specialty Engineering
– Other . These operations were disposed of on 8 November 2007. The assets and liabilities of this operation were disclosed as held for sale in the
consolidated balance sheet as at 31 July 2007. No impairment loss was recorded when the assets were revalued to fair value less disposal costs.
2008 2007
£m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 1.9
Property, plant and equipment 2.9
Deferred tax assets 0.1
4.9
Current assets
Inventories 7.4
Trade and other receivables 15.7
Cash and cash equivalents 3.1
Financial derivatives 0.2
Total assets of disposal group 31.3
Non-current liabilities
Financial derivatives (0.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (0.6)
(1.4)
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities:
– financial derivatives (0.5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (0.6)
Trade and other payables (12.7)
Current tax payable (1.0)
Total liabilities of disposal group (16.2)
93 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
19 Trade and other payables
2008 2007
£m £m
Non-current
Other creditors 27.5 22.5
Current
Trade creditors 156.7 164.8
Bills of exchange payable 1.1 1.7
Other creditors 51.0 38.0
Other taxation and social security costs 23.1 20.5
Accruals and deferred income 188.8 187.6
420.7 412.6
T rade and other payables, including accrued expenses and other creditors qualifying as financial instruments, are accounted for at amortised cost
and are categorised as other financial liabilities. 
20 Borrowings and net debt
This note sets out the calculation of net debt, a measure considered important in explaining our financing position. The net debt figure includes
accrued interest and the fair value adjustments relating to hedge accounting. 
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents
Net cash and deposits including assets of disposal group (note 17) 132.5 189.3
Short-term borrowings
Bank overdrafts including impact of cash pooling gross up: £100.6m (2007: £123.2m) (172.5) (186.2)
Bank loans (0.3) (0.2)
Other loans (3.5) (3.1)
B shares (note 26) (1.7) (18.1)
Interest accrual (4.4) (4.5)
(182.4) (212.1)
Long-term borrowings
7.875% Sterling Eurobond 2010 (149.6) (149.5)
7.25% Sterling Eurobond 2016 (148.8) (148.7)
5.45% US$ Private Placement 2013 (127.4) (120.0)
Floating Rate Revolving Credit Facility 2012 (multi-currency) (210.2) (67.2)
EIB Sterling R. & D. Loan 2010 (70.0) (70.0)
Bank and other loans (14.7) (11.7)
(720.7) (567.1)
Borrowings (903.1) (779.2)
Net debt (770.6) (589.9)
Borrowings are accounted for at amortised cost and are categorised as other financial liabilities. 
See note 21 for a maturity analysis of borrowings. The repayment dates on borrowings repayable after five years range from 2014 to 2022. 
Interest of £22.5m (2007: £22.5m) was charged to the consolidated income statement in this period in respect of public bonds. 
Secured loans
Loans amounting to £13.2m (2007: £11.5m) were secured by charges on freehold properties with a book value of £11.0m (2007: £9.8m).
94 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 21 Financial risk management
The Group’s international operations and debt financing expose it to financial risks including the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates,
changes in debt market prices, interest rates, credit risks and liquidity risks. 
Risk management policies are set by the Board. The treasury policy sets out specific guidelines to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk,
credit risk and the use of financial instruments to manage risk. The instruments and techniques used to manage risk exposures include foreign
currency derivatives, debt and other interest rate derivatives. The central treasury function monitors financial risks and compliance with risk
management policies using regular reports from all the businesses.
The management of operational credit risk is discussed in note 16.
(a) Foreign exchange risk
Transactional currency exposure
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risks arising from sales or purchases by businesses in currencies other than their functional currency.
It is Group policy that, when such a sale or purchase is certain or highly probable, the net foreign exchange exposure is hedged using forward foreign
exchange contracts. The net exposure is calculated by adjusting the expected cash-flow for payments or receipts in the same currency linked to
the sale or purchase. This policy minimises the risk that the profits generated from the transaction will be affected by foreign exchange movements
which occur after the price has been determined.
Hedge accounting documentation and effectiveness testing are only undertaken if it is cost effective. At 31 July 2008 the Group had outstanding foreign
currency contracts with a nominal value of £130m (2007: £131m) which were being used to manage transactional foreign exchange exposures, but
were not accounted for as cash-flow hedges.
The following table shows the currency of financial instruments. It excludes loans and derivatives designated as net investment hedges.
At 31 July 2008
Sterling US$ Euro Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets and liabilities
Financial instruments included in trade and other receivables 40.6 237.4 162.2 96.5 536.7
Financial instruments included in trade and other payables (49.9) (121.4) (86.9) (40.1) (298.3)
Cash and cash equivalents 32.7 16.5 48.0 35.3 132.5
Borrowings not designated as net investment hedges (412.1) (163.2) (13.8) (103.8) (692.9)
(388.7) (30.7) 109.5 (12.1) (322.0)
Exclude balances held in operations with the same functional currency 389.3 56.4 (35.6) (62.0) 348.1
Exposure arising from intra-group loans (15.5) (11.2) (26.7)
Forward foreign exchange contracts 48.9 (50.0) (1.9) 3.0
49.5 (39.8) 72.0 (82.3) (0.6)
At 31 July 2007
Sterling US$ Euro Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets and liabilities
Financial instruments included in trade and other receivables 43.6 198.0 122.5 86.0 450.1
Financial instruments included in trade and other payables (21.9) (94.3) (59.7) (21.0) (196.9)
Cash and cash equivalents 68.3 11.6 62.5 46.9 189.3
Borrowings not designated as net investment hedges (439.2) (140.2) (101.6) (30.9) (711.9)
(349.2) (24.9) 23.7 81.0 (269.4)
Exclude balances held in operations with the same functional currency 350.8 54.8 (22.1) (73.9) 309.6
Exposure arising from intra-group loans (5.5) (18.4) (23.9)
Forward foreign exchange contracts (2.4) (39.6) 14.6 27.4
(0.8) (15.2) 16.2 16.1 16.3
Financial instruments included in trade and other receivables comprise trade receivables, accrued income and other debtors which qualify as
financial instruments. Similarly, financial instruments included in trade and other payables comprise trade payables, accrued expenses and other
creditors which qualify as financial instruments. 
In the period ended 31 July 2007 Smiths entered into a one-off hedge contract to fix the sterling equivalent of the projected net proceeds arising
from the Aerospace disposal (note 7). This hedge contract had a nominal value of US$4.2 billion, a maturity date of 8 May 2007, and an effective
exchange rate of 1.9791. The gain of £18.5m realised on this contract was recognised in calculating the fair value of the consideration.
95 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
21 Financial risk management continued
Based on the assets and liabilities held at the year end, if the specified currencies were to strengthen 10% while all other market rates remained
constant, the change in the fair value of financial instruments not designated as net investment hedges would have the following effect: 
Gain/(loss) Gain/(loss)
Impact on proﬁt recognised in Impact on profit recognised in
for the year reserves for the year reserves
31 July 2008 31 July 2008 31 July 2007 31 July 2007
£m £m £m £m
US dollar (0.1) (3.3) 1.5 (1.7)
Euro 4.8 (1.0) (0.7) 2.6
Sterling 2.1 2.8 1.1 2.3
These sensitivities were calculated before adjusting for tax and do not include the effect of intra-group loans which have been designated as 
quasi-equity .
Cash-flow hedging
The Group uses foreign currency contracts to hedge future foreign currency sales and purchases. At 31 July 2008 contracts with a nominal value
of £222.2m (2007: £211.0m) were designated as hedging instruments. The fair value of the hedging instruments is disclosed in note 22.
The majority of hedged transactions will be recognised in the income statement in the same period that the cash-flows are expected to occur, with
the only differences arising as a result of normal commercial credit terms on sales and purchases. Of the foreign exchange contracts designated
as hedging instruments 99% are for periods of 12 months or less (2007: 93%).
The movements in the cash-flow hedge reserve during the period are summarised in the table below:
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Brought forward cash-flow hedge reserve at start of period 1.4 13.3
Exchange adjustments 0.2
Gains and losses on effective cash-flow hedges recognised in equity (1.0) 4.8
Amounts removed from the hedge reserve and recognised in the following lines on the income statement:
– Revenue 0.2 (2.7)
– Cost of sales 0.3 1.1
– Profit after taxation – discontinued operations (15.1)
Carried forward cash-flow hedge reserve at end of period 1.1 1.4
96 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 21 Financial risk management continued
Translational currency exposure
The Group has a significant investment in overseas operations, particularly in America and Europe. As a result, the sterling value of the Group’s
balance sheet can be affected by movements in exchange rates. The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of these translational currency exposures
by matching the net investment in overseas operations with borrowings denominated in their functional currencies, except where significant
adverse interest differentials or other factors would render the cost of such hedging activity uneconomic. This is achieved by borrowing either
directly in the local currency or indirectly through the use of rolling annual forward foreign exchange contracts. 
The table below sets out the currency of loans designated as net investment hedges and cross-currency swap contracts:
At 31 July 2008
Sterling US$ Euro Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Loans designated as net investment hedges (139.6) (70.6) (210.2)
Cross currency swap contracts 371.4 (150.6) (163.0) (57.8)
371.4 (290.2) (233.6) (57.8) (210.2)
At 31 July 2007
Sterling US$ Euro Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Loans designated as net investment hedges (67.3) (67.3)
Cross currency swap contracts 255.9 (89.5) (125.0) (41.4)
255.9 (89.5) (192.3) (41.4) (67.3)
The fair values of these net investment hedges are subject to exchange rate movements. Based on the hedging instruments in place at the year
end a 10% increase in the value of the US dollar while all other market rates remained constant would lead to a fair value loss of £14.9m (2007:
£8.2m) and a 10% increase in the value of the euro while all other market rates remained constant would lead to a fair value loss of £17.4m (2007:
£19.0m). These movements would be recognised in equity and fully offset by an opposite movement on the retranslation of the net assets of the
overseas subsidiaries. These sensitivities were calculated before adjusting for tax.
Net investment hedges
Cross-currency swap contracts for US dollars, Euros, Yen, Renminbi and Canadian dollars with a nominal value of £371m (2007: £238m) and
foreign currency borrowings of US $277m (2007: $nil) and ¤90m (2007: ¤100m) have been designated as net investment hedges in respect of the
currency translation risk arising on foreign operations. The contracts mature within twelve months. See note 22 for the fair value of the contracts.
The gains and losses that have been deferred in the net investment hedge reserve are shown in the table below:
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Brought forward net investment hedge reserve at start of period 17.2 13.2
Amounts deferred in the period on effective net investment hedges (47.5) 8.2
Amounts removed from the hedge reserve and recognised in the income statement (4.2)
Carried forward net investment hedge reserve at end of period (30.3) 17.2
97 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
21 Financial risk management continued
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group operates an interest rate policy designed to optimise interest cost and reduce volatility in reported earnings. The Group’s normal policy
is to require interest rates to be fixed for 30% to 70% of the level of underlying borrowings forecast to arise over a three-year horizon. This is achieved
partly through fixed rate borrowings, and partly through the use of interest rate swaps. Excluding the cash pool gross up, at 31 July 2008 46%
(2007: 55%) of the Group’s borrowings were at fixed interest rates, after adjusting for interest rate swaps.
The weighted average interest rate on borrowings and cross currency swaps at 31 July 2008, after interest rate swaps, is 4.6% (2007: 5.3%).
Interest rate profile of financial assets and liabilities and the fair value of borrowings
The following table shows the interest rate risk exposure of cash and borrowings. The other financial assets and liabilities do not earn or bear interest
and for all financial instruments except for borrowings the carrying value is not materially different from their fair value.
Cash and Fair value of Cash and Fair value of
cash equivalents Borrowings borrowings cash equivalents Borrowings borrowings
31 July 2008 31 July 2008 31 July 2008 31 July 2007 31 July 2007 31 July 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed interest (adjusted for interest rate hedging): 
Less than one year (3.8) (4.0) 14.1 (3.0) (3.0)
Between one and five years (203.5) (207.1) (151.1) (157.3)
Greater than five years (160.1) (166.2) (207.9) (216.8)
T otal fixed interest financial assets/(liabilities) (adjusted for interest 
rate hedging) (367.4) (377.3) 14.1 (362.0) (377.1)
Floating rate interest financial assets/(liabilities) 122.1 (535.7) (535.7) 165.6 (417.2) (417.2)
T otal interest bearing financial assets/(liabilities) 122.1 (903.1) (913.0) 179.7 (779.2) (794.3)
Non-interest bearing assets/(liabilities) in the same category 10.4 9.6
Total 132.5 (903.1) (913.0) 189.3 (779.2) (794.3)
Interest rate hedging
The Group has designated US$150m interest rate swaps which mature on 28 January 2013 as fair value hedges on the US private placement
which matures on the same date. This hedges the risk of variability in the fair value of borrowings arising from interest rate fluctuations. The fair
value of the hedging instrument is disclosed in note 22. The effect of the interest rate swap is to convert £75.7m (2007: £73.7m) debt from fixed rate
to floating rate. 
Sensitivity of interest charges to interest rate movements
The Group has exposure to sterling, US dollar and Euro interest rates. However the Group does not have a significant exposure to interest rate
movements for any individual currency. Based on the composition of net debt and foreign exchange rates at 31 July 2008, and taking into
consideration all fixed rate borrowings and interest rate swaps in place, a one percentage point (100 basis points) change in average floating interest
rates for all three currencies would have a £4.3m (2007: 3.9m) impact on the Group’s profit before tax.
(c) Financial credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but does not expect any
counterparties to fail to meet their obligations. Credit risk is mitigated by the Group’s Board-approved policy of only selecting counterparties with
a strong investment graded long-term credit rating for cash deposits, normally at least AA- or equivalent, and assigning financial limits to individual
counterparties. In the normal course of business, the Group operates notional cash pooling systems, where a legal right of set-off applies. 
The maximum credit risk exposure in the event of other parties failing to perform their obligations under financial assets, excluding trade and other
receivables, totals £132.5m at 31 July 2008 (2007: £189.3m). This includes cash of £100.6m (2007: £123.2m) held in interest compensation pools
where Smiths has a legal right of set-off and the net pool balance at the year end was a creditor . 
The maximum exposure with a single bank for deposits and cash is £12.4m (2007: £27.8m), whilst the maximum mark to market exposure for foreign
exchange contracts at 31 July 2008 to a single bank is £1.5m (2007: £4.6m). These banks had credit ratings of AA and AA+ respectively . 
98 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 21 Financial risk management continued
(d) Liquidity risk
Borrowing facilities
The Group actively maintains committed unused credit facilities of at least £200m (or equivalent free cash) at all times to ensure it has sufficient
available funds for operations and planned expansions. In 2007 the principal £660m revolving credit facility was extended to 2012. At the balance
sheet date the Group had the following undrawn credit facilities: 
2008 2007
£m £m
Expiring within one year 50.0
Expiring between one and two years
Expiring after two years 449.8 593.0
449.8 643.0
Cash deposits
As at 31 July 2008, £10.0m (2007: £40.8m) of cash and cash equivalents was on deposit with various banks and in money market funds of which
£7.2m (2007: £32.2m) was on deposit in the UK.
Gross contractual cash-flows for borrowings 
Contractual Total Contractual T otal
Borrowings Fair value interest contractual Borrowings Fair value interest contractual
(Note 20) adjustments payments cash-ﬂows (Note 20) adjustments payments cash-flows
31 July 2008 31 July 2008 31 July 2008 31 July 2008 31 July 2007 31 July 2007 31 July 2007 31 July 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year (182.4) (42.3) (224.7) (212.1) (37.7) (249.8)
Between one and two years (150.9) (0.4) (41.5) (192.8) (0.5) (37.0) (37.5)
Between two and three years (71.3) (26.4) (97.7) (149.9) (0.5) (36.3) (186.7)
Between three and four years (210.7) (0.5) (25.0) (236.2) (70.3) (21.2) (91.5)
Between four and five years (127.7) 1.2 (14.6) (141.1) (67.6) (0.6) (20.4) (88.6)
Greater than five years (160.1) (1.2) (34.4) (195.7) (278.8) (4.1) (48.6) (331.5)
Total (903.1) (0.9) (184.2) (1,088.2) (779.2) (5.2) (201.2) (985.6)
The figures presented in the borrowings column include the non-cash adjustments which are highlighted in the adjacent column. The contractual
interest reported for borrowings is before the effect of interest rate swaps.
Gross contractual cash-flows for derivative financial instruments 
Receipts Payments Net cash-ﬂow Receipts Payments Net cash-flow
31 July 2008 31 July 2008 31 July 2008 31 July 2007 31 July 2007 31 July 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Less than one year 256.4 (247.7) 8.7 398.1 (382.8) 15.3
Greater than one year 63.9 (60.1) 3.8 44.4 (43.6) 0.8
Liabilities
Less than one year 379.8 (400.6) (20.8) 109.3 (112.5) (3.2)
Greater than one year 28.1 (28.4) (0.3) 42.4 (45.6) (3.2)
Total 728.2 (736.8) (8.6) 594.2 (584.5) 9.7
This table presents the undiscounted future contractual cash-flows for all derivative financial instruments. For this disclosure, cash-flows in foreign
currencies are translated using the spot rates at the balance sheet date. The fair values of these financial instruments are presented in note 22.
Gross contractual cash-flows for other financial liabilities
The contractual cash-flows for financial liabilities included in trade and other payables are: £285.8m (2007: £192.3m) due in less than one year,
£10.9m (2007: £4.6m) due between one and five years and £1.6m (2007: £nil) due after more than five years.
99 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
22 Financial derivatives
The tables below set out the nominal amount and fair value of derivative contracts held by the Group, identifying the derivative contracts which qualify
for hedge accounting treatment: 
Contract or underlying
nominal amount Fair value
Assets Liabilities Net
At 31 July 2008 £m £m £m £m
Foreign exchange contracts (cash-flow hedges) 222.2 3.8 (2.9) 0.9
Foreign exchange contracts (not hedge accounted) 130.1 1.4 (0.7) 0.7
T otal foreign exchange contracts 352.3 5.2 (3.6) 1.6
Cross-currency swaps (net investment hedges) 371.4 1.5 (18.0) (16.5)
Interest rate swaps (fair value hedges) 75.7 1.2 1.2
T otal financial derivatives 799.4 7.9 (21.6) (13.7)
Balance sheet entries:
Non-current 1.4 (0.1) 1.3
Current 6.5 (21.5) (15.0)
T otal financial derivatives 7.9 (21.6) (13.7)
Contract or underlying
nominal amount Fair value
Assets Liabilities Net
At 31 July 2007 £m £m £m £m
Foreign exchange contracts (cash-flow hedges) 211.0 2.6 (0.8) 1.8
Foreign exchange contracts (not hedge accounted) 131.4 0.9 (1.7) (0.8)
T otal foreign exchange contracts 342.4 3.5 (2.5) 1.0
Cross-currency swaps (net investment hedges) 238.2 9.0 9.0
Cross-currency swaps (not hedge accounted) 17.7 1.4 1.4
T otal cross-currency swaps 255.9 10.4 10.4
Interest rate swaps (fair value hedges) 73.7 (2.8) (2.8)
Embedded derivatives 15.8 0.2 (1.3) (1.1)
T otal financial derivatives 687.8 14.1 (6.6) 7.5
Balance sheet entries:
Non-current 0.4 (2.5) (2.1)
Included in assets/(liabilities) of disposal group 0.2 (1.3) (1.1)
Current 13.5 (2.8) 10.7
T otal financial derivatives 14.1 (6.6) 7.5
Accounting for other derivative contracts
Any foreign exchange contracts which are not formally designated as hedges and tested are classified as ‘held for trading’ and not hedge accounted. 
Amounts recognised in 2007 in respect of embedded derivatives primarily represent the value of currency terms in commercial contracts between
Smiths European subsidiaries and customers and suppliers outside the USA which are denominated in US dollars.
100 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 23 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Unwind of
At Exchange Provisions Provisions provision At
31 July 2007 adjustments charged released discount Utilisation 31 July 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Warranty provision and product liability 34.5 3.8 30.0 (5.5) (16.6) 46.2
Reorganisation 10.8 0.3 5.2 (0.2) (6.3) 9.8
Property 6.7 0.6 (3.3) (0.5) 3.5
Disposal 60.3 11.4 (3.6) (20.7) 47.4
Litigation 121.2 3.3 46.8 (2.2) 4.7 (10.1) 163.7
233.5 7.4 94.0 (14.8) 4.7 (54.2) 270.6
Analysed as:
2008 2007
£m £m
Current liabilities 70.0 90.1
Non-current liabilities 200.6 143.4
270.6 233.5
Warranty provision and product liability
Warranties over the Group’s products typically cover periods of between one and three years. Provision is made for the likely cost of after-sales
support based on the recent past experience of individual businesses.
Reorganisation
On 3 June 2008 the Company announced a number of changes to its corporate centre and divisional headquarters. The total cost of this
restructuring, including redundancy, relocation and consolidation of manufacturing, is expected to amount to approximately £48m over the period
to 2010, of which £4.5m has been charged in the current year . 
Reorganisation provisions include £4.7m (2007: £6.0m) costs relating to restructuring supply arrangements following the automotive seals disposal.
These costs are expected to be spread over the next six years. The residual balance at 31 July 2007 related mainly to Medical, and was utilised during
2008.
Property
Where a property is vacant, or sub-let under terms such that rental income is insufficient to meet all outgoings, the Group provides for the expected
future shortfall up to termination of the lease. Provision is also made for the cost of reinstatement work on leased properties where there is an
obligation under the lease, and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Where evidence of contamination is found on property in the Group’s
occupation, provision is made for estimated remedial costs pending action on the affected site. Most of the balance is expected to be utilised within
the next five years.
Disposal
A provision has been made in 2008 in respect of obligations arising from the disposal of the Group’ s Marine Systems business. See note 30 for details
of this disposal.
The terms of the disposal of the Aerospace operations included certain obligations for which provision was made in 2007, including £24.3m in respect
of costs of transferring aerospace active pensioners. In 2008 the pensioners were transferred, utilising £20.7m of this provision. The balance of £3.6m
has been released to the income statement. 
Most of the balance is expected to be utilised within the next five years.
101 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
23 Provisions for liabilities and charges continued
Litigation
John Crane, Inc.
John Crane, Inc. (“ JCI”) is one of many co-defendants in litigation relating to products previously manufactured which contained asbestos. Until 2006,
the awards, the related interest and all material defence costs were met directly by insurers. In 2007, JCI secured the commutation of certain
insurance policies in respect of product liability . While substantial insurance remains in place, JCI has begun to meet defence costs directly, seeking
appropriate contribution from insurers thereafter . Provision is made in respect of the expected costs of defending known and predicted future
claims and of adverse judgments in relation thereto, to the extent that such costs can be reliably estimated. No account has been taken of recoveries
from insurers as their nature and timing are not yet sufficiently certain to permit recognition as an asset for these purposes. 
The JCI products generally referred to in these cases are ones in which the asbestos fibres were encapsulated in such a manner that, according
to tests conducted on behalf of JCI, the products were safe. JCI ceased manufacturing products containing asbestos in 1985. JCI has resisted
every case in which it has been named and will continue its robust defence of all asbestos-related claims based upon this ‘safe product’ defence.
As a result of its defence policy, JCI has been dismissed before trial from cases involving approximately 159,000 claims over the last 29 years. JCI
is currently a defendant in cases involving approximately 136,000 claims. JCI has had final judgments against it, after appeals, in only 70 cases,
amounting to awards of some US$70m over the 29 year period.
The assumptions made in assessing the appropriate level of provision include:
• The periods over which the expenditure can be reliably estimated. Projections used range between 10 and 20 years.
• The future trend of legal costs allowing for 3% cost inflation.
• The rate of future claims. 
• The rate of successful resolution of claims.
• The average level of judgments. 
The provision is based on past history and allows for decreasing costs based on published tables of asbestos incidence projections. In the light of
the significant uncertainty associated with asbestos claims, there can be no guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will be
an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred and, as a result, the provision may be subject to revision from time to time as more
information becomes available.
The provision shown in the table above is a discounted pre-tax provision using discount rates, being the risk-free rate on US debt instruments for
the appropriate period. The deferred tax asset related to this provision is shown within the deferred tax balance (note 6). Set out below is the gross,
discounted and post-tax information relating to this provision:
2008 2007
£m £m
Gross provision 185.9 142.2
Discount (47.0) (45.8)
Discounted pre-tax provision 138.9 96.4
Deferred tax (37.5) (36.6)
Discounted post-tax provision 101.4 59.8
Other litigation
The Group has on occasion been required to take legal action to protect its patents and other business intellectual property rights against
infringement, and similarly to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties. Provision is made for the expected fees and associated
costs, based on professional advice as to the likely duration of each case. Provisions totalling £2.2m (2007: £8.9m) were released relating to litigation
settled at less than the expected cost. Most of the balance is expected to be utilised within the next five years.
Apart from that relating to JCI, none of the other provisions is discounted.
24 Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
The minimum uncancellable lease payments which the Group is committed to make are:
2008 2007
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£m £m £m £m
Payments due
– not later than one year 20.5 7.8 17.5 7.3
– later than one year and not later than five years 47.0 8.1 43.1 8.0
– later than five years 20.3 0.1 24.7 0.1
87.8 16.0 85.3 15.4
102 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 25 Contingent liabilities and commitments
John Crane, Inc.
As stated in note 23, John Crane, Inc. (“ JCI”) is involved in numerous law suits pending in the United States in which plaintiffs are claiming damages
arising from exposure to, or use of, products containing asbestos. The JCI products generally referred to in these cases are ones in which the
asbestos fibres were encapsulated in such a manner that, according to tests conducted on behalf of JCI, the products were safe. JCI ceased
manufacturing products containing asbestos in 1985.
Provision has been made for the cost of adverse judgements expected to occur . The Group anticipates that asbestos litigation will continue beyond
the period covered by this provision; however, because of the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of litigation beyond this period, the cost of
adverse judgments cannot be reliably estimated. 
Other contingent liabilities and commitments
At 31 July 2008, contingent liabilities, comprising bonds and guarantees arising in the normal course of business, amounted to £75m (2007: £88m). 
The Group is currently co-operating with the relevant authorities in investigating certain allegations of improper business conduct. Based on the
work completed to date, these are not expected to give rise to any material financial exposure. 
The Parent Company has arranged two letters of credit to support the Group’ s pension plans, one for £100.0m and one for £50.0m. At 31 July 2008,
total usage of the two facilities was £124.9m (2007: £132.8m).
26 Share capital
Issued capital Consideration
Number of shares £m £m
Ordinary shares
At 31 July 2007 385,498,273 144.6
Exercise of share options 2,380,908 0.9 15.5
At 31 July 2008 387,879,181 145.5
B shares
At 31 July 2007 4,926,594 0.1
Purchased and cancelled (4,467,437) (0.1)
At 31 July 2008 459,157
Share capital classified as equity at 31 July 2008 145.5
Share capital classified as debt at 31 July 2008
Total share capital at 31 July 2008 145.5
On 17 April 2008 4.5 million B shares were purchased and cancelled. The remaining B shares carry annual interest of 75% of 12 month LIBOR,
payable in arrears in April. Smiths may redeem and cancel the remaining B shares up to November 2008 for a consideration of 365p per share in
cash or convert them to ordinary shares. B shares have no voting rights. 
In 2007 the Group issued 577.6 million B shares with a nominal value of £5.8m. £4.2m of associated costs were charged to the share premium
account. Of these shares 572.6 million were redeemed on 25 June 2007 for a consideration of 365p per share including 348.2 million B shares which
had been converted into deferred shares. 
After the allotment of the B shares in 2007 a capital reorganisation was undertaken. The shareholders received two new 37.5p ordinary shares for
every three 25p ordinary shares which they previously held. 
The authorised capital at 31 July 2008 consisted of:
• 533,333,333 (2007: 533,333,333) ordinary shares of 37.5p each; and
• 600,000,000 (2007: 600,000,000) non-cumulative B shares of 1p each. 
At 31 July 2008 all of the issued share capital was in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid.
103 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
27 Reconciliation of movements in equity
Share Equity
Share premium Other Hedge Retained shareholders’ Minority Total
capital account reserves reserve earnings funds interest equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 5 August 2006 141.8 224.1 236.5 26.5 734.0 1,362.9 1,362.9
Exercises of share options 2.8 74.9 77.7 77.7
Purchase of own shares (7.0) (7.0) (7.0)
Return of capital to shareholders and redemption 
of B shares (10.0) 5.7 (2,104.6) (2,108.9) (2,108.9)
T otal recognised income and expenses for the period (7.9) 1,752.8 1,744.9 1,744.9
Dividends paid to equity shareholders (182.4) (182.4) (182.4)
Dilution of interest in associated company (1.2) (1.2) (1.2)
Share-based payment 17.3 17.3 17.3
At 31 July 2007 144.6 289.0 242.2 18.6 208.9 903.3 903.3
Exercises of share options 0.9 14.6 5.5 21.0 21.0
Purchase of own shares (20.7) (20.7) (20.7)
Redemption of B shares 0.1 (0.1)
Acquisition (note 29) 2.0 2.0
T otal recognised income and expenses for the period (47.8) 180.6 132.8 0.3 133.1
Dividends paid to equity shareholders (131.4) (131.4) (131.4)
Dilution of interest in associated company (0.9) (0.9) (0.9)
Share-based payment 11.8 11.8 11.8
At 31 July 2008 145.5 303.6 242.3 (29.2) 253.7 915.9 2.3 918.2
Other reserves comprise a capital redemption reserve of £5.8m (2007: £5.7m), a revaluation reserve of £1.7m (2007: £1.7m) and a merger reserve
of £234.8m (2007: £234.8m). The movements in other reserves relate to the recognition of transfers to the capital redemption reserve required
following the redemption of the B shares. 
The retained earnings include the purchase of Smiths Group plc shares by the Smiths Industries Employee Benefit Trust. The consideration paid
was £20.7m (2007: £7.0m). At 31 July 2008 the trust held 1,095,965 (2007: 634,274) ordinary shares with a nominal value of £0.4m (2007: £0.2m)
and a market value of £11.5m (2007: £6.6m).
Capital management
Capital comprises shareholders ’ equity adjusted for goodwill recognised directly in reserves. For the period ended 31 July 2008 the average Group
capital was £1,728.1m (2007: £1,732.3m). 
The capital structure is based on the directors’ judgement of the balance required to maintain flexibility while achieving an efficient cost of capital.
The Group has a target gearing, calculated on a market value basis, of approximately 20%. At the balance sheet date the Group had gearing of 18%
(2007: 15%). This generated a weighted average cost of capital of 8% (2007: 9%). 
As part of this process the Group maintains its target of a solid investment grade credit rating by monitoring the factors utilised by ratings agencies
and evaluating the impact of potential distributions and future funding requirements. At the 31 July 2008 the Group had a credit rating of BBB+/Baa2
(2007: BBB+/Baa2) with Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s respectively . 
Hedge reserve
2008 2007
The hedge reserve on the balance sheet comprises: £m £m
Cash-flow hedge reserve 1.1 1.4
Net investment hedge reserve (30.3) 17.2
(29.2) 18.6
See transactional currency exposure risk management disclosures in note 21 for additional details of cash-flow hedges and translational currency
exposure risk management disclosure also in note 21 for additional details of net investment hedges.
104 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 28 Cash-flow from operating activities
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Profit before taxation – continuing and discontinued 346.1 1,869.4
Net interest payable 41.0 37.6
Financing losses/(gains)
– charged to administrative expenses 0.3 1.5
– charged to financing 6.1 (2.8)
Share of post-tax loss from associate 1.0 0.5
Other finance income – retirement benefits (41.7) (36.8)
(Profit on sale)/impairment of financial asset (24.0)
Profit on disposal of discontinued operation (26.8) (1,469.6)
326.0 375.8
Amortisation of intangible assets 31.0 29.7
Impairment of intangible assets 2.2
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.3) (0.4)
(Profit)/loss on disposal of business (27.2) 5.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 53.2 52.2
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.3 8.2
Share-based payment expense 12.9 13.9
Retirement benefits (37.0) (66.2)
Increase in inventories (21.4) (84.2)
Increase in trade and other receivables (10.0) (84.8)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (56.9) 29.7
Increase in provisions 49.9 84.5
Cash generated from operations 320.5 365.8
Interest (48.6) (27.0)
T ax paid (73.8) (92.8)
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 198.1 246.0
29 Acquisitions
During the period ended 31 July 2008, the Group made a number of acquisitions: Sartorius Bearing Technology (15 October 2007), a controlling
interest over an associate John Crane Japan Limited (21 December 2007), Indufil BV (28 April 2008) and Fiber Composite Company Inc. (“Fiberod”)
(2 May 2008), all on behalf of John Crane, Fast Heat (4 February 2008), Allrizon T ongguang (7 May 2008) and Triasx Pty . Ltd. (1 July 2008) on behalf
of Specialty – Other . 
From the date of acquisition to 31 July 2008, the acquisitions contributed £38.1m to revenue, £5.9m to headline profit before taxation and £1.4m to
profit before taxation. If Smiths had acquired the businesses at the beginning of the financial period, the acquisitions would have contributed £92.4m
to revenue and £13.8m to headline profit before tax.
The fair value adjustments in respect of intangible assets are due to the recognition of £43.7m in respect of customer relationships, £18.8m in respect
of technology and £12.0m in respect of patents, licenses and trademarks. Goodwill represents the value of synergies arising from the acquisitions
and the acquirees’ assembled workforces. The adjustments to current assets and liabilities relate to valuation adjustments and are provisional,
based on management’s best estimates. 
The values set out below are provisional pending finalisation of the fair values attributable, and will be finalised in the year ending 31 July 2009.
Goodwill and other net assets in respect of prior year acquisitions, as previously reported, have been adjusted as a result of finalising their attributable
fair values and changes in the estimated value of contingent considerations. Accordingly, goodwill has increased by £0.5m on one transaction and
reduced by £2.2m on another .
The minority interest and assets accounted for using the equity method adjustment represents assets not acquired by Smiths Group plc when a
controlling interest in an associate was acquired. The asset revaluation surplus represents fair value gains and losses on the associate’ s net assets.
105 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
29 Acquisitions continued
Indufil BV Other acquisitions T otal
Fair value Provisional Fair value Provisional Provisional
Book value adjustments fair value Book value adjustments fair value fair value
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
– intangible assets 0.2 31.2 31.4 0.5 43.3 43.8 75.2
– property, plant and equipment 1.3 1.3 6.8 (0.2) 6.6 7.9
Current assets
– cash and cash equivalents 4.0 4.0 4.0
– other current assets 14.5 14.5 29.0 (0.6) 28.4 42.9
Non-current liabilities
– other liabilities (8.1) (8.1) 0.1 (5.5) (5.4) (13.5)
Current liabilities
– overdrafts (2.5) (2.5) (2.5)
– other current liabilities (4.5) (4.5) (20.4) (0.8) (21.2) (25.7)
Minority interest and assets accounted for using 
the equity method (5.1) (5.1) (5.1)
Net assets acquired 9.0 23.1 32.1 20.0 31.1 51.1 83.2
Asset revaluation surplus (0.4) (0.4)
Goodwill on current year acquisitions 38.7 48.3 87.0
Goodwill adjustments on prior year acquisitions (1.7) (1.7)
Total consideration 70.8 97.3 168.1
Cash paid during the period – current year acquisitions 70.5 76.8 147.3
Direct costs relating to current year acquisitions 0.3 2.5 2.8
Deferred consideration accrued on current year acquisitions 19.7 19.7
Deferred consideration and costs paid/(released) on 
prior year acquisitions (1.7) (1.7)
Total consideration 70.8 97.3 168.1
30 Disposals
The most significant disposal transaction during the year was the sale of the Group’ s Marine Systems business to K H Finance Limited, a company
owned by ECI Partners LLP, on 8 November 2007. In addition to the consideration recognised there is a deferred payment of £4m contingent on
the terms of any future disposal of K H Finance Limited by the purchaser . The assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 July 2007 relate to the Marine
Systems business. 
The Group has adjusted provisions held in respect of disposals made in prior years, following determination of the warranties and other liabilities
provided for at the time of disposal.
£m
Consideration 46.8
Less: transaction costs (3.2)
Less: disposal provisions (2.8)
Net consideration received 40.8
Net assets disposed of: 
– intangible assets 2.2
– property, plant and equipment 4.2
– inventory 9.5
– trade and other receivables 15.5
– cash and cash equivalents 0.9
– liabilities (18.1)
Net assets 14.2
Profit on disposals in the current year 26.6
Other disposal adjustments 0.6
Proﬁt on disposal of businesses 27.2
106 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 31 Employee share schemes
The Group operates share schemes and plans for the benefit of employees. The nature of the principal schemes and plans, including general
conditions, is set out below:
Smiths Group Sharesave Scheme (SAYE)
The SAYE scheme is an HM Revenue & Customs-approved all-employee savings-related share option scheme which is open to all UK employees,
including directors, with 12 months ’ service or more. Participants enter into a contract to save a fixed amount per month of up to £250 in aggregate
for three or five years and are granted an option over shares at a fixed option price, set at a 20% discount to market price at the date of invitation to
participate. In the case of five-year savings contracts, participants can elect to delay maturity of the contract until its seventh anniversary. The
number of shares comprising the option is determined by the monthly amount saved and the bonus paid on maturity of the savings contract.
Options granted under the SAYE scheme are not subject to any performance conditions.
Smiths Group US Sharesave Scheme (US Sharesave)
The US Sharesave scheme is a savings-related share appreciation rights scheme which is open to all US employees with 12 months’ service or
more. Participants enter into a contract to save a fixed amount per month for two years and are granted share appreciation rights based on a fixed
initial price determined using the market price and the US dollar exchange rate at the date of invitation to participate. The number of shares used
in the calculation is based on the monthly amount saved and the bonus paid on maturity of the savings contract. Rights granted under the US
Sharesave scheme are not subject to any performance conditions.
Smiths Industries 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme (95 ESOS)
Options granted under the 95 ESOS can only be exercised after three years if a performance requirement, determined by the Remuneration
Committee, has been met. Options granted under the 95 ESOS up to 2001 are subject to performance testing based on total shareholder return
of the Group versus the total return of the General Industrials Sector of the FTSE All-Share Index. Options granted from 2002 are subject to a
performance test based on growth in the Group’s earnings per share. If the performance requirement is not satisfied at the end of the third year,
the performance period may be extended for up to two further years so that performance is tested over a four-year period at the end of the fourth
year and a five-year period at the end of the fifth year . The performance requirement is that the growth in the Group’ s normalised earnings per share
over the three/four/five financial years beginning immediately prior to the option grant must exceed the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over
the same period by 3% per annum (for options up to one times base salary) and by 4% per annum (for the excess up to two times base salary).
Executive directors received their final grants of options under the 95 ESOS in October 2003. From 2004 senior executives, including directors, have
received awards under the PSP (see below). Grants under the 95 ESOS continue to be made to other executives.
Smiths Group Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The PSP was introduced in 2004 and replaced the 95 ESOS for executive directors and senior executives. Conditional awards of up to 1.5 times salary
(and exceptionally three times salary) are granted annually. The awards will be released following the third anniversary of the date of grant to the
extent the PSP’s performance tests have been met. One-third of the award is subject to a total shareholder return (‘TSR’) target relative to other
FTSE 100 companies (excluding financial companies and investment trusts). For full vesting, the company’s TSR must be at or above the 75th
percentile over the three year performance period. 25% of the award will vest if the company’s TSR is at median. Awards will vest on a straight-
line pro-rata basis between median and 75th percentile. The remaining two-thirds of the award is subject to an earnings per share (‘EPS’) growth
target (measured before exceptional items). Full vesting will occur if the compound annual growth in EPS is equivalent to 12% per annum. 25%
vesting will occur if the compound annual growth in EPS is equivalent to 5% per annum, with vesting on a straight-line basis between 5% and 12%.
The PSP has been replaced by the VSP (see below).
Value Sharing Plan (VSP)
The VSP is a one-off long-term incentive plan approved by the shareholders in July 2008 rewarding executives for value creation at Group and
Divisional levels over three-year and four-year periods commencing with the financial year 2008/09. Corporate participants will be rewarded under
the VSP for value creation at a Group level, whereas the executives with divisional responsibilities will be rewarded for value creation within the division
for which they are responsible. For the Group scheme, one-third of the award will depend on the growth in Smiths ’ TSR over and above the median
for the companies comprising the FTSE-100 (excluding financial services companies) and the remaining two thirds of each award will be determined
by the growth in internal value in excess of 9.5% a year . The growth in internal value is calculated as follows: adjusted profit before tax (‘PBT’) times
the ratio of PBT to market capitalisation determined at the date of grant plus net equity cash-flows to shareholders. The divisional awards will depend
on meeting an internal value growth target set for the division in which the participant works. 
The participants in the VSP will not be eligible for awards under the Performance Share Plan in 2008/09 or 2009/10.
Smiths Group Co-Investment Plan (CIP) 
Under the CIP, as introduced in October 2005, the executive directors and senior executives are able, if invited, to use their after tax bonus or 25%
of their basic salary after tax, whichever is the greater, to invest in the Company’s shares at the prevailing market price. At the end of a three year
period, if the executive is still in office and provided the performance test is passed, he will be awarded matching shares in respect of any invested
shares retained for that period. The number of matching shares to be awarded is determined by the Remuneration Committee at the end of the
year in which the bonus is earned by reference to annual bonus, and other corporate financial criteria. The maximum award will not exceed the
value, before tax, of the bonus or salary invested in shares by the executive. Vesting of matching shares will occur and the matching shares will be
released at the end of the three year period if the Group’s Return on Capital Employed (‘RoCE’) over the Performance Period exceeds the Group’s
weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) over the Performance Period by an average margin of at least 1% per annum.
In July 2008 the CIP was amended. From 2009 participants will be required to invest 50% of their post tax bonus in purchased shares. The
performance conditions have been expanded to include an enhanced performance condition of RoCE exceeding WACC by an average margin of
3% per annum. If the enhanced performance condition is met, two matching shares will be issued for every purchased share. 
107 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the accounts continued
31 Employee share schemes continued
Weighted
average price
SAYE and ESOS DSS and for option plans
Sharesave (inc. SARS) CIP PSP T otal £
Ordinary shares under option ('000)
6 August 2006 4,283 19,307 1,363 1,934 26,887 £6.50
Granted 917 2,795 459 1,070 5,241 £6.23
Exercised (599) (11,789) (363) (12,751) £7.03
Lapsed (573) (963) (53) (72) (1,661) £7.18
31 July 2007 4,028 9,350 1,406 2,932 17,716 £5.98
Granted 639 1,838 245 743 3,465 £7.32
Exercised (2,159) (1,455) (235) (645) (4,494) £5.67
Lapsed (992) (1,101) (9) (369) (2,471) £7.32
31 July 2008 1,516 8,632 1,407 2,661 14,216 £6.23
Options were exercised on an irregular basis during the period. The average closing share price over the financial year was 1,014.32p (2007:
1,012.15p). There has been no change to the effective option price of any of the outstanding options during the period.
Exercisable
weighted
Weighted average
average Options Options exercise price
T otal shares remaining exercisable at exercisable at for options
under option contractual life 31 July 2008 31 July 2007 exercisable at
Range of exercise prices (’000) (months) (’000) (’000) 31 July 2008
£0.00 – £2.00 4,068 14 19 1 £0.00
£2.01 – £4.00
£4.01 – £6.00 234 18 2 956 £5.25
£6.01 – £8.00 2,518 57 1,735 2,236 £7.40
£8.01 – £10.00 5,505 73 587 633 £8.77
£10.01 – £12.00 1,891 108 129 185 £2.42
£12.01 – £14.00 175
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the share-based payment charge, the Binomial option pricing model has been used for most
schemes and the Monte Carlo method is used for schemes with total shareholder return performance targets. The assumptions used in the
models for 2008 and 2007 are as follows:
Period ended 31 July 2008 Period ended 31 July 2007
SAYE 95 ESOS DSS/CIP PSP SAYE 95 ESOS DSS/CIP PSP
Weighted average fair value (£) 2.48 1.73 8.60 7.14 2.19 1.94 7.81 6.40
Key assumptions used:
Weighted average share price 9.14 8.69 9.61 9.51 8.25 8.32 8.72 8.66
Range of exercise prices (£) 5.25-9.12 6.69-10.97 5.25-8.68 6.69-9.01
Range of expected volatility 17%-33% 18%-30% 17%-20% 17%-36% 18%-34% 16%-18%
Risk-free interest rate 3.9%-5.6% 4.3%-5.2% 4.3%-4.8% 3.7%-5.6% 4.3%-5.5% 4.3%-4.8%
Range of expected option term (life) 2.2-7.2 yrs 5 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 2.2-7.2 yrs 5 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs
Dividend yield 3.75% 3.75% 3.75% 3.75% 3.75% 3.75% 3.75% 3.75%
Assumptions on expected volatility and expected option term have been made on the basis of historical data, wherever available, for the period
corresponding with the vesting period of the option. Best estimates have been used where historical data is not available in this respect.
Included within staff costs is an expense arising from share-based payment transactions of £12.9m (2007: £19.3m), of which £11.8m (2007: £17.3m)
relates to equity-settled share-based payment. The charge in respect of continuing operations is £12.9m (2007: £10.4m). The total share-based
payment charge includes £nil (2007: £3.5m) relating to discontinued operations and £nil (£2007: £5.4m) relating to the accelerated vesting of share
options on business disposals. 
At 31 July 2008 the creditor relating to cash-settled schemes is £1.5m (2007: £1.9m).
32 Events after the balance sheet date
On 1 September 2008 the Company completed the sale of land in Basingstoke for £16m in cash. A further amount of up to £12m will be paid
depending on the final terms of such amended planning permission as may be granted.
On 8 September 2008 the Trustees of the TI Pension Scheme invested £250m in annuities which are matched with specific liabilities of the fund.
108 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Group financial record under IFRS 2005-2008
Y ear ended Period ended Period ended Y ear ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007 5 August 2006 31 July 2005
£m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,321.2 2,160.9 2,180.3 3,005.4
Headline operating proﬁt 380.6 347.6 344.8 415.7
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (19.2) (14.8) (13.0) (5.7)
Exceptional items (including profit on sale/impairment of financial asset) (35.4) (74.2) (337.8) (28.0)
Financing losses (0.3) (1.5) (1.8)
Operating proﬁt/(loss) 325.7 257.1 (7.8) 382.0
Net finance costs (5.4) (0.6) (28.4) (16.1)
Share of post-tax losses of associated companies (1.0) (0.5) (1.1)
Proﬁt/(loss) before taxation 319.3 256.0 (37.3) 365.9
Taxation (75.0) (53.1) (65.4) (94.1)
Proﬁt/(loss) after taxation – continuing operations 244.3 202.9 (102.7) 271.8
Proﬁt after taxation – discontinued operations 24.5 1,525.2 126.9
Shareholders’ equity 915.9 903.3 1,362.9 1,483.8
Represented by
– intangible assets 1,253.2 1,021.3 1,530.6 1,481.7
– property, plant & equipment and investments 309.0 273.6 512.6 831.3
– net current assets/provisions/retirement benefit liabilities 124.3 198.3 246.4 101.6
Net borrowings (770.6) (589.9) (926.7) (930.8)
Funds employed 915.9 903.3 1,362.9 1,483.8
Ratios
Operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets: turnover (%) 16.4 16.1 14.8 13.8
Effective tax rate before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items (%) 24.0 25.1 25.6 26.4
Return on shareholders’ funds (%) 16.7 14.9 13.6 11.2
Cash-ﬂow
Cash-flow from normal operating activities 280.5 265.9 437.6 277.6
Less capital expenditure (net) (8.0) (6.7) (18.0) (18.9)
Operating cash after capital expenditure 272.5 259.2 419.6 258.7
Free cash-flow (before acquisitions and dividends, after capital expenditure) 90.6 100.7 170.4 147.0
Free cash-ﬂow per share (p) 23.4 18.3 30.1 26.1
Earnings per share before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items (p) 74.5 47.0 64.8 52.8
Dividends
Pence per share 34.0 34.0 31.3 29.0
Times covered before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items 2.2 1.7 2.1 1.8
Number of employees (000s)
United Kingdom 2.2 2.8 7.3 7.2
Overseas 20.6 18.6 24.5 23.4
22.8 21.4 31.8 30.6
The return on shareholders’ funds for the period ended 31 July 2007 has been calculated using the closing net assets adjusted for movements in goodwill set-off against reserves relating
to continuing operations, in order to adjust for the Aerospace disposal.
The income statement for the period ended 5 August 2006 has been restated for discontinued operations; however information on shareholders’ equity, ratios, cash-flow, dividends and
employee numbers is presented for the entire Group. 
Results for the year ended 31 July 2005 have not been restated for discontinued operations.
109 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 110 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Smiths Group plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Smiths Group plc for the year ended 31 July 2008 which comprise the Company
balance sheet, the Accounting policies and the related notes. These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Smiths Group plc for the year ended 31 July 2008. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the parent company financial statements
in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set
out in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors ’ remuneration report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has
been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company
financial statements and the part of the Directors ’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Group directors' report is consistent with the parent company
financial statements. The information given in the Group directors’ report includes that specific information presented in the Business review that
is cross referred from the Group directors’ report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial
statements. The other information comprises only the Summary performance, Group at a glance, Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s
statement, the Business review, Board of directors, the Group directors’ report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration report, the
Statement of directors’ responsibilities, the Group financial record and the Financial calendar . We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do
not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part
of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the
directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration
report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 July 2008;
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Group directors' report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
23 September 2008
Notes
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Company balance sheet
31 July 2007
31 July 2008 (restated)
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
T angible assets 3 16.7 16.7
Investments and advances 4 3,216.1 3,087.8
3,232.8 3,104.5
Current assets
Debtors 
– amounts falling due within one year 5 52.2 104.0
– amounts falling due after more than one year 5 5.2 10.3
Cash at bank and on deposit 1.3 32.8
Financial derivatives 2.7 10.4
61.4 157.5
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (95.2) (105.7)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (33.8) 51.8
Total assets less current liabilities 3,199.0 3,156.3
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 6 (509.0) (367.6)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 7 (8.3) (25.1)
Financial derivatives (18.0) (2.8)
Net assets excluding pension assets/(liabilities) 2,663.7 2,760.8
Retirement benefit assets 8 29.7
Retirement benefit liabilities 8 (51.7)
Net assets including pension assets/(liabilities) 2,612.0 2,790.5
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9 145.5 144.6
Share premium account 10 303.6 289.0
Capital redemption reserve 10 5.8 5.7
Merger reserve 10 180.5 180.5
Profit and loss account 10 1,976.6 2,170.7
Shareholders’ equity 2,612.0 2,790.5
The accounts on pages 111 to 120 were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 September 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
Philip Bowman John Langston
Chief Executive Finance Director
111 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and all applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom 
(UK GAAP).
These accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention modified to include revaluation of certain
financial instruments, share options and pension assets and liabilities held at fair value.
As permitted by Section 230(3) of the Companies Act 1985, the Company’s entity profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains
and losses have not been presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in ‘FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures’ not to disclose transactions with other members of the
Smiths Group.
Changes in accounting policies
As required, the Company has adopted UITF 44 ‘Group and T reasury Share T ransactions ’ (“UITF 44”) in these financial statements. UITF 44 requires
the fair value of the award of share options to subsidiary company employees to be treated as a capital contribution.
Consequently, the Company has recognised an addition to investments of the aggregate amount of these contributions for all grants of equity
instruments made subsequent to 7 November 2002. The addition to investments in 2008 was £3.3m. The adoption of this pronouncement has
required the restatement of the comparative balance sheet. An adjustment of £2.6m was made to the 5 August 2006 balance sheet, with a further
£3.9m recognised in 2007.
Foreign currencies
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting
from the settlement of such transactions, and from the retranslation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated
in foreign currencies, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Operating leases
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred over the term of the lease.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sub-let under terms such that the rental income is insufficient to meet all outgoings, provision is made
for the anticipated future shortfall up to termination of the lease.
Tangible fixed assets
Depreciation is provided at rates estimated to write off the relevant assets by equal annual amounts over their expected useful lives. In general,
the rates used are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings – 2%; Short leasehold property – over the period of the lease; Plant, machinery, etc. –
10% to 20%; Motor vehicles – 25%; T ools and other equipment – 10% to 33%. 
Fixed asset investments
The Company’ s investment in shares in group companies are stated at cost less provision for impairment. Any impairment is charged to the profit
and loss account as it arises.
Financial instruments
The policies disclosed in the Group accounting policies on pages 63 to 68 for recognition, measurement and presentation of financial instruments
are applied in the Company accounts. 
Where there are no differences between the disclosures required for the Group and the Company in respect of a class of financial instruments an
appropriate cross reference is made to the Group accounts.
Taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed as at the balance sheet date. Timing differences
are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as disclosed in the accounts, arising from the inclusion of gains and losses
in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the accounts.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates only to the extent that, at the balance sheet
date, dividends have been declared or an obligation is present to distribute past earnings. Deferred tax is not recognised on any fixed assets that
have been revalued unless there is a binding agreement to sell the asset.
Provisions
Provisions for disposal indemnities, restructuring costs, vacant leasehold property and legal claims are recognised when: the Company has a
legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and
the amount has been reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is material.
112 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Post-retirement benefits
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of benefits accruing during the year in respect of current and past service is charged against operating profit.
The expected return on the schemes’ assets and the increase in the present value of the schemes’ liabilities arising from the passage of time are
included in other finance income. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. The balance sheet
includes the surplus/deficit in schemes taking assets at their year-end market values and liabilities at their actuarially calculated values discounted
at year-end AA corporate bond interest rates.
The Company has adopted the amendment to FRS 17 issued in December 2006. 
Share-based Payment
The Company operates a number of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation plans. 
The fair value of the shares or share options granted is recognised over the vesting period to reflect the value of the employee services received.
The charge relating to grants to employees of the Company is recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account and the charge for grants
to employees of other group companies is recognised as an investment in the relevant subsidiary . 
The fair value of options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions, is calculated using established option pricing models,
principally Binomial models. The probability of meeting non-market vesting conditions, which include profitability targets, is used to estimate the
number of share options which are likely to vest. 
For cash-settled share-based payment a liability is recognised based on the fair value of the payment earned by the balance sheet date. For equity
settled share based payment the corresponding credit is recognised directly in reserves. 
In accordance with the transitional provisions of ‘FRS 20: Share-based Payment’, no charge has been recognised for grants of equity instruments
made before 7 November 2002.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are authorised. The interim dividend is recognised when it is paid and the final
dividend is recognised when it has been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
113 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the Company accounts
1 Employees
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Staff costs during the period
Wages and salaries 70.1 148.3
Social security 8.1 14.7
Cost of share-based incentive plans 8.5 7.2
Pension costs (note 8) 7.6 21.6
94.3 191.8
For details of Smiths Group plc’s employee share option schemes and other share-based plans refer to note 31 relating to the Group accounts.
The average number of persons employed during the period was 1,736 (2007: 6,555).
2 Audit fee
The audit fee for the parent company was £0.1m (2007: £0.1m).
3 Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures,
Land and Plant and fittings, tools
buildings machinery and equipment T otal
£m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 31 July 2007 15.8 1.0 3.7 20.5
Additions 0.3 0.3 0.4 1.0
Disposals (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
At 31 July 2008 16.1 1.2 3.9 21.2
Depreciation
At 31 July 2007 1.0 0.4 2.4 3.8
Charge for the period 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.8
Disposals (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 July 2008 1.1 0.5 2.9 4.5
Net book value at 31 July 2008 15.0 0.7 1.0 16.7
Net book value at 31 July 2007 14.8 0.6 1.3 16.7
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Land and buildings – cost
Freehold 15.9 15.6
Long leasehold 0.2 0.2
16.1 15.8
114 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 4 Investments and advances
31 July 2007
31 July 2008 (restated)
£m £m
Investments in subsidiaries
Shares at cost 2,386.7 2,283.4
Due from subsidiaries 1,470.3 1,789.6
3,857.0 4,073.0
Due to subsidiaries (640.9) (985.2)
3,216.1 3,087.8
Investments in subsidiaries have been restated following the adoption of UITF 44. Shares at cost at 31 July 2007 have increased by £6.5m from
£2,276.9m to £2,283.4m to reflect the value in 2007 and earlier years of share options granted to employees of subsidiaries. 
The Company’s subsidiaries are largely held according to business lines by the following holding companies, which are incorporated in England
unless otherwise stated: 
Smiths Medical Group Limited 
Smiths Detection Group Limited 
Smiths Specialty Engineering Group Limited 
Smiths Group International Holdings Limited 
Smiths Group Holdings Netherlands BV (incorporated in The Netherlands)
The principal subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation are:
England
Smiths Detection – Watford Ltd
Smiths Medical International Limited
John Crane UK Limited
Europe
Smiths Heimann SAS (France)
Smiths Heimann GmbH (Germany)
Smiths Medical France SA (France)
Smiths Medical Deutschland GmbH (Germany)
Hypertac SA (France)
Hypertac GmbH (Germany)
Other
Smiths Detection (Asia-Pacific) Pte Ltd (Singapore)
Smiths Medical Japan Limited (Japan)
John Crane Middle East FZE (UAE)
Of the companies above Smiths Group International Holdings Limited is 100% owned directly by the Company and Smiths Medical Japan Limited
is 60% owned directly by the Company . The others are 100% owned through intermediate holding companies. Shareholdings are of ordinary shares
or common stock. All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation.
5 Debtors
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 45.4 95.1
Other debtors 5.3 6.5
Corporation tax 0.8
Prepayments and accrued income 1.5 1.6
52.2 104.0
Amounts falling after more than one year
Deferred taxation 5.2 10.3
57.4 114.3
115 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008
United States
Smiths Detection, Inc.
Smiths Medical ASD, Inc. 
Smiths Medical MD, Inc. 
Smiths Medical PM, Inc.
Medex, Inc. 
John Crane, Inc. 
Flexible T echnologies, Inc. 
Tutco, Inc. 
Hypertronics Corporation 
PolyPhaser Corporation 
Sabritec, Inc.
Transtector Systems, Inc.  Notes to the Company accounts continued
6 Creditors
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Overdrafts 38.7 27.8
B shares (note 9) 1.7 18.1
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 32.4 33.6
Other creditors 6.6 10.6
Other taxation and social security costs 1.5 3.0
Accruals and deferred income 14.3 12.6
95.2 105.7
Amounts falling due after more than one year
T erm loans 508.6 365.4
Other creditors 0.4 2.2
509.0 367.6
7 Provisions for liabilities and charges
At Provisions Provisions At
31 July 2007 charged released Utilisation 31 July 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Property 1.2 (1.0) (0.2)
Disposals 23.9 5.1 (3.1) (17.6) 8.3
25.1 5.1 (4.1) (17.8) 8.3
The opening disposals provisions included £20.7m in respect of the costs of transferring aerospace active pensioners. In 2008 the pensioners were
transferred, utilising £17.6m of this provision. The balance of £3.1m has been released. 
A provision has been made in 2008 in respect of obligations of the Company arising from the disposal of the Group’s Marine Systems business.
See note 30 relating to the Group accounts for details of this disposal. Most of the balance is expected to be utilised within the next five years.
8 Post-retirement benefits
The Company operates three defined benefit plans in the UK. The largest of them is a funded scheme with assets held in a separate trustee-
administered fund. The Company is the sole employer in that scheme and, accordingly, accounts for it as a defined benefit pension plan, in
accordance with FRS 17. 
Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries. The most recent actuarial valuation
of the funded scheme was performed using the Projected Unit Method as at 31 March 2006. This has been rolled forward to 31 July 2008.
Contributions to the funded scheme are made on the advice of the actuaries with the objective that the benefits be fully funded during the scheme
members’ average working lives.
The principal assumptions used in updating the valuations are set out below:
2008 2007
Rate of increase in salaries 4.1% 4.1%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.5% 3.1%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.6% 3.1%
Discount rate 6.6% 5.8%
Inflation rate 3.6% 3.1%
Healthcare cost increases 5.0% 5.0%
The assumptions used are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may not
necessarily occur in practice.
The mortality assumptions used in the principal UK schemes are based on the recent actual mortality experience of members within each scheme.
The assumptions are based on the PA92 birth tables with relevant scaling factors based on the experience of the schemes. The assumption also
allows for future improvements in life expectancy in line with the medium cohort and a 1% underpin. The assumptions are that a member who
retires next year at age 65 will live on average for a further 22 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 25 years after retirement if
they are female. For a member who is currently 45, when they retire in 20 years’ time they are assumed to live on average for a further 23 years
after retirement if they are male and for a further 27 years after retirement if they are female.
116 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 8 Post-retirement benefits continued
The assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return as at 31 July 2008 were:
2008 2007
UK schemes UK schemes
Long-term Value Long-term Value
rate of return £m rate of return £m
Equities 8.2% 620.2 8.2% 959.8
Government bonds 4.8% 30.9 4.9% 77.4
Corporate bonds 6.6% 242.7 5.8% 169.9
Property 7.2% 188.1 7.2% 201.4
Other 5.8% 229.1 6.0% 119.0
T otal market value 1,311.0 1,527.5
Present value of funded pension scheme liabilities (1,333.5) (1,443.3)
(Deficit)/surplus (22.5) 84.2
Unfunded pension plans (34.3) (33.6)
Post-retirement healthcare (15.2) (15.9)
(72.0) 34.7
Related deferred tax asset/(liability) 20.3 (5.0)
Net pension (liability)/ asset (51.7) 29.7
The scheme assets do not include any of the Group’ s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, nor other assets used by, the Group.
The expected rates of return on individual categories of scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant industries. The overall rate of
return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the scheme’s investment portfolios.
History of experience gains and losses 
2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (183.9) 52.6 23.5
As a percentage of scheme assets (14%) 3% 2%
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities (4.5) (36.7) 1.6 1.9
As a percentage of present value scheme liabilities 0% (2)% 0% 5%
Changes in present value of defined benefit obligations
2008 2007
£m £m
At beginning of the period (1,492.8) (1,464.1)
Current service cost (7.6) (20.5)
Past service cost (1.1)
Interest on obligations (83.9) (76.1)
Contributions by employees (0.1)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on liabilities 36.0 (23.6)
Curtailment gain 1.1 32.5
Liabilities extinguished on settlements 97.2
Benefits paid 67.0 60.2
At end of the period (1,383.0) (1,492.8)
Changes in present value of scheme assets
2008 2007
£m £m
At beginning of the period 1,527.5 1,380.4
Expected return on assets 109.1 96.5
Contributions by employer 40.1 60.0
Contributions by employees 0.1
Assets distributed on settlements (114.8)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on assets (183.9) 50.7
Benefits paid (67.0) (60.2)
At end of the period 1,311.0 1,527.5
117 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the Company accounts continued
8 Post-retirement benefits continued
Cash contributions
Cash payments in 2009 are expected to be £39.0m.
A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:
One percentage One percentage
point increase point decrease
£m £m
Effect on the aggregate of service cost and interest cost 0.1 (0.1)
Effect on defined benefit obligations 1.3 (1.2)
9 Share capital
Issued capital Consideration
Number of shares £m £m
Ordinary shares
At 31 July 2007 385,498,273 144.6
Exercise of share options 2,380,908 0.9 15.5
At 31 July 2008 387,879,181 145.5
B shares
At 31 July 2007 4,926,594 0.1
Purchased and cancelled (4,467,437) (0.1)
At 31 July 2008 459,157
Share capital classified as equity at 31 July 2008 145.5
Share capital classified as debt at 31 July 2008
Total share capital at 31 July 2008 145.5
On 17 April 2008 4,467,437 B shares were purchased and cancelled. The remaining B shares carry annual interest of 75% of 12 month LIBOR, payable
in arrears in April. Smiths may redeem and cancel the remaining B shares up to November 2008 for a consideration of 365p per share in cash or
convert them to ordinary shares. B shares have no voting rights.
The authorised capital at 31 July 2008 consisted of:
• 533,333,333 (2007: 533,333,333) ordinary shares of 37.5p each; and
• 600,000,000 (2007: 600,000,000) non-cumulative B shares of 1p each. 
At 31 July 2008 all of the issued share capital was in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid.
118 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 9 Share capital continued
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
Number of ordinary shares issuable under outstanding options 8,777,181 11,585,441
Y ear Number of Subscription Dates normally
issued shares prices exercisable
Smiths Sharesave Scheme 2001 30,990 608.00p 2004/2008
2002 11,851 645.00p 2005/2009
2003 118,006 554.00p 2006/2010
2004 115,973 525.00p 2007/2011
2005 194,283 704.00p 2008/2012
2006 227,085 798.00p 2009/2013
2007 189,534 868.00p 2010/2014
2008 326,309 1,097.00p 2011/2015
Smiths Industries Executive Share Option Schemes 1998 19,244 765.00p 2001/2008
1999 64,845 858.50p 2002/2009
2000 69,653 750.00p 2003/2010
2001 97,076 790.00p 2004/2011
2002 1,213,113 806.00p 2005/2012
2002 143,500 654.00p 2005/2012
2003 214,800 669.00p 2006/2013
2004 1,007,600 774.00p 2007/2014
2005 1,146,437 901.00p 2008/2015
2006 1,845,427 896.50p 2009/2016
2007 1,610,500 1,097.00p 2010/2017
TI Group Executive Share Option Schemes 1998 8,607 849.79p 2001/2008
1999 19,183 907.23p 2002/2009
1999 87,181 1,103.92p 2002/2009
2000 2,459 661.23p 2003/2010
2000 13,525 626.16p 2003/2010
119 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Notes to the Company accounts continued
10 Share premium account and reserves
Capital
redemption Merger Profit and
Share premium reserve reserve loss account
£m £m £m £m
At 31 July 2007 (as previously reported) 289.0 5.7 180.5 2,164.2
UITF 44 adoption 6.5
At 31 July 2007 (as restated) 289.0 5.7 180.5 2,170.7
Exercise of share options 14.6 5.5
Purchase of own shares (20.7)
Redemption of B shares 0.1 (0.1)
Profit for the period 47.2
Dividends paid to equity shareholders (131.4)
Actuarial loss on retirement benefits (147.9)
Deferred tax credit related thereto 41.5
Share-based payment 11.8
At 31 July 2008 303.6 5.8 180.5 1,976.6
The retained profit of the Company represents a profit for the year of £47.2m less dividends paid of £131.4m.
The retained earnings include the purchase of Smiths Group plc shares by the Smiths Industries Employee Benefit Trust, and the issue of these
shares upon the exercise of share options. The consideration paid was £20.7m (2007:£7.0m) and £5.5m was received as a result of the issue of shares.
At 31 July 2008 the trust held 1,095,965 (2007: 634,274) ordinary shares with a nominal value of £0.4m (2007: £0.2m) and a market value of £11.5m
(2007: £6.6m).
The Company’s profit and loss reserve of £1,976.6m includes £895.7m (2007: £926.1m) not available for distribution as dividend. 
During the year, the Company received £15.5m (2007: £77.7m) on the issue of shares in respect of the exercise of options awarded under various
share option schemes. 
11 Contingent liabilities
The Company has arranged letter of credit facilities to support the Group’s pension plans. The current amount outstanding is £124.9m (2007:
£132.8m).
The Company has guaranteed the US$250m 5.45% Senior Notes 2013 privately placed by a subsidiary and the £660m revolving credit facility used
by a subsidiary .
Other contingent liabilities of the Company are not expected to give rise to a material loss.
12 Post balance sheet event
The directors propose a final dividend of 23.5p per share (totalling approximately £91m) for the period ended 31 July 2008. The dividend will be
submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 November 2008. 
In accordance with FRS 21, these financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable, which will be accounted for in shareholders’ equity as
an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending 31 July 2009. During the period ended 31 July 2008, a final dividend of 23.5p per share
(totalling £91m) was paid in respect of the dividend declared for the period ended 31 July 2007.
On 1 September 2008 the Company completed the sale of land in Basingstoke for £16m in cash. A further amount of up to £12m will be paid
depending on the final terms of such amended planning permission as may be granted.
13 Deferred tax
Y ear ended Period ended
31 July 2008 31 July 2007
£m £m
Deferred taxation
At beginning of period 5.3 41.1
(Charge)/credit to profit and loss account (21.3) (27.8)
(Charge)/credit to equity 41.5 (8.0)
At end of period 25.5 5.3
Analysed as follows:
Post-retirement benefits 20.3 (5.0)
Share-based payments 4.6 3.9
Short-term timing differences 0.6 6.4
25.5 5.3
120 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Financial calendar
2008
Preliminary announcement of results for 2007/08 24 September
Ordinary shares final dividend ex-dividend date 22 October
Ordinary shares final dividend record date 24 October
Annual General Meeting 18 November
Ordinary shares final dividend payment date 21 November
2009
2008/09 interim results announced 25 March (provisional)
Ordinary shares interim dividend ex-dividend date 1 April (provisional)
Ordinary shares interim dividend record date 3 April (provisional)
Ordinary shares interim dividend payment date 24 April (provisional)
Smiths Group financial year end 31 July
Preliminary announcement of results for 2008/09 30 September (provisional)
Ordinary shares final dividend ex-dividend date 21 October (provisional)
Ordinary shares final dividend record date 23 October (provisional)
Annual General Meeting 17 November (provisional)
Ordinary shares final dividend payment date 20 November (provisional)
The market value of an ordinary share of the Company on 31 March 1982 for the purposes of capital gains tax was 136.875p (taking into account
the sub-division of 50p shares into 25p shares on 14 January 1985 and the subdivision and consolidation of 25p shares into 37.5p shares on 
18 June 2007).
The 2008 Annual General Meeting will be held at The Thomas Lord Suite, Lord’s Cricket Ground, Grace Gate, St John’s Wood Road, London 
NW8 8QN on Tuesday 18 November 2008 at 2.30pm.
Registered Office
Smiths Group plc
765 Finchley Road
London NW11 8DS
T +44 (0)20 8458 3232
F +44 (0)20 8458 4380
E plc@smiths.com
www.smiths.com
Incorporated in England No. 137013
Front cover images 1 Flex-T ek: Tutco heating elements
2 Smiths Medical: Epidural needles being
manufactured in Keene, New Hampshire, USA
3 John Crane: Dry gas seal
4 Smiths Medical: Assembling an ambulatory
pump system in St Paul, Minnesota, USA
5 Smiths Detection: Cargo scanning image
6 Smiths Interconnect: Assembling microwave
electronics in TECOM Industries, Thousand
Oakes, California, USA
7 Smiths Medical: CADD®-Solis ambulatory
pump units
8 Smiths Detection: Positioning an X-ray
source at Wiesbaden, Germany
9 Smiths Interconnect: Ground data terminals
1 2 3
4 5 6
7 8 9
Designed and produced by 020 7378 1457 www.langsford.co.uk
Printed by Moore, an FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) accredited printer
Location and product photography (except p25) Charlie Fawell/Peter T enzer .
Portrait photography by Charlie Fawell. 
This report is printed on Revive 75 Silk, which contains 50% de-inked 
post-consumer waste, 25% pre-consumer waste and 25% virgin fibre. 
The pulp is a mix, partly bleached using an ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free)
process, and partly bleached using a TCF (T otally Chlorine Free) process. 
This material can be disposed of by recycling, or incineration for energy 
recovery . This product is CarbonNeutral®, awarded the NAPM Recycled 
Mark and produced at a mill that is certified with the ISO14001 environmental
management standard. This product is FSC Mixed Sources accredited 
and comes from recycled wood or fibre, well-managed forests and 
other controlled sources.
Registrars
Equiniti Limited (formerly known as Lloyds TSB Registrars)
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
T 0871 384 2943 (United Kingdom)
T +44 (0)121 415 7130
www.shareview.co.uk
www.equiniti.com
Auditor
PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP Smiths Group plc
765 Finchley Road, London NW11 8DS, UK
T: +44 (0)20 8457 8272
F: +44 (0)20 8458 8412
www.smiths.com
