     How  
does  
health  
connect  
us all?
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 
Form 20-F Information 2010 $33.3bn
Sales unchanged at $33,269 million ($32,804 million in 2009)
$6.71
Core EPS for the full year increased by 5% to $6.71 ($6.32 in 2009)
$2. 1bn
Net share repurchases totalled $2,110 million ($nil in 2009) 
$13.6bn
Core operating proﬁt unchanged at $13,603 million ($13,621 million in 2009)
Important information for readers of this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the members of the Company. 
The Company and its Directors, employees, agents and advisors do not accept or assume 
responsibility to any other person to whom this Annual Report is shown or into whose hands  
it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. In order, among 
other things, to utilise the ‘safe harbour’ provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995 and the UK Companies Act 2006, we are providing the following 
cautionary statement: This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with 
respect to the operations, performance and ﬁnancial condition of the Group. Forward-looking 
statements are statements relating to the future which are based on information available at  
the time such statements are made, including information relating to risks and uncertainties. 
Although we believe that the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are based on 
reasonable assumptions, the matters discussed in the forward-looking statements may be 
inﬂuenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different 
from those expressed or implied by these statements. The forward-looking statements reﬂect 
knowledge and information available at the date of the preparation of this Annual Report and 
the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. We 
identify the forward-looking statements by using the words ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘expects’, 
‘intends’ and similar expressions in such statements. Important factors that could cause actual 
results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, certain of which 
are beyond our control, include, among other things, those factors identiﬁed in the Principal 
risks and uncertainties section from page 96 of this Annual Report. Nothing in this Annual 
Report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.
Inclusion of reported performance, Core ﬁnancial measures and constant exchange  
rate growth rates
For further information in relation to the inclusion of reported performance, Core ﬁnancial 
measures and constant exchange rate (CER) growth rates as used in the Overview from page 
2 and throughout the Business Review and Corporate Governance from pages 24 and 94 
respectively, please refer to the Financial Review section on page 80.
Throughout this Annual Report, growth rates are expressed at CER unless otherwise stated.
AstraZeneca’s determination of non-GAAP measures together with our presentation of 
them within our ﬁnancial information may differ from similarly titled non-GAAP measures 
of other companies.
Statements of competitive position, growth rates and sales
In this Annual Report, except as otherwise stated, market information regarding the position  
of our business or products relative to its or their competition is based upon published 
statistical sales data for the 12 months ended 30 September 2010 obtained from IMS Health,  
a leading supplier of statistical data to the pharmaceutical industry. For the US, dispensed  
new or total prescription data and audited sales data are taken, respectively, from IMS Health 
National Prescription Audit and IMS National Sales Perspectives for the 12 months ended  
31 December 2010; such data is not adjusted for Medicaid and similar state rebates. Except as 
otherwise stated, these market share and industry data from IMS Health have been derived by 
comparing our sales revenue to competitors’ and total market sales revenues for that period. 
Except as otherwise stated, growth rates are given at CER. For the purposes of this Annual 
Report, unless otherwise stated, references to the world pharmaceutical market or similar 
phrases are to the 44 countries contained in the IMS Health MIDAS Quantum database, which 
amounted to approximately 96% (in value) of the countries audited by IMS Health.
AstraZeneca websites
Information on or accessible through our websites, including astrazeneca.com, 
astrazenecaclinicaltrials.com and medimmune.com, does not form part of and is not 
incorporated into this Annual Report.
External/third party websites
Information on or accessible through any third party or external website does not form part 
of and is not incorporated into this Annual Report.
Deﬁnitions
The Glossary and the Market deﬁnitions table from page 217 are intended to provide a  
useful guide to terms and AstraZeneca’s deﬁnition of markets, as well as to acronyms  
and abbreviations used in this Annual Report. They are, however, provided solely for the 
convenience of the reader and should therefore not be relied upon as providing a deﬁnitive 
view of the subject matter to which they relate.
Use of terms
In this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, unless the context otherwise requires, 
‘AstraZeneca’, ‘the Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to AstraZeneca PLC and its consolidated 
entities and any reference to ‘this Annual Report’ is a reference to this Annual Report and Form 
20-F Information.
Statements of dates
Except as otherwise stated, references to days and/or months in this Annual Report are 
references to days and/or months in 2010.
Figures
Figures in parentheses in tables and in the Financial Statements are used to represent 
negative numbers.
Financial highlights Health is something 
that connects us all
In our mission to make a meaningful 
difference to the world’s health, we work 
closely with governments and regulators, 
those who pay for healthcare, our partners  
in industry and academia, and doctors. 
Through our activities we touch a great 
number of people’s lives and we are acutely 
conscious of our responsibility to patients 
and society in general.
astrazeneca.com/ 
annualreport2010
2  Overview 
2 AstraZeneca at a glance
4 Our year in brief
6 Chairman’s Statement
8  Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
10  Our Strategy and Performance
 10 Our marketplace
 14 Our strategy
 18 Performance in 2010
 20 Life-cycle of a medicine
24 Business Review
24 Delivering our strategy
 26 Research and Development
 30 Intellectual Property
 32 Sales and Marketing
 34 Supply and Manufacturing
 36 People
 40 Responsible Business
50 Therapy Area Review
70 Geographical Review
75 Other Businesses
78 Financial Review
94 Corporate Governance
94 Risk
106  Board of Directors and Senior 
Executive Team
 109  Corporate Governance Report
119  Directors’ Remuneration Report
135 Financial Statements
135 Financial Statements
205 Additional Information
206 Development Pipeline
211 Shareholder Information
216 Corporate Information
217 Glossary
220 Index
Contents
Directors’ Report
The following sections comprise 
the Directors’ Report which has been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006:
> Our Strategy and Performance  
> Business Review 
> Corporate Governance 
> Development Pipeline 
> Shareholder Information 
> Corporate Information
Welcome to our 2010 Annual Report 
You will ﬁnd this Annual Report and all the case  
studies featured in this document on our website, 
astrazeneca.com/annualreport2010
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Additional Information
Contents 1
Financial Statements 6
Focus on six areas of healthcare
10
10 medicines with sales of over $1 billion in 2010
100
Active in over 100 countries
61
,
000
61,000 employees worldwide
AstraZeneca is a focused, integrated, 
innovation-driven, global, prescription-based 
biopharmaceutical business
Our mission is to make a meaningful 
difference to patient health through  
great medicines
We are committed to acting responsibly 
and to the sustainable development of 
our business
Our mission requires us to do things in the 
right way – to behave in accordance with  
our values and to act with integrity 
We believe that our approach delivers lasting 
value for patients, society and our shareholders
We discover, develop and commercialise 
prescription medicines for six important areas 
of healthcare: Cardiovascular, Gastrointestinal, 
Infection, Neuroscience, Oncology and 
Respiratory & Inﬂammation
We have a broad range of medicines that 
includes established treatments for many 
serious illnesses, such as our antibiotic,  
Merrem/Meronem and Losec/Prilosec for 
acid-related diseases
We use our scientiﬁc and commercial skills to 
develop a pipeline of innovative new medicines 
to meet medical need
We had 10 medicines with sales of more than 
$1 billion each in 2010
Cardiovascular
Crestor
for managing cholesterol levels 
Seloken/Toprol-XL
for hypertension, heart failure and angina
Atacand 
for hypertension and heart failure
Gastrointestinal
Nexium
for acid reﬂux
Infection
Synagis
for RSV, a respiratory infection in infants
Neuroscience
Seroquel IR
for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder
Seroquel XR 
for schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder
Oncology
Arimidex
for breast cancer
Zoladex 
for prostate and breast cancer 
Respiratory & Inﬂammation
Symbicort
for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 2 AstraZeneca at a glance
What we do
AstraZeneca at a glance
Who we are Our activities touch many people’s lives and 
we are committed to working in a spirit of 
collaboration to achieve our goal of better 
health for patients
For patients and doctors, we provide 
medicines for some of the world’s most 
serious illnesses
For the people who pay for healthcare, we 
work to make sure that our medicines offer 
value for money
For our employees, we provide a culture in 
which they can feel appreciated, energised 
and rewarded for their contribution
For our shareholders, we aim to deliver value 
through our continued focus on innovation 
and running our business efﬁciently
For the wider community, we want to be 
valued for the contribution our medicines 
make to society and trusted for the way in 
which we do business
We recognise the value of collaborative work 
and so continually seek to develop new ways 
of working with others who complement our 
existing skills, enhance our internal innovation 
or bring extra value to what we do
We have a global reach but local knowledge, 
being active in over 100 countries, with a 
growing presence in emerging markets such 
as China, Mexico, Brazil and Russia
In 2010, we had sales of $13,727 million in  
the US, $9,168 million in Western Europe, 
$5,176 million in Established ROW and  
$5,198 million in Emerging Markets
Combining our disease area expertise with 
country-speciﬁc knowledge helps us to market 
and sell medicines that best meet local needs
Of our 61,000 employees worldwide, 45.6% 
are in Europe, 30.5% in the Americas and 
23.9% in Asia, Africa and Australasia
Around 15,700 people work in our R&D 
organisation and we have 14 principal R&D 
centres in eight countries, including Sweden, 
the US and the UK
We have 9,300 employees at 23 Supply  
and Manufacturing sites in 16 countries
$4.2bn
Core investment of $4.2 billion in our R&D organisation in 2010
80
Over 80 major externalisation transactions completed over the 
past three years
46%
46% of sales and marketing workforce based in Emerging 
Markets compared with 16% in 2002
23
23 Supply and Manufacturing sites
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview
AstraZeneca at a glance 3
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review
How we work Where we work Financial highlights
92
92 projects in clinical development, including 9 in Phase III or under 
regulatory review. 34 withdrawn during the year
7%
Revenue in the US fell 7%, while revenue in Rest of World rose by 7%
$5bn
Annual Crestor and Seroquel sales exceeded $5 billion each
$5.1bn
Revenue in Emerging Markets grew to over $5.1 billion, a 16% increase
$2.4bn
The ﬁrst phase of the restructuring programme is now complete, 
resulting in annual beneﬁts of $2.4 billion
$2.1bn
Net share repurchases totalled $2.1 billion in 2010
Operational overview
Summary ﬁnancial and  
operational information for 2010
Sales $m (unchanged)
2010 33,269
2009 32,804
2008 31,601
Core operating proﬁt $m (unchanged)
2010 13,603
2009 13,621
2008 10,958
Reported basic earnings per Ordinary Share $ (+7%)
2010 5.60
2009 5.19
2008 4.20
Reported gross margin $m (-1%)
2010 26,880
2009 27,029
2008 25,003
Reported operating proﬁt $m (-1%)
2010 11,494
2009 11,543
2008 9,144
Core earnings per Ordinary Share $ (+5%)
2010 6.71
2009 6.32
2008 5.10
Core gross margin $m (-1%)
2010 27,024
2009 27,217
2008 25,408
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities $m
2010 10,680
2009 11,739
2008 8,742
Our year in brief
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 4 Our year in brief >  Single R&D organisation in place, including 
new leadership team, global organisation 
structure and governance framework
>  Vimovo approved in the US and the EU; 
Brilique approved in the EU with Complete 
Response Letter received for Brilinta in the 
US; Kombiglyze™ XR (Onglyza™/metformin 
combination) approved in the US; decisions 
made in December to discontinue 
development of motavizumab and Certriad
>  Completed a deal with Rigel for the Phase III 
development of fostamatinib (for rheumatoid 
arthritis), and TC-5214, our neuroscience 
collaboration with Targacept, also entered 
Phase III development
>  Agreement with HealthCore, which maintains 
the largest commercially insured population 
data environment in the US, enables ‘real 
world’ studies of health outcomes
>  Portfolio of more than 100 generic products 
being licensed across 30 Emerging Markets 
for marketing under our brand
>  Crestor substance patent upheld in the 
US courts
>  Ranked in the top 8% in the sector in the 
Dow Jones Sustainability World and 
European Indexes
>  Reviewed and revised Responsible Business 
Plan to align it with strategic business priorities
>  Additional ways of reporting sales and 
marketing performance introduced to 
support increased transparency
>  Improvement in senior leader communications 
with employees but slight decline in employee 
engagement
All growth rates are at CER
Product performance summary
Arimidex (2009: $1,921m; 2008: $1,857m)
$1,512m -22%
Atacand (2009: $1,436m; 2008: $1,471m)
$1,483m +3%
Crestor (2009: $4,502m; 2008: $3,597m)
$5,691m +24%
Nexium (2009: $4,959m; 2008: $5,200m)
$4,969m 0%
Seloken/Toprol-XL (2009: $1,443m; 2008: $807m)
$1,210m -17%
Seroquel IR (2009: $4,171m; 2008: $4,223m)
$4, 148m -1%
Seroquel XR (2009: $695m; 2008: $229m)
$1, 154m +67%
Symbicort (2009: $2,294m; 2008: $2,004m)
$2,746m +20%
Synagis (2009: $1,082m; 2008: $1,230m)
$1 ,038m -4%
Zoladex (2009: $1,086m; 2008: $1,138m)
$1, 1 15m 0%
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview
Our year in brief 5
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review  2010 was a year
in which AstraZeneca 
maintained its strong 
ﬁ nancial performance
Louis Schweitzer
Chairman
Dividend information
$2.55
Dividend per Ordinary Share 2010
Dividend for 2010 $ Pence SEK Payment date
First interim dividend 0.70 44.9 5.12 13 September 2010
Second interim dividend 1.85 116.7 11.99 14 March 2011
Total 2.55 161.6 17.11
Distributions to shareholders $m 2010 2009 2008
Dividends 3,361 2,977 2,739
Share repurchases 2,604
1
–610
1
 Share repurchases in 2010, net of proceeds from the issue of share capital equal to $494 million, were $2,110 million.
6 Chairman’s Statement Chairman’s Statement
In the face of sustained pressures on the 
business, 2010 was a year in which AstraZeneca 
maintained its strong ﬁnancial performance.  
We also made good progress in implementing  
our strategy to be a focused, integrated, 
innovation-driven, global, prescription-based 
biopharmaceutical business.
Group sales in 2010 were unchanged at $33,269 million. Reported 
operating proﬁt was $11,494 million, down 1%. Reported earnings 
per share for the full year were up 7% at $5.60 (2009: $5.19). Within 
the unchanged revenue total there was strong sales growth for 
medicines such as Crestor, Symbicort and Seroquel XR, and 
revenue outside the US increased by 7%, including a 16% increase 
in Emerging Markets. On the other hand US revenue was down  
by 7%. As expected, revenue in the US was affected by generic 
competition for Arimidex, Pulmicort Respules and Toprol-XL, as 
well as the absence of the H1N1 inﬂuenza (swine ﬂu) vaccine 
revenue that beneﬁted 2009 revenues.
Pharmaceutical sector
Our performance in 2010 took place against a background of 
continued world pharmaceutical market growth. This growth is 
being driven by increasing and ageing populations, as well as 
expanding numbers of patients in emerging markets who can 
beneﬁt from our medicines, together with the increasing prevalence 
of chronic diseases and advances in science and technology. On 
the other hand, the pharmaceutical sector, including AstraZeneca, 
faces a number of challenges in the form of competition, particularly 
from generic versions of medicines, and declining R&D productivity. 
In addition, most of our sales take place in highly regulated markets 
where cost containment by governments and other payers for 
healthcare is a priority, especially in the wake of the economic 
downturn. We expect this pressure to continue, most notably in the 
US and European markets and the Board will keep its plans under 
continuous review to ensure we are able to respond to changes. 
AstraZeneca fully recognises the importance of its reputation.  
We are committed to doing business in an ethical and proper 
manner and take compliance with all laws seriously. Oversight of  
the pharmaceutical sector by regulators and competition authorities 
has intensiﬁed in recent years. The Board, assisted by the Audit 
Committee, plays an active role in monitoring performance.
Our strategy
Against this outlook, the Board believes its focused strategy is  
the most value-creating path for AstraZeneca. Our business model 
is based on using the best science and technology to invent and 
acquire, develop, produce and distribute innovative medicines that 
make a meaningful difference to patient health around the world. 
Underpinning this model is the creation, protection and subsequent 
sharing of intellectual property. It is on this basis that we continue  
to invest in new medicines and work to protect and optimise our 
investments by rigorously defending our patent rights. We were 
therefore pleased with the court decision upholding the validity and 
enforceability of the Crestor US substance patent.
The focus of our efforts to implement our strategy in 2010 was  
on making the transformational changes to the business needed  
to generate sustainable long-term value. At the heart of these 
changes was the creation of a single R&D organisation which we 
are reshaping and in which we are investing to improve productivity 
and secure targeted levels of return. Complementing this is a single 
Commercial organisation which not only ensures that our medicines 
reach the doctors and patients who need them, but also works 
closely with R&D to ensure that our pipeline delivers the medicines 
most likely to deliver technical and commercial success. That 
includes working with payers to ensure that they value and are 
willing to purchase our medicines. 
Also central to our strategy is a ﬁrm belief in external collaboration. 
We have a desire to access the best science, whatever its origins, 
and to act as a valued and trusted partner.
We have undertaken signiﬁcant restructuring initiatives in furtherance 
of our strategy. The ﬁrst phase of the restructuring programme is 
now complete, resulting in the realisation of annual beneﬁts of  
$2.4 billion achieved to date at a cumulative cost of around $2.5 billion.
Outlook and cash returns to shareholders
We continue to plan on the basis that revenue will be in the range of 
$28-$34 billion a year over the 2010-14 period, as revenue growth 
from key franchises that retain exclusivity and continued growth in 
Emerging Markets are pressured by the loss of market exclusivity  
on a number of products. 
In recognition of the Group’s strong balance sheet and sustainable 
signiﬁcant cash ﬂow, and the Board’s conﬁdence in the strategic 
direction and long-term prospects for the business, we announced, 
in conjunction with the full year 2009 results, the adoption of a 
progressive dividend policy, intending to maintain or grow the 
dividend each year. After providing for business investment, funding 
the progressive dividend policy and meeting our debt service 
obligations, the Board will also keep under review the opportunity  
to return cash in excess of these requirements to shareholders 
through periodic share repurchases.
The Board has recommended a second interim dividend of  
$1.85, an 8% increase over the second interim dividend awarded  
in 2009. This brings the dividend for the full year to $2.55  
(161.6 pence, SEK 17 .11), an increase of 11% from 2009. In 2010,  
cash distributions to shareholders through dividends totalled  
$3,361 million and net share repurchases totalled $2,110 million.
Board changes
There were a number of Board changes during the year. John 
Buchanan and Bo Angelin both left the Board immediately after the 
2010 AGM. John had been a Director for eight years and had also 
chaired the Audit Committee. His contribution to the work of the 
Board and the Audit Committee over those years was signiﬁcant 
and we beneﬁted greatly from his skills, experience and thoughtful 
approach. Bo was appointed as a Director in 2007 and stepped 
down in order to concentrate on his scientiﬁc work. He provided 
valuable insight to the Board and the Science Committee during  
his time as a Director. On behalf of their fellow Directors, I would  
like to thank both for their excellent service to AstraZeneca.
Bruce Burlington joined the Board in August. He brings with him  
a wealth of pharmaceutical industry experience following a career  
at the FDA and subsequently at Wyeth, now part of Pﬁzer Inc. In 
January 2011, Shriti Vadera joined the Board. Her experience of 
emerging markets, and knowledge of global ﬁnance and public 
policy, will be invaluable. I would like to welcome both Bruce and  
Shriti to the Board.
Appreciation
2010 was a successful and challenging year for AstraZeneca.  
We maintained our strong ﬁnancial performance and took and 
implemented difﬁcult decisions to ensure the future success  
of the Group. None of this would have been possible without  
the leadership of David Brennan and the other members of his 
executive team. My thanks, and those of the whole Board, go  
to them and all our employees who did so much in 2010 for the 
long-term success of AstraZeneca.
Louis Schweitzer
Chairman
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Chairman’s Statement 7
Overview Overview Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review        It is the manner in 
which we do business 
as much as what we do 
that will determine our 
long-term success
David R Brennan
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
Operational highlights
1 
Single R&D organisation in place
Achieved major market approvals for Vimovo 
and Brilique/Brilinta; made submissions for 
dapagliﬂ ozin and Zinforo, but disappointments 
on other pipeline products
$5bn
Annual Crestor and Seroquel sales exceeded 
$5 billion each
8%
Ranked in the top 8% in the sector in the 
Dow Jones Sustainability World and 
European Indexes
$5.1bn 
Revenue in Emerging Markets grew to over 
$5.1 billion, a 16% increase
8 Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Review AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
2010 emphasised that it is the manner in which 
we do business as much as what we do that 
will determine our long-term success. It told us 
that, if we are to deliver our strategy and make  
a meaningful difference to the health of patients 
through great medicines, then we need to act 
with integrity and remain true to our values. We 
need to behave as an integrated organisation 
and work in collaboration with patients, doctors, 
payers and our many other stakeholders.
Transforming R&D
That journey starts with an R&D organisation that delivers world-
class performance and where increased externalisation means  
we can access diverse sources of innovation. We made signiﬁcant 
progress in 2010 with the creation of a single R&D organisation  
and of a leadership team comprising the best internal and external 
leaders. This includes the appointment of Martin Mackay as 
President, Global R&D. We have also put in place a new global 
organisation structure and governance framework. We are 
consolidating our site footprint and have refocused our resources 
on a smaller number of high-potential activities.
The need for change is undiminished. Our R&D record over the  
past few years is disappointing and our results in 2010 were mixed. 
On the positive side, Vimovo, our medicine for arthritic pain, which 
we developed with Pozen Inc. was approved and launched in the 
EU and the US. Brilique/Brilinta, our treatment for acute coronary 
syndromes, has also been approved in the EU. Kombiglyze™ XR,  
a ﬁxed dose combination of Onglyza™ and metformin, a further 
product in our BMS diabetes collaboration, was approved in  
the US.
In 2010, we made major regulatory submissions for vandetanib  
(for thyroid cancer), Zinforo (an anti-bacterial medicine), dapagliﬂozin 
(for diabetes) and Axanum (a cardiovascular medicine). We completed 
a deal with Rigel for the Phase III development of fostamatinib (for 
rheumatoid arthritis), and TC-5214, our neuroscience collaboration 
with Targacept, also entered Phase III development.
However, both Brilinta and Axanum received Complete Response 
Letters from the FDA during the year. We responded to the  
Brilinta letter in January 201 1 and remain conﬁdent in our submission. 
Complete Response Letters were also received for motavizumab 
(for treating serious respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) disease) and 
Certriad (for the treatment of lipid abnormalities). Following these 
letters, we have withdrawn the biological license application  
relating to motavizumab and recorded an impairment charge of 
$445 million. In addition, we have ended our licence agreement  
with Abbott for the development of Certriad. 
Leveraging our commercial assets
Hand in hand with transforming R&D is the need to leverage our 
commercial assets. Our key medicines, such as Crestor, Symbicort 
and Seroquel XR, achieved double digit growth in 2010. Both 
Crestor and Seroquel XR were helped by US and EU approvals for 
additional indications. Nexium is already approved in 120 countries 
and in 2010 we signed an agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for its 
co-promotion and supply in Japan after it is approved for use.
We are also focusing our efforts on ensuring that we have the right 
capabilities to successfully launch and commercialise the next wave 
of medicines from our pipeline, as well as to deliver our expansion 
plans in Emerging Markets, both through organic growth of 
products from our current portfolio and pipeline and also through 
selective additions of AstraZeneca branded generics. In 2010,  
we identiﬁed a portfolio of more than 100 generic products which 
we are currently licensing across 30 Emerging Markets. To help  
us license these dossiers and source the molecules, we are  
working with a number of companies in India, and have signed an 
agreement with Torrent to supply us with a portfolio of branded  
generic medicines.
We are creating a much stronger focus on those who pay for  
our medicines to help us ensure that our medicines get to the  
right patients, at the right time and at a price they can afford,  
while reﬂecting our investment. As part of this, we have signed  
a collaboration agreement with HealthCore, which maintains the 
largest commercially insured population data environment in the 
US. This will enable us to carry out ‘real world’ studies of health 
outcomes, which is of increasing importance to payers around  
the world. 
In April 2010, we signed an agreement with the US Department of 
Justice to settle an investigation relating to the sales and marketing 
of Seroquel. The requirements of the associated Corporate Integrity 
Agreement include a number of active monitoring and self-reporting 
obligations which we have put in place.
Efﬁciency across the value chain
To be successful we need to be a lean and agile organisation.  
We continue to drive our operations strategy, simplifying and 
streamlining our infrastructure and reducing costs. Making changes 
to reshape the business and make it ﬁt for purpose going forward 
affects a large number of people. In many parts of the business that 
has resulted in further reductions in our workforce. The executive 
team and I remain committed to ensuring that we manage these 
changes in the right way. This means dealing responsibly and 
sympathetically with affected individuals and the communities in 
which they live.
People acting with integrity
A good reputation is critical to our business success. We need to 
earn and maintain the trust of our customers, collaborators and all 
those with whom we do business. That means each of us needs to 
act with integrity and in accordance with our values. It explains why 
we set such great store by compliance with our Code of Conduct. 
During 2010, we reviewed our existing sales and marketing policies 
and standards and created a single new Global Policy on External 
Interactions which we aim to launch in the ﬁrst quarter of 2011.
A good reputation also requires a commitment to acting responsibly 
and to the sustainable development of our business. To that end, 
our responsible business objectives are closely aligned to our 
business strategy and, in 2010, we reviewed and reshaped our 
corporate responsibility priority action plan.
Finally, I am grateful for the dedication and hard work of all  
our employees. The pace of change will not let up in 2011 but  
I remain conﬁdent that together we have the talent, motivation  
and commitment needed to improve patient health through  
great medicines.
David R Brennan
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review 9
Overview Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review The world pharmaceutical market grew by 
5.2% in 2010 and more people than ever 
around the world had access to modern 
medicines, including more patients in emerging 
markets. Indeed, as the World pharmaceutical 
markets ﬁgure below shows, average revenue 
growth in Emerging Markets was, at nearly 
14%, more than three times the rate in 
Established Markets.  
While demand for medicines and world pharmaceutical markets, 
especially Emerging Markets, continued to grow in 2010, research-
based pharmaceutical companies faced a challenging marketplace. 
Pricing pressures intensiﬁed in most Established Markets with 
increased competition from generic medicines and greater 
constraints being placed on our business by payers. In addition, 
industry-wide R&D productivity continued to decline.
In 2010, the top ﬁve pharmaceutical markets in the world remained 
the US, Japan, Germany, France and China, with the US representing 
40.9% of global prescription pharmaceutical sales (2009: 41.2%). 
Growth drivers
Expanding patient populations
The world population has doubled in the last 50 years from three 
billion to over six billion and is expected to reach nine billion by 
2050. In addition, the number of people who can access modern 
standards of healthcare continues to increase, particularly among 
the elderly, who represent a rising proportion of populations in 
developed nations.
Furthermore, faster-developing economies, such as China, India 
and Brazil, offer new opportunities for the industry to help an 
expanding number of patients who can beneﬁt from medicines. 
Emerging Markets now represent approximately 85% of the world 
population. In addition, their pharmaceutical revenues grew 
signiﬁcantly faster than those in Established Markets in 2010 and,  
as the Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2009-2014 ﬁgure 
opposite shows, it is estimated that this trend will continue.
Data based on world market sales using AstraZeneca’s market deﬁnitions as set out in the 
Market deﬁnitions table on page 217. Source: IMS Health.
World Sales ($bn)
2010 754
2009 717
2008 677
Western Europe Sales ($bn)
2010 183
2009 179
2008 173
Established ROW Sales ($bn)
2010 120
2009 117
2008 111
Emerging Markets Sales ($bn)
2010 143
2009 125
2008 108
Growth in 2010
5.2%
Growth in 2010
4.1%
Growth in 2010
2.7%
Growth in 2010
2.8%
Growth in 2010
13.8%
Market value in 2010
100%
Market value in 2010
40.9%
Market value in 2010
24.3%
Market value in 2010
15.9%
Market value in 2010
18.9%
US Sales ($bn)
2010 308
2009 296
2008 285
World pharmaceutical markets
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Our Strategy and Performance
10 Our Strategy and Performance Our marketplace
Our marketplace Unmet medical need
In most established markets, ageing populations and certain 
lifestyle choices such as smoking, a poor diet and lack of exercise 
drive an increased incidence of chronic diseases such as cancer, 
cardiovascular/metabolic and respiratory diseases which require 
long-term management. The prevalence of chronic disease is 
increasing in middle-income countries and is now beginning to  
have an impact in the least developed countries. For example,  
WHO research shows that about 90% of the premature deaths  
from non-communicable diseases are in developing countries, 
amounting to more than eight million deaths annually. WHO 
estimates that, if nothing is done, deaths from these diseases  
will increase by a further 17% before 2015, with Africa seeing the 
greatest increase of 27%, compared with 6% in Europe.
Advances in science and technology
Innovation leading to new drugs is critical to meeting unmet  
medical need. Existing drugs will continue to be important in 
meeting the growing demand for healthcare, particularly as the 
increasing use of generic medication improves access and frees  
up total healthcare funds. At the same time, advances in disease 
understanding and the application of new technologies will be 
required to ensure the delivery of new medicines. Such approaches 
include personalised healthcare and predictive science as well as 
other new therapeutic modalities. 
The use of large molecules, or biologics, is becoming an 
increasingly important source of innovation. Forecasts for 2016 
predict that of the world’s top 100 pharmaceutical products, 48%  
of sales will come from biologics. This compares with only 31% in 
2009 and 15% in 2000. With advances in the technologies for the 
design and testing of novel compounds, new opportunities also 
exist for the use of innovative small molecules as new medicines. 
Most pharmaceutical companies now pursue both small molecules 
and biologics R&D.
The challenges
Pricing pressure
Most of our sales continue to be generated in highly regulated 
markets where governments exert various levels of control on 
pricing and reimbursement. Cost containment in healthcare, 
including containment of pharmaceutical spending, continues to  
be a focus. The global economic downturn has enhanced this  
focus and the pricing and reimbursement environments in many 
markets continue to be highly dynamic.
In March 2010, President Barack Obama signed into law the 
Affordable Care Act. It is intended to expand healthcare coverage 
and improve healthcare delivery while reducing the federal budget 
deﬁcit and sets in motion signiﬁcant changes to the US healthcare 
system, the world’s largest. Healthcare reform implementation 
impacts the pharmaceutical industry signiﬁcantly, with some 
provisions directly targeting the sector. Expansion of healthcare 
coverage to an estimated 32 million uninsured people and the 
enhanced focus on ensuring quality healthcare will potentially 
increase patient access to appropriate treatments, including 
prescription medicines. Efforts to expand access to government 
healthcare programmes require additional sources of funding.  
The pharmaceutical industry, including AstraZeneca, has shown  
its commitment to these efforts through its agreement, among  
other things, to help close the coverage gap in the Medicare Part D 
prescription drug programme and by paying an annual industry fee.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Our Strategy and Performance Our marketplace 11
Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2009-2014
 Key
Estimated sales – 2014* 
Estimated growth – 2009-2014  
(compound annual growth rate)
 North America Sales $398.1bn Growth 4.4%
 Europe (EU countries) Sales $261.7bn Growth 3.0%
 South East & East Asia Sales $132.0bn Growth 17.7%
 Japan Sales $115.5bn Growth 4.0%
 Latin America Sales $94.4bn Growth 13.4%
Source: IMS Health. 
* Ex-manufacturer prices at CER.
 CIS Sales $26.6bn Growth 10.5%
 Europe (Non EU countries) Sales $26.3bn Growth 4.8%
 South Asia Sales $26.1bn Growth 14.2%
 Africa Sales $20.9bn Growth 8.6%
 Oceania Sales $15.0bn Growth 4.6%
 Middle East Sales $13.3bn Growth 8.6%
Overview Overview Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review While many of the coverage expansion provisions do not take effect 
until 2014, the legislation will have an immediate and direct impact 
on healthcare activities across stakeholders in the US healthcare 
system. More generally, it will have broad implications for how 
healthcare is delivered, covered and reimbursed. The pharmaceutical 
industry is working with policymakers and regulators during the 
implementation phases of healthcare reform with a view to ensuring 
that they strike a balance between containing costs, while also 
promoting an environment that fosters medical innovation.
In Germany, Europe’s largest pharmaceutical market, healthcare 
reforms brought into force this year are set to have a signiﬁcant 
long-term impact on the demands being placed on pharmaceutical 
manufacturers to produce information and evidence from clinical 
trials. In addition, these reforms include a number of short-term 
measures to lower Germany’s healthcare spending, including 
provisions that allow for an increase in mandatory rebates and  
a freeze on drug prices. Similar short-term measures have been 
implemented as a direct response to economic challenges in 
several other European markets in 2010, including Spain, Portugal 
and Greece. Each of these markets has either imposed price  
cuts, or increased mandatory rebates on pharmaceutical  
products. These actions present a considerable challenge for  
the research-based pharmaceutical industry.
Nevertheless, pricing remains one of the principal levers that 
countries can use to stimulate pharmaceutical innovation and 
investment. Recognition of this has led to a number of positive 
developments, such as exemptions in Japan, the world’s second 
largest pharmaceutical market for certain innovative medicines  
from the country’s biennial price cuts.
More information regarding the impact of price controls and 
reductions, as well as the impact of healthcare reform in the US, can 
be found in the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page 
96. The principal aspects of price regulation in our major markets 
are described further in the Geographical Review from page 70.
R&D productivity 
Over the last 30 years, investment in R&D in the US has increased 
from $2 billion to $45 billion a year, whereas approvals by the FDA 
have generally remained at 25-30 a year. Against this background, 
the research-based pharmaceutical industry is pursuing increased 
productivity to ensure a strong pipeline of commercially viable 
medicines for launch. The challenge now is greater than ever with 
the pursuit of newer, more challenging biological targets. In an 
attempt to increase the quality of candidates progressed through 
development, novel paradigms are being employed for less 
well-validated targets, while clinical ‘proof of concept’ is now  
the deﬁning measure of success.
Organisationally, companies are addressing this challenge in a 
variety of ways. Some companies are employing Lean business 
improvement tools and/or shared risk operating models to bring 
potential drug candidates to the proof of concept milestone.  
Others have sought to increase output with limited incremental  
cost or restructured R&D functions to promote innovation and 
entrepreneurship. Some companies have acquired others with 
synergistic development pipelines.
Regulatory requirements
Pharmaceuticals is one of the most regulated industries. This 
reﬂects the public interest in safeguarding patients. While efforts  
to harmonise these regulations globally are increasing, their  
number and impact continue to grow, thereby raising the cost  
of doing business. Given the nature and geographic scope of our 
business, we maintain important interactions with many health 
authority regulatory bodies in numerous countries. In our largest 
markets, these bodies include the FDA in the US, and the European 
Commission and the EMA in the EU. Regulators are also continuing 
to apply a more systematic approach to safety assessment and  
to the management of known and emerging risks, both before  
and after a medicine is approved. At the same time, there is growing 
public demand for access to and transparency of data, especially 
clinical data, to understand the overall risk and beneﬁt and the 
rationale for a health authority’s decisions. While transparency  
and co-operation between health authorities today is becoming 
routine, this co-operation does not always lead to identical 
regulatory outcomes. 
Clinical trials are being conducted across a number of countries  
and regions. This requires a comprehensive understanding of  
the differing regional determinants of safety, efﬁcacy and clinical 
practice, as well as knowledge of local ethics, human subject 
protection and good clinical practice requirements. In order to 
support the registration of our products in a given regulatory 
jurisdiction, programmes providing foreign clinical trial data must 
meet the requirements of local health authorities to ensure 
relevance to their speciﬁc population. 
Health authorities are also increasingly interested in the efﬁcacy  
of pharmaceuticals after they have been approved, which can also 
result in additional regulations. This trend reﬂects the increasing 
pressures from both health technology assessors and payers to 
assess not only the safety of our products but also their relative 
effectiveness in the healthcare system. 
Competition
Our main competitors are other research-based pharmaceutical 
companies that develop and sell innovative, patent-protected 
prescription medicines and vaccines, as well as smaller 
biotechnology and vaccine companies.
Generic versions of drugs are very competitive because 
manufacturers of generic drugs price them at a signiﬁcantly lower 
level than the innovator equivalents. This is partly because generic 
manufacturers do not invest the same amounts in R&D or market 
development as research-based pharmaceutical companies and 
therefore do not need to recoup that investment. Such competition 
has traditionally occurred when patents expire, but can also  
occur where the validity of patents is being disputed or has been 
successfully challenged before expiry. Such early challenges by 
generics to patents on innovative products have increased and 
generic companies are increasingly willing to launch generic 
products ‘at risk’, in other words, prior to resolution of the relevant 
patent litigation. This can result in signiﬁcant market presence for 
the generic equivalent of an innovative product during the period  
in which such patent litigation remains unresolved, even though  
the courts may subsequently rule that such product is properly 
protected by a valid patent. The unpredictable nature of such patent 
litigation has led innovators to seek to settle such challenges on 
terms acceptable to both innovator and generic manufacturer. 
However, some competition authorities have sought to challenge 
the scope or even availability of settlement agreements of this type.
To date, biologics have sustained longer life-cycles than traditional 
pharmaceuticals and have faced less generic competition. This is 
because the manufacturing process for biologics is generally more 
complex than it is for small molecule medicines, and it is signiﬁcantly 
harder to produce an identical copy of a biologic than it is a small 
molecule medicine. However, some biologics are, or will become, 
subject to competition from ‘biosimilars’ as regulatory authorities in 
Europe and the US continue implementing abbreviated approvals 
processes for biosimilars.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 12 Our Strategy and Performance Our marketplace
Our Strategy and Performance AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Acute coronary syndromes – or ACS –  
is a term used to describe sudden chest 
pain and other symptoms caused by an 
insufﬁcient blood supply to the heart. They 
are the most common manifestation of 
coronary heart disease (CHD) with over  
2.5 million occurrences in the developed 
world each year. Despite the availability of 
current treatment options, data suggests 
that up to 15% of patients die within one 
year of their cardiovascular event. 
Brilinta/Brilique (ticagrelor tablets) is an oral antiplatelet 
treatment we have developed for ACS. The clinical 
development for Brilinta/Brilique included the PLATO study, 
one of the largest clinical trials we have ever undertaken, 
involving 18,624 patients in 43 countries. PLATO was 
designed to reﬂect current clinical management of ACS 
patients and to establish whether Brilinta/Brilique could 
improve cardiovascular outcomes beyond those afforded by 
clopidogrel (Plavix™/Iscover™). The overall PLATO results 
demonstrated the superiority of ticagrelor in reducing heart 
attacks and cardiovascular death in patients with ACS. The 
data has provided the basis for regulatory ﬁlings worldwide.
For more than half a century, AstraZeneca has been at the 
forefront of R&D in cardiovascular diseases. Brilinta/Brilique 
was discovered at our laboratories in the UK and represents 
another example of our commitment to developing and 
delivering innovative medicines that make a meaningful 
difference to patient health.
      Who 
can help 
me survive 
a heart 
attack?
Because health connects us all
For more information go to the Therapy Area Review 
from page 50. Each year, at the beginning of our business 
planning cycle, we assess the challenges and 
opportunities presented by our marketplace, 
test our short- and long-term planning 
assumptions, and critically assess our 
capabilities as an organisation. We do so to 
assure ourselves that, whatever our past 
successes, the strategic path we are following 
is the right one. This section summarises our 
strategic plans for the future as well as our 
performance against our targets in 2010.
Our vision
The executive team, with the endorsement of the Board, believes 
that the most value-creating strategy for AstraZeneca is to be a 
focused, integrated, innovation-driven, global, prescription-based 
biopharmaceutical business:
>  focused in that we will continue to be selective about those 
areas of the industry in which we choose to compete, targeting 
those product categories where medical innovation or brand 
equity will continue to enable us to make acceptable levels of 
return on our investments
>  integrated in that we believe the best way to capture value 
within this industry is to span the full value chain of discovery, 
development and commercialisation, while remaining open to 
working with partners and outsourcing to capture operational 
efﬁ ciencies
>  innovation-driven in that we believe our technology base will 
continue to deliver innovative products that will beneﬁ t patients 
and for which payers will pay
>  global in that we believe we have the ability to meet healthcare 
needs in both established and emerging markets efﬁ ciently and 
effectively.
We believe that there are ongoing opportunities to create value 
for those who invest in pharmaceutical innovation, and that 
AstraZeneca has the skills and capabilities to take advantage of 
these opportunities and turn them into long-term value through 
the research, development and marketing of medicines that 
make a difference in healthcare. For us, this is the core of our 
responsibility to our stakeholders and society. Successful 
pharmaceutical innovation, delivered responsibly, brings beneﬁ ts 
for patients, creates value for shareholders and contributes to the 
economic and social welfare of the communities we serve.
Our business model
Our business model is based on using the best innovative science 
and technology to invent or acquire, produce and distribute 
medicines that make a meaningful difference to people’s health 
around the world. We span a broad range of therapeutic modalities, 
as well as primary and specialty care in a number of therapy areas, 
and are active in over 100 countries around the world. Our 
commitment to scientiﬁ c innovation is coupled with our belief that 
success will require more external collaboration, including more 
collaboration with industry and academic partners.
The Life-cycle of a medicine overview on page 20 illustrates the 
value chain of discovery, development and commercialisation. 
It starts with the identiﬁ cation of unmet medical need and market 
opportunity, the search for a potential medicine, through clinical 
trials, regulatory submission, a medicine’s launch and management 
of its life-cycle.
An inherent element of our business model is the creation, 
protection and subsequent sharing of intellectual property assets 
as shown below:
Creation and acquisition of intellectual 
property through innovative R&D 
Application for patents to protect the 
intellectual property assets developed 
in a potential medicine
Clinical development programmes generating further 
innovations in the use of the potential medicine and 
intellectual property rights in the data required for 
regulatory submissions 
Period of intellectual property protection for an 
innovative medicine which allows a return to be made 
on the investment undertaken
Expiry of intellectual property rights and 
commoditisation of knowledge which typically sees 
generic versions of a medicine entering a market
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 14 Our Strategy and Performance Our strategy
Our Strategy and Performance
Our strategy A key goal for our planning process is to ensure that we can 
continue to sustain the cycle of successful innovation and, as a 
result, continue to refresh our portfolio of patented products – and  
so generate value for shareholders.
Our strategic priorities to 2014
We have identiﬁed the following medium-term strategic priorities  
as necessary to support the delivery of our strategic ambitions. 
They have conﬁrmed our view that the pace of change across the 
business needs to accelerate if we are to be successful in meeting 
our goal of creating enduring value for shareholders by being one  
of the best-performing biopharmaceutical companies.
Pipeline
While we are conﬁdent that long-term growth in demand for 
innovative biopharmaceuticals will remain strong, it is clear that 
substantial improvement in R&D productivity is needed if we are to 
be certain of securing the targeted levels of return on the investment 
required to create shareholder value on a sustainable basis. To 
achieve that improvement, we intend to follow a more focused 
approach to R&D investment with the intention of improving the 
quality of R&D output and thereby increasing its returns. This  
focus involves a reduction in the number of disease area targets, 
consolidation onto a smaller number of sites and a reduction in 
headcount. It also involves investment in building industry-leading 
capabilities and accessing the best opportunities from outside  
our laboratories.
Deliver the business
Our enhanced programme of external collaboration in our R&D 
activities includes working with payers to build an industry-leading 
capability in payer partnering. In this way, when we develop our new 
medicines we will also develop the required health economics, 
cost/beneﬁt information and ‘value-in-use’ data required by payers. 
This will help us gain global reimbursement, broad market access 
and optimal pricing for our medicines.
In terms of the commercialisation of our products, we will continue 
to build on our leading positions in Established Markets. Our plans 
for growth will also build on the investments we have made in 
Emerging Markets. In addition to commercialising the current and 
new product offerings being developed internally, we will drive 
further growth by selectively supplementing our Emerging Markets 
portfolio with branded generic products sourced externally and 
marketed under the AstraZeneca brand.
Business shape
We continue to use business improvement programmes, such  
as Lean, to drive efﬁciencies across the Group. We will also move 
further towards a more ﬂexible cost base which will enable us to 
respond rapidly as our requirements change. To do this, we will 
continue to make greater use of outsourcing and strategic 
collaborations with other organisations.
People and values
We recognise that talented, motivated and capable people are 
critical to the successful achievement of our strategic ambitions.  
As a result, we are focusing on building new critical capabilities, 
such as:
>  ‘payer partnering’ and personalised healthcare 
>  further improving leadership and management capability
>  acquiring and retaining talent, for example in support of our 
growth plans in Emerging Markets
>  increasing the diversity of our talent pool, so that it better  
reﬂects our future business shape. 
These priorities are underpinned by determined efforts to improve 
employee engagement and to build a high performance culture 
whose hallmarks are creativity, courage and collaboration.
A good reputation is critical to our business success. We therefore 
need to earn and maintain the trust of customers, partners and 
stakeholders if we are to deliver our strategy. This requires us to  
do things in the right way – to behave in accordance with our  
values and to act with integrity. We also need to connect with our 
stakeholders, including patients, doctors, regulators, governments 
and payers, if we are to understand their needs better and deliver 
on our commitment to improving patient health.
Our commitment to acting responsibly and to the sustainable 
development of our business underpins our work to implement  
our strategic priorities. To that end, our responsible business 
objectives are closely aligned to, and support delivery of, our 
business strategy. In the light of dialogue with stakeholders, we 
have reviewed and reshaped our corporate responsibility priority 
action plan during the year. We have put at the top of the agenda 
those areas most impacted by our business changes and which  
are therefore instrumental enablers of our business strategy.  
We will focus on sales and marketing practices, access to 
healthcare, research ethics (including animal welfare), human  
rights and supplier management. We will be maintaining focus  
on all other aspects of our corporate responsibility, such as  
patient safety and the environment. 
Medium-term planning assumptions
When we announced our full year results for 2009, we set out a 
series of medium-term planning assumptions which we updated  
in January 2011. We continue to plan on the basis that revenue for 
the ﬁve years to 2014 will be in the range of $28-$34 billion a year, 
as revenue growth from key franchises that retain exclusivity and 
Emerging Markets is pressured by the loss of market exclusivity on 
a number of products. Our latest risk-adjusted view is that revenue 
contribution from recently launched products and the pipeline is in 
the range of $3-$5 billion.
Based on continued productivity improvements (including 
successful completion of restructuring initiatives), our planning 
assumption remains that Core operating margin, before investment 
in research and development (Core pre-R&D operating margin)  
will be in the range of 48% to 54% of revenue. These levels of 
revenue and margins would generate the requisite operating cash 
ﬂow over the planning period to support the reinvestment needs of 
the business, debt service obligations and shareholder distributions. 
Over the planning period, we expect that between 40% and 50%  
of our pre-R&D post-tax cash ﬂows will be reinvested in internal  
and external R&D and capital investments to drive future value  
and growth.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Our Strategy and Performance Our strategy 15
Overview Overview Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Business objectives and key performance indicators
Within AstraZeneca, each business function is subject to an annual 
budget and target-setting process that includes developing ﬁ nancial 
and business forecasts, conducting sensitivity and risk analyses, 
and setting relevant objectives. Regular reviews are undertaken in 
order to monitor and assess progress against business and budget 
targets, and to assess key risks and mitigating actions.
Quarterly reports provide the Board and the SET with shared 
insight into progress against current year objectives and milestones 
for longer-term strategic goals. Performance is assessed using 
quantitative, comparative market, operational and ﬁ nancial 
measures, and qualitative analysis.
In setting our objectives we sought to ensure that they were aligned 
with our medium-term planning assumptions for the ﬁ ve years to 
2014. For each of our objectives we have developed KPIs by which 
What drives the 
growth of our 
business?
See Our marketplace section 
from page 10.
What challenges 
do we face?
See Our marketplace section 
from page 10.
What do we want 
to achieve?
See Our strategic priorities to 2014 section
on page 15.
Expanding 
patient 
populations
Unmet medical need
1
2
Advances in 
science and 
technology
3
Pricing pressure
Tougher regulatory 
environment
Generic 
competition and 
patent expiry
R&D productivity
Business shape
Maintain gross margin in excess of 80%
Improve Sales and Marketing 
effectiveness and efﬁ ciency
Procurement savings across all functions
Focus on working capital management 
People and values
Achieve global high performing norm 
rating for employee engagement
Achieve a step change in our leadership 
and management capability
Ensure a culture of ethics and integrity is 
embedded in all business practices
Financial
Sustain annual revenues of $28-$34 billion
Sustain Core pre-R&D operating margins 
of 48%-54%
Reinvest 40%-50% of pre-R&D post-tax 
cash ﬂ ows in R&D and capital investments
Achieve target return on invested capital
Deliver the business
Grow market share of key brands that 
retain exclusivity
Successfully commercialise recent 
launches and the next wave
Sustain double digit sales growth in 
Emerging Markets 
Pipeline
Average of two or more commercially 
valuable ﬁ rst approvals in major markets 
per year
40% of our pipeline sourced from outside 
our laboratories 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Our Strategy and Performance
16 Our Strategy and Performance Our strategy We face a diverse range of 
risks and uncertainties that may 
adversely affect any one or 
more parts of our business. Our 
approach to risk management 
is designed to encourage clear 
decision making as to which 
risks we take as a business 
and how we manage those risks, 
in each case informed by an 
understanding of the commercial, 
ﬁ nancial, compliance, legal 
and reputational implications 
of these risks. 
Our KPIs
See Performance in 2010 section on page 18.
What might stop us from 
achieving our objectives?
See Risk section from page 94.
> Gross margin
> SG&A costs
> R&D cost efﬁ ciency
> Procurement savings
> Employee engagement
> Leadership communications
> DJSI ranking
> Sales and marketing breaches
> Revenue
> Core pre-R&D operating proﬁ t/margin
> Core EPS
> Reinvestment rate
> Cash ﬂ ow
> Market share of key brands
> Revenue from new product launches
> Emerging Market sales growth
> Product approvals
> Regulatory submissions
> Phase III investment decisions
> Licensing deals/acquisitions
we have measured our success in delivering our strategy. During 
the year we also sought to ensure that we managed the business 
appropriately both to optimise our opportunities and mitigate the 
risks we faced. The chart below illustrates this relationship and 
summarises our objectives for 2010. The Performance in 
2010 section that follows sets out our performance against 
our KPIs during the year.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Our Strategy and Performance Our strategy 17
Overview Overview Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Financial
Overall strong ﬁ nancial performance. Exceeded targets for revenue, Core EPS and cash ﬂ ow
 >  Global revenue was unchanged at CER at $33.3 billion. This 
was ahead of target primarily as a result of strong operational 
performance, delayed generic entry and less generic erosion 
across the US and Europe than assumed in our targets.  
 >  Core pre-R&D operating margin was 53.5%, near the top end 
of the medium-term planning assumption range of 48% to 54%.
 >  Core EPS increased by 5% at CER to $6.71. This was ahead 
of target as a result of the above revenue performance and 
strong operational execution.
>  Reinvestment rate was just below the medium-term planning 
assumption range of 40% to 50% due to the better than expected 
pre-R&D post-tax cash ﬂ ows. AstraZeneca continues to expect 
this range to hold over the planning period although anticipates 
variances within any particular year.
>  Net cash inﬂ ow before ﬁ nancing activities of $8,340 million reﬂ ects 
the strong business performance.
See Financial Review from page 78 for more information.
Pipeline
Achieved major market approvals for Vimovo and Brilique; made submissions for dapagliﬂ ozin and Zinforo, but 
disappointments on other pipeline products
 >  Vimovo approved in the US and the EU; Brilique approved in 
the EU with Complete Response Letter received for Brilinta 
in the US; Kombiglyze™ XR (Onglyza™/metformin combination) 
approved in the US; additional indications approved for Crestor 
in the US and the EU and for Seroquel XR in the EU; decisions 
made in December to discontinue development of 
motavizumab and Certriad. 
>  Dapagliﬂ ozin and vandetanib NDAs submitted in the US and the 
EU; Zinforo and Axanum MAAs submitted in the EU; Recentin 
trials data did not support regulatory submissions; no 
submissions planned for zibotentan. 
> Completed deal with Rigel for the development of fostamatinib. 
> Phase III trials started for fostamatinib and TC-5214. 
See Therapy Area Review from page 50 for more information.
Deliver the business
Global revenue was unchanged at $33.3 billion
 >  Strong double-digit sales growth for Crestor, Symbicort and 
Seroquel XR. Annual Crestor and Seroquel sales exceeded 
$5 billion each.
 >  Launches under way and planned for Brilinta/Brilique, Vimovo 
and Kombiglyze™ XR. 
>  Achieved target of double-digit growth in Emerging Markets 
with revenues over $5.1 billion, a 16% increase over 2009.
 See Financial Review from page 78 and Therapy Area Review 
from page 50 for more information.
Business shape
Achieved or exceeded targets
 >  Core gross margin of 81.2% slightly ahead of 80% target.
 >  Achieved planned improvement in Core SG&A costs with 
2% reduction.
 >  Achieved Core R&D efﬁ ciency savings with spend of $4.2 billion.
>  Achieved $541 million of procurement savings against a target 
of $500 million.
See Financial Review from page 78 for more information.
People and values
Improvement in senior leader communications, but slight decline in employee engagement. 
Continued focus on application of Code of Conduct
 >  Employee engagement score as measured by our global 
employee survey (FOCUS) reduced from 84% in 2009 to 83% 
in 2010. 
 >  Improvement of 4% in senior leader communications measure 
in 2010 over 2009 as measured by FOCUS. 
>  Maintained position in the DJSI World Index (the top 10% of 
the largest 2,500 companies) as sustainability leader, as well 
as listing on the DJSI STOXX European Index. 
>  11 conﬁ rmed breaches of external sales and marketing 
regulations or codes globally (2009: 24).
 See People section from page 36 and Responsible Business 
section from page 40 for more information.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 18 Our Strategy and Performance Performance in 2010
Our Strategy and Performance
Performance in 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Research tells us that many patients 
prescribed drugs do not take their 
medicine as they should – whether the 
right amount, at the right time or in the 
right way. The position is worst for inhaled 
medicines, which include some of our 
asthma medicines. Research also tells us 
that we can use packaging – which is 
usually our only way of communicating 
directly with patients – to improve 
adherence to a medicine’s instructions.
The opportunity for AstraZeneca to use packaging design 
to inﬂ uence behaviour is being pursued through a range 
of initiatives. These include customising packaging to 
address patient needs better and making the pack part 
of the treatment. At the same time we are simplifying 
processes where possible and aim to improve the 
efﬁ ciency with which we use packaging materials by 
20% by 2015.
One example of our work is the packaging for our 
children’s asthma inhalers in Spain, which now features 
an image of a kite – associated with fresh air and physical 
activity – to help children feel more positive about taking 
their medicine.
Better packaging can help make our medicines more 
effective. That helps us and our patients, and improves 
treatment outcomes.
      What 
will help me 
take my 
medicine?
Because health connects us all
For more information go to the Supply and 
Manufacturing section from page 34. The discovery, development and 
commercialisation of a medicine is a 
complex process. This is a high level 
overview of the process. It is illustrative 
only. It is not intended to, nor does it, 
represent the life-cycle of any particular 
medicine or of every medicine discovered 
and/or developed by AstraZeneca.
Discovery phase >>
1
Find potential medicine
Identify the unmet medical need and 
market opportunity, and undertake 
laboratory research to ﬁnd a potential 
medicine that should be potent, 
selective and absorbed into and well 
tolerated by the body
Begin the process of seeking patent 
protection for the potential medicine
Collaborate with academia and external 
clinicians to access the best external 
science and medical opinion 
2
Safety and initial  
efﬁcacy studies
Undertake studies in the laboratory and 
in animals to understand if the potential 
medicine should be safe to introduce 
into humans and in what quantities
Determine likely efﬁcacy, side effect proﬁle 
and maximum dose estimate in humans
Regulatory authorities are informed of 
proposed trials which are then conducted 
within the framework of the regulations
0 years 123456789
3
Phase I studies
Studies typically in small groups 
of healthy human volunteers or, in 
certain cases, patients, to understand 
how the potential medicine is 
absorbed in the body, distributed 
around it and excreted; also determine 
an appropriate dosage and identify 
side effects
Begin to develop manufacturing route  
to ensure the manufacturing process is 
robust and costs are minimised
May involve external clinicians and 
organisations in the design and running 
of these studies
5
Phase III studies
Studies in a larger group of patients  
to gather information about 
effectiveness and safety of the 
medicine and evaluate the overall 
risk/beneﬁt proﬁle
Create appropriate branding for the new 
medicine in preparation for its launch
At any stage of the development 
process the medicine may have been 
acquired from a collaborating company. 
The collaborator may remain involved  
in the future development and 
commercialisation of the medicine
4
Phase II studies
Studies in small groups of patients to  
evaluate effectiveness of the medicine
During Phase II studies, design a Phase III 
programme to deliver data required for 
regulatory approval and pricing and/or 
reimbursement throughout the world
External advisory panels help deﬁne the 
attributes to test in studies to demonstrate 
whether the potential new medicine can be 
differentiated from the existing standard 
treatment of care
Development phase >>
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 20 Our Strategy and Performance Life-cycle of a medicine
Our Strategy and Performance
Life-cycle of a medicine 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20+
6
Regulatory submission
Seek approval from regulatory authorities to 
manufacture, market and sell the medicine
Submit package of clinical data which demonstrates 
the safety proﬁle and efﬁcacy of the medicine to the 
regulatory authorities
Regulatory authorities decide whether to grant 
marketing authorisation based on the medicine’s 
safety proﬁle, effectiveness and quality 
Large numbers of national, regional and local payers 
grant approval for the pricing and/or reimbursement  
of the medicine
7
Launch new medicine
Raise awareness of patient beneﬁt and 
appropriate use
Market and sell medicine; continuously monitor,  
record and analyse reported side effects; review 
need to update the side effect warnings to ensure 
that patients’ wellbeing is maintained
Clinicians begin to prescribe medicine and 
patients begin to beneﬁt
9
Life-cycle management
Broaden understanding of the full potential  
of the medicine
Work with external advisory groups and regulatory 
authorities to consider potential additional 
diseases which might be treated by the medicine 
or better ways of administering the medicine
Submit data packages with requests for line 
extensions 
Regulatory authorities review the data to assess 
the risk/beneﬁt of using the medicine in the new 
disease or population and issue a decision
8
Post-launch clinical  
safety studies
Studies to further understand the  
safety proﬁle of the medicine in larger 
populations
Conduct any required or indicated 
post-launch follow-up clinical trials
Sponsors and regulatory authorities 
monitor the safety of medicines post- 
approval and update the prescribing 
information as necessary
10
Patent expiry
Typically, when patents protecting the 
medicine expire, generic versions of  
the medicine may enter the market
Post launch: delivering to patients >>
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Our Strategy and Performance Life-cycle of a medicine 21 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview Overview Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Headings Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Approximately 300 million people worldwide suffer from 
asthma. It is one of the most common chronic diseases  
and its prevalence is increasing every year, especially  
among children. It is estimated that by 2025 there will  
be an additional 100 million sufferers.
Although asthma cannot be cured, it can be treated 
effectively. Research shows that with the right treatment 
nearly all asthma patients can achieve and maintain good 
asthma control, enabling them to live full and active lives. 
Our Symbicort medicine provides important improvement 
in the health of many patients with asthma. Symbicort 
pMDI (pressurised metered-dose inhaler) is approved in  
the US for the treatment of asthma in patients 12 years of 
age and older.
Outside the US, our Symbicort Turbuhaler maintenance 
and reliever therapy (SMART) combines both regular 
maintenance and as-needed reliever therapies. It is the 
only asthma treatment regime to do so and allows 
patients to control daily symptoms and reduce the severity 
and number of asthma attacks using a single inhaler. It 
gives asthma patients what they want in daily symptom 
control and also gives them what they need in the longer 
term – improved asthma management.
Because health connects us all
For more information go to the Therapy Area Review 
from page 50.
      How can  
I help manage 
my asthma? How will we deliver 
our strategy?
We need the 
following 
resources, skills 
and capabilities in 
place to achieve our 
long-term goals:
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 24 Delivering our strategy 1
An R&D function with  
world-class productivity 
focused on delivering a range of innovative, differentiated and commercially attractive 
medicines through collaboration, and underpinned by patent and intellectual 
property rights. See page 26
2
A sales and marketing activity 
undertaken in the right way 
and focused on our customers and their patients’ needs. See page 32
3
A reliable supply and 
manufacturing operation
that ensures our customers and patients receive their medicines when they want 
and need them. See page 34
4
A diverse and talented 
workforce
with the right skills, in the right place at the right time. See page 36
5
A commitment to responsible 
development of our business 
which delivers value for our shareholders and for our other stakeholders.  
See page 40
Business review 
This section includes information that fulﬁlls the requirements of a business review under  
the Companies Act 2006. The Our Strategy and Performance, Corporate Governance, 
Development Pipeline, Shareholder Information and Corporate Information sections from 
pages 10, 94, 206, 211 and 216, respectively, are incorporated into this section.
Details of the more signiﬁcant risks to AstraZeneca are set out in the Principal risks and 
uncertainties section from page 96.
Many of our products are subject to litigation. Detailed information about material legal 
proceedings can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178.
References to prevalence of disease have been derived from a variety of sources and are  
not intended to be indicative of the current market or any potential market for AstraZeneca’s 
pharmaceutical products since, among other things, there may be no correlation between  
the prevalence of a disease and the number of individuals who are treated for such a disease.
The Glossary and the Market deﬁnitions table from page 217 are intended to provide a  
useful guide to terms and AstraZeneca’s deﬁnitions of markets, as well as to acronyms  
and abbreviations, used in this section.
In this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, unless the context otherwise requires, 
‘AstraZeneca’, ‘the Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to AstraZeneca PLC and its consolidated 
entities and any reference to ‘this Annual Report’ is a reference to this Annual Report and  
Form 20-F Information.
Except as otherwise stated, references to days and/or months in this Annual Report are 
references to days and/or months in 2010.
Figures in parentheses in tables and in the Financial Statements are used to represent 
negative numbers.
Delivering our strategy 25 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview We are committed to using the best science 
and technology to invent and acquire, produce 
and distribute innovative medicines that make a 
meaningful difference to people’s health around 
the world. This commitment is matched by our 
recognition that a substantial improvement in 
R&D productivity is needed if we are to be 
certain of securing targeted levels of return  
on our investment.
We are transforming our single R&D organisation to meet this 
challenge. By appointing new world-class leaders and conﬁrming 
the best internal people in leadership positions, we are creating  
an environment that allows our scientists to drive innovation and 
collaborate successfully with internal and external partners to bring 
forward valued new medicines. Our strategy for change comprises 
the following elements:
>  prioritising our resources in those areas where we believe we  
can be most successful through a focused disease area strategy
>  ensuring shareholders’ funds are invested wisely, using an 
effective and ﬂexible R&D operating model
>  building the capabilities we need to ensure delivery of our strategy
>  ensuring we access the best new opportunities, regardless of 
their origin.
Disease area focus
We are prioritising our resources and focusing our internal discovery 
activities on those diseases within our existing therapy areas  
where we believe there is the greatest potential. This process of 
prioritisation is designed to ensure that, as we look ahead, the 
projects we have in our pipeline constitute the programmes which 
we believe are most likely to deliver technical and commercial 
success. The Disease areas table opposite indicates where we  
will be focusing our activities within our therapy areas. It also 
indicates those areas that we consider to be less attractive and 
where we will be decreasing our discovery investment or exiting  
an area altogether.
While we will be exiting in-house discovery research in some 
disease areas, we will continue to look at new therapeutic areas via 
externalisation, ensuring that we optimise our own assets and look 
at in-licensing or acquiring opportunities where we believe there is 
further value. 
6
Focus on six areas of healthcare
$4.2bn
Core investment of $4.2 billion in our R&D organisation
92
92 projects in clinical development, including 9 in Phase III  
or under regulatory review. 34 withdrawn during the year
“…we are creating an environment that  
allows our scientists to drive innovation and 
collaborate successfully with internal and 
external partners to bring forward valued  
new medicines”
Martin Mackay 
President, Global R&D
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 26 Delivering our strategy Research and Development
Delivering our strategy
Research and Development 
Focused on delivering 
innovative and valued 
medicines Cardiovascular/
Gastrointestinal
Oncology
Respiratory & 
Inﬂ ammation
Neuroscience
Infection
High attractiveness
>  Diabetes ‘glucose 
plus’ metabolism
> Breast cancer
> Lung cancer
> Systemic Lupus 
Erythematosus (SLE) 
(biologics)
>  Alzheimer’s disease 
modiﬁ cation
> Neuropathic pain
>  Resistant bacterial 
infections
Medium attractiveness
> Obesity
>  Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease
>  Haemophilia/bleeding disorders
>  Diabetes complications (including nephropathy)
>  Atrial ﬁ brillation conversion/maintenance
> Hepatocellular cancer
> Gastric cancer
> Prostate cancer
> Haematological cancers
> Colorectal cancer
> Rheumatoid arthritis (biologics)
> Severe asthma
> Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
> Nociceptive pain
> Cognition
>  Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) treatment/vaccine
> Inﬂ uenza
Low attractiveness
> Reﬂ ux
> Thrombosis
> Ovarian cancer
> Bladder cancer
>  Systemic scleroderma
>  Schizophrenia/bipolar
> Depression
> Anxiety
> Other vaccines
> Hepatitis C
Disease areas
We have also reviewed the projects we are working on within this 
narrower portfolio. Our aim has been to ensure we put our effort 
behind those projects we believe are most likely to be successful. 
Our measure is not the number of candidate medicines, it is the 
number of de-risked, value adding, proof of concept medicines, 
that is where there is evidence that gives us a high degree of 
conﬁ dence of success. Our focus is on identifying and resourcing 
key projects that have the potential to deliver a differentiated, 
commercially attractive medicine to patients in the ﬁ rst wave for 
any given mechanism.
Our pipeline includes 92
1
 projects in the clinical phase of development. 
As shown in the Development projects chart overleaf, we now have 
a total of 34 projects in Phase I, 32 projects in Phase II, 9 projects 
in late stage development, either in Phase III or under regulatory 
review, and we are running 17 signiﬁ cant life-cycle management 
projects. During 2010, across the clinical portfolio, 24 projects have 
successfully progressed to their next phase (including 14 projects 
entering ﬁ rst human testing); 34 projects have been withdrawn. 
Further details are set out in the Therapy Area Review from page 50 
and in the Development Pipeline table from page 206. 
Operating model
As demonstrated by the Life-cycle of a medicine overview on 
page 20, our R&D activities span the entire life-cycle of a medicine. 
To help our focus on quality and reimbursable medicines, we have 
created a new organisational structure which brings together drug 
discoverers and developers to focus and collaborate in speciﬁ c 
disease areas. The operating model we have adopted is shown 
on page 29 and comprises the following key elements:
iMeds: We have formed nine innovative medicine units, or iMeds, 
which focus on particular disease areas and work across discovery 
and early development:
>  Small molecule iMeds
 >  Oncology
 >  Infection 
 >  Respiratory & Inﬂ ammation
>  Aligned small molecule and biologics iMeds
 >  Cardiovascular and Gastrointestinal
 >  Neuroscience
>  Biologics iMeds
 >  Oncology 
 >  Infection
 >  Respiratory & Inﬂ ammation 
>  A ninth, New Opportunities iMed, will focus on identifying 
opportunities in disease areas outside, or complementary to, our 
current research areas. This will be done by seeking to acquire 
commercially viable late stage assets as well as by generating 
additional value from existing internal assets through alternative 
uses of such assets in disease areas of high unmet medical need.
All iMeds are responsible for sourcing innovation from both inside 
and outside AstraZeneca and are accountable for delivering 
de-risked, differentiated proof of concept potential medicines to 
Global Medicines Development that target the right area and show 
a medical beneﬁ t for patients.
1
 Includes seven life-cycle management projects re-introduced from BRIC-MT and Japan.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview
Delivering our strategy Research and Development 27 value of medicines to payers, AstraZeneca signed a collaboration 
agreement with HealthCore, which maintains the largest commercially 
insured population data environment in the US. The collaboration 
enables us to signiﬁ cantly upscale our ‘real world’ studies of the 
key health outcomes that are increasingly important to payers. 
Additionally, through our membership in the European Healthcare 
Leadership Network, we are working with payers and other external 
stakeholders to deﬁ ne early on the basis for demonstrating value. 
An AstraZeneca diabetes drug in Phase I is the focus of one of the 
ﬁ rst pilots.
Personalised healthcare: Identifying patients most likely to 
beneﬁ t from our medicines is the goal of the newly formed 
Personalised Healthcare and Biomarker function. This group 
supports internal biomarker development and has established vital 
strategic alliances with external diagnostic companies to support 
our drug projects. We now have 25% of our clinical development 
portfolio progressing personalised healthcare strategies.
Predictive science: We are integrating modelling and simulation 
into many different aspects of R&D. Examples include safety 
screening models that enable rapid assessment of common 
toxicities and in silico modelling of human exposure which has 
guided the design of antibodies with differentiated properties and 
subsequently informed their clinical development.
New therapeutic modalities: In 2010, we continued to make 
signiﬁ cant investments in new biologics technologies to generate 
novel and highly differentiated biologic therapeutics. For example, 
in neurology, we have engineered a human protease to effectively 
degrade beta amyloid, which holds great potential for treating 
Alzheimer’s disease. We have also entered into external 
collaborations to develop new approaches in the areas of small 
interfering ribonucleic acids (siRNAs) and regenerative medicine.
Global Medicines Development (GMD): Later stage 
development is undertaken by GMD. It provides a single, global 
platform dedicated to conducting trials for small molecules and 
biologics of the highest quality. It is accountable for delivering the 
regulatory packages in support of new medicine launches that are 
commercially attractive and reimbursable.
Operation and governance: A key strength of our new R&D 
organisation is that it facilitates a more entrepreneurial climate, 
increases the transparency of risk and drives stronger links between 
early discovery activities and Phase II studies. This is complemented 
by rigorous oversight of Phase IIa/IIb studies to the launch of a 
new medicine and beyond. The Portfolio Investment Board (PIB) 
evaluates projects to help ensure AstraZeneca is developing the 
kind of medicines that will make a difference for patients and return 
shareholder value. The PIB provides the necessary focus for our 
R&D investment and provides appropriate oversight of investment 
opportunities across disease areas and modalities. It is also 
charged with delivering a pipeline of products capable of generating 
attractive returns on invested capital. Further information about 
the PIB can be found in the Corporate Governance Report section 
from page 109.
Investing in capabilities
The success of our R&D transformation rests in part on building 
industry leading capabilities to bring more valued and reimbursable 
medicines to market. In 2010, we announced an investment of more 
than $200 million over ﬁ ve years to develop the tools and people 
to help us reshape R&D performance. This investment supports 
scientiﬁ c collaborations, development of existing staff, recruitment 
of new talent and provision of new infrastructure, including informatics 
platforms. We are making steady progress across all these areas.
Payer considerations: Our R&D and Commercial organisations 
are working together to deliver the best global reimbursement 
dossier for our medicines. Within GMD, we are building a Payer 
Evidence Group that supports both Commercial and R&D. In 2010, 
as part of our strategy to be an industry leader in demonstrating the 
2010
34 32 9 17
2009 44 34 11 14
2008
34 31 10 23
2007 41 20 10 24
2006 23 18 5 25
Clinical
 Phase I  Phase II  Phase III  Line Extensions
Development projects 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 28 Delivering our strategy Research and Development
Delivering our strategy Clinical trial design and interpretation: To ensure these 
capabilities are ﬁ rmly integrated into our drug development 
programmes and that we realise the beneﬁ ts of clear clinical 
decisions, we have also invested to improve the quality of our 
design capability for clinical trials.
Culture: We are progressing an integrated programme to drive 
cultural change throughout the R&D organisation. A signiﬁ cant ﬁ rst 
step was the appointment of new leadership teams, together with 
an evolution of our business systems to facilitate a move towards 
a more innovative, collaborative and creative culture.
External focus
We intend to increase our externalisation efforts to access the 
best, most cutting-edge science, whatever its origin, with a target 
of 40% of our pipeline sourced from outside our laboratories by 
2014. By bringing together the best minds to address medical 
problems, we aim to facilitate ground-breaking discoveries, 
either within our organisation or through a public or private 
partnership focused on the problem. As part of this approach, 
we are involved in the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) which 
brings together the European pharmaceutical industry and the 
European Commission with the aim of improving the tools, 
technologies, methodologies and knowledge management to 
bring new medicines to market. Over the next 10 years, IMI 
participants have pledged a total of $2.7 billion, half from the 
private sector and half from the public sector.
We are also committed to making our compounds available to 
organisations pursuing new therapies. In a collaboration with the 
UK’s Medical Research Council, we are sharing access to our 
compound libraries to aid the search for potential new treatments 
for serious diseases. 
In all our collaborations, we recognise that ‘one size does not ﬁ t 
all’. We seek to partner and collaborate in novel ways that maximise 
not only the collective scientiﬁ c knowledge of all participants, but 
also the unique knowledge that each partner brings to the process, 
including in Emerging Markets. It is this approach that underpins 
our exclusive worldwide licence agreement with Rigel for the 
global development and commercialisation of fostamatinib 
(formerly known as R788), Rigel’s late-stage investigational product 
for rheumatoid arthritis, and our collaboration with Dainippon 
Sumitomo for a potential asthma treatment.
Our resources
At the end of 2010, we had a global R&D organisation with 
approximately 15,700 people (12,400 full time equivalent employees) 
at 14 principal centres in eight countries. 
As communicated last year, our plans for transforming R&D include 
a number of site changes which will result in a simpliﬁ ed site 
footprint with a clear role for each facility. These changes will affect 
approximately 3,500 employees, with a net reduction of 1,800 
positions. In the UK, we have exited R&D activities in Avlon, KuDOS 
and Arrow Therapeutics, and we will exit all R&D activities in our 
Charnwood site during 2011. In North America, we have exited all 
R&D operating model 
Strategic
governance
Portfolio Investment Board 
(chaired by the CEO)
Separate committees for small 
molecules and biologics
Product Review Board Operational
governance
Innovative Medicines Units – 
Biologics led
Innovative Medicines Units – 
Small molecules led
> Small molecules focused
> Aligned biologics and small molecules
Global 
medicines 
development
Market Internal 
and 
external 
opportunities
Discovery and early 
development
Late-stage
development
Portfolio Investment Board 
decision
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview
Delivering our strategy Research and Development 29 pharmaceutical development activities from Newark, Delaware, 
and all drug discovery activities at Wilmington, Delaware. In January 
2011, we signed an agreement to sell our site in Lund, Sweden, 
and we are on track to exit this site during 2011. 
A number of our remaining sites will grow to accommodate activities 
from the sites we are closing. These sites include our main small 
molecule facilities in the UK (Alderley Park and Macclesﬁ eld); 
Sweden (MöIndal) and the US (Waltham, Massachusetts). Other 
sites that have a focus on research are in Sweden (Södertälje), 
Canada (Montreal, Quebec) and France (Reims). We have a 
clinical development facility in Osaka, Japan. Our principal sites 
for biologics and vaccines are in the US (Gaithersburg, Maryland 
and Mountain View, California) and the UK (Cambridge).
As part of our strategic expansion in important Emerging Markets, 
we own research capabilities in Asia Paciﬁ c which include our 
‘Innovation Centre China’ research facility in Shanghai and our 
research facility in Bangalore, India.
In 2010, there was Core investment of $4.2 billion in our R&D 
organisation (2009: $4.3 billion; 2008: $5 billion). In addition, 
$1,017 million was spent on acquiring product rights (such as 
in-licensing) (2009: $764 million; 2008: $2,743 million) and we 
invested around $284 million on the implementation of the R&D 
strategy and enhancing capabilities in the US. A further $283 million 
was approved during the year to further the support for the 
R&D strategy by facilitating the consolidation of resources at 
key locations and developing IT platforms.
R&D ethics
We recognise our responsibility to ensure that we underpin our 
continued drive for R&D excellence with sound ethical practice 
worldwide. We want to be recognised for our high quality science 
and for the impact we can make on serious diseases. We also want 
to continue to be trusted. This means setting and living up to high 
standards of ethical practice across all aspects of our research 
activity worldwide.
You can read more about our standards of ethical practice and 
2010 performance in the Responsible Business section from 
page 40.
Intellectual 
Property
Protecting ownership of 
our inventions
“The principal economic safeguard in our 
industry is a well-functioning patent system 
that recognises our effort and rewards our 
innovation with appropriate protection”
Jeff Pott
General Counsel
The discovery and development of a new 
medicine requires a signiﬁ cant investment of 
resources by research-based pharmaceutical 
companies over a period of 10 or more years. 
For this to be a viable investment, the results 
– new medicines – must be safeguarded from 
being copied with a reasonable amount of 
certainty for a reasonable period of time.
The principal economic safeguard in our industry is a well-
functioning patent system that recognises our effort and 
rewards our innovation with appropriate protection, allowing 
time to generate the revenue we need to reinvest in new 
pharmaceutical innovation. We have conﬁ dence in our inventions 
and commit signiﬁ cant resources both to establishing and 
defending the patent and related intellectual property protections 
for these inventions.
Patent process
Applications for patent protection are ﬁ led on our inventions 
to safeguard the large subsequent investment required to get 
potential new drugs approved for marketing. Further innovation 
means that we may seek additional patent protection as we 
develop a product and its uses. We apply for patents via patent 
ofﬁ ces around the world. In some countries, our competitors 
can challenge our patents in the patent ofﬁ ces, and, in all 
countries, competitors can challenge our patents in the courts. 
We can face challenges early in the patent application process 
and throughout the life of the patent. These challenges can be to 
the validity of a patent and/or to the effective scope of a patent 
and are based on ever-evolving legal precedents. There can be 
no guarantee of success for either party in patent proceedings. 
For information about third party challenges to the patents 
protecting our products, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements 
from page 178.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 30 Delivering our strategy Research and Development
Delivering our strategy The generic industry is increasingly challenging innovators’ 
patents at earlier stages and almost all leading pharmaceutical 
products in the US have faced or are facing patent challenges 
from generic manufacturers. The research-based pharmaceutical 
industry is also experiencing increased challenges elsewhere 
in the world, for example in Europe, Canada, Asia and Latin 
America. Further information about the risks relating to patent 
litigation and early loss and expiry of patents is contained in 
the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page 96.
Data exclusivity
Regulatory Data Protection (RDP or ‘data exclusivity’) is an 
important intellectual property right which arises in respect of 
data which is required to be submitted to regulatory authorities 
in order to obtain marketing approvals for our medicines. 
Signiﬁ cant investment is required to generate such data (for 
example, through conducting global clinical trials); and the use 
of this proprietary data is protected from use by third parties 
(such as generic manufacturers) for a number of years in a 
limited number of countries. The period of such protection 
and the extent to which the right is respected differs signiﬁ cantly 
between these countries. We believe in enforcing our rights to 
RDP and consider it an important protection for our inventions, 
particularly as patent rights are increasingly being challenged.
Compulsory licensing
Compulsory licensing (the overruling of patent rights to allow 
patented medicines to be manufactured and sold by other 
parties) is increasingly being included in the access to medicines 
debate. We recognise the right of developing countries to use 
the ﬂ exibilities in the World Trade Organization’s TRIPS (Trade-
Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) Agreement 
(including the Doha amendment) in certain circumstances, 
such as a public health emergency. We believe that this should 
apply only when all other ways of meeting the emergency needs 
have been considered and where healthcare frameworks and 
safeguards are in place to ensure that the medicines reach 
those who need them.
Patent expiries
The tables above set out certain patent expiry dates and sales 
for our key marketed products. The expiry dates relate to the 
basic substance patent relevant to that product unless indicated 
otherwise. The expiry dates shown include any Patent Term 
Extension and Paediatric Exclusivity periods. 
Patent expiries for our key marketed products
US revenue ($m)
Key marketed products*# US Patent expiry 2010 2009 2008
Nexium 2015
1
2,695 2,835 3,101
Crestor 2016 2,640 2,100 1,678
Toprol-XL/Seloken Expired 689 964 295
Atacand 2012 216 263 262
Symbicort 2014 (combination), 2023 (formulation), 2026 (pMDI device) 721 488 255
Pulmicort/Pulmicort Respules 2019
2
 (Respules), 2018 (Turbuhaler formulation), 
2019 (Turbuhaler device)
305 804 982
Arimidex Expired 494 878 754
Zoladex Expired 46 54 72
Seroquel IR 2012 3,107 3,074 2,895
Seroquel XR 2017 (formulation) 640 342 120
Synagis 2015 (composition), 2023 (formulation) 646 782 923
Prilosec/Losec Expired 47 64 171
Merrem/Meronem Expired 127 177 207
Casodex Expired 16 148 292
Revenue ($m)
3
Key marketed products*# EU Patent expiry Canadian Patent expiry Japanese Patent expiry 2010 2009 2008
Nexium 2014 2014 2014 1,422 1,395 1,387
Crestor 2017 2012 2017 2,201 1,782 1,410
Toprol-XL/Seloken Expired Expired Expired 169 181 220
Atacand 2010 to 2014 depending 
on country
2011 2014 837 808 836
Symbicort 2018 (formulation) 
2019 (Turbuhaler device)
2012 (combination) 
2018 (formulation) 
2019 (Turbuhaler device)
2017 (combination) 
2018 (formulation) 
2019 (Turbuhaler device)
1,621 1,459 1,420
Pulmicort/
Pulmicort Respules
2018 (Respules)
2018 (Turbuhaler formulation) 
2022 (pMDI device)
2018 (Respules) 
2018 (Turbuhaler 
formulation)
2018 (Respules) 
2018 (Turbuhaler formulation) 
2022 (pMDI device)
353 347 364
Arimidex 2011 2012 2012 843 875 930
Zoladex Expired Expired Expired 718 744 775
Seroquel IR 2012 Expired 2012 705 792 1,009
Seroquel XR 2017 (formulation) 2017 (formulation) N/A 401 301 90
Synagis 2015 (composition) 2015 (composition) 2015 (composition) 392 300 307
Prilosec/Losec Expired Expired Expired 660 641 619
Merrem/Meronem Expired Expired Expired 377 409 387
Casodex Expired Expired Expired 457 588 838
*  Patents are or may be challenged by third parties and generics may be launched ‘at risk’. See the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page 96. Many of our products are subject to 
challenges by third parties. Details of material challenges by third parties can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178. 
#
 Additional patents relating to the stated products may have terms extending beyond the quoted dates.
1
 Licence agreements with Teva and Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc. allow each to launch a generic version in the US from May 2014, subject to regulatory approval.
2
 A licence agreement with Teva permits their ongoing US sale of a generic version from December 2009.
3
 Aggregate revenue for the EU, Canada and Japan.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview
Delivering our strategy Intellectual Property 31 Sales and Marketing 
Reinforcing our leading 
positions and investing  
in new regions
Our global marketing and sales operations 
organisation is active in over 100 countries.  
As well as building on our leading positions  
in the US and Other Established Markets,  
such as Canada, Japan and Western Europe, 
we continue to increase our strength through 
strategic investment in Emerging Markets, 
where GDP growth and changing disease 
demographics present signiﬁcant opportunities.
See the Market deﬁnitions table on page 217  
for more information on AstraZeneca’s  
market deﬁnitions.
We work to ensure success in individual markets by having highly 
accountable local leaders who understand their markets and have  
a strong focus on proﬁtable business growth. They are supported 
by a single global Commercial organisation that develops global 
product strategies, leverages best practice and drives synergies.  
It also ensures a strong customer focus and commercial direction  
in the management of our pipeline and marketed products. All our 
work is underpinned by a strong set of global standards which build 
on our Code of Conduct and our planned new Global Policy on 
External Interactions. For more information on this Policy, see the 
Sales and marketing ethics section on page 43.
Driving commercial success
Delivering commercial success requires us to be able to maximise 
the value of our portfolio across the whole life-cycle of a medicine, 
from early in a product’s R&D phase to maximising the earnings 
from our more mature medicines.
At an early stage in the medicine discovery process we deﬁne what 
we believe the proﬁle of a medicine needs to be, in order to work 
most effectively in combating a particular disease. These disease 
target product proﬁles are based on the insights we gain through 
our relationships with healthcare professionals, patients and others 
for whom the medicine must add value, including regulators and 
payers. They help shape our therapy area and marketing strategies. 
More information on payer considerations can be found in the 
Investing in capabilities section from page 28.
100
Active in over 100 countries
$5bn 
Annual Crestor and Seroquel sales exceeded $5 billion each
100
Portfolio of more than 100 generic products being licensed across 
30 Emerging Markets for marketing under the AstraZeneca brand
“All our work is underpinned by a strong set  
of global standards which build on our Code  
of Conduct and our planned new Global Policy 
on External Interactions”
Tony Zook 
Executive Vice-President, Global Commercial Operations
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 32 Delivering our strategy Sales and Marketing
Delivering our strategy Activities in 2010 focused on ensuring continued commercial 
excellence through growing the market share of our key products 
that retain market exclusivity, such as Crestor, Seroquel XR and 
Symbicort. In addition, we must ensure that we successfully 
commercialise recently launched medicines, such as Onglyza
TM
 
and Vimovo, or prepare for the launch of the next wave of 
medicines, such as Brilique/Brilinta. At the same time we do not 
lose sight of the need to optimise the value of our mature medicines 
and drive their growth in new markets. For example, in 2010 we 
signed an agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for the co-promotion and 
supply in Japan of Nexium, which is already approved in more than 
120 countries. Under this agreement, we will develop and manufacture 
the product, Daiichi Sankyo will be responsible for its distribution 
and both parties will promote it after it is approved for use.
Global strategies tailored to meet local needs
All our markets have an important role to play in delivering our 
commercial strategy. They are the base from which we drive  
growth and achieve business performance, while both ensuring that 
costs remain under control and our capabilities are strengthened. 
Nevertheless, we need to prioritise our investment in markets to 
ensure we allocate resources in the most cost-effective way. We  
did so in 2010 according to criteria such as market size and growth, 
risk proﬁle, our current position in a market and its commercial 
relevance. This allows us to identify those markets of major 
signiﬁcance to us, those that will become important drivers of  
our business in the future and those Established Markets where  
we need to change our approach to deliver sustained success.  
We are supporting our work in these markets with investment in  
the capabilities necessary to deliver our business objectives.
Emerging markets
It has been estimated that emerging markets will contribute around 
70% of pharmaceutical industry growth in the next ﬁve years, and 
branded generics represent approximately 50% by value in them. 
We are continuing our programme of investment in large emerging 
markets such as China, Mexico, Brazil and Russia as well as high 
growth, medium-sized and smaller markets.
To maximise our opportunities, we are launching a range of 
branded genericised medicines. This range will comprise a 
complementary portfolio of differentiated products that will be 
promoted alongside our patented original medicines in markets 
where we already have a developed commercial infrastructure, 
existing relationships with healthcare professionals and a strong 
reputation. In 2010, we continued the programme of launches  
we began in India in 2009 and launched a generic anti-infective 
medicine in a number of markets. In addition, we have identiﬁed a 
portfolio of more than 100 generic products which we are currently 
licensing across 30 Emerging Markets for marketing under the 
AstraZeneca brand. To help us license these dossiers and source 
the molecules, we are working with a number of companies in  
India who work to our rigorous quality and process standards.  
This includes an agreement with Torrent to supply us with a portfolio 
of generic medicines for which Torrent already has licences in  
a range of countries. Internally, we have created a dedicated 
cross-functional team to support our branded generics business.
Pricing our medicines
Continued innovation is required to address unmet medical need. 
Our challenge is to deliver innovations that bring beneﬁts for patients 
and society at a level of investment and internal productivity that  
is appropriate, given that the external environment is placing 
signiﬁcant downward pressure on drug pricing.
Our global pricing policy provides the framework for optimising  
the proﬁtability of all our products in a sustainable way. It balances 
many different factors, including ensuring appropriate patient 
access. When setting the price of a medicine, we take into 
consideration its full value to patients, to those who pay for  
healthcare and to society in general. Our pricing also takes account 
of the fact that, as a publicly owned company, we have a duty to 
ensure that we continue to deliver an appropriate return on 
investment to our shareholders.
Meeting the needs of payers is an increasingly important 
requirement for us. In order to develop products that meet those 
needs, we are focusing even more on understanding the priorities 
and requirements of both payers and healthcare providers. Building 
on this information we can then demonstrate to our customers how 
our products offer value and support cost-effective healthcare 
delivery. Our medicines play an important role in treating medical 
needs and in doing so they bring economic as well as therapeutic 
beneﬁts. Effective treatments can help to lower healthcare costs by 
reducing the need for more expensive care, such as hospital stays 
or surgery, or through preventing patients from developing more 
serious or debilitating diseases that are costly to treat. They also 
contribute to increased productivity by reducing or preventing the 
incidence of diseases that keep people away from work.
We continually review our range of medicines (both those on the 
market and in the pipeline) to identify areas where they may meet  
a particularly critical healthcare need but where for a number of 
reasons patient access may be challenging. Such critical healthcare 
needs may be either where our medicines treat diseases that are  
(or are becoming) prevalent in developing countries, or where they 
are potentially a leading or unique therapy addressing an unmet 
medical need and offering signiﬁcant patient beneﬁt in treating a 
serious or life-threatening condition. In such cases, where appropriate, 
we aim to provide patient access to these medicines through 
expanded patient access programmes. Examples of such 
programmes exist worldwide. We also support the concept of 
differential pricing in this context, provided that safeguards are in place 
to ensure that differentially priced products are not diverted from 
patients who need them to be sold and used in more afﬂuent markets.
An effective sales force
We sell our medicines in more than 100 countries around the  
world. Most of our sales are made through wholly-owned local 
marketing companies. Elsewhere, we sell through distributors or 
local representative ofﬁces. Our products are marketed primarily  
to doctors (both primary care and specialist) as well as to other 
healthcare professionals. Marketing efforts are also directed 
towards explaining the economic as well as the therapeutic beneﬁts 
of our products to governments and others who pay for healthcare.
Face-to-face contact is the traditional marketing method and  
our efforts are focused on making this channel as effective and 
efﬁcient as possible with the use of telephone sales teams and 
dedicated customer service staff. Increasingly, our sales force is 
being complemented by our use of the internet. In the US, where  
it is an approved and normal practice, we also use direct-to-
consumer advertising campaigns for some products.
Our rapid growth in Emerging Markets is driving demand for  
central commercial support, particularly in respect of sales force 
effectiveness. Core sales and marketing training programmes have 
been adapted for, and deployed in, local environments. The main 
focus of these programmes is to embed core commercial skills and 
to strengthen sales managers’ coaching and planning skills.
Sales and marketing ethics
The pharmaceutical sector is subject to increased oversight by 
regulators, competition and other authorities. As we drive the 
growth of our business and reshape our geographic footprint,  
we remain committed to the responsible delivery of commercial 
success. You can read more about our standards of ethical practice 
and 2010 performance in the Responsible Business section  
from page 40.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview
Delivering our strategy Sales and Marketing 33 Our strategy is to balance in-house manufacturing 
in efﬁcient plants with external manufacturing 
capabilities, particularly in relation to the early 
stages of our production process. As discussed 
in the Sales and Marketing section above, we 
also see opportunities to use outsourced 
production in our branded generics business. 
This balance is designed to give us product 
integrity and quality assurance while affording 
us cost efﬁciency and volume ﬂexibility.
Continuous improvement
We seek to maximise the efﬁciency of our supply chain through  
a culture of continuous improvement. We focus on what adds  
value for our customers and patients, and what eliminates waste. 
This programme has delivered signiﬁcant beneﬁts in recent years, 
including reduced manufacturing lead times and lower stock levels, 
both of which improve our ability to respond to customer needs and 
reduce inventory costs. Changes have also been achieved without 
compromising customer service and quality.
We have been applying Lean business improvement tools and  
ways of working to improve the efﬁciency of our manufacturing 
plants for a number of years, and are now applying them to the 
whole of our supply chain. In 2010, we reinforced our commitment 
to creating a Lean supply and manufacturing organisation with a 
global campaign to recruit more Lean experts into our manufacturing 
sites and supply chain functions. This has included the creation of  
a new global centre of excellence comprising Lean experts from  
a broad range of industrial backgrounds to provide support and 
co-ordination to the accelerated development of our Lean supply 
system. This enables us to learn from other industries how to 
operate our supply chains at a much higher performance level  
than is generally found in the pharmaceutical sector.
The inauguration of a new regional packing centre in Wuxi,  
China in 2010 was a key milestone. We operate this centre to  
our global standards and apply a broad range of Lean techniques 
and principles. We believe it will improve our competitiveness in 
Asian markets.
Product quality
We are committed to delivering product quality that underpins both 
the safety and efﬁcacy of our medicines. We have a comprehensive 
quality management system in place designed to assure the quality 
of our products and regulatory compliance.
Supply and Manufacturing 
Maximising efﬁciency for 
the reliable provision of high 
quality medicines
23
23 manufacturing sites in 16 countries
$333m 
Capital expenditure on supply and manufacturing facilities totalled 
approximately $333 million
23
23 inspections from 13 different regulatory authorities
“Key to our continued business success is our 
ability to provide our customers with a reliable 
supply of high quality medicines worldwide, 
when they want them, and to do so in the most 
cost-effective way”
David Smith 
Executive Vice-President, Global Operations and  
Information Services
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 34 Delivering our strategy Supply and Manufacturing
Delivering our strategy Manufacturing facilities and processes for medicines must observe 
rigorous standards of quality and are subject to inspections by 
regulatory authorities to ensure compliance with prescribed 
standards. Authorities have the power to require changes and 
improvements to facilities and processes, to halt production and 
impose conditions that must be satisﬁed before production can 
resume. Regulatory standards are not harmonised globally and do 
change over time.
We hosted 23 inspections from 13 different regulatory authorities  
in 2010. All observations from such inspections are reviewed along 
with the outcomes of our own internal inspections and improvement 
actions are put in place as required to ensure ongoing compliance 
with expectations. If required, we take action to improve quality  
and enhance compliance across the organisation. The knowledge 
obtained from the inspections is shared across the Group.
We continue to be actively involved in providing input into new 
product manufacturing regulations, both at national and 
international levels, through our membership of industry 
associations primarily in the EU, the US and Japan.
Our resources
Capital expenditure on Supply and Manufacturing facilities totalled 
approximately $333 million in 2010 (2009: $360 million; 2008:  
$369 million). As part of our overall risk management, we carefully 
consider the timing of investment to ensure that secure supply 
chains are in place for our products. We have a programme in place 
to provide appropriate supply capabilities for our new products.
At the end of 2010, approximately 9,300 people at 23 sites in  
16 countries were working on the manufacturing and supply of  
our products. Approximately 8,350 people work in formulation and 
packaging and 350 people work in active pharmaceutical ingredient 
(API) supply. Our principal small molecule manufacturing facilities 
are in: the UK (Avlon and Macclesﬁeld); Sweden (Snäckviken and 
Gärtuna, Södertälje); the US (Newark, Delaware and Westborough, 
Massachusetts); France (Reims); Japan (Maihara); Australia (North 
Ryde); China (Wuxi); Puerto Rico (Canovanas); Germany (Wedel); 
Mexico (Lomas Verdes); Brazil (Cotia); and Argentina (Buenos Aires). 
During 2010, we also opened a small packaging plant in Indonesia. 
We operate sites for the manufacture of APIs in the UK and 
Sweden, complemented by the efﬁcient use of external sourcing. 
Our principal tablet and capsule formulation sites are in the UK, 
Sweden, Puerto Rico and the US, and we also have major 
formulation sites for the global supply of parenteral and/or inhalation 
products in Sweden, France and the UK.
Some 600 permanent and an additional 250 seasonal people are 
employed at our four principal biologics commercial manufacturing 
facilities in the US (Frederick, Maryland and Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania); the UK (Speke); and the Netherlands (Nijmegen)  
with capabilities in process development, manufacturing and 
distribution of biologics, including worldwide supply of MAbs  
and inﬂuenza vaccines. Our biologics production capabilities are 
scalable, which enables efﬁcient management of our combined 
small molecule and biologics pipeline.
Managing sourcing risk
Given our announced intention to outsource all API manufacturing, 
we place particular importance on our global procurement policies 
and integrated risk management processes which aim to ensure  
the uninterrupted supply of sufﬁciently high quality raw materials. 
These and other key supplies are purchased from a range of 
suppliers. We focus on a range of risks to global supply, such as 
disasters that remove supply capability or the unavailability of key 
raw materials, and work to ensure that these risks are effectively 
mitigated. Contingency plans include the appropriate use of dual  
or multiple suppliers and maintaining appropriate stock levels. 
Although the price of raw materials may ﬂuctuate from time to time, 
our global purchasing policies seek to avoid such ﬂuctuations 
becoming material to our business.
We also take into account reputational risk associated with our use 
of suppliers and are committed to working only with suppliers that 
embrace standards of ethical behaviour that are consistent with our 
own. For more information, see the Responsible Business section 
from page 40. 
The WHO estimates that between 1% and 30% (rising  
to 50% on the internet) of medicines sold worldwide are 
counterfeit. Every year, thousands of patients are seriously 
harmed or killed as a result of taking these products rather 
than the real thing. Counterfeiting is particularly prevalent  
in the developing world and with medicines bought online.
To combat the problem we have a comprehensive product 
security strategy which includes:
>  partnering with others to strengthen enforcement  
and raise awareness
>   securing products through pack features and enhanced 
integrity of the supply chain
>  combating illegal operations through proactive investigation 
of suspicious activity and reported incidents.
In 2010, a life-threatening counterfeiting operation was 
thwarted following an investigation in Colombia. Twenty four 
members of a criminal gang were arrested in May on charges 
relating to making and selling a counterfeit of our antibiotic, 
Meronem. Suspicions ﬁrst came to light in 2007 when we 
received reports from employees about suspect Meronem 
bearing the same batch number. A painstaking investigation 
was carried out, including the use of undercover techniques  
to gather evidence. By early 2010, we were able to hand  
over enough evidence for the Colombian police to conduct  
a series of raids.
      What is being 
done to make  
sure my medicines 
are genuine?
 
Because health connects us all
For more information on our work to prevent and  
detect counterfeiting, go to our website,  
astrazeneca.com/responsibility.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview
Delivering our strategy Supply and Manufacturing 35 With approximately 61,000 people in over  
100 countries worldwide, we value the talents, 
skills and capabilities that a global workforce 
brings to our business. Our people strategy 
deﬁnes our approach to managing our 
workforce and supports the delivery of our 
business strategy. Our people strategy is built 
around four key priorities which we believe  
are critical to delivering our business objectives: 
developing our performance culture; developing 
our talent pipeline; increasing our leadership 
and management capability; and simplifying  
our organisational design. We use a range  
of metrics to track progress against these 
priorities, which are reported quarterly to  
our human resources (HR) leadership team.
Developing our performance culture
A key priority of our people strategy is the continued development  
of a performance culture across the organisation. By strengthening 
our focus on setting high quality objectives aligned to our business 
strategy, we will ensure that performance at all levels of the 
organisation delivers value. The Board is responsible for setting  
our high-level strategic objectives and monitoring performance 
against them (see the Operation of the Board section from page 
109). Managers across AstraZeneca are accountable for working 
with their teams to develop individual and team performance 
targets, and for ensuring that our people understand how they 
contribute to overall business objectives.
We will continue to empower our leaders to drive performance, to 
hold our managers accountable for understanding and delivering 
against the standards required, and provide the tools necessary  
to reward outstanding contributions.
Our focus on optimising performance is reinforced by performance-
related bonus and incentive plans. AstraZeneca also encourages 
employee share ownership by offering the opportunity to participate 
in various employee share plans, some of which are described  
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report from page 119 and also  
in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 173.
61 ,000
61,000 employees worldwide
Employees by geographical area
(%)
 UK  
 Sweden  
 Rest of Europe  
 North America  
 Latin America  
 Africa, Asia and Australasia  
13.6
23.9
6.8
23.7
17.1
14.9
“Our people strategy is built around the 
key priorities we believe to be critical to 
delivering our business objectives. These  
include developing a high performance 
culture, strengthening our talent pipeline 
and building capabilities”
Lynn Tetrault 
Executive Vice-President, Human Resources  
and Corporate Affairs
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 36 Delivering our strategy People
Delivering our strategy
People 
Nurturing a diverse and 
talented workforce Developing our people
We encourage and support our people in achieving their full 
potential by providing a range of learning and development (L&D) 
programmes which are designed to build the capabilities and 
encourage the behaviours needed to deliver our business strategy.
We are implementing a global approach, supported by the creation 
of our global talent and development organisation, to ensure that 
high standards of L&D practice are applied across the organisation. 
We continue to develop and deploy instructor-led and online 
development resources, which we aim to make available to  
all employees to increase access to learning and to support 
self-development.
We recognise the importance of good leadership and its critical  
role in stimulating high levels of performance and engagement.  
Our leadership development frameworks are focused on the  
core capabilities which we believe are essential for strong and 
effective leadership. These capabilities are deﬁned for each level  
in the organisation and apply to all employees. The development  
of a pipeline of future global leaders is a high priority and we work  
to identify individuals with the potential for more senior and complex 
roles. These talent pools provide succession candidates for a  
range of critical leadership roles across AstraZeneca. We regard 
these individuals as key assets to the organisation and we 
proactively support them to reach their potential through, for 
example, global talent development programmes and targeted 
development opportunities.
We complement our leadership capabilities with a set of manager 
accountabilities which deﬁne what we expect from our managers. 
Building line manager capability is supported by a suite of global 
learning programmes which address people management, change 
management and other critical capabilities.
The signiﬁcant shift in the footprint of our global workforce has 
placed a high priority on acquiring and retaining key talent. Our 
strategic workforce planning (SWP) framework enables the 
business to develop the workforce required to deliver our strategy 
by ensuring that the right skills are in the right place at the right  
time to successfully deliver our business objectives. SWP generally 
takes a longer-term view of ﬁve to seven years and helps us identify 
and develop the necessary HR solutions to attract, retain, develop 
and deploy our workforce.
We remain committed to making full use of the talents and resource 
of all our people. We have policies in place to avoid discrimination, 
including on the grounds of disability. Our policies cover recruitment 
and selection, performance management, career development and 
promotion, transfer and training (including re-training, if needed, for 
people who have become disabled) and reward.
Diversity and inclusion
Our global workforce provides a diversity of skills, capabilities and 
creativity and we value the beneﬁts that such diversity can bring  
to our business. We aim to foster a culture of respect and fairness 
where individual success depends solely on ability, behaviour,  
work performance and demonstrated potential. As we reshape  
our organisation and geographic footprint, our continuing challenge 
is to ensure that diversity in its broadest sense is reﬂected in our 
workforce and leadership, and integrated into our business and 
people strategies.
Fifty one percent of our global workforce are women and twenty 
ﬁve percent of senior managers reporting to the SET are women.  
As part of developing a global diversity and inclusion strategy, we 
have identiﬁed the need to look more closely at the advancement  
of women within AstraZeneca. Working with an external expert,  
we completed an extensive research project involving employees 
across a wide range of countries to understand what is preventing  
a greater number of women from reaching more senior levels in the 
business. Findings were shared with the Board and the SET, which 
resulted in the formation of a global steering group chaired by our 
CEO and made up of senior leaders from across the business.
The steering group is focused on driving change in three key  
areas that emerged as themes from the research: ‘Leadership  
& Management Capability’, ‘Transparency in Talent Management  
& Career Progression’ and ‘Work Life Challenges’. This work  
will continue to inform the development of our diversity and  
inclusion strategy.
Engagement and dialogue
We use a variety of global leadership communications channels  
to engage our people in our business strategy. In addition,  
local leaders and managers hold regular meetings with their  
teams. We also use the intranet, video conferencing and Yammer  
(a social media tool) to encourage dialogue. We added a feedback 
mechanism to our annual global employee survey (FOCUS) in 2010 
and received over 22,000 comments on a variety of topics, which 
are now informing our 2011 engagement plans.
We measure levels of engagement, the effectiveness of our 
communications and other areas critical to the performance of  
our business through our annual FOCUS survey. The results are 
communicated to all employees. Eighty eight percent of our  
people participated in our 2010 survey, reﬂecting their continued 
conﬁdence in this feedback mechanism. Although our employee 
engagement score declined by one percentage point from 2009, 
leadership category scores improved by ﬁve percentage points and 
the leadership communication score improved by four percentage 
points. The survey also identiﬁed the key areas for attention in 2011, 
including work/life balance, change management and further 
improvement in leadership communications.
2010 83%
2009 84%
2008 82%
2006 80%
There is no FOCUS engagement score for 2007 as the survey was biennial until 2008.
FOCUS engagement scores
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview
Delivering our strategy People 37 Simplifying our organisational design
We constantly look for ways to increase the efﬁciency and 
effectiveness of our organisation. As outlined in the Research  
and Development and Sales and Marketing sections from pages 26 
and 32 respectively, in 2010 we have improved accountability and 
decision making through the creation of single global Commercial 
and R&D functions, each led by a single accountable leader.
In addition to these structural changes, the composition of  
our global workforce has changed signiﬁcantly in recent years.  
Our strategic focus on business growth in Emerging Markets  
and an increased biologics capability has meant the workforce  
in these areas has grown substantially (as shown in the Sales  
and Marketing workforce composition ﬁgure below). This increase 
has been accompanied by headcount reductions through 
restructuring in R&D, operations, support functions and our sales 
and marketing workforce in Established Markets. The net effect  
of these changes since 2007 has been to reduce our total 
headcount from 67 ,400 to 61,000.
Our business change activity in 2010 and over the next three to  
four years will predominantly be associated with the implementation 
of our R&D and Commercial strategies. The changes are designed 
to make sure that we are building critical capabilities, driving 
efﬁciencies and aligning resources to business opportunities.  
As announced in the ﬁrst half of 2010, these programmes are 
planned to impact 10,400 positions by 2014, with a reduction  
of 2,600 positions in 2010.
We work to ensure a level of global consistency in managing 
employee relations, while allowing enough ﬂexibility to support the 
local markets in building good relations with their workforces, taking 
into account local laws and circumstances. To that end, relations 
with trade unions are nationally determined and managed locally  
in line with the applicable legal framework and standards of good 
practice. However, each change programme has its unique 
challenges and a standard solution may not always be appropriate. 
Where this is the case, the appropriate solution is developed 
through consultation with employee representatives or, where 
applicable, trade unions, with the aim of retaining key skills and 
mitigating job losses.
Following a period of consultation, we made a number of changes 
to the UK deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme in 2010. These changes 
resulted in some localised industrial action. 
54%
84%
46%
16%
Sales and Marketing workforce composition
    Emerging Markets          Established Markets
2010
2002
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Delivering our strategy
38 Delivering our strategy People AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy: R&D 39
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview
Seventy years ago, the discovery of 
antibiotics revolutionised the treatment of 
bacterial infections and saved millions of 
lives. But the growing problem of bacterial 
resistance threatens to put global health at 
serious risk. Finding new antibiotics that 
will be effective against bacterial resistance 
is not impossible, but it is challenging. It is 
also an area that has not been a primary 
focus for the pharmaceutical industry in 
recent years. AstraZeneca is one of a few 
key players that has continued to invest in 
antibiotic research and in 2010 we made a 
regulatory submission in the EU for a new 
antibiotic, Zinforo, that will provide new 
treatment options for Gram-positive 
infections such as those due to MRSA.
Another clear example of the challenge is provided by 
tuberculosis. TB claims 5,000 lives every day and multi-drug 
resistant TB affects half a million people annually. To 
accelerate development of new treatments, a collaboration 
led by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the TB Alliance, 
and the Critical Path Institute has brought AstraZeneca, 
including our dedicated TB facility in Bangalore, India, 
together with other pharmaceutical companies, government 
agencies, donors, advocates, academics and NGOs. 
No single organisation can win the bacterial battle. We 
need a vibrant pipeline of new classes of antibiotics. Working 
together creatively in partnership with others we believe 
we can make a greater contribution to that goal.
      Who is 
protecting 
me from new 
infections?
Because health connects us all
For more information go to the Therapy Area Review 
from page 50. Responsible Business 
Committed to delivering 
value responsibly
11
11 conﬁrmed breaches of external sales and marketing regulations 
or codes globally
1
,
950
Completed over 1,950 Responsible Procurement assessments, 
accounting for around 75% of our third party spend
8%
Ranked in the top 8% in the sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
World and European Indexes
In this section we describe how we are working 
to deliver business success responsibly, 
including summary information about our 
commitment and performance in some key 
areas. Further information about these areas 
and others is available on our website, 
astrazeneca.com/responsibility.
Introduction
At AstraZeneca, we are dedicated to the research, development, 
manufacture and marketing of medicines that make a difference in 
healthcare. For us, this is at the core of our responsibility to our 
stakeholders and to society. Successful pharmaceutical innovation, 
delivered responsibly, brings beneﬁts for patients, creates value for 
shareholders and contributes to the economic development of the 
communities we serve.
As described in the Our marketplace section from page 10, 
AstraZeneca operates in a dynamic environment that presents both 
opportunities and challenges. To make sure we are well positioned 
to manage these, our business strategy is driving signiﬁcant 
changes across our organisation. Previous sections have outlined 
how we are transforming R&D, expanding our footprint in Emerging 
Markets, boosting our efforts to source innovation from outside 
AstraZeneca and increasingly working in partnerships that broaden 
the base for success in improving healthcare. At the same time,  
we continue to drive efﬁciency and effectiveness across the 
organisation, including increased outsourcing to a diverse range  
of strategic suppliers.
Our work to implement these changes is underpinned by our 
continued commitment to the sustainable development of our 
business which delivers value for our stakeholders and for us.  
To that end, our responsible business objectives must be closely 
aligned to, and support delivery of, our business strategy. In the light 
of our accelerated strategy, the insights gained from dialogue with 
our stakeholders and our internal risk assessment, we reviewed and 
reshaped our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Plan during 2010. Our 
new Responsible Business Plan combines our CR and compliance 
agenda and puts at the top those areas most impacted by the 
changes to our business and which are therefore key enablers of 
our strategy.
Michele Hooper Dame Nancy Rothwell 
Senior independent  Non-Executive Director with 
Non-Executive Director and responsibility for overseeing 
Chairman of the Audit Committee Responsible Business 
 
“We believe that to be successful in delivering our 
strategic priorities, a strong focus on responsible 
business is essential. It’s fundamental to our 
reputation. Stakeholders need to be conﬁdent 
that we apply sustainability considerations and 
high ethical standards across all our activities, 
whether in-house or outsourced, in both 
Established and Emerging Markets. Being 
welcomed as a trusted partner as we reshape 
our geographic footprint and increase our 
externalisation is critical to our success.”
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 40 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business
Delivering our strategy This means a speciﬁc focus on:
>  R&D ethics – underpinning our drive for innovation with sound 
ethical practice worldwide
>  Sales and marketing practices – driving consistently high ethical 
standards to promote our medicines responsibly worldwide
>  Human rights – making sure that we continue to develop and 
drive a consistent approach across all our activities
>  Access to healthcare – exploring ways of increasing access  
to healthcare for underserved patient populations
>  Suppliers – working only with organisations who embrace  
ethical standards that are consistent with our own.
As well as managing speciﬁc responsible business challenges 
associated with the changes to our strategy, we will be maintaining 
focus on other aspects of our responsibility:
>  Patient safety
>  Environment
>  Employee safety, health and wellbeing
>  Community investment.
Our new Responsible Business Plan, which will include associated 
objectives, targets and KPIs, maps our agenda and sets our 
direction for the next ﬁve years. We aim to launch it in the ﬁrst 
quarter of 2011 and publish it on our website, astrazeneca.com  
at the time. Because this is a dynamic and evolving area, we will 
continue to engage with our stakeholders and work within the 
business to understand how we can further improve our 
performance.
Accountabilities and responsibilities
The Board is responsible for our Responsible Business framework 
and Non-Executive Director, Dame Nancy Rothwell, oversees 
implementation and reporting to the Board. Michele Hooper chairs 
the Audit Committee which oversees the work of the Global 
Compliance function.
The SET and senior managers throughout the Group are 
accountable for responsible business management within their 
areas, based on the global framework but taking into account 
national, functional and site issues and priorities. Line managers  
are accountable for ensuring that their teams understand the 
requirements and that people are clear about what is expected  
of them as they work to achieve AstraZeneca’s business goals. 
Individually, everyone in AstraZeneca has a responsibility to  
integrate responsible business considerations into their day-to-day 
decision making, actions and behaviours.
Our dedicated Global Corporate Responsibility Team works 
together with the SET areas and the Global Compliance function 
across the business to ensure that responsible business risks and 
opportunities are identiﬁed and managed appropriately, in line with 
our strategic business objectives.
External engagement and benchmarking
Stakeholder engagement is critical to keeping in touch with the 
demands of sustainable development. It was particularly important 
in 2010 as we worked to develop our new Responsible Business 
Plan and, alongside our ongoing stakeholder dialogues, we held a 
number of multi-stakeholder events. For example, we hosted two 
roundtable discussions in London and Stockholm to gain a better 
understanding of what our stakeholders believe to be important 
responsibility considerations as our business moves into emerging 
markets. Participants included socially responsible investors (SRIs), 
medical researchers, academics, politicians and regulators. We also 
arranged an event speciﬁcally for key SRI contacts. The agenda 
reﬂected areas of interest expressed by the SRI community and  
so focused on R&D strategy, emerging market strategy and 
responsible procurement. The insights we gained from these 
events, and other single-issue engagement during the year, 
signiﬁcantly inﬂuenced the shape of our new Plan. We will continue 
to engage with our stakeholders on the further development of the 
Plan to ensure that we are staying in close touch with the changing 
expectations of a responsible business.
We also use the insights we gain from external surveys to develop 
our approach in line with best practice on a global basis. A member 
of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index since 2001, we continue to  
be ranked among the sustainability leaders in the pharmaceutical 
sector. In the 2010 Index, we increased individual scores for nine 
out of 23 criteria (compared to 14 out of 24 criteria in 2009) including 
improved marks for innovation management and stakeholder 
engagement. We lost ground in some areas including corporate 
governance, marketing practices and environmental policy. To 
better understand these lower scores, we have commissioned an 
in-depth external benchmark survey and the analysis will be used  
to inform our improvement planning. The survey is expected to 
report in the ﬁrst quarter of 2011.
External assurance
Bureau Veritas has provided external assurance on responsible 
business related information within this Annual Report and of the 
detailed content of the Responsibility section of our website. Bureau 
Veritas has found the information provided within this Annual Report 
to be accurate and reliable (based on the evidence provided and 
subject to the scope, objectives and limitations deﬁned in the full 
assurance statement). The full assurance statement which contains 
detailed scope, methodology, overall opinion and recommendations 
can be found on our website, astrazeneca.com; web page content 
assured by Bureau Veritas is marked at the bottom of each page.
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company  
that specialises in quality, health, safety, social and environmental 
management with a long history of providing independent assurance 
services, and had an annual turnover in 2009 of €2.6 billion.
R&D ethics
We are determined to make sure that the strategic changes  
we are making within R&D are underpinned by our ongoing 
commitment to delivering innovation responsibly. Compliance with 
relevant laws and regulations is a minimum baseline and underpins 
our own global principles and standards, as outlined in our global 
Bioethics Policy.
Clinical trials
Clinical trials are the means by which we study the effects of a 
potential new medicine in humans. We conduct clinical trials at 
multiple sites in several different countries. A broad geographic 
span helps us to ensure that those taking part in our studies  
reﬂect the diversity of patients around the world for whom the  
new medicine is intended. This approach also helps to identify the 
types of people for whom the treatment may be most beneﬁcial.
Our global governance process for determining where we place 
clinical trials provides the framework for ensuring a consistent 
approach worldwide. We take several factors into account, including 
the availability of experienced and independent ethics committees 
and a robust regulatory regime, as well as sufﬁcient numbers of 
trained healthcare professionals and patients willing to participate  
in a trial. 
Before a trial begins, we work to make sure that those taking part 
understand the nature and purpose of the research and that proper 
procedures for gaining informed consent are followed (including 
managing any special circumstances, such as different levels of 
literacy). We also have procedures in place to ensure that the 
privacy of participants’ health information is protected.
One of our core responsibilities to those taking part in our trials is to 
make sure that we protect them from any unnecessary risks. 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview
Delivering our strategy Responsible Business 41 Wherever possible, we use non-animal methods, such as computer 
modelling, that eliminate the need to use animals early in drug 
development or reduce the number required. We also work to reﬁne 
our existing methods. This replacement, reduction and reﬁnement 
of animal studies is known as ‘the 3Rs’ and to support our drive for 
continuous improvement, we work both within AstraZeneca and the 
wider scientiﬁc community to share 3Rs knowledge and learning.
The number of animals we use will continue to vary because it 
depends on a number of factors, including the amount of pre-
clinical research we are doing, the complexity of the diseases under 
investigation and the regulatory requirements. We believe that, 
without our active commitment to the 3Rs, our animal use would  
be much greater. In 2010, we used approximately 408,000 animals 
in-house (2009: 393,000). In addition, approximately 21,000 animals 
were used by external CROs on our behalf (2009: 17 ,000).
The welfare of the animals we use continues to be a top priority  
and our standards apply worldwide. In addition to mandatory 
inspections by government authorities, we have a formal 
programme of regular audits of our internal animal research facilities 
conducted by our own qualiﬁed staff. To make sure that they 
continue to support our drive for consistently high standards of 
animal care worldwide, we updated our standards during 2010 to 
increase clarity about their scope and associated accountabilities 
and responsibilities.
External CROs that conduct animal studies on our behalf are 
required to comply with our global standards and we undertake a 
regular risk-based programme of audits to ensure our expectations 
are being met.
We support the introduction of new legislation across EU member 
states, which has created consistent standards regarding the use of 
laboratory animals. We actively contributed to discussions to ensure 
that the new EU Directive 2010/63/EU on animals used for scientiﬁc 
purposes, which became law in November, strikes a balance 
between improving animal welfare and maintaining the ability to 
conduct R&D in Europe that brings beneﬁt for patients.
Stem cell research
We believe that stem cell research may offer new opportunities to 
develop innovative and safer medicines. Our commitment to high 
ethical standards in this area of research is reﬂected in our Bioethics 
Policy which demands compliance with all external regulations and 
with our own codes of practice.
Some research in this ﬁeld uses stem cells from human embryos 
(human embryonic stem cells (hESC)) created during in vitro 
fertilisation procedures but which become surplus to requirements. 
We are particularly interested in the potential of stem cells to 
differentiate into normal human cells, such as cardiac myocytes 
(heart muscle cells) or hepatocytes (liver cells). If achieved, these 
could be used to improve prediction of the safety, metabolism  
and efﬁcacy of emerging candidate drugs at an earlier stage in the 
process and would help us to overcome the current limitations that 
a restricted supply of human tissue presents. Signiﬁcant scientiﬁc 
progress has been made in the development of such stem cell 
based research models, with some promising results. However, 
more work is needed to understand the full potential of this type of 
research. We do not have all the necessary skills and technologies 
in-house, and so are working with external partners who have 
expertise and an ethical commitment consistent with our own. 
These include Stem Cells for Safer Medicines, a UK public-private 
partnership, and Cellartis AB, a biotech company.
Throughout the research process, we continuously review and 
make judgements on whether the potential beneﬁts of a new 
medicine continue to outweigh the risk of side effects. As well as 
compliance with all relevant laws, we have strict internal procedures 
for managing safety issues during clinical trials and ensuring we act 
in the best interests of participants.
All our clinical studies are conceptually designed and ﬁnally 
interpreted in-house but some of them are run for us by external 
contract research organisations (CROs). In 2010, around 47% of 
patients in our small molecule studies and around 87% of patients in 
our biologics studies were monitored by CROs on our behalf. We 
contractually require CROs to work to our global standards.
We publish information about the registration and results of all our 
clinical trials, whether favourable or unfavourable to AstraZeneca, 
on a range of public websites including our own dedicated site, 
astrazenecaclinicaltrials.com. By the end of 2010, we had registered 
over 1,250 trials and published the results of more than 800.
Animal research
Animal studies continue to play a vital role in the search for new 
medicines. They provide essential information, not available through 
other methods, about the effects of a potential new therapy on 
disease and the body. Regulatory authorities around the world also 
require safety data from pre-clinical testing in animals before a new 
medicine can be tested in humans.
As we work to improve our R&D productivity, we remain committed 
to minimising our use of animals without compromising the quality 
of the research data. All research using animals is carefully 
considered and justiﬁed, not only to conﬁrm the scientiﬁc need for a 
study, but also to make sure that it has been designed so that the 
minimum number of animals is used and that they are exposed to 
as little pain and distress as possible.
Patients in global AstraZeneca small molecule studies 
by geographical area in 2010
 Europe 27% 
 US/Canada 22%  
 Asia Paciﬁc 13% 
 Central/Eastern Europe 18%  
 Japan 8% 
 South Africa 1%
 Latin America 10%
 Other 1% 
Patients in global AstraZeneca biologics studies 
by geographical area in 2010
 Europe 1% 
 US/Canada 88%  
 Asia Paciﬁc 1%  
 Central/Eastern Europe 4% 
 Japan 1% 
 South Africa 1%
 Latin America 3%
 Other 1% 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 42 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business
Delivering our strategy  Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC), which can be obtained safely 
from adult volunteers and do not involve embryos at all, may provide 
a scientiﬁcally viable alternative to hESC. We are in the process  
of establishing a dedicated iPSC department to facilitate the 
application of iPSC as a tool to derive more native-like human  
cells in vitro. We also plan further collaborations in this ﬁeld.
Separately, we are exploring the potential to treat disease by 
modulation of stem cells within target organs which is an exciting 
new area often referred to as regenerative medicine. We are 
embarking on several external partnerships to combine the best 
ideas and latest innovation in academic research with our ability  
to search for new drugs. We are looking for the potential of small 
molecules or biologics to modulate stem cells in patients’ tissues to 
repair or improve the function of diseased tissue. Our collaborations 
with the Institute of Ophthalmology at University College London, 
announced in September and Evotec AG/Develogen AG 
announced in December, represent important investments in 
regenerative medicine, which focus on exploring regenerative 
therapies for diabetic retinopathy and diabetes respectively. 
Sales and marketing ethics
Driving consistently high standards of sales and marketing practice 
worldwide remains a top priority. This is particularly important  
(and at times challenging, given the diversity of business cultures 
around the world) as we continue our strategic drive to grow  
our business by expanding our presence in Emerging Markets. 
Alongside our work to ensure high standards are applied across  
our new geographies, we remain committed to continuous 
improvement in our Established Markets.
Compliance with all relevant external sales and marketing codes 
and regulations, and with our own policies, is mandatory and 
monitored by line managers locally, who are supported by 
dedicated compliance professionals. We also have a nominated 
signatory network that works to ensure that our promotional 
materials meet all applicable requirements.
Information concerning instances of potential non-compliance is 
collected through our compliance incident management processes 
and reviewed by senior management in local and/or regional 
compliance committees. As appropriate, serious breaches are 
reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee. More information 
about our compliance and risk assurance processes is contained in 
the Managing risk section from page 95. We take all breaches very 
seriously and act to prevent repeat occurrences.
During 2010, we reviewed our existing sales and marketing  
policies and standards, further strengthened the requirements  
and consolidated the range to form a single new Global Policy  
on External Interactions. We aim to launch the new Policy in the  
ﬁrst quarter of 2011, followed by training of all relevant staff to 
reinforce our commitment to consistent ethical interactions with 
stakeholders worldwide.
In 2010, we identiﬁed a total of 11 conﬁrmed breaches of external 
sales and marketing regulations or codes globally (2009: 24; 2008: 15).
It should be noted that cases where regulatory authorities approach 
AstraZeneca with concerns or queries about sales and marketing 
materials or activities (for example, in the course of their routine 
review responsibilities) are not included in our KPI number. However, 
we follow up these incidents with appropriate actions so that all 
relevant learning is taken into account in our future activities.
While our KPI provides a benchmark against which to measure our 
performance year-on-year (see above), the varying national and 
regulatory deﬁnitions of what constitutes an external breach will 
continue to create a challenge for us in interpreting the data at a 
global level. In addition, a single conﬁrmed breach can involve more 
than one employee failing to meet the standards required and as 
described earlier there may be failures to meet standards which are 
not ‘conﬁrmed’ and so will not affect the KPI.
During 2010, we looked at additional ways of reporting our 
performance which would support increased transparency about 
our practices. We are now reporting the global number of 
Commercial employees involved in disciplinary actions during the 
year, including the number of associated dismissals (see above). 
This information provides the broader context of our internal 
governance and the number of actions taken in relation to breaches 
of external or internal sales and marketing codes. It also reinforces 
for our employees and other stakeholders how seriously we take 
breaches of our policies.
US Corporate Integrity Agreement reporting
In April 2010, AstraZeneca signed an agreement with the US 
Department of Justice to settle an investigation relating to the sales 
and marketing of Seroquel IR. The requirements of the associated 
Corporate Integrity Agreement between AstraZeneca and the  
Ofﬁce of the Inspector General of the US Department of Health and 
Human Services (OIG) include a number of active monitoring and 
self-reporting obligations that differ from self-reporting required  
by authorities in the rest of the world. To meet these obligations, 
AstraZeneca provides notices to the OIG describing the outcomes 
of particular investigations potentially relating to violations of certain 
laws, as well as a separate annual report to the OIG summarising 
monitoring and investigation outcomes relevant to Corporate 
Integrity Agreement requirements. 
Human rights
Human rights remain at the core of our commitment to responsible 
business. As we reshape our organisation, grow our business and 
increase our outsourcing, we are working to make sure that we 
continue to drive and share best practice across all our activities.
Disciplinary actions: Breaches of Code of Conduct by 
Commercial employees 2010
Number of employees
Action taken 2010
1
2009
2
Removed from role 117 99
Formal warning 740 687
Guidance and coaching 768 416
Total 1,625 1,202
1
  2010 data reﬂects improved data capture mechanisms that will be used going forward to report 
breaches by Commercial employees year-on-year. 
2
   2009 data shows breaches of Code of Conduct by all employees and is included for 
comparative purposes only. 
2010
1
11
2009
1
24
2008 15
1
 Includes self-reporting activity globally which resulted in a breach being ruled.
Global KPI: Breaches of external sales and marketing codes
and regulations ruled by external bodies 
3 year performance
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview
Delivering our strategy Responsible Business 43 For further information about pricing our medicines and our 
intellectual property protection, see the Pricing our medicines 
section on page 33 and the Intellectual Property section from  
page 30.
Working with suppliers
We continue to work to make sure that our purchasing is directed 
only to those organisations which embrace ethical standards 
consistent with our own. This is particularly important given the 
strategic changes to our geographic footprint and our increased 
outsourcing activity to support improved efﬁciency and 
effectiveness across the organisation.
Our Global Responsible Procurement Standard deﬁnes the process 
for integrating our ethical standards into our procurement activity 
and decision making worldwide. The process is based on an 
escalating set of risk-based due diligence activities, applied in a 
pragmatic way. The same initial assessment process is used for all 
suppliers and more detailed, speciﬁc assessments are then made 
as required, proportionate to the level of risk a supplier presents. 
The Standard includes detailed expectations of suppliers which 
suppliers sign up to as part of the contracting process. We will work 
with suppliers to help them improve their standards, rather than 
automatically excluding them from our supply chain but we will not 
use suppliers who are unable or unwilling to meet our expectations 
in a timely way.
Implementing our approach across the many thousands of 
suppliers we work with around the world will take time. We started 
with our largest suppliers, whose contracts with AstraZeneca  
are managed centrally by our Procurement team. In 2009, we 
completed Responsible Procurement assessments of over 800 
suppliers accounting for around 65% of our third party spend.  
In 2010, we extended the programme to other companies in  
our supply chain, including smaller suppliers and those whose 
contracts are managed locally. Since the programme began,  
we have completed over 1,950 assessments which account for 
around 75% of our third party spend. The ongoing programme  
will continue throughout 2011 and beyond.
In late 2010, we introduced a requirement that our key suppliers 
provide independent audit veriﬁcation that their ethical standards 
are being applied in practice. Together with our suppliers, we  
are partnering with experienced third party providers in this  
work and using an assessment programme that reﬂects best 
practice from other industry sectors, as well as the principles  
of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (a group of major 
pharmaceutical companies working to support suppliers in 
operating in line with industry expectations). We are in the early 
stages of engaging with suppliers on the introduction of this 
requirement and it will take time to embed the practice. However, 
we believe that this move signiﬁcantly strengthens the framework  
for working together with our suppliers to drive continuous 
improvement.
We continued our Integrated Supplier Evaluation Protocol audit 
programme during the year and have now supplemented this  
with the introduction of focused Responsible Procurement 
assessments. In 2010, the programme covered 48 audits at  
42 different suppliers (2009: 51 audits at 45 suppliers).
Patient safety
The safety of the patients who take our medicines will always be  
a fundamental consideration for us. All drugs have potential side 
effects and we aim to minimise the risks and maximise the beneﬁts 
of each of our medicines, beginning with the discovery of a potential 
new medicine and continuing throughout its development, launch 
and marketing.
In January 2010, AstraZeneca signed up to the United Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC), a strategic public-private initiative for 
organisations committed to social and environmental sustainability. 
This means that we have committed to uphold 10 internationally 
recognised principles in the areas of human rights, labour 
standards, environmental sustainability and anti-corruption. These 
are not new principles for AstraZeneca (as described in our Code  
of Conduct and global policies) but joining the UNGC reinforces 
how seriously we take our commitment to them. It also gives us the 
framework for further developing our commitment in the areas of 
human rights and labour standards.
In recent years, we have been participating in a project led by  
the Danish Institute for Human Rights (DIHR), working with the 
pharmaceutical industry to develop a human rights assessment tool 
for pharmaceutical companies, based on the DIHR’s existing Human 
Rights Compliance Assessment Tool. The ﬁrst pharmaceutical 
industry version of the tool was launched in November.
Our participation in the project helped to improve our understanding 
of the speciﬁc human rights implications for our industry and during 
2010 we focused on further understanding how the human rights 
and labour-related UNGC principles apply to our activities.
As part of this, we conducted a human rights self-assessment pilot 
study in our marketing company in South Africa. The study focused 
on employment practices, R&D, products and marketing, and the 
community. The outcomes were positive overall due principally, we 
believe, to the extensive external regulation governing these issues 
in South Africa. However, the assessment usefully highlighted areas 
of AstraZeneca’s global governance which required improvement, 
including increased alignment with the International Labour 
Organization (ILO) core conventions, which has also been raised 
during our stakeholder engagement. We subsequently conducted a 
human rights based review of our Code of Conduct and our global 
policies, focusing in particular on labour standards and diversity. 
We will be using the outcomes and recommendations on how to 
further strengthen our governance in these areas to inform the 
further development of our Code of Conduct and global policies.
We also used the DIHR assessment tool to conduct a labour  
review in 11 of our marketing companies, including some countries 
where national labour standards are not consistent with global  
best practice. The review focused on ILO core areas (freedom of 
association and collective bargaining, forced and bonded labour, 
child labour, discrimination, and working time and wages). The 
results showed that our practices are in the main consistent around 
the world, based on our requirement that our global standards  
are applied when external national standards do not meet 
AstraZeneca’s minimum standards. However, we identiﬁed the 
need for more consistency in some areas, for example, working 
time and some aspects of diversity.
We have developed a global approach and framework for 
progressing our human rights agenda, including deﬁned 
accountabilities and responsibilities and an action plan to ensure 
that human rights continue to be appropriately integrated into our 
strategies, policies and processes. We plan to begin a phased  
roll-out across AstraZeneca in the ﬁrst half of 2011.
Access to healthcare
We continue to review our approach to improving access to 
healthcare in underserved communities in a sustainable way.  
The review includes engaging with external stakeholders and 
working within the business to understand the challenges and the 
opportunities. The assessments associated with the 2010 Access 
to Medicines Index are also informing our thinking. We anticipate 
publication of the outcome of this review in the ﬁrst half of 2011  
on our website, astrazeneca.com/responsibility. 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 44 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business
Delivering our strategy  After launch, we continually monitor the use of all our medicines  
to ensure that we become aware of any side effects not identiﬁed 
during the development process. This is known as pharmacovigilance 
and is core to our ongoing responsibility to patients. We have 
comprehensive and rigorous pharmacovigilance systems in  
place for detecting and rapidly evaluating such effects, including 
mechanisms for highlighting those that require immediate attention. 
We also work to ensure that accurate, well-informed and up-to-date 
information concerning the safety proﬁle of our drugs is provided to 
regulators, doctors, other healthcare professionals and, where 
appropriate, patients.
We have an experienced, in-house team of clinical patient safety 
professionals working around the world who are dedicated to the 
task of ensuring that we meet our commitment to patient safety.  
At a global level, every medicine in development and on the market 
is allocated a Global Safety Physician and a team of patient safety 
scientists. In each of our markets we also have dedicated safety 
managers with responsibility for patient safety at a local level.
Our two Chief Medical Ofﬁcers (one for our small molecule products 
and one for biologics) have overall accountability for the beneﬁt/risk 
proﬁles of the products we have in development and those on the 
market. They provide medical oversight and ensure that appropriate 
risk assessment processes are in place to enable informed 
decisions to be made about safety as quickly as possible.
We use an external provider, Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), to 
manage the data entry process for individual case safety reports 
relating to AstraZeneca products. As experts in their ﬁeld, TCS is 
driving improvements in the efﬁciency and consistency of data entry 
across AstraZeneca and using TCS for this work means our patient 
safety teams can focus primarily on case prioritisation, the medical 
aspects of patient safety and continuing to improve our safety 
science. TCS is contractually required to comply with our patient 
safety standards and is closely monitored through audits against 
detailed quality and compliance performance indicators.
Environment
Managing our environmental impact continues to be a core 
commitment for AstraZeneca. We have made good progress in recent 
years and have met the majority of the 2010 objectives and targets 
that we set ourselves in 2005. We met our targets for waste and 
overall greenhouse gas footprint. However, against a targeted 12% 
reduction in emissions, excluding those from our respiratory therapies, 
we achieved a 9% reduction. We know that there will always be more 
to do to make sure that we effectively balance the changing priorities 
of our business with the needs of the external environment.
During 2010, we launched a new Safety, Health and Environment 
(SHE) strategy and associated objectives that set the direction for 
this key aspect of our responsibility over the next 10 years. New 
targets have been adopted to focus our efforts to 2015 and set us 
on track to meet our 2020 strategic ambitions.
Product stewardship
We aim to integrate environmental considerations into a medicine’s 
complete life-cycle – from discovery and development, through 
manufacturing, marketing, use and, ultimately, disposal.
We conduct environmental risk assessments for all our new and 
many of our established medicines in accordance with applicable 
regulations. Going beyond the regulatory requirements, we have 
also reviewed the environmental risk assessments for many of  
our older established products and, where appropriate, have 
undertaken voluntary testing to reﬁne the assessments. We make 
environmental risk data for our existing products publicly available 
via the Swedish Doctors Prescribing Guide website (fass.se),  
using the voluntary disclosure system introduced by LIF, the 
research-based pharmaceutical industry association in Sweden.
Our Environmental Risk Management Plans, introduced in 2008, 
now accompany new medicines along the path to launch. These 
plans enable all available environmental data to be taken into 
account at key decision points during drug discovery and 
development, and to provide early warning of medicines that  
could pose a potential risk to the environment. We are also  
starting to develop plans for ‘ecopharmacovigilance’ that will  
help us to identify and manage any potential environmental risks 
associated with our medicines after they have been launched.
In the design of manufacturing processes, we are applying green 
chemistry principles that enable potential environmental issues to 
be identiﬁed and designed out at an early stage. Packaging is 
another area where we continue to make improvements that reduce 
the potential impact on the environment, without compromising 
patient safety. We are also working with national and local 
authorities to encourage appropriate disposal of unused medicines.
Underpinning all of this activity is our ongoing research into the 
effects of pharmaceuticals in the environment (PIE). While improving 
all the time, understanding of the potential for long-term effects in 
the environment, for example to aquatic life, requires further 
research. This is a priority for our scientists at our Environmental 
Laboratory in Brixham, UK, who are at the forefront of this ﬁeld of 
science, working both independently and in collaboration with other 
companies, leading academics and regulatory bodies to advance 
PIE-related research.
Environmental sustainability
We aim to minimise our environmental impact by reducing the carbon 
footprint and natural resource demands of our business activities.
2010 1.08
2009 1.12
2008 1.22
Greenhouse gas emissions
1
CO 2-equivalents (million tonnes)
2010 34
2009 36
2008 40
Figures are calculated in line with the Greenhouse Gas (GhG) protocol guidance (ghgprotocol.org). 
1
 Data excludes MedImmune.
Index (tonnes/$m sales)
2010 44.0
2009 50.0
2008 54.1
Waste production
1
Total waste (thousand tonnes)
2010 1.37
2009 1.60
2008 1.79
Index (tonnes/$m sales)
1
 Data excludes MedImmune.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview
Delivering our strategy Responsible Business 45 We continue to provide a wide range of health and wellbeing 
improvement programmes across AstraZeneca, designed to help 
people understand their personal health risks and support them in 
proactively managing these risks. Our new Health and Wellbeing 
strategy in particular focuses on Personal Energy Management 
Training, Health Screening and Essential Health Activities, such as 
improving physical ﬁtness and managing workplace pressure.
Work-related stress remains our greatest single category of 
occupational illness with high workloads, interpersonal issues  
and organisational change identiﬁed as signiﬁcant factors. As part  
of our ongoing efforts in this area, we are adopting an increasingly 
proactive, risk-based approach, using wellbeing risk assessment 
tools to identify high-risk areas and target interventions more 
effectively.
Community investment
Wherever AstraZeneca is located worldwide, we aim to make  
a positive contribution to our local communities through 
sponsorships, charitable donations and other initiatives that  
help to make a sustainable difference. Our investment is focused  
on improving health and promoting science skills.
In 2010, we spent a total of $1.41 billion (2009: $882 million) on 
community sponsorships and charitable donations worldwide, 
including our product donation and patient assistance programmes 
which make our medicines available free of charge or at reduced 
prices. Our patient assistance programmes in the US contributed  
to $1.38 billion worth of product donations, valued at an average 
wholesale price (2009: $786 million). The increase over 2009 was 
due to an increasing number of people accessing our US patient 
assistance programmes due, we believe, to the economic 
recession, and to the types of medicines that they were requesting.
AstraZeneca Young Health Programme
In November, we launched the AstraZeneca Young Health 
Programme. This community programme is designed to help 
disconnected young people around the world understand and deal 
with the health issues they face. Adolescent health remains an 
underserved part of the healthcare agenda and this long-term 
investment programme aims to make a measurable and sustainable 
difference for disadvantaged young people. We are working with 
expert partners, Plan Ltd and Johns Hopkins School of Public 
Health, to identify the needs in our local communities and to help 
address these needs with a combination of work on the ground, 
research and advocacy. We will also be providing employees with 
the opportunity to contribute through local volunteering, donations 
and fund raising.
We continue to drive reduction of our CO 2 emissions by, among 
other things, improving our energy efﬁciency and pursuing 
lower-carbon alternatives to fossil fuels. For example, recognising 
the signiﬁcant global warming emissions from road travel by our 
sales ﬂeets, we worked with our ﬂeet management and leasing 
suppliers to introduce ﬂeet reporting to track the CO 2 emissions 
of new and existing vehicles. We are also introducing CO 2 caps 
on new car purchases in our major markets.
Our carbon footprint is also affected by some of our respiratory 
therapies, speciﬁcally our pressurised metered-dose inhalers that 
rely on propellants such as hydroﬂuoroalkanes (HFAs) to deliver  
the medicine to a patient’s airways. While HFAs have no ozone 
depletion potential and a third or less of the global warming 
potential than the chloroﬂuorocarbons (CFCs) they replace, they  
are still greenhouse gases, but we believe that the potential beneﬁts 
that these therapies offer patients outweigh the potential impact  
on the environment.
The management of waste is another key aspect of our commitment. 
Our main aim is waste prevention, but where this is not practical, we 
focus on waste minimisation and appropriate treatment or disposal 
to maximise the reuse and recycling of materials. 
Alongside these efforts, we are increasingly working with our 
suppliers to measure and manage the environmental impact of their 
manufacturing activity on our behalf. This is particularly important 
as we continue to increase our outsourcing in line with our strategic 
business objectives.
Employee safety, health and wellbeing
Providing a safe workplace and promoting the health and wellbeing 
of all our people remains a core consideration. We believe that a 
safe, healthy and energising working environment brings beneﬁt for 
our employees and for our business, through people’s sustained 
engagement and contribution to AstraZeneca’s success.
We met our 2006-2010 safety and health target to reduce the 
combined serious injury/occupational illness rate by 50% from the 
2001/2002 reference point, achieving an actual reduction of 59%.
During 2010, we launched a new SHE strategy and, in January 
2011, a complementary Health and Wellbeing strategy, together 
with associated objectives and targets for 2011-2015. The new 
targets reﬂect our determination to stay focused on continuous 
improvement as we grow and reshape our business.
Driver safety remains our highest priority for improvement as we 
work to implement our new SHE strategy. We regret that during 
2010, ﬁve of our employees died in trafﬁc accidents while driving  
on AstraZeneca business. We identiﬁed the root causes of these 
accidents and the learning informed the further strengthening of  
our global standards on driver safety management and accident 
investigation. We also ran a global employee awareness campaign 
to reinforce the importance of safe driving practice. This included 
our new global requirement that hand-held mobile phones and 
other devices should never be used while driving. Our long-standing 
‘Road Scholars’ scheme in the US continues to be a valuable 
channel for building awareness and improving driver skills. Outside 
the US, our ‘Drive Success’ programme takes into account the 
different driving environments in the various countries in which we 
operate and provides a high-level framework of common standards 
and measures to be applied by each country. Performance is 
monitored centrally and low-score markets are targeted for 
increased support on implementation.
2010 0.78
2009 1.37
2008 1.04
AstraZeneca employees: cases of occupational illness
per million hours worked
2010 2.27
2009 2.24
2008 2.28
AstraZeneca employees: accidents with serious injuries
per million hours worked
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 46 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business
Delivering our strategy  Building capabilities
AstraZeneca’s contribution to helping improve health in the 
developing world centres on our dedicated research of new and 
effective treatments for tuberculosis (TB), which still claims over 
5,000 lives every day. For further information about our research 
effort see the Tuberculosis section on page 60. Alongside this, we 
continue to work in partnership to strengthen healthcare capabilities 
in vulnerable communities.
In 2007, AstraZeneca and the African Medical and Research 
Foundation (AMREF) began a ﬁve-year partnership in Uganda to 
develop an integrated model for the management of malaria, HIV/
AIDS and TB, the leading causes of ill health and death in the country. 
For further information on this project, see page 49.
AstraZeneca and the British Red Cross have been in partnership 
since 2002 tackling TB and TB/HIV in Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan 
and Kazakhstan and, more recently, in South Africa, Lesotho and 
Liberia. Over 13,000 people have been directly supported to 
complete their TB treatment across all our partnership countries 
and TB mortality and morbidity rates continue to fall in our 
partnership countries in Central Asia. Community education 
initiatives continue to be delivered with a recent example in Liberia 
of a house-to-house TB education programme which reached 
nearly 32,000 people.
Our partnership with Axios International on the Ethiopia Breast 
Cancer Project completed in 2010, with a much broader impact 
than originally anticipated for a small pilot project. In 2005, the 
country had only one cancer specialist, no mammography, no easy 
access to chemotherapy or hormonal agents, no cancer screening 
and no national treatment protocols. Our partnership programme 
focused on strengthening diagnosis and treatment capabilities at 
Tikur Anbessa University Hospital in Addis Ababa, where the 
country’s only cancer specialist was based. The hospital has now 
become a centre of reference for breast cancer treatment across 
Ethiopia. Other activities included the creation of treatment 
protocols and standardised reporting guidelines; strengthening the 
referral system; setting up an institutional-based cancer registry; 
raising awareness of the facilities among healthcare professionals; 
and physician training. The project was implemented in collaboration 
with the Ethiopian Ministry of Health and other health institutions 
and we also worked with the Ethiopian Cancer Association to help 
strengthen awareness and fundraising capabilities. The pilot has 
created a sustainable model that can be successfully replicated in 
other countries and other disease areas and we are reviewing 
where else it might be applied.
Disaster relief
We continue to contribute to disaster relief efforts.
As reported in our 2009 annual report, in January 2010, following 
the earthquake in Haiti, we donated medicines and contributed 
$500,000 to the British Red Cross Emergency Appeal and a further 
$100,000 to support their ongoing work to provide shelter and 
sanitation for those people made homeless. We also made a 
donation of $400,000 to Partners In Health towards the building  
of a new teaching hospital.
Following the Chilean earthquake in March 2010, we provided 
medicines to hospitals in need through the Chile Ministry of Health. 
We donated $100,000 to Teleton, a major national Chilean charity, 
to support a recovery and rebuilding campaign, and $75,000 to  
the British Red Cross to provide relief resources and shelter across 
the population.
Following the ﬂoods in Pakistan, we donated $100,000 to the British 
Red Cross Emergency Appeal, as well as sending medicines. We 
also continued to support the British Red Cross disaster response 
centre in Kuala Lumpur with a further $100,000. This has enabled 
them to replenish vital stocks used in response to the Pakistan 
ﬂoods and means they will be able to continue to respond quickly 
and efﬁciently to emergencies in the Asia Paciﬁc region.
We are developing an enhanced protocol for working with the 
British Red Cross to ensure we are best placed to respond in a 
timely, consistent and effective way to future emergencies as and 
when they arise.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Business Review Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview
Delivering our strategy Responsible Business 47  TB is the leading cause of death in people living with HIV. 
Together, the two diseases are a deadly combination.  
In Uganda, there is the added burden of malaria, which 
causes more illness and death than any other single 
disease. The diseases are linked but Ugandans with  
TB/HIV, malaria and other conditions have to attend 
separate health services for treatment.
Our partnership with the African Medical and Research 
Foundation (AMREF) is focused on developing a model 
for the integrated management of TB, HIV/AIDS and 
malaria that provides a framework for effective and 
efﬁcient healthcare at local and national levels. 
Working in collaboration with the Ugandan government  
in the districts of Luwero and Kiboga in central Uganda, 
the partnership has focused on increasing laboratory 
diagnostic capacity and improving community-based 
healthcare management. Progress to date includes the 
completion and handover to local district management 
teams of four new laboratories and the establishment of 
328 village health teams with over 1,300 people trained in 
health promotion in their local communities. In addition, a 
study of drug logistics management revealed signiﬁcant 
knowledge gaps and out of stock supply problems. 
Subsequently, 108 health workers have been trained in 
drug logistics management to help prevent shortages. 
  Who is 
improving my 
healthcare?
Because health connects us all
For more information on our work with AMREF and other partnerships in 
the developing world go to our website, astrazeneca.com/responsibility. Which therapy 
areas do we  
focus on?
We discover, 
develop and 
commercialise 
medicines for six 
areas of healthcare: 
> Cardiovascular
> Gastrointestinal
> Infection
> Neuroscience
> Oncology
> Respiratory & Inﬂammation
Sales by Therapy Area
2010 2009 2008
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Cardiovascular 9,403 12 11 8,376 20 25 6,963
Gastrointestinal 6,088 1 – 6,011 (5) (2) 6,344
Infection and Other 2,176 (17) (18) 2,631 7 10 2,451
Neuroscience 6,70477 6,237 7 10 5,837
Oncology 4,045 (10) (12) 4,518 (9) (7) 4,954
Respiratory & Inﬂammation 4,099 (1) (1) 4,132 – 6 4,128
Other businesses 754 (16) (15) 899 (3) 1 924
Total 33,269 1 – 32,804 4 7 31,601
50 Therapy Area Review AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 This section contains further information about 
the Therapy Areas in which our efforts are 
focused: Cardiovascular, Gastrointestinal, 
Infection, Neuroscience, Oncology and 
Respiratory & Inﬂ ammation.
We describe the business environment, trends and other factors 
that have inﬂ uenced our decision to focus on diseases in these six 
areas, our strategic objectives for each and our progress towards 
achieving these objectives. We include information about our 
marketed medicines and how they are designed to make a 
meaningful difference for patients, together with an overview of 
performance during the year. We also report in detail on the 
potential new products and product life-cycle developments in 
our pipeline that reﬂ ect our commitment to maintaining a ﬂ ow of 
innovation that adds value for our shareholders and to society.
For a list of all our potential new products and product life-cycle 
developments see the Pipeline by Therapy Area at 27 January 2011 
table below and the Development Pipeline table from page 206. 
For details of patent expiries of our key marketed products, see the 
Patent expiries section on page 31.
Many of our products are subject to litigation. Detailed information 
about material legal proceedings can be found in Note 25 to the 
Financial Statements from page 178. Details of relevant risks are set 
out in the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page 96.
Pipeline by Therapy Area at 27 January 2011
Cardiovascular
Gastrointestinal
Respiratory & 
Inﬂ ammation
Phase I Line 
extensions
Phase III/ 
Registration
Phase II
# Partnered product
* Kombiglyze
TM
 XR in the US; Onglyza
TM
/metformin IR FDC in the EU
 Addition
 No change
 Progression
 New ﬁ ling
 Launched
 Reclassiﬁ ed
Infection
Neuroscience
Oncology
> AZD6714 
> AZD8329 
> AZD7687 
> AZD5658 
> AZD4017 
> MEDI-534 
> MEDI-550 
> MEDI-559 
> AZD5847 
> AZD9742 
> AZD3241 
> AZD3043
#
 
> MEDI-578 
> AZD5213 
>  A Z D 348 0
#
 
>  A Z D 6 76 5 
>  A Z D 2 0 6 6 
(chronic neuropathic pain)
>  AZD2066 (MDD) 
> NKTR-118
#
 
> TC-5214
#
 
> TC-5619
#
 
> AZD1446
#
 
> AZD2423 
> Vimovo
#
 
> TC-5214
#
 
> Seroquel XR 
> Diprivan
#
 
> EMLA
#
 
>  A Z D 9 7 7 3
#
 
>   C A Z 10 4
#
 
>  M o t av i z u m a b
#
 
>  C X L1 0 4
#
 
(CEF104)
> MEDI-3250 
>  Zinforo
#
 
(ceftaroline)
> FluMist/Fluenz 
>  Nexium 
(peptic ulcer bleeding)
>  Nexium 
(GERD)
>  A Z D 1 6 5 6 > Brilinta/Brilique 
> Dapagliﬂ ozin
#
 
>  K o mbigly ze
TM
 XR / 
Onglyza
TM
/metformin 
IR FDC
#
*
>  D a p agli ﬂ ozin /  
metformin FDC
#
>  On g l y z a
TM
 SAVOR
#
 
>  Brilinta  
PEGASUS-TIMI 
> Crestor (elevated CRP) 
> Axanum 
>  V a ndet an ib 
(Zactima)
> Zibotentan 
> Iressa 
> Faslodex 
>  F o s t amat inib
#
 > Oxis 
>  Symbicort  
(COPD)
>  Symbicort 
(SMART )
> AZD2461 
> AZD3514 
> AZD7762 
>  A Z D 8330
#
 
(ARRY-424704)
> CAT-8015 
> AZD1981 
> MEDI-528
#
 
> CAT-354 
> AZD3199 
> MEDI-563
#
 
> MEDI-545
#
> AZD8848 
> CAM-3001
#
 
> AZD2423 
> AZD8683 
> AZD5423 
> AZD5069 
> Recentin 
>  S e lume t inib
#
 
(AZD6244) 
(ARRY-142886)
> Olaparib 
> AZD1152 
> AZD8931 
> MEDI-575
#
 
> AZD9819 
> MEDI-546
#
 
> MEDI-551 
> MEDI-570
#
 
> MEDI-557 
>  S e lum e t inib 
(AZD6244)  
(ARRY-142886)/
MK2206
#
> MEDI-3617 
> AZD5363 
> MEDI-565 
> MEDI-551 
> AZD8055 
> MEDI-573
#
 
> AZD1480 
> AZD4547 
> AZD2014 
Key Movements since 27 January 2010
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Therapy Area Review
Therapy Area Review 51 Cardiovascular
In brief
>  Crestor sales up 24% to $5.7 billion.
>  New indications were approved for Crestor in the US and the 
EU based on data from the landmark JUPITER clinical trial.
>  In June, the US District Court for the District of Delaware, decided 
in AstraZeneca’s favour the consolidated ANDA infringement case 
involving eight ANDA ﬁlers seeking approvals for generic Crestor. 
The defendants have appealed the Court’s judgment and decision 
of our patent’s infringement, validity and enforceability to the US 
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. 
>  In September, we received a Paragraph IV Certiﬁcation notice-letter 
from Watson Laboratories, Inc. (Watson), informing us of its ﬁling of 
a 505(b)(2) NDA for rosuvastatin zinc tablets and challenging the 
substance and formulation patents protecting Crestor. We 
commenced a patent infringement action against Watson in 
October in the US District Court for the District of Delaware.
>  Torrent do Brasil launched its generic versions of Crestor in October. 
AstraZeneca was granted an injunction ordering Torrent do Brasil to 
discontinue the sale and marketing of these generic products and 
recall products already on the market. This injunction has subsequently 
been suspended and the matter is now awaiting the decision of the 
Court of Appeal which is expected in the ﬁrst quarter of 201 1.
>  Atacand sales up 3% to $1.5 billion.
>  Toprol-XL US sales down 29% as a result of increased 
generic competition.
>  In December, the European Commission granted a marketing 
authorisation for Brilique (ticagrelor tablets) for the prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in adult patients with acute coronary 
syndromes. The decision is applicable to the 27 member states 
and the three European Economic Area countries of the EU. In the 
same month, the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter for the 
Brilinta (ticagrelor) NDA. AstraZeneca announced that it had replied 
to the Complete Response Letter on 21 January 2011. 
>  In December, AstraZeneca notiﬁed Abbott that it would discontinue 
development of Certriad, a ﬁxed dose combination of the active 
ingredient in Crestor (rosuvastatin calcium) and Abbott’s Trilipix™ 
(fenoﬁbric acid), which was being co-developed with Abbott for the 
treatment of mixed dyslipidemia. 
>  In May, AstraZeneca received a Complete Response Letter from 
the FDA for the NDA for Axanum, a single capsule of low-dose 
acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) and esomeprazole. In June, AstraZeneca 
ﬁled an MAA for Axanum in several countries in the EU for 
prevention of cardio- and cerebro-vascular events in patients 
requiring continuous low-dose ASA treatment who are at risk of 
developing ASA associated gastric and/or duodenal ulcers.
>  In November, AstraZeneca and BMS received FDA approval for 
Kombiglyze™ XR, a ﬁxed-dose combination of Onglyza™ plus 
metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets. 
>  In December, AstraZeneca and BMS ﬁled regulatory submissions 
in the US and the EU seeking approval for dapagliﬂozin, a ﬁrst-in-
class sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitor, as a once-daily oral 
therapy for the treatment of adult patients with Type 2 diabetes.
Our marketed products
>  Crestor
1
 (rosuvastatin calcium) is a statin used for the treatment of 
dyslipidaemia and hypercholesterolemia. In some markets it is also 
indicated to slow the progression of atherosclerosis and to reduce 
the risk of ﬁrst cardiovascular (CV) events.
>  Atacand
2
 (candesartan cilexetil) is an angiotensin II antagonist 
used for the 1st line treatment of hypertension and symptomatic 
heart failure.
>  Seloken/Toprol-XL (metoprolol succinate) is a beta-blocker 
once-daily tablet used for 24-hour control of hypertension and for 
use in heart failure and angina.
>  Tenormin (atenolol) is a cardioselective beta-blocker used for 
hypertension, angina pectoris and other CV disorders.
>  Zestril
3
 (lisinopril dihydrate) is an angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitor used for the treatment of a wide range of CV diseases, 
including hypertension.
>  Plendil (felodipine) is a calcium antagonist used for the treatment 
of hypertension and angina.
>  Onglyza
™4
 (saxagliptin) is a dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor used 
for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
1
 Licensed from Shionogi & Co. Ltd.
2
 Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Industries Ltd. 
3
 Licensed from Merck.
4
 Co-developed and co-commercialised with BMS.
  
Therapy area world market 
(MAT/Q3/10) ($bn)
Market sectors
 High blood pressure  
 Abnormal levels of blood
 cholesterol  
 Diabetes  
 Thrombosis  
 Other  
52.2
23.9
24.6
32.2
36.9
$170bn
Cardiovascular is the single largest therapy area in the global 
healthcare market. Worldwide market value of $170 billion.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 52 Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular
Therapy Area Review Our strategic objectives
AstraZeneca is one of the world leaders in cardiovascular (CV) 
medicines. We aim to build on our strong position, focusing on  
the growth areas of atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries), 
thrombosis (blood clotting), diabetes and atrial ﬁbrillation (cardiac 
arrhythmia). Despite improvements in the quality of diagnosis and 
treatment, the unmet medical needs remain high and these disease 
areas, and their complications, continue to grow worldwide (both in 
developed and emerging markets) as a consequence of the spread 
of a westernised lifestyle, resulting in signiﬁcant healthcare spend 
and recognised societal consequences.
Cardiovascular diseases
Hypertension (high blood pressure) and dyslipidaemia (abnormal 
levels of blood cholesterol) damage the arterial wall which may lead 
to atherosclerosis. CV events driven by atherosclerotic disease 
remain the leading cause of death in the western world. Lipid-
modifying therapy, primarily statins, is a cornerstone for the 
treatment of atherosclerosis.
Acute coronary syndromes (ACS) is an umbrella term for sudden 
chest pain and other symptoms due to insufﬁcient blood supply 
(ischaemia) to the heart muscle. ACS is the acute culmination of 
ischemic heart disease, the leading cause of death worldwide 
(WHO 2008). There remains a signiﬁcant need to improve outcomes 
and reduce the costs of treating ACS.
Our focus
Our key marketed products
Since its launch in 2003, Crestor has continued to gain market 
share based on its differentiated proﬁle in managing cholesterol 
levels and its more recent label indications for slowing the 
progression of atherosclerosis and reducing the risk of CV events  
in some markets. Crestor is the only statin with an atherosclerosis 
indication in the US which is not limited by disease severity or 
restricted to patients with coronary heart disease.
Fewer than half of the people thought to have high levels of 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL -C) ‘bad cholesterol’ are 
diagnosed and treated. Of treated patients, only about half reach 
their doctor’s recommended cholesterol targets using existing 
treatments. Study data has shown that the usual 10mg starting 
dose of Crestor is more effective at lowering LDL -C and produces 
greater achievement of LDL -C goals than commonly prescribed 
doses of other statins. Crestor also produces an increase in 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL -C) ‘good cholesterol’ 
across the dose range.
In February 2010, the FDA approved Crestor to reduce the risk 
of stroke, myocardial infarction (heart attack) and arterial 
revascularisation procedures in individuals without clinically evident 
coronary heart disease but with an increased risk of cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) based on age (men ≥50 and women ≥60), high-
sensitivity C-reactive protein ≥2mg/L, and the presence of at least 
one additional CVD risk factor, such as hypertension, low HDL -C, 
smoking, or a family history of premature coronary heart disease. 
This approval was based on data from the landmark JUPITER  
study which evaluated the impact of Crestor 20mg on reducing 
major CV events.
Crestor also received approval from 19 countries within the EU for 
the prevention of major CV events in patients who are at high risk  
of having a ﬁrst CV event. This new indication was also based on 
subgroup data from the JUPITER study. A post hoc analysis of this 
subgroup data showed a signiﬁcant reduction in the combined 
endpoint of heart attacks, strokes and CV deaths among the high 
risk patients who participated in the JUPITER study.
Atacand continues to be an important treatment option for 
patients with hypertension and symptomatic heart failure. Atacand 
is approved for the treatment of hypertension in over 105 countries 
and for symptomatic heart failure in more than 70 countries.  
Most patients with hypertension fail to reach their treatment  
goals with the use of a single anti-hypertensive treatment and 
ﬁxed-dose combinations of two or more anti-hypertensives  
are commonly prescribed for patients to improve efﬁcacy and 
attainment of treatment goals. Atacand Plus (candesartan cilexetil/
hydrochlorothiazide) is a ﬁxed-dose combination of Atacand and 
the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide, indicated for the treatment of 
hypertension in patients who require more than one anti-
hypertensive therapy. Atacand Plus is approved in 88 countries.
Our ﬁnancial performance
World US Western Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
 
 
2010
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER 
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER 
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER 
growth 
%
World 
sales 
$m
Crestor 5,691 26 24 2,640 26 1,111 15 20 1,332 37 25 608 31 26 4,502
Atacand 1,483 3 3 216 (18) 736 – 4 224 21 8 307 21 17 1,436
Seloken/
Toprol-XL 1,210 (16) (17) 689 (29) 91 (11) (9) 39 (7) (14) 391 17 13 1,443
Tenormin 276 (7) (9) 13 (13) 61 (13) (9) 127 (5) (10) 75 (4) (8) 296
Plendil 255 6 4 15 7 27 (34) (32) 14 8 – 199 15 13 241
Zestril 157 (15) (14) 10 (44) 81 (23) (19) 17 (11) (21) 49 17 14 184
Onglyza
™
69 n/m n/m 54 n/m 10 n/m n/m 2 n/m n/m 3 n/m n/m 11
Others 262 – (1) 15 (25) 113 (14) (11) 26 (7) (14) 108 29 25 263
Total 9,403 12 11 3,652 7 2,230 4 8 1,781 28 16 1,740 22 18 8,376
2009
Crestor 4,502 25 29 2,100 25 968 16 24 970 40 44 464 18 32 3,597
Atacand 1,436 (2) 5 263 – 734 (4) 2 185 (2) 8 254 (1) 13 1,471
Seloken/
Toprol-XL 1,443 79 84 964 227 102 (25) (18) 42 (13) (8) 335 2 11 807
Tenormin 296 (5) (5) 15 (17) 70 (11) (6) 133 5 (6) 78 (12) – 313
Plendil 241 (10) (7) 14 (44) 41 (29) (24) 13 (35) (30) 173 5 7 268
Zestril 184 (22) (17) 18 (10) 105 (27) (22) 19 (21) (21) 42 (14) (4) 236
Onglyza
™
11 n/m n/m 11 n/m ––– ––– ––– –
Others 263 (3) 3 20 n/m 131 (13) (6) 28 (7) (10) 84 (7) 2 271
Total 8,376 20 25 3,405 48 2,151 (1) 6 1,390 23 26 1,430 4 15 6,963
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular 53 Clinical studies of our key marketed products
GALAXY, our long-term global clinical research programme for 
Crestor, which investigates links between optimal lipid control, 
atherosclerosis and CV morbidity and mortality, has completed  
a number of studies involving over 65,000 patients in over 55 
countries. Some of the studies undertaken as part of the  
GALAXY programme are referred to below.
The PLUTO study evaluated the efﬁcacy and safety of Crestor 
in patients 10 to 17 years of age with heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia. Completion of the PLUTO study fulﬁlled our 
Paediatric Exclusivity requirements in the US and resulted in an 
additional six-month period of exclusivity to market Crestor in the 
US being granted in July 2009. A paediatric indication was also 
granted in the EU in March 2010.
The SATURN study is ongoing and is designed to measure the 
impact of Crestor 40mg and atorvastatin (Lipitor™) 80mg on the 
progression of atherosclerosis in high-risk patients. We expect to 
report the results of this study in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The PLANETS I and II studies, which evaluated the effects of 
Crestor 10mg, Crestor 40mg and atorvastatin (Lipitor™) 80mg on 
urinary protein excretion in patients with proteinuric renal disease  
in diabetics and non-diabetics, respectively, have been completed 
and publication is progressing with initial data from the PLANETS 
studies being reported in May.
In the pipeline
Brilinta/Brilique (ticagrelor) is an oral antiplatelet treatment for 
ACS. Ticagrelor is a direct-acting P2Y12 receptor antagonist in  
a chemical class called cyclo-pentyl-triazolo-pyrimidines and is  
the ﬁrst reversibly-binding oral adenosine diphosphate (ADP) 
receptor antagonist.
Results from the Phase III study, PLATO, were announced in August 
2009. With 18,624 randomised patients at 864 sites in 43 countries, 
PLATO ranks as one of AstraZeneca’s largest clinical trials ever. It 
was designed to reﬂect current medical practice by randomising 
patients within 24 hours of the index event and following them 
whether they were medically managed or underwent invasive 
procedures. PLATO compared ticagrelor to clopidogrel (Plavix™/
Iscover™). The overall PLATO results demonstrated the superiority 
of ticagrelor versus clopidogrel in reducing heart attacks and CV 
death in patients with ACS treated for 12 months. The study 
provided the basis for regulatory ﬁlings worldwide.
In December, the European Commission granted marketing 
authorisation to Brilique (ticagrelor tablets) for the prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in adult patients with ACS. The decision  
is applicable to the 27 member states and the three European 
Economic Area countries of the EU. 
In the same month, the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter  
for the Brilinta (ticagrelor) NDA. In the Complete Response Letter, 
the FDA requested further analyses of the PLATO data. The agency 
did not request that additional studies, including clinical studies,  
be conducted as a prerequisite for approval of the ticagrelor NDA. 
AstraZeneca announced that it had replied to the Complete 
Response Letter on 21 January 2011. The FDA is in the process  
of reviewing AstraZeneca’s response to determine whether the 
information submitted is complete and whether to designate the 
review as Class 1, which would start a two-month review cycle,  
or as Class 2, which would start a six-month review.
Brilinta remains under regulatory review in 21 countries, including 
the US. It has been approved in 30 countries, including in the EU, 
Iceland and Norway, under the trade name Brilique and in Brazil 
under the trade name Brilinta. Additional marketing authorisations 
and regulatory submissions are planned for 2011. 
In October, AstraZeneca initiated PEGASUS TIMI-54, a 21,000 
patient study in over 30 countries. The study examines the ability  
of ticagrelor plus aspirin to prevent adverse CV events safely 
compared to aspirin alone in higher-risk patients one to three years 
after a heart attack. Enrolment for PEGASUS began in December.
Axanum is a single capsule of low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 
and esomeprazole (the active ingredient in Nexium). Low-dose 
ASA is a mainstay of therapy for patients at high risk of having a CV 
event such as a heart attack or stroke. Upper gastrointestinal (GI) 
problems (including ulcers and ulcer-related complications) are the 
most common reason for discontinuation of low-dose ASA therapy. 
Up to 30% of patients with upper GI problems discontinue or take 
deliberate breaks from their low-dose ASA treatment, placing them 
at risk of a potentially life-threatening CV event as early as eight to 
10 days after discontinuation. AstraZeneca ﬁled an MAA for 
Axanum in June, for prevention of cardio- and cerebro-vascular 
events in patients requiring continuous low-dose ASA treatment 
who are at risk of developing ASA associated gastric and/or 
duodenal ulcers, in several countries in the EU. The submission  
was based on the results of the OBERON and ASTERIX studies 
evaluating the efﬁcacy and safety of Nexium in reducing the risk 
of gastric and/or duodenal ulcers in patients taking continuous 
low-dose ASA.
In May, AstraZeneca received a Complete Response Letter from  
the FDA for the NDA for Axanum. The Complete Response Letter is 
currently being evaluated and AstraZeneca will continue discussions 
with the FDA to determine the next steps with respect to the 
Axanum NDA.
In March 2010, AstraZeneca and Abbott received a Complete 
Response Letter based on the Certriad NDA submission made 
in June 2009. In December, AstraZeneca notiﬁed Abbott that it 
would discontinue development of Certriad, which was being 
co-developed with Abbott, for the treatment of mixed dyslipidemia. 
This decision was reached after careful review and consideration  
of the Complete Response Letter and the ongoing delay in the 
regulatory review of the Certriad NDA which made continuing 
the development of Certriad commercially unattractive. The 
co-development and licence agreement with Abbott subsequently 
ended in January 2011.
Diabetes
The number of people affected by Type 2 diabetes continues to 
grow, predominantly as a result of obesity. Type 2 diabetes is a 
chronic progressive disease and patients often require multiple 
medications to control their condition. There are a number of 
established oral generic and branded classes, such as biguanides 
and sulfonylureas. However, newer classes such as oral dipeptidyl 
peptidase IV (DPP-IV) inhibitors are successfully entering the market 
by offering effective blood sugar control and improved tolerability. 
Several new classes of drugs are in development in this area, 
including sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2). CV 
safety has been given particular emphasis in recent regulatory 
reviews and guidance documents provided by the FDA and other 
regulatory authorities.
Our focus
Our key marketed products
The collaboration on a worldwide basis
1
 between AstraZeneca and 
BMS to develop and commercialise two compounds discovered by 
BMS (Onglyza™ (saxagliptin) and dapagliﬂozin) for the treatment of 
Type 2 diabetes continues to make good progress.
Since its ﬁrst approval in the US in July 2009, Onglyza™ has been 
approved in 48 countries and launched in 34. The MAA for a 
ﬁxed-dose combination of Onglyza™ and metformin immediate 
release tablets as a treatment for adults with Type 2 diabetes 
remains under review by the EMA.
1
The collaboration for saxagliptin excludes Japan.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 54 Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular
Therapy Area Review In November, AstraZeneca and BMS received FDA approval for 
Kombiglyze™ XR, a ﬁxed-dose combination of Onglyza™ plus 
metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Kombiglyze™ XR 
is the ﬁrst and only once-a-day metformin extended release plus 
DPP-IV inhibitor combination tablet providing strong comprehensive 
glycaemic control across glycosylated haemoglobin levels (HbA1c), 
fasting plasma glucose and post-prandial glucose. Full commercial 
launch is anticipated to take place in the ﬁrst quarter of 2011.
In the pipeline
Dapagliﬂozin, an investigational compound, is a potential ﬁrst-in-
class SGLT2 inhibitor under joint development with BMS as a 
once-daily oral therapy for the treatment of adult patients with Type 
2 diabetes. Our extensive global Phase III programme evaluated 
dapagliﬂozin as initial therapy and as an add-on to other widely 
used anti-diabetic treatments. Reported data from ﬁve pivotal Phase 
III studies now in the public domain suggest a product proﬁle that  
is encouraging, consistent, and with differentiated patient beneﬁts, 
including the potential to be the ﬁrst oral agent to provide HbA1c 
reduction, along with secondary beneﬁts of weight loss and a 
reduction in blood pressure. In the Phase III studies, genital 
infections and urinary tract infections were generally higher in the 
dapagliﬂozin group but mild or moderate in nature, responded to an 
initial course of standard treatment and rarely led to discontinuation.
In December, AstraZeneca and BMS ﬁled an NDA and an MAA with 
the FDA and the EMA for dapagliﬂozin as a once-daily oral therapy 
for the treatment of adult patients with Type 2 diabetes.
Our activities in the glucokinase activator (GKA) area continued 
during 2010 and Phase II studies for AZD1656 are ongoing. The 
GKA mechanism of action is believed to induce insulin release  
from the pancreas and reduce glucose output from the liver 
resulting in marked reductions in blood glucose in hyperglycaemic 
Type 2 diabetics. During 2010, we also progressed our AZD8329 
and AZD7687 projects in early clinical testing. These potential 
medicines aim to increase insulin sensitivity and thereby induce 
better glycaemic control with beneﬁcial effects on body weight  
and blood lipids.
Atrial ﬁbrillation
Atrial ﬁbrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia. 
Rhythm-control therapy to manage the symptoms of AF is 
dominated by generic amiodarone, which is effective at maintaining 
patients in normal heart rhythm but very poorly tolerated. AF is 
associated with an increased risk of cerebral embolism resulting  
in stroke and disability. To reduce the risk of such AF-related 
complications, anti-coagulation with vitamin K antagonists can be 
used. New anti-coagulation therapies with improved convenience 
are emerging.
In the pipeline
For the control of heart rhythm in AF, our focus is on atrial-speciﬁc 
agents as a way to reduce the risk of pro-arrhythmic effects. Our 
activities in this area are in pre-clinical development. 
Development of AZD0837 , a direct thrombin inhibitor that was in 
Phase II testing for the prevention of strokes and other embolic 
events in AF patients, has been discontinued.
Financial performance 2010/2009
Performance 2010
Reported performance
CV sales grew by 12% to $9,403 million in 2010 from $8,376 million 
in 2009, driven by the continuing growth in Crestor. 
Performance – CER growth rates
CV sales were up 11%.
Global sales of Crestor were up 24%. US sales for Crestor 
increased by 26% to $2,640 million. Crestor sales outside the US 
were up 23% to $3,051 million, with sales in Established ROW up 
25%, including good growth in Canada (25%), Japan (25%) and 
Other Established ROW (23%). Sales in Western Europe were up 
20%, driven by good growth in France, Italy and Spain. Sales in 
Emerging Markets were up 26%.
Sales of Seloken/Toprol-XL decreased 17%. US sales of the 
Toprol-XL product range, which includes sales of the authorised 
generic, decreased by 29% to $689 million as a result of further 
generic competition, although this was partially offset by 13% 
growth in Emerging Markets to $391 million.
Atacand sales were up 3%, despite US sales being down 18%, as 
a result of strong growth in Established ROW (8%) and Emerging 
Markets (17%).
Alliance revenue from the Onglyza™ collaboration with BMS  
totalled $69 million, comprising $54 million in the US and $15 million 
in other markets.
Performance 2009
Reported performance
CV sales were up 20% to $8,376 million (2008: $6,963 million). 
Strong growth from Crestor, driven by the promotion of the 
atherosclerosis indication, and substantially increased sales of 
Toprol-XL and the authorised generic version of the drug in the 
US, were the major contributors to growth in CV sales.
Performance – CER growth rates
CV sales were up 25% from 2008.
Crestor sales increased by 29% to $4,502 million. US sales for 
Crestor increased by 25% to $2,100 million. The total prescription 
share of Crestor in the US statin market increased to 11.3% in 
December 2009 from 9.9% in December 2008, and it was the only 
branded statin to gain market share. Crestor sales outside the US 
were up 33% to $2,402 million, over half of global sales for the 
product. Sales of Crestor were up 24% in our Western Europe 
markets to $968 million and sales growth in Established ROW 
markets up 44% in total. Sales of Crestor in Emerging Markets 
increased by 32%.
Sales of Seloken/Toprol-XL and its authorised generic increased 
by 84% to $1,443 million in 2009, as a result of increased sales  
of Toprol-XL and its authorised generic in the US. Sales in the US 
increased by 227% to $964 million following the withdrawal from  
the market of two other generic metoprolol succinate products in 
early 2009.
Sales of Atacand in the US were unchanged from 2008 at 
$263 million and accounted for 18% of global Atacand sales. 
Atacand sales were up 13% in Emerging Markets.
Alliance revenue from the Onglyza™ collaboration with BMS totalled 
$11 million in 2009.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular 55 Gastrointestinal
$38bn
The gastrointestinal market is valued at $38 billion, with the 
proton pump inhibitor market accounting for $24 billion.
In brief
>  Sales of Nexium $5 billion, unchanged from the previous year.
>  Losec/Prilosec sales up 1% to $986 million.
>   In February 2010, AstraZeneca submitted Nexium for approval 
in Japan, the only major market yet to launch, and in October,  
we entered into an agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for the  
co-promotion and supply of Nexium in Japan.
>  AstraZeneca received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA  
in May for the sNDA for Nexium for the risk reduction of low-dose 
aspirin-associated peptic ulcers.
>  In October, AstraZeneca ﬁled requests for preliminary injunctions to 
restrain six companies from marketing and selling generic forms of 
Nexium in Germany. The court rejected the requests in December. 
The decision has not yet been published. AstraZeneca has four 
weeks from the date of publication of the decision to determine 
whether or not it will appeal the decision.
>  In January 2010, AstraZeneca entered into an agreement with  
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and afﬁliates (Teva) to settle 
patent litigation regarding Teva’s ANDA submission for a generic 
version of Nexium delayed-release capsules. Under the agreement, 
AstraZeneca has granted Teva a licence for its ANDA product  
to enter the US market, subject to regulatory approval, on  
27 May 2014.
>  In June, the Federal Court of Canada dismissed AstraZeneca’s 
request to prohibit the Canadian Minister of Health from issuing a 
Notice of Compliance for the regulatory applications for generic 
esomeprazole magnesium submitted by Apotex Inc. (Apotex). In 
October, AstraZeneca commenced a patent infringement action 
against Apotex alleging infringement of ﬁve Canadian patents 
related to Nexium.
>  In January 2011, AstraZeneca entered into a settlement agreement 
with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Ltd. and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, 
Inc. (together, DRL) regarding DRL ’s ANDA submission for a generic 
version of Nexium delayed-release capsules. Under the agreement, 
AstraZeneca has granted DRL a licence for its ANDA product  
to enter the US market, subject to regulatory approval, on  
27 May 2014.
>  Thirteen third parties have opposed the grant of a European patent 
covering Nexium, which is due to remain in force until 2014. The 
patent includes claims to Nexium of very high optical purity and 
has been asserted by AstraZeneca in litigation against generic 
companies in Europe. While the European Patent Ofﬁce has not  
yet set a date for the oppositions to be heard, a hearing could 
occur in the ﬁrst half of 2011.
Our marketed products
>  Nexium (esomeprazole) is the ﬁrst proton pump inhibitor (PPI) 
used for the treatment of acid-related diseases to offer clinical 
improvements over other PPIs and other treatments.
>  Losec/Prilosec (omeprazole) is used for the short-term and 
long-term treatment of acid-related diseases.
>  Entocort (budesonide) is a locally acting corticosteroid used 
for the treatment of inﬂammatory bowel disease.
Therapy area world market 
(MAT/Q3/10) ($bn)
Market sectors
 PPI  
 Other 
24.0
14.2
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 56 Therapy Area Review Gastrointestinal
Therapy Area Review Our strategic objectives
We aim to develop our position in gastrointestinal (GI) treatments  
by continuing to focus on our existing proton pump inhibitors.
Our focus
Our key marketed products
Nexium is marketed in approximately 120 countries and is available 
in oral (tablet/capsules and oral suspension) and intravenous (i.v.) 
dosage forms for the treatment of acid-related diseases. Nexium 
is an effective short-term and long-term therapy for patients with 
gastro-oesophageal reﬂux disease (GERD). Nexium is also 
approved for the treatment of GERD in children one to 17 years  
of age. In the EU and other markets, Nexium is approved for the 
healing and prevention of ulcers associated with NSAID therapy, 
including cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitors. In the US, Nexium 
is approved for reducing the risk of gastric ulcers associated with 
continuous NSAID therapy in patients at risk of developing gastric 
ulcers. Nexium is also approved in the US, the EU, Canada and 
Australia for the treatment of patients with the rare gastric disorder, 
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Following treatment with Nexium i.v., 
oral Nexium is approved in the EU and other markets for the 
maintenance of haemostasis and prevention of re-bleeding of 
gastric or duodenal ulcers.
Nexium i.v. is used when oral administration is not suitable for the 
treatment of GERD and upper GI side effects induced by NSAIDs.  
It is approved in the EU and other markets for the short-term 
maintenance of haemostasis and prevention of re-bleeding in 
patients following therapeutic endoscopy for acute bleeding gastric 
or duodenal ulcers. Nexium i.v. has been submitted to the EMA and 
the FDA for use in children one to 17 years of age inclusive and  
their review is ongoing.
In May, AstraZeneca received a Complete Response Letter for  
the sNDA for Nexium which was submitted for the risk reduction 
of low-dose aspirin-associated peptic ulcers. AstraZeneca is 
currently evaluating the Complete Response Letter and will  
continue discussions with the FDA to determine the next steps  
with respect to the Nexium sNDA.
Losec/Prilosec was ﬁrst launched in 1988 and is approved for the 
treatment of GERD. We continue to maintain certain patent property 
covering Losec/Prilosec. Losec/Prilosec is available both as a 
prescription-only medication and, in some countries, as an OTC 
medication where it offers consumers a more effective self-
medication option for the treatment of heartburn compared with 
antacids and H2 receptor antagonists.
Clinical studies of key marketed products
The Japanese new drug application for Nexium was submitted 
in February 2010 and the regulatory review process is ongoing.  
In October, AstraZeneca entered into an agreement with Daiichi 
Sankyo for the co-promotion and supply of Nexium in Japan. Under 
the terms of the agreement, AstraZeneca and Daiichi Sankyo will 
co-promote the product after it has been approved for use in 
Japan. AstraZeneca will manufacture and develop the product and 
Daiichi Sankyo will be responsible for its distribution. Daiichi Sankyo 
has made an initial payment of $100 million to AstraZeneca and will 
pay further sums when the product is approved and sales target 
milestones are achieved.
In the pipeline
Our research activities have focused on reﬂux inhibitors and 
hypersensitivity therapy. Our lead compound, lesogaberan 
(AZD3355) was terminated because of dose-ﬁnding data showing 
insufﬁcient efﬁcacy to deliver a meaningful clinical improvement in 
the study population for which the treatment was intended. Based 
on the ﬁndings in the lesogaberan programme, our discovery and 
development activities in the GERD area that are based on reﬂux 
inhibition will be terminated.
Financial performance 2010/2009
Performance 2010
Reported performance
GI sales grew by 1% to $6,088 million in 2010 from $6,011 million  
in 2009.
Performance – CER growth rates
Global GI sales were unchanged. This was due to Nexium sales 
being unchanged from 2009 at $4,969 million and Losec/Prilosec 
sales showing a small increase of 1% to $986 million. Nexium sales 
in the US were down 5% to $2,695 million, although this was offset 
by sales outside the US which were up 6% to $2,274 million.
Performance 2009
Reported performance
GI sales for 2009 were down 5% to $6,011 million from  
$6,344 million in 2008.
Performance – CER growth rates
GI sales fell by 2%.
Global Nexium sales were down 1% to $4,959 million from $5,200 
million the previous year. The decline was driven by the decrease in 
the US of 9% to $2,835 million. However, this was largely mitigated 
by sales outside the US increasing by 9% to $2,124 million. In the 
US, dispensed retail tablet volumes decreased by less than 1% 
despite increased generic and OTC competition. In respect of 
Nexium, there was growth in Established ROW (10%), Western 
Europe (7%) and Emerging Markets (15%).
Sales of Losec/Prilosec fell 10% to $946 million. Prilosec sales in 
the US were down 63% as a result of continued generic erosion. 
Outside the US, Losec sales were unchanged.
Our ﬁnancial performance
World US Western Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
 
 
2010
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER 
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth 
%
World
sales
$m
Nexium 4,969 – – 2,695 (5) 1,202 (2) 2 453 17 4 619 21 18 4,959
Losec/Prilosec 986 4 1 47 (28) 253 (3) (2) 437 6 (1) 249 19 16 946
Others 133 25 26 76 49 45 – 2 6 – (17) 6 50 75 106
Total 6,088 1 – 2,818 (4) 1,500 (2) 1 896 12 1 874 20 17 6,011
2009
Nexium 4,959 (5) (1) 2,835 (9) 1,225 (1) 7 386 – 10 513 7 15 5,200
Losec/Prilosec 946 (10) (10) 64 (63) 261 (12) (3) 411 6 (1) 210 3 6 1,055
Others 106 19 24 51 55 45 (2) 4 6–– 4– 25 89
Total 6,011 (5) (2) 2,950 (11) 1,531 (3) 5 803 3 4 727 6 13 6,344
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Therapy Area Review Gastrointestinal 57 Infection
$82bn
The world infection market is valued at $82 billion, with 
anti-bacterials accounting for approximately 46%, anti-virals 
for 29% and vaccines 13%.
In brief
>  Synagis sales of $1 billion; in the US $646 million, down 17%.
>  Merrem/Meronem sales of $817 million, down 7%.
>  FluMist sales of $174 million, up 20%.
>  In December, the biological license application submitted to the 
FDA relating to motavizumab was withdrawn and AstraZeneca 
recorded a ﬁnancial impairment charge of $445 million.
>  Zinforo (ceftaroline) was submitted for marketing approval in the 
EU in December for the treatment of complicated skin and soft 
tissue infections as well as for community acquired pneumonia.
>  Initiation of Phase IIb study with AZD9773 (formerly known as 
CytoFab™).
Our marketed products
>  Synagis (palivizumab) is a humanised MAb used for the prevention 
of serious lower respiratory tract disease caused by respiratory 
syncytial virus (RSV) in paediatric patients at high risk of acquiring 
RSV disease.
>  Merrem/Meronem
1
 (meropenem) is a carbapenem anti-bacterial 
used for the treatment of serious infections in hospitalised patients.
>  FluMist/Fluenz (inﬂuenza vaccine live, intranasal) is an intranasal 
live, attenuated, trivalent inﬂuenza vaccine.
>  Cubicin
™2
 (daptomycin) is a cyclic lipopeptide anti-bacterial used 
for the treatment of serious infections in hospitalised patients.
1
 Licensed from Dainippon Sumitomo.
2
 Licensed from Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Therapy Area Review
Therapy area world market 
(MAT/Q3/10) ($bn)
Market sectors
 Anti-bacterials  
 Anti-virals 
 Vaccines 
 Others  
37.4
10.4
23.7
10.7
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 58 Therapy Area Review Infection Our strategic objectives
We aim to build a leading franchise in the treatment of infectious 
diseases through continued commercialisation of brands such as 
Synagis, Merrem/Meronem, FluMist/Fluenz and Cubicin™, as well 
as through the development of products in the pipeline such as 
Zinforo (ceftaroline). We also aim to make effective use of our 
structural and genomic-based discovery technologies and antibody 
platforms, vaccines and continued research into novel approaches 
in areas of unmet medical need.
Resistant bacterial infections
World demand for antibiotics remains high and will continue to  
grow due to escalating resistance and the increased risk of  
serious infections in both immunosuppressed patients and  
ageing populations. Many bacterial infections currently have few 
satisfactory treatment options prompting demand for new and 
better therapies.
Our focus
Our key marketed products
Merrem/Meronem remains the leading carbapenem anti-bacterial 
across AstraZeneca licensed territories, maintaining over a 7% 
share of the global intravenous antibiotic market (by value), despite 
experiencing loss of market exclusivity in the US in June. Generic 
growth across the carbapenem class is anticipated over the next  
12 months following the patent expiries for Merrem/Meronem in 
Europe and the US.
Cubicin™ is used for the treatment of serious Gram-positive 
infections in hospitalised patients and is sold by AstraZeneca in 
selected territories in Asia, Europe and the Middle East.
In the pipeline
Zinforo (ceftaroline) is a novel injectable cephalosporin with the 
potential to provide coverage against Gram-positive organisms and 
commonly susceptible Gram-negative organisms associated with 
community-acquired bacterial pneumonia (CABP) and complicated 
skin and soft tissue infections. In particular, ceftaroline is active 
against methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). 
Ceftaroline is being developed in collaboration with Forest and it 
received FDA approval for ceftaroline in October for the treatment of 
acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections and CABP caused 
by designated susceptible bacteria. Forest will use the brand name 
Teﬂaro™ (ceftaroline) in the US. AstraZeneca is responsible for 
registration and marketing outside the US, Canada and Japan and 
ﬁled an MAA for the 27 member states of the EU in December. We 
expect to make further submissions in other jurisdictions during 2011.
In the ﬁrst half of 2010, we completed the acquisition of Novexel  
and we are working with our partner, Forest, on future joint global 
development programmes, including CAZ-104 (a combination of 
ceftazidime and NXL -104). CAZ-104 is currently in Phase II evaluation 
for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infection and 
complicated urinary tract infection and a decision whether to 
proceed into Phase III will be taken during 2011. 
To meet the high and growing need for new and better therapies  
for resistant bacterial infections we have built an anti-bacterials 
discovery capability which will ensure that AstraZeneca has the 
resource to create novel mechanism anti-bacterials. Out of this 
work, a candidate anti-bacterial drug, AZD9742, with a novel 
mechanism of action, completed Phase I testing late in 2010 and 
Phase II plans are under evaluation. A second candidate anti-
bacterial drug, AZD5099, is expected to enter Phase I in the ﬁrst  
half of 2011.
Respiratory syncytial virus
Approximately half of all infants are infected with respiratory 
syncytial virus (RSV) during the ﬁrst year of life and nearly all children 
in the US have been infected by the time they reach their second 
birthday. Premature babies (earlier than 36 weeks gestational age, 
especially those less than 32 weeks) and babies with chronic lung 
disease or congenital heart disease are at increased risk of 
contracting severe RSV disease than full-term healthy babies.
Our focus
Our key marketed products
Synagis is used for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract 
disease caused by RSV in children at high risk of the disease. It was 
the ﬁrst MAb approved in the US for an infectious disease and has 
become the standard of care for RSV prevention. Synagis remains 
the only immunoprophylaxis in the marketplace indicated for the 
prevention of RSV in paediatric patients at high risk of RSV. Synagis 
is administered by intra-muscular injection.
In the pipeline
Motavizumab is an investigational MAb that was being considered 
to help prevent RSV disease. In December, we discontinued further 
development of motavizumab for the prophylaxis of serious RSV 
disease and requested the withdrawal of the biological license 
application (BLA) which was pending at the FDA. As a result of this 
decision, AstraZeneca incurred a ﬁnancial impairment charge of 
$445 million. Although we have discontinued certain motavizumab 
development paths and withdrawn the prophylaxis BLA from the 
FDA, motavizumab remains in development for RSV treatment.
Our ﬁnancial performance
World US Western Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
 
 
2010
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Synagis 1,038 (4) (4) 646 (17) 392 31 31 ––– ––– 1,082
Merrem 817 (6) (7) 127 (28) 328 (9) (7) 57 10 (4) 305 8 4 872
FluMist 174 20 20 173 19 ––– ––– 1–– 145
Non Seasonal 
Flu 39 (90) (90) 39 (90) ––– ––– ––– 389
Others 108 (24) (25) 68 (16) – (100) (93) 20 (5) (43) 20 54 92 143
Total 2,176 (17) (18) 1,053 (33) 72046 775 (15) 326 118 2,631
2009
Synagis 1,082 (12) (12) 782 (15) 300 (2) (2) – – – – – – 1,230
Merrem 872 (3) 5 177 (14) 361 5 13 52 8 19 282 (5) 6 897
FluMist 145 39 39 145 39 ––– ––– ––– 104
Non Seasonal 
Flu 389 n/m n/m 389 n/m ––– ––– ––– –
Others 143 (35) (31) 82 (29) 27 (61) (55) 19 19 31 15 (25) (15) 220
Total 2,631 7 10 1,575 17 688 (5) – 71 11 22 297 (6) 5 2,451
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Therapy Area Review Infection 59 We are developing a live intranasal vaccine for the prevention of 
lower respiratory tract illness caused by RSV in otherwise healthy 
infants. Two vaccine candidates are in clinical development: 
MEDI-559 and MEDI-534.
Inﬂuenza virus
Inﬂuenza is the most common vaccine-preventable disease in the 
developed world. According to WHO estimates, seasonal inﬂuenza 
results in three to ﬁve million cases of severe illness and up to half a 
million deaths globally each year, primarily among the elderly. Rates 
of infection are highest among children, with school-aged children 
signiﬁcantly contributing to the spread of the disease. Inﬂuenza also 
has socio-economic consequences related to both direct and 
indirect healthcare costs, including hospitalisations, work absence 
and loss of work productivity when either a caregiver or child is  
sick with inﬂuenza.
Our focus
Our key marketed products
FluMist is a trivalent live, attenuated nasally delivered vaccine 
approved for the prevention of disease caused by inﬂuenza virus 
subtypes A and B in eligible children and adults. FluMist is now 
approved for eligible individuals in the US, South Korea, Canada, 
Hong Kong, Israel, Macau and Brazil.
In the pipeline
We are developing a quadrivalent live, attenuated inﬂuenza vaccine 
to include a fourth virus strain to provide additional seasonal 
protection and are expecting to submit the BLA for regulatory 
approval in the US in 2011.
In October, Fluenz (the trade name for FluMist in the EU) received a 
positive opinion in the EU from the CHMP for marketing the product 
in Europe for children from 24 months to less than 18 years of age. 
The Committee’s positive opinion is now referred for a ﬁnal decision 
by the European Commission, which is anticipated in early 2011.
Sepsis
Sepsis is a life-threatening condition resulting from uncontrolled 
severe infections. It remains a signiﬁcant problem in medical 
management, with approximately three million annual worldwide 
incidents and a 30% mortality rate. Current treatment options for 
patients with severe sepsis or septic shock are extremely limited 
and, although industry pipelines are focused on the development of 
products speciﬁcally for registration for the treatment of sepsis or 
septic shock, there are few products in late stage development.
In the pipeline
The development programme for AZD9773 (formerly known  
as CytoFab™), an anti-TNFα polyclonal antibody, our potential 
treatment for severe sepsis licensed from Protherics Inc. (now part 
of the BTG plc group), continues in Phase II development with the 
initiation of a global Phase IIb trial in October. We also submitted a 
separate Phase II study of AZD9773 in Japan. AZD9773 has the 
potential to be one of a limited number of medicines speciﬁcally 
developed for patients with severe sepsis.
Tuberculosis
Tuberculosis (TB) remains a worldwide threat and is newly 
diagnosed in over eight million people worldwide every year. It is 
one of the greatest causes of death from infectious disease in the 
developing world.
Our focus
As part of our commitment to make a contribution to improving 
health in the developing world, we are working to ﬁnd new, 
improved treatments for TB. We have a dedicated research facility  
in Bangalore, India focused on ﬁnding drugs that will act on 
multi-resistant strains, will simplify the treatment regime (current 
regimes are complex and lengthy, meaning many patients give  
up before the infection is fully treated) and will be compatible with 
HIV/AIDS therapies (TB and HIV/AIDS form a lethal combination, 
each speeding the other’s progress). Over 80 scientists in 
Bangalore work closely with our infection research centre in Boston, 
US as well as with academic leaders in the ﬁeld, and they have full 
access to all AstraZeneca’s platform technologies, such as ‘high 
throughput screening’ and compound libraries.
TB remains a complex research area in which collaborations play  
a very important role. This year, a discovery collaboration was 
signed with the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development towards 
progressing suitable compounds through to the lead optimisation 
stage. Additionally, we were awarded a Wellcome Trust grant under 
the ‘R&D for Affordable Healthcare in India’ initiative, which will be 
used to identify novel lead molecules for the treatment of TB.  
Our most advanced programme, AZD5847 (a novel oxazolidinone 
antibiotic), continues in Phase I studies, although single- and 
multiple-ascending dose studies in healthy volunteers are complete.
Financial performance 2010/2009
Performance 2010
Reported performance
Infection sales were down 17% to $2,176 million from $2,631 million 
in 2009.
Performance – CER growth rates
Infection sales were down 18% as the sales of the H1N1 pandemic 
inﬂuenza vaccine in 2009 were not repeated in 2010. There were 
only $39 million of sales recorded in 2010 for US government orders 
for the H1N1 pandemic inﬂuenza vaccine. These sales were 
recorded in the ﬁrst quarter of 2010 and compare with $389 million 
of sales in 2009. This strain has now been incorporated into the 
traditional seasonal inﬂuenza vaccine. 
FluMist sales were $174 million, a 20% increase over last year. 
Global Synagis sales were down 4%, with sales in the US down 
17% to $646 million being partially offset by strong growth in 
Western Europe where sales were up 31% to $392 million.
Performance 2009
Reported performance
Total Infection sales increased by 7% to $2,631 million. H1N1 
pandemic inﬂuenza vaccine sales were $389 million.
Performance – CER growth rates
Infection sales were up 10%. This was driven by sales of  
$389 million for the H1N1 pandemic inﬂuenza vaccine to the  
US government and continued growth in Merrem/Meronem (5%) 
and FluMist (39%), which more than offset the 12% decline in 
Synagis sales.
Worldwide sales of Synagis in the fourth quarter were $401 million, 
a 21% decrease from the same period in 2008, driven by a 
decrease of 31% of US Synagis sales for the fourth quarter. This 
decline in the US was a result of the adoption of new guidelines 
published by the American Academy of Pediatrics restricting the 
usage of Synagis at the start of the 2009/2010 RSV season.
FluMist sales were $145 million for the full year.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 60 Therapy Area Review Infection
Therapy Area Review Neuroscience
$137bn
The neuroscience world market totals $137 billion.
In brief
>  Total Seroquel sales up 9% to $5.3 billion.
>  In August, the European Commission approved Seroquel XR as 
an add-on treatment of major depressive episodes in patients with 
major depressive disorder (MDD) who have had sub-optimal 
response to anti-depressant monotherapy.
>  Seroquel XR submissions for generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) 
were withdrawn in the US in July and from the European Mutual 
Recognition Procedure in October.
>  The ﬁrst patients were enrolled in the MDD Adjunct Phase III clinical 
development programme for TC-5214, a neuronal nicotinic receptor 
modulator, being developed with Targacept, in June.
>  In April 2010, the FDA approved Vimovo (naproxen/esomeprazole 
magnesium) for arthritis patients at risk of developing NSAID-
associated gastric ulcers. In October, EU approval was received for 
Vimovo for the symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid 
arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis in patients who are at risk of 
developing NSAID-associated gastric and/or duodenal ulcers and 
where treatment with lower doses of naproxen or of other NSAIDs 
is not considered sufﬁcient.
>  As previously disclosed, in 2010, AstraZeneca reached a civil 
settlement with the US Attorney’s Ofﬁce (Department of Justice) 
and the state attorneys general National Medicaid Fraud Control 
Unit (NMFCU) to resolve an investigation relating to the marketing of 
Seroquel, pursuant to which AstraZeneca paid to the United States 
Federal Government a ﬁne of $302 million plus accrued interest and 
to participating states a proportional share of up to $218 million 
plus accrued interest. In September, AstraZeneca entered into 
individual settlement agreements with 41 states and Washington, 
D.C. for an aggregate amount of approximately $210 million. 
>  In 2010, AstraZeneca reached agreements in principle on monetary 
terms with attorneys representing 24,591 Seroquel product liability 
claimants. AstraZeneca has made provisions in the year totalling 
$592 million in respect of the ongoing Seroquel product liability 
litigation and state attorney general investigations into sales and 
marketing practices in the aggregate. For further details relating  
to Seroquel product liability claims and state attorney general 
investigations into Seroquel sales and marketing practices, see 
Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178. 
>  In January 2011, the US District Court for the District of New Jersey 
scheduled a trial date of 3 October 2011 in the consolidated seven 
ANDA patent litigations relating to Seroquel XR. The District Court 
also entered a stipulation and consent order concerning US Patent 
No. 4,879,288 (the ’288 patent), one of the two patents-in-suit, 
staying litigation between AstraZeneca and Handa 
Pharmaceuticals, LLC (Handa) concerning the ’288 patent, until  
and including 26 March 2012, the date AstraZeneca’s paediatric 
exclusivity relating to its ’288 patent expires. After expiration of the 
stay, AstraZeneca’s infringement claims against Handa relating  
to the ’288 patent, and Handa’s related counterclaims, will be 
dismissed as moot. Under the stipulation, Handa agrees not to 
engage in the commercial sale of its generic extended release 
quetiapine fumarate products until after 26 March 2012.
Our marketed products
>  Seroquel IR (quetiapine fumarate) is an atypical anti-psychotic 
drug generally approved for the treatment of schizophrenia  
and bipolar disorder (mania, depression and maintenance). 
Seroquel XR (an extended release formulation of quetiapine 
fumarate) is generally approved for the treatment of schizophrenia, 
bipolar disorder, MDD and in some territories for GAD. Approved 
use for Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR varies based on territory.
>  Vimovo (naproxen/esomeprazole magnesium) is a ﬁxed-dose 
combination of enteric-coated naproxen (an NSAID) with the 
gastroprotection of immediate release esomeprazole (a proton 
pump inhibitor) approved for the relief of signs and symptoms of 
osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis, and 
to decrease the risk of developing gastric ulcers in patients at risk 
of developing NSAID-associated gastric ulcers.
>  Zomig (zolmitriptan) is used for the treatment of migraines with 
or without aura.
>  Diprivan (propofol) is an intravenous general anaesthetic used 
in the induction and maintenance of anaesthesia, light sedation  
for diagnostic procedures and for intensive care sedation.
>  Naropin (ropivacaine) is used as a long-acting local anaesthetic, 
replacing the previous standard treatment of bupivacaine.
>  Xylocaine (lidocaine) is a widely used short-acting local 
anaesthetic.
>  EMLA (lidocaine + prilocaine) is used as a local anaesthetic for 
topical application.
Therapy area world market 
(MAT/Q3/10) ($bn)
Market sectors
 Psychiatry  
 Neurology  
 Analgesia  
 Anaesthesia  
60.4
5.2
31.0
40.4
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Therapy Area Review Neuroscience 61 Our strategic objectives
There is still signiﬁcant unmet medical need in the areas of chronic 
pain, cognitive disorders and other serious central nervous system 
disorders. Our aim is to strengthen our position in neuroscience 
through further growth of Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR and to 
discover and develop new drug candidates with meaningful 
therapeutic advantages primarily in Alzheimer’s disease, pain 
control and cognition.
Psychiatry
The depression market is currently dominated by selective  
serotonin re-uptake inhibitors and serotonin norepinephrine 
re-uptake inhibitors. With increasing payer pressure and the need  
to demonstrate clear value, new medicines must either show 
superior efﬁcacy over current treatments, or clear efﬁcacy in 
well-deﬁned patient segments, such as treatment-resistant 
depression. As growth in the US slows, the Japanese and other 
Asian markets continue to expand due to increased diagnosis and 
use of pharmacological treatments in response to both targeted 
government programmes and wider acceptance of 
pharmacological treatments for depression.
We continue to pursue projects in clinical development aiming to 
address present unmet medical needs. While no further internal 
discovery projects, beyond support to existing development 
projects, are planned, we continue to pursue additional 
opportunities through external alliances.
Our focus
Our key marketed products
Seroquel IR is an atypical anti-psychotic drug with anti-depressant 
properties. It is approved for the treatment of schizophrenia and 
bipolar disorder (mania, depression and maintenance). Its overall 
clinical efﬁcacy and tolerability proﬁle make it one of the leading 
atypical anti-psychotics in terms of global value share in the atypical 
anti-psychotic market segment.
To date, Seroquel XR has been approved in 72 countries for 
schizophrenia, 57 countries for bipolar mania, 49 countries for 
bipolar depression, 33 countries for bipolar maintenance, six 
countries for major depressive disorder (MDD) and three countries 
for generalised anxiety disorder (GAD). Following referral to the 
CHMP, Seroquel XR was approved as an add-on treatment for 
major depressive episodes in patients with MDD who have had 
sub-optimal response to anti-depressant monotherapy. The ﬁrst EU 
approvals were granted in August and launches have already 
occurred in key markets such as Germany and the UK. Local 
approval processes continue to progress in the remaining EU 
member states that took part in the original Mutual Recognition 
Procedure with other EU member states to follow.
The Seroquel XR GAD submissions were withdrawn in the US 
in July and from the European Mutual Recognition Procedure  
in October.
In the pipeline
With our development partner, Targacept, we have commenced  
the Phase III clinical development programme for TC-5214, a 
neuronal nicotinic receptor modulator. The programme is designed 
to support ﬁling of an NDA in the second half of 2012 for TC-5214  
as an adjunct treatment for MDD in patients with an inadequate 
response to 1st line anti-depressant treatment. An MAA in Europe  
is currently planned for 2015.
Decisions on the further development of AZD2066 will be 
determined following subsequent analyses of data from a Phase II 
study in depression. AZD6765 remains in Phase II development to 
address the needs of patients with severe treatment resistant 
depression. Development of AZD6280, AZD8418 and AZD7268  
has been discontinued.
Analgesia and anaesthesia (pain control)
The small number of currently approved products in the neuropathic 
pain market will become generic between 2014 and 2017 . However, 
few new products are in development and the unmet medical need 
for improvements in both efﬁcacy and tolerability is such that the 
market remains highly attractive. In Asia, neuropathic pain drugs are 
gaining approval, shifting cultural and medical treatment barriers.  
It is believed that advances in the understanding of the mechanisms 
which lead to neuropathic pain will allow for improved patient 
segmentation, potentially increasing the success rate of research  
in this condition.
The chronic nociceptive pain market, including osteoarthritis (OA) 
and chronic low back pain, is steadily growing due to ageing 
populations combined with longer life expectancy across all regions, 
including Asia. Opioids are considered the gold standard for 
efﬁcacy for moderate to severe pain across pain segments. 
However, opioid pain control comes with unwanted side effects 
such as bowel dysfunction. There remains a high unmet medical 
need for products that enable continued opioid pain control by 
reducing or eliminating side effects. Led by the anti-nerve growth 
factor MAbs, biologics are an emerging treatment option for pain 
control and this is an area in which we have an active interest 
through our biologics capabilities.
Therapy Area Review
Our ﬁnancial performance
World US Western Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
 
 
2010
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Seroquel IR 4,148 (1) (1) 3,107 1 560 (14) (11) 223 10 1 258 7 – 4,171
Seroquel XR 1,154 66 67 640 87 359 30 36 61 85 67 94 114 109 695
Local 
Anaesthetics 605 1 (1) 29 (28) 265 (4) (1) 186 9 (1) 125 13 8 599
Zomig 428 (1) (2) 176 (3) 172 (4) (2) 69 17 8 11 (15) (23) 434
Diprivan 322 11 8 45 – 50 (19) (16) 76 29 20 151 22 17 290
Others 47 (2) (4) 6 (25) 27 (7) (7) 3 – – 11 38 25 48
Total 6,70477 4,0038 1,433 (3) – 618 177 650 20 14 6,237
2009
Seroquel 4,866 9 12 3,416 13 928 9 17 236 (24) (24) 286 6 18 4,452
Local 
Anaesthetics 599 (1) 4 40 18 277 (4) 3 171 5 4 111 (7) 5 605
Zomig 434 (3) – 182 (3) 180 (5) 3 59 2 2 13 (7) 7 448
Diprivan 290 4 6 45 15 62 (19) (14) 59 – (7) 124 20 26 278
Others 48 (11) (4) 8 (11) 29 (12) (3) 3 (25) (25) 8 – 13 54
Total 6,237 7 10 3,691 12 1,476 2 10 528 (11) (12) 542 5 16 5,837
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 62 Therapy Area Review Neuroscience Our focus
Our key marketed products
Vimovo (naproxen/esomeprazole magnesium), co-developed 
by AstraZeneca and Pozen Inc., is a ﬁxed-dose combination of 
enteric-coated naproxen (an NSAID) with the gastroprotection  
of immediate release esomeprazole (a proton pump inhibitor) 
approved for the relief of signs and symptoms of OA, rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA), and ankylosing spondylitis (AS), and to decrease the 
risk of developing gastric ulcers in patients at risk of developing 
NSAID-associated gastric ulcers. Following approval by the FDA  
in April 2010, Vimovo was launched in the US in July.
In October 2009, AstraZeneca ﬁled an MAA in the EU via the 
Decentralised Procedure and in October 2010, received positive 
agreement for approval in 23 countries. Vimovo is indicated for the 
symptomatic treatment of OA, RA and AS in patients who are at risk 
of developing NSAID-associated gastric and/or duodenal ulcers 
and where treatment with lower doses of naproxen or of other 
NSAIDs is not considered sufﬁcient. Each EU member state is now 
pursuing pricing and reimbursement and national approvals.
In the pipeline
NKTR-118, an oral peripherally-acting opioid antagonist, is in clinical 
development for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC), 
which is the key gastrointestinal (GI) side effect of opioid treatment 
for pain, and for which there are limited therapeutic treatment 
options. Data from a Phase II study demonstrated that oral NKTR-
118 improved lower GI dysfunction by increasing the frequency of 
bowel movements in patients with OIC, while simultaneously 
preserving opioid-mediated pain relief. The NKTR-118 Phase III 
programme is planned to start in the ﬁrst half of 2011.
AZD2066 has progressed through Phase IIa studies and AZD2423 
has progressed into Phase IIa studies for the treatment of 
neuropathic pain.
Cognition
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) remains one of the largest areas of unmet 
medical need and also one of high risk for neuroscience product 
development, due in part to the challenges of establishing efﬁcacy 
in clinical studies. Current treatments, which doctors consider 
inadequate, target the symptoms, not the underlying cause, of the 
disease. This area continues to grow, but all existing marketed 
treatments will face patent expiry by 2015. Disease modiﬁcation, 
delivered through biologics and/or small molecule treatments, is 
clearly the hope for AD patients. Along with better diagnostics,  
it is expected to allow for earlier intervention and better clinical 
outcomes, but the ﬁrst wave of disease modiﬁers is still several 
years away.
Attention deﬁcit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) affects 22 million 
children worldwide
1
 (as well as several million adults). While there 
are a number of treatments available today, which work well for 
many of these young patients, they also carry certain risks because 
a great majority of them are stimulants (mostly amphetamines and 
methylphenidate). We continue to work on treatment options that 
would offer strong efﬁcacy without the challenges that current 
treatments bring or which would target symptoms not addressed  
by today’s medications. We also hope to offer new options to  
adult ADHD patients, many of whom remain undiagnosed or 
untreated today.
In the pipeline
The current portfolio of potential medicines in this area includes 
three compounds in Phase II development for AD, ADHD and 
cognitive disorders in schizophrenia (CDS). In addition to developing 
molecules for cognitive disorders, we continue to progress one 
development phase molecule for the treatment of other 
neurodegenerative diseases.
Through our collaboration with the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, 
the Banner Alzheimer’s Institute in the US, the National Institute of 
Radiological Sciences in Japan and others, our R&D capabilities  
in positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of the human  
brain continue to progress. AstraZeneca’s amyloid PET ligands may 
enable us to detect AD early and to assess drug effects in AD. We 
have discovered and taken into patient studies one F-18 and two 
C-11 amyloid PET ligands which are being developed as research 
biomarkers. Additionally, collaboration with the Mental Health 
Research Institute in Australia is ongoing to develop new ways  
of identifying AD patients at early stages of the disease.
Compounds in Phase II development include products deriving 
from our relationship with Targacept (AZD3480, AZD1446 and the 
option compound TC-5619). AZD3480, an α4ß2 neuronal nicotinic 
receptor (NNR) agonist, is currently in Phase II clinical testing in 
ADHD. In 2009, Targacept announced top-line results from a Phase 
IIa ADHD study in which the primary outcome measure was met. 
Non-clinical assessment of therapeutic margin is ongoing, with a 
decision whether to advance as a treatment for ADHD expected in 
the ﬁrst quarter of 2011. AZD1446, another α4ß2 NNR agonist, is in 
development for AD but it is not progressing in ADHD due to failure 
to meet the primary outcome measure in a recent Phase IIa study  
in adult ADHD. The option compound from Targacept, TC-5619  
(an α7 NNR agonist), is in Phase IIa studies in CDS and ADHD 
and studies are in the process of being designed for AD.
Financial performance 2010/2009
Performance 2010
Reported performance
Neuroscience sales were up 7% to $6,704 million, up from  
$6,237 million in 2009.
Performance – CER growth rates
Neuroscience sales were up 7%.
Seroquel sales were up 9% to $5,302 million, with Seroquel XR 
sales up 67% to $1,154 million, partially offset by a 1% decline in 
Seroquel IR sales to $4,148 million. US sales of Seroquel were 
$3,747 million, 10% ahead of last year, with Seroquel XR sales 
up 87% to $640 million and Seroquel IR up 1% to $3,107 million. 
For 2010, Seroquel sales outside the US increased by 7% to 
$1,555 million.
Performance 2009
Reported performance
Neuroscience sales grew by 7% to $6,237 million in 2009 from 
$5,837 million in 2008.
Performance – CER growth rates
Neuroscience sales grew by 10% to $6,237 million from  
$5,837 million last year.
US sales for Seroquel were $3,416 million, 13% ahead of last year. 
Seroquel sales outside the US increased by 8% to $1,450 million. 
Outside the US and Canada, value and volume growth for Seroquel 
were well ahead of the atypical anti-psychotic market.
Sales of Zomig were down 3% in the US to $182 million. Sales 
outside the US were up 3% to $252 million.
1
 Decision Resources 2008.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Therapy Area Review Neuroscience 63 Oncology
$53bn
The world market value for cancer therapies is $53 billion 
and continues to grow.
In brief
>  Arimidex sales down 22% to $1.5 billion, impacted by patent expiry 
in the US in June. However, market exclusivity has been extended 
in many EU markets from August 2010 to February 2011. 
>  Zoladex sales $1.1 billion, unchanged from the previous year.
>  Casodex sales $579 million, down 34%, as a result of generic 
competition in the US, Western Europe and Japan.
>  Iressa sales $393 million, up 28%, having been launched in the EU 
as the ﬁrst approved personalised medicine for the treatment of 
adults with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) with activating mutations of the epidermal growth 
factor receptor-tyrosine kinase (EGFR-TK). In January 2011, 
AstraZeneca informed the FDA that it will be withdrawing the 
accelerated approval NDA for Iressa.
>  Vandetanib has been submitted for regulatory approval for the 
treatment of unresectable, locally advanced medullary thyroid 
cancer in the US and the EU. In January 2011, the FDA extended 
the time to complete its review of the vandetanib NDA by three 
months to 7 April 2011.
>  Recentin (cediranib) did not meet its primary endpoints in two 
pivotal studies examining cediranib in 1st line metastatic colorectal 
cancer (mCRC) and a third pivotal study in recurrent glioblastoma 
(rGBM) and therefore no regulatory submissions will be ﬁled in  
1st line mCRC or rGBM. However, studies continue in NSCLC.
>  Zibotentan (ZD4054) did not demonstrate a signiﬁcant improvement 
in overall survival in a Phase III study in patients with metastatic 
castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Therefore, no 
regulatory submissions for zibotentan are planned at this time. 
However, clinical studies continue in other CRPC settings. 
>  Olaparib (AZD2281) is in ongoing Phase II studies for the treatment 
of certain types of breast and ovarian cancer and a decision in 
relation to Phase III studies has been delayed until later in 2011.
Our marketed products
>  Arimidex (anastrozole) is an aromatase inhibitor used for the 
treatment of early breast cancer.
>  Zoladex (goserelin acetate implant), in one- and three-month 
depots, is a luteinising hormone-releasing hormone agonist used 
for the treatment of prostate cancer, breast cancer and certain 
benign gynaecological disorders.
>  Casodex (bicalutamide) is an anti-androgen therapy used for the 
treatment of prostate cancer.
>  Iressa (geﬁtinib) is used as an EGFR-TK inhibitor that acts to block 
signals for cancer cell growth and survival in NSCLC.
>  Faslodex (fulvestrant) is an injectable oestrogen receptor 
antagonist used for the treatment of hormone receptor-positive 
metastatic breast cancer for post menopausal women whose 
disease has spread following treatment with an antioestrogen 
medicine.
>  Nolvadex (tamoxifen citrate) remains a widely used breast cancer 
treatment outside the US.
Therapy Area Review
Therapy area world market 
(MAT/Q3/10) ($bn)
Market sectors
 Chemotherapy  
 Hormonal therapies  
 Monoclonal antibodies  
 Small molecule TKIs  
19.3
8.7
16.2
8.9
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 64 Therapy Area Review Oncology Our strategic objectives
We aim to build on our position as one of the world leaders in 
cancer treatment established with brands such as Arimidex and the 
growing brands Faslodex and Iressa. Our future growth will be 
driven through targeting the right treatments, both small molecules 
and biologics, to the right patients, using companion diagnostics 
where appropriate. This approach is driving the growth of Iressa 
and is a key focus in the development of our early stage portfolio.
Our focus
Our key marketed products
Arimidex, ﬁrst launched in 1995, remains the leading hormonal 
therapy for patients with early breast cancer globally. This success 
is largely based on the extensive long-term efﬁcacy and safety 
results of the ATAC study, which showed Arimidex to be signiﬁcantly 
superior to tamoxifen at preventing breast cancer recurrence  
during and beyond the ﬁve-year treatment course. In Europe, 
supplementary protection certiﬁcate extensions were applied for 
under the EU paediatric regulation and subsequently granted in all 
12 applicable EU countries, including France, Germany, Italy and the 
UK. The extension provides for an additional six months of market 
exclusivity from August 2010 to February 2011.
Faslodex 500mg is now approved in the EU and the US, replacing 
the 250mg dose for most patients. It offers an additional, more 
efﬁcacious, hormonal therapy option for patients with hormone-
receptor positive advanced breast cancer, delaying the need for 
cytotoxic chemotherapy. It is given by once-monthly injections and 
is approved for the 2nd line treatment of hormone-receptor positive 
advanced breast cancer in post-menopausal women. In other 
markets where 250mg is approved, plans are in place to replace  
the dose with 500mg and, in markets where Faslodex is not 
approved, plans are to seek approval for the 500mg dose as the  
ﬁrst registration.
Casodex and Zoladex are both leading endocrine therapies for the 
treatment of prostate cancer. Casodex is used as a 50mg tablet for 
the treatment of advanced prostate cancer and as a 150mg tablet 
for the treatment of locally advanced prostate cancer.
Zoladex, a luteinising hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist, 
is approved in 120 countries for the treatment of prostate cancer, 
breast cancer and certain benign gynaecological disorders. In 
non-metastatic prostate cancer, Zoladex has been shown to 
improve overall survival, both when used in addition to radical 
prostatectomy and when used in addition to radiotherapy.  
In breast cancer, Zoladex is widely approved for use in advanced 
breast cancer in pre-menopausal women. In a number of countries, 
Zoladex is also approved for the adjuvant treatment of early stage 
pre-menopausal breast cancer as an alternative to and/or in 
addition to chemotherapy. Zoladex offers proven survival beneﬁts 
for breast cancer patients with a favourable tolerability proﬁle. 
Competition in the LHRH agonist market is expected to increase  
in Europe during 2011, with further launches of generic goserelin  
(the active ingredient in Zoladex).
Iressa is approved in 76 countries and is one of the leading 
epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase (EGFR-TK) 
inhibitors in Japan and the Asia Paciﬁc region where it is marketed 
for pre-treated advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 
Outside the EU, indications are being sought or expanded from  
the pre-treated setting to include 1st line patients whose tumours 
harbour activating mutations of the EGFR–TK inhibitor.
Mature data from the IPASS study showed that overall survival  
was similar between Iressa and carboplatin/paclitaxel (doublet 
chemotherapy) and conﬁrmed that Iressa may be a potential option 
for the 1st line treatment of EGFR mutation positive patients with 
advanced NSCLC. In the EU, Iressa has been launched as the ﬁrst 
personalised medicine for the treatment of adults with locally 
advanced or metastatic NSCLC with activating mutations.
In January 2011, AstraZeneca informed the FDA that it will be 
withdrawing the accelerated approval NDA for Iressa, effective 
30 September 2011. AstraZeneca does not plan to pursue approval 
for Iressa in the US.
In the pipeline
Vandetanib blocks the development of a tumour’s blood supply 
(anti-angiogenesis) inﬂuencing the growth and survival of the tumour 
itself (RET- (rearranged during transfection) and anti-EGFR-kinase 
activity). Vandetanib is under regulatory review in the US and the  
EU for the treatment of patients with unresectable, locally advanced 
medullary thyroid cancer (MTC). The FDA had granted priority 
review status for the NDA and set a Prescription Drug User Fee Act 
(PDUFA) action date of 7 January 2011. However, as part of the 
review process in the US, the FDA required that we submit a Risk 
Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS). A proposed REMS  
was submitted by AstraZeneca in December 2010 and the FDA 
accordingly extended the original PDUFA date by three months to  
7 April 2011. The submissions are supported by the results from the 
ZETA Phase III study which showed that treatment with vandetanib 
signiﬁcantly extended progression-free survival (PFS), the primary 
endpoint of the study, in patients with advanced MTC. Results from 
a Phase II study also showed that vandetanib signiﬁcantly improved 
PFS, when compared to placebo, for patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic papillary or follicular thyroid cancer. 
Our ﬁnancial performance
World US Western Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
 
 
2010
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Arimidex 1,512 (21) (22) 494 (44) 580 (7) (4) 287 10 2 151 (3) (6) 1,921
Zoladex 1,115 3 – 46 (15) 276 (19) (17) 451 8 – 342 24 23 1,086
Casodex 579 (31) (34) 16 (89) 113 (39) (37) 347 (14) (18) 103 (6) (8) 844
Iressa 393 32 28 4 (20) 49 600 643 182 15 9 158 24 20 297
Others 446 21 21 161 27 135 14 19 61 9 4 89 29 25 370
Total 4,045 (10) (12) 721 (41) 1,153 (10) (7) 1,328 3 (4) 843 15 12 4,518
2009
Arimidex 1,921 3 7 878 16 626 (9) – 261 5 – 156 (8) 3 1,857
Zoladex 1,086 (5) – 54 (25) 341 (10) 1 416 6 – 275 (6) 6 1,138
Casodex 844 (33) (34) 148 (49) 185 (60) (56) 402 6 (5) 109 (12) (1) 1,258
Iressa 297 12 8 5 (29) 7 250 250 158 22 9 127 1 4 265
Others 370 (15) (13) 127 (37) 118 2 9 56 4 (7) 69 6 20 436
Total 4,518 (9) (7) 1,212 (9) 1,277 (22) (15) 1,293 7 (1) 736 (5) 5 4,954
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Therapy Area Review Oncology 65 Recentin (cediranib) is an anti-angiogenic compound being 
evaluated across a range of tumour types. The outcomes of two 
pivotal studies examining cediranib in 1st line metastatic colorectal 
cancer (mCRC) were reported in the ﬁrst half of 2010 and a third 
pivotal study in recurrent glioblastoma (rGBM) was reported in July. 
The trials suggest that cediranib has clinical activity but limited 
clinical utility in these settings. AstraZeneca does not intend to ﬁle 
regulatory submissions in 1st line mCRC or rGBM. There are 
ongoing Phase II studies in NSCLC and other solid tumours.
Zibotentan (ZD4054) is an oral once-daily potent and speciﬁc 
endothelin A-receptor antagonist. Data from a randomised Phase II 
study suggested that zibotentan 10mg had the potential to improve 
survival with a generally well tolerated safety proﬁle in men with 
metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). However, 
data from a Phase III study in the same population did not show  
a signiﬁcant improvement in overall survival. Therefore, no regulatory 
submissions for zibotentan are planned at this time. The full  
results of these studies are expected to be published in 2011.  
The remaining Phase III ENTHUSE studies, investigating efﬁcacy  
in metastatic CRPC in combination with docetaxel, and in  
non-metastatic CRPC, are ongoing.
Olaparib (AZD2281) is an oral poly-ADP-ribose-polymerase  
inhibitor, a new class of drug which potentially offers an innovative 
therapeutic approach to treating cancers by targeting weaknesses 
in DNA repair inherent in many tumour cells. Olaparib is currently 
being evaluated in Phase II studies for the treatment of certain  
types of breast and ovarian cancer. Progression to Phase III studies 
has been delayed while a patient-friendly formulation is under 
investigation. A decision on Phase III studies will be taken in 2011 
when the new formulation becomes available.
Our early oncology pipeline includes a range of novel compounds 
that target signalling pathways believed to be pivotal in cancer cell 
growth and survival, tumour immunology and DNA repair 
mechanisms. AZD8931, a pan-erb kinase inhibitor, has commenced 
Phase II testing targeting the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. 
Also in Phase II is AZD6244, a potent MEK (mitogen-activated 
protein kinase 1) inhibitor licensed from Array BioPharma, Inc., 
which has shown biological activity in both lung cancer and 
melanoma. The Phase I combination studies for AZD6244 with the 
Merck AKT inhibitor, MK2206, are nearing completion with tumour 
speciﬁc Phase II studies planned for 2011.
AZD8055, AZD7762, AZD1480 and AZD4547 are all completing 
Phase I studies while AZD3514, AZD2461 and AZD5363 all entered 
Phase I clinical trials this year. In September, we entered into a 
collaboration with Cancer Research UK to conduct Phase I testing  
of AZD3965, an inhibitor of cancer cell metabolism. In June,  
we entered into a partnership with Dainippon Sumitomo for the 
co-development through Phase I of AZD3016, an immune modulator.
We are also developing potential new cancer drugs using a variety 
of biologic approaches. Our investigational biologics are directed 
towards molecular targets with a strong role in cancer progression 
and incorporate innovative technologies, providing the potential to 
eliminate cancer cells in more effective ways. Within biologics,  
we continue to progress a discovery and clinical pipeline that is 
balanced across different anti-tumour approaches, including 
impacting cancer cells directly (growth factor and survival signalling), 
modulating the blood supply that tumours need to grow (vascular 
modulation) and activating a patient’s own immune system to 
eliminate cancer cells (immune-mediated killing).
Our biologics pipeline includes investigational treatments for 
cancers of the blood as well as for a variety of solid tumours.  
We currently have ﬁve investigational drugs in Phase I trials which 
are currently planned to progress to Phase II studies in 2011. 
Additional drug candidates are expected to begin Phase I trials  
in 2011.
Financial performance 2010/2009
Performance 2010
Reported performance
Oncology sales were down 10% to $4,045 million compared with 
$4,518 million in the prior year.
Performance – CER growth rates
Oncology sales were down 12%.
Sales of Arimidex were down 22%. This was mainly due to sales in 
the US which were down 44% to $494 million, reﬂecting the inroads 
made by generics since their approval at the end of June. Arimidex 
sales outside the US were down 3% to $1,018 million. 
Casodex sales were down 34% with sales in the US down 89% 
to $16 million as a result of generic competition that began in the 
third quarter 2009. Sales outside the US were also down 22% to 
$563 million. 
Iressa sales increased by 28% to $393 million, including $49 million 
of sales in Western Europe. Sales in Japan were up 8%. Sales in 
Emerging Markets were up 20%, including a 23% increase in China.
Faslodex sales for the full year increased by 35% in the US and 
grew by 32% outside the US.
Performance 2009
Reported performance
Oncology sales decreased by 9% to $4,518 million down from 
$4,954 million in 2008.
Performance – CER growth rates
Oncology sales were down 7%. Arimidex sales were up 7% to 
$1,921 million. In the US, Arimidex sales were up 16% to $878 million. 
Outside the US, sales were unchanged at $1,043 million.
Casodex sales decreased by 34% to $844 million, with sales in the 
US down by 49% and sales outside the US down by 29% due to 
continued erosion from generic competition.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 66 Therapy Area Review Oncology
Therapy Area Review Respiratory & Inﬂammation
$58bn
The prescription respiratory world market value is $58 billion.
In brief
>  Total Symbicort sales $2.7 billion, up 20%.
>  Total Pulmicort sales $872 million, down 34%.
>  In November, the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit 
afﬁrmed the US District Court, District of New Jersey’s issuance  
of a preliminary injunction barring Apotex, Inc. and Apotex Corp. 
(Apotex) from launching a generic version of Pulmicort Respules. 
Apotex has petitioned the appellate court for a rehearing of its 
appeal, en banc.
>  Fostamatinib (previously known as R788) was in-licensed from 
Rigel in February 2010 and in September, the ﬁrst patient was 
enrolled in a Phase III clinical development programme for 
rheumatoid arthritis.
Our marketed products
>  Symbicort pMDI (budesonide/formoterol in a pressurised 
metered-dose inhaler) is used for the treatment of asthma and 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in the US.
>  Symbicort Turbuhaler (budesonide/formoterol in a dry powder 
inhaler) is a combination of an inhaled corticosteroid and a fast 
onset, long-acting bronchodilator used for the treatment of asthma 
and COPD. It is also approved for maintenance and reliever therapy 
(SMART) in persistent asthma.
>  Pulmicort (budesonide) is a corticosteroid anti-inﬂammatory 
inhalation drug that is used to help prevent the symptoms of and 
improve the control of asthma.
>  Pulmicort Respules (budesonide inhalation suspension) is a ﬁrst 
nebulised corticosteroid used for the treatment of asthma in both 
children and adults. Approved use for Pulmicort Respules varies 
based on territory. 
>  Rhinocort (budesonide) is a nasal steroid used as a treatment for 
allergic rhinitis (hay fever), perennial rhinitis and nasal polyps.
>  Oxis (formoterol) is a fast onset, long-acting beta-agonist used for 
the treatment of asthma and COPD.
>  Accolate (zaﬁrlukast) is an oral leukotriene receptor antagonist 
used for the treatment of asthma.
Therapy area world market 
(MAT/Q3/10) ($bn)
Market sectors
 Asthma  
 COPD  
 Rhinitis  
 Other  
19.4
20.1
7.4
11.1
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Therapy Area Review Respiratory & Inﬂammation 67 Our strategic objectives
We aim to build on our strong position in the respiratory and 
inﬂammation ﬁeld through the growth of key products, particularly 
Symbicort, with new indications and market launches, including 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), as well as through 
developing a strong pipeline of novel small molecule and biologics 
approaches to COPD and asthma. We aspire to enter the 
rheumatology market through our biologics pipeline and targeted 
small molecule approaches.
COPD and asthma
According to WHO, COPD is currently the fourth leading cause  
of death worldwide, with future increases anticipated. Current 
treatment has recently demonstrated some survival beneﬁt but the 
impact of medication on the course of the disease is small and the 
prognosis of the COPD patient remains poor. In asthma, morbidity 
and mortality remain important issues and disease normalisation is 
not achieved by any treatment.
The typical treatment for both moderate COPD and asthma is a 
ﬁxed-dose combination of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) with a 
long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) (for example Symbicort) or for 
COPD speciﬁcally, an inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist 
(LAMA). Other major asthma treatments include monotherapy ICSs, 
oral leukotriene receptor antagonists and/or oral steroids for severe 
disease and (in combination with antibiotics) for exacerbations. Over 
recent years, studies employing patient-centric tools, such as the 
asthma control questionnaire, have revealed a surprisingly low 
asthma control at all severities, highlighting an underestimated 
medical need.
Our focus
Our key marketed products
Symbicort improves symptoms and provides a clinically important 
improvement in the health of many patients with either asthma or 
COPD by providing effective and rapid control of the symptoms.
Symbicort pMDI (pressurised metered-dose inhaler) is indicated, in 
the US, for the treatment of asthma in patients 12 years of age and 
older. The COPD indication was approved and launched in the US 
in early 2009. In June, the US Prescribing Information was updated 
to include the FDA’s new recommendations for appropriate use of 
asthma medications containing LABAs. The class label changes for 
all LABA-containing products are speciﬁc to the treatment of 
asthma and do not apply to the treatment of COPD.
Symbicort Turbuhaler was launched in Japan for the treatment of 
adult asthma in January 2010 and is co-promoted in Japan together 
with Astellas. Symbicort SMART provides increased asthma control 
and simpliﬁes asthma management through the use of only one 
inhaler for both maintenance and relief of asthma symptoms. As well 
as being a cost-effective treatment for many healthcare payers, the 
Symbicort SMART approach can also result in lower ICS and oral 
steroid use compared to other treatment options.
Pulmicort is one of the world’s leading inhaled corticosteroids for 
the treatment of asthma and is available in several forms. Teva has 
had an exclusive licence to sell a generic version of Pulmicort 
Respules in the US since 2009.
Clinical studies of our key marketed products 
The EUROSMART study, including more than 8,000 patients, 
compared the two Symbicort maintenance doses within the 
SMART concept in asthma to identify possible patient characteristics 
at baseline which would predict a better response to a higher than 
standard maintenance dose in a real life setting. The results from 
the study showed that Symbicort SMART at the 2x2 maintenance 
dose did prolong time to ﬁrst severe exacerbation and reduced 
symptoms. Patients with low lung function beneﬁted most from the 
higher maintenance dose.
In the pipeline
Building on our capabilities in combinations and device 
development demonstrated through our experience with Symbicort, 
we are aiming to further improve the mainstay of treatment for 
COPD patients by combining bronchodilators such as the LABA 
(AZD3199) and the LAMA (AZD8683, being developed in 
collaboration with Pulmagen Therapeutics (Synergy) Limited), with 
inhaled anti-inﬂammatory compounds such as inhaled selective 
glucocorticoid receptor agonists (AZD5423, being developed in 
collaboration with Bayer Schering Pharma), which recently 
commenced Phase II studies. Additionally, we are targeting 
inﬂammation in COPD using oral routes of administration and  
have commenced a Phase II study of AZD5069, a CXCR2 
antagonist that targets neutrophils. AZD9668, an oral inhibitor of 
neutrophil elastase, has been discontinued for the treatment of 
COPD based on Phase IIb study data.
We are targeting uncontrolled asthma/asthma exacerbations 
though small molecule approaches such as AZD1981, a CRTh2 
receptor antagonist, and AZD8848, a toll-like receptor 7 agonist 
(being developed in collaboration with Dainippon Sumitomo) as well 
as biological approaches such as benralizumab (MEDI-563), a MAb 
that blocks the binding of interleukin-5 to its receptor, tralokinumab 
(CAT-354), a MAb that targets interleukin-13 and MEDI-528  
(an anti-IL-9 MAb), which are all in Phase II.
Therapy Area Review
Our ﬁnancial performance
World US Western Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
 
 
2010
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Symbicort 2,746 20 20 721 48 1,367 2 5 286 75 59 372 25 23 2,294
Pulmicort 872 (33) (34) 305 (62) 215 (6) (4) 114 13 5 238 35 32 1,310
Rhinocort 227 (14) (16) 93 (28) 39 (13) (11) 16 14 – 79 4 – 264
Others 254 (4) (5) 41 (15) 118 (4) (3) 22 (4) (13) 73 4 1 264
Total 4,099 (1) (1) 1,160 (21) 1,739 – 3 438 46 33 762 23 20 4,132
2009
Symbicort 2,294 14 23 488 91 1,345 2 11 163 3 13 298 8 21 2,004
Pulmicort 1,310 (12) (10) 804 (18) 229 (8) (1) 101 9 4 176 2 12 1,495
Rhinocort 264 (18) (15) 129 (29) 45 (6) 2 14 (7) – 76 (1) 6 322
Others 264 (14) (7) 48 (9) 123 (16) (7) 23 (12) (8) 70 (15) (4) 307
Total 4,132 –6 1,469 – 1,742 (1) 8 30138 6202 14 4,128
 
 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 68 Therapy Area Review Respiratory & Inﬂammation Rheumatology
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is currently treated with generic disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic agents and, where the relevant criteria are 
met, biologic disease-modiﬁers. There remains a need for novel 
effective treatments since only about a third of patients treated with 
biologics achieve their treatment goals. We anticipate that the RA 
market will experience modest annual growth over the next decade, 
as sales increase from $9 billion to $12 billion
1
. Sales of the biologic 
tumour necrosis factor (TNF) alpha blockers accounted for 75%  
of major-market RA sales and the launch in 2010 of two new TNF 
blockers is likely to sustain the TNF class sales. Use of other 
biologic approaches, currently reserved for TNF blocker failures,  
is expected to increase due to new entrants, new subcutaneous 
formulations and use earlier in the treatment pathway. Targeted 
novel oral drugs that provide anti-TNF-like efﬁcacy with safety 
beneﬁts and more convenient dosing will likely be used ahead of  
the TNF blockers, especially in patients that currently choose not  
to take, are ineligible for, or do not respond to TNF blockers and 
other RA biologics.
Current treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)  
focuses on controlling disease ﬂares, preventing renal failure and 
suppressing symptoms to an acceptable level while minimising 
toxicity. Despite considerable recent development activity, no 
targeted disease-modifying agents have yet been successfully 
launched for SLE. Most emerging biologic agents will likely be used 
initially in combination with corticosteroids or immunosuppressants 
to provide incremental beneﬁt and/or allow reduced doses or 
numbers of these agents.
In the pipeline
Fostamatinib (previously known as R788) was in-licensed from  
Rigel in February 2010. Fostamatinib is the ﬁrst oral syk inhibitor in 
development as a novel therapeutic approach for RA. It is thought 
to reversibly block signalling in multiple cell types involved in 
inﬂammation and tissue degradation in RA. In September, the  
ﬁrst patient was enrolled in the fostamatinib Phase III clinical 
development programme, called OSKIRA. The ﬁrst anticipated 
regulatory ﬁlings based on the OSKIRA programme are currently 
planned for 2013. Under the terms of the agreement with Rigel, 
AstraZeneca will make an upfront payment to Rigel of $100 million 
with up to an additional $345 million payable if speciﬁed 
development, regulatory and ﬁrst commercial sale milestones are 
achieved. Rigel will also be eligible to receive up to an additional 
$800 million of speciﬁed sales-related milestone payments if the 
product achieves considerable levels of commercial success,  
as well as signiﬁcant stepped double-digit royalties on net sales 
worldwide. AstraZeneca is responsible for all development, 
regulatory ﬁlings, manufacturing and global commercialisation 
activities in all licensed indications under the agreement.
In 2010, we invested in several novel multi-functional MAbs in 
inﬂammatory and autoimmune conditions. Sifalimumab (MEDI-545), 
which targets interferon-alpha, is being prepared for a Phase IIb 
dose-ranging study in patients with SLE. Mavrilimumab (CAM-3001, 
licensed from CSL Limited) which targets the alpha sub-unit of the 
granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor receptor, 
successfully completed a Phase I study to assess the tolerability 
and preliminary pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of single 
intravenous doses of CAM-3001 in subjects with RA. A Phase II 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multiple ascending 
dose study evaluating the efﬁcacy and safety of CAM-3001 in 
subjects with RA is also in progress.
Financial performance 2010/2009
Performance 2010
Reported performance
Respiratory & Inﬂammation (R&I) sales were down 1% to $4,099 million 
compared with $4, 132 million in 2009.
Performance – CER growth rates
R&I sales were down 1%.
Total sales of Symbicort were up 20% to $2,746 million with strong 
growth both in the US which was up 48% to $721 million and 
outside the US which was up 13% to $2,025 million.
Sales of Pulmicort were down 34%, mainly as a result of US sales 
which decreased 62% to $305 million as a result of the launch, 
under licence from AstraZeneca, of the Teva generic budesonide 
inhaled suspension product in December 2009. Sales of Pulmicort 
outside the US were up 10% to $567 million.
Performance 2009
Reported performance
R&I sales were $4,132 million, almost level with the $4,128 million  
in 2008.
Performance – CER growth rates
R&I sales grew by 6%.
Total sales of Symbicort grew by 23% to $2,294 million. In the US, 
sales of Symbicort pMDI were $488 million, up 91%. This strong 
growth was led by doctors’ increasing use of Symbicort pMDI, 
particularly in those patients newly starting ﬁxed combination 
therapy. For these patients, more than one in three prescriptions 
written by specialists and more than one in four prescriptions  
written by primary care physicians was for Symbicort pMDI. 
Symbicort (Turbuhaler and SMART) sales outside the US in 
the year were $1,806 million, up 13%.
Total sales for Pulmicort were down 10% to $1,310 million. Total US 
sales for Pulmicort for the full year were down 18% to $804 million 
due to generic competition for Pulmicort Respules. Pulmicort 
Respules accounted for around 86% of total Pulmicort sales in the 
US. Total sales of Pulmicort outside the US were up 4% for the full 
year to $506 million.  
1
 Decision Resources 2010.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Therapy Area Review Respiratory & Inﬂammation 69 How is our 
business 
performing  
around the world?
Revenue growth  
in markets outside 
the US in 2010 
broadly offset the 
loss of revenue  
in the US
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 70 Geographical Review This section contains further information about 
the performance of our products within the 
geographical areas in which our sales and 
marketing efforts are focused.
For more information regarding our products, see the Therapy Area 
Review from page 50. Details of material legal proceedings can be 
found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178 and 
details of relevant risks are set out in the Principal risks and 
uncertainties section from page 96.
See the Market deﬁnitions table on page 217 for information about 
AstraZeneca’s market deﬁnitions.
2010 in brief
>  In the US, combined sales of our key growth brands of Crestor, 
Onglyza™, Seroquel, Symbicort and Vimovo were up 19% 
to $7,167 million (2009: $6,014 million). Despite this strong 
performance, overall sales decreased by 7% to $13,727 million  
as a result of increased generic competition for Arimidex, 
Casodex, Pulmicort Respules and Toprol-XL and its authorised 
generic and the absence of the H1N1 pandemic inﬂuenza  
(swine ﬂu) vaccine revenue.
>  Western Europe reported a strong performance in the context of 
increased competition and governmental controls over healthcare 
expenditure. Crestor outperformed the statin market in Western 
Europe with double-digit growth by volume and Seroquel grew 
three times as fast as the atypical anti-psychotic market segment 
 in Western Europe by value. 
>  Established ROW sales were up 7%, driven by the strong 
performance for Crestor as well as the successful launch for 
Symbicort Turbuhaler in Japan.
>  Emerging Markets delivered strong double-digit sales growth of 
16% to $5,198 million, with sales growth in China of 28%, Russia  
of 26% and Brazil of 17%.
>  AstraZeneca is the third largest pharmaceutical company in the  
US, with a 6% share of US prescription pharmaceutical sales and 
the seventh largest prescription-based pharmaceutical company  
in Western Europe, with a 4.8% market share of prescription sales 
by value. 
Geographical Review
Our ﬁnancial performance
2010 2009 2008
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
US 13,727 (7) (7) 14,777 9 9 13,510
Western Europe 9,168 (1) 2 9,252 (5) 3 9,743
Canada 1,510 26 14 1,203 (6) 3 1,275
Japan 2,617 11 4 2,367 20 7 1,957
Other Established ROW 1,049 23 6 853 1 12 843
Established ROW 5,176 17 7 4,423 8 7 4,075
Emerging Europe 1,16576 1,091 (10) 7 1,215
China 1,047 29 28 811 29 27 627
Emerging Asia Paciﬁc 890 14 7 780 (3) 6 802
Other Emerging ROW 2,096 26 20 1,670 3 13 1,629
Emerging Markets 5,198 19 16 4,352 2 12 4,273
Total 33,269 1 – 32,80447 31,601
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Geographical Review 71 US
AstraZeneca is the third largest pharmaceutical company in the US, 
with a 6% share of US prescription pharmaceutical sales.
Sales in the US decreased 7% to $13,727 million (2009: $14,777 million), 
as strong performance from our key growth brands was offset by 
the impact of increased generic competition experienced by our 
mature brands. Combined sales of our key growth brands, namely, 
Crestor, Onglyza™, Seroquel, Symbicort and Vimovo, were up 19% 
to $7 ,167 million (2009: $6,014 million). Increased generic 
competition for Arimidex, Pulmicort Respules and Toprol-XL and its 
authorised generic, resulted in a sales decline in these brands of 
46% to $1,377 million (2009: $2,534 million).
Crestor achieved sales of $2,640 million (2009: $2,100 million) and 
a total prescription growth of 12.2% within the statin market. This 
growth signiﬁcantly outpaced the market by 9.5% and the growth  
of total generic statins by 1.3%. 
Seroquel continued to be the most prescribed atypical anti-
psychotic, with sales up 10% to $3,747 million (2009: $3,416 million). 
Seroquel grew total prescriptions by 132,400. This was driven by 
strong Seroquel XR prescription volume growth of 92%, following 
the promotional launch of the adjunct major depressive disorder 
indication in the ﬁrst quarter of 2010. Seroquel XR was the fastest 
growing branded atypical anti-psychotic, accounting for 15.9% of 
the Seroquel total prescription volume in the US, up from 11.1% at 
the end of 2009. 
Symbicort pMDI continued to deliver steady growth in the US, with 
sales up 48% to $721 million (2009: $488 million) and prescription 
growth of 44%, leading the ﬁxed combination class in total 
prescription growth. It achieved an 18% total prescription share  
and a 19.5% new prescription share of the inhaled corticosteroid/
long-acting beta-agonist market.
Onglyza™ is presently capturing one in four new dipeptidyl 
peptidase patient treatment decisions and achieved over an 8% 
total prescription share gain in 2010, ending the year with a total 
prescription share of 10% of the dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor 
market. Sales in the US were $54 million (2009: $11 million).
Nexium remained the third most prescribed branded 
pharmaceutical in the US. In the face of continuing generic, OTC 
and pricing pressures, Nexium sales were down 5% to $2,695 
million (2009: $2,835 million). Generic lansoprazole and Prevacid 
OTC 24 Hour were introduced in late 2009, leaving Nexium as the 
only branded pharmaceutical product with signiﬁcant market share 
by volume in the proton pump inhibitor class. 
Sales of Toprol-XL and its authorised generic, which is marketed 
and distributed by Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc., decreased 
29% to $689 million (2009: $964 million), with further generic 
competition from Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Wockhardt Ltd, 
which entered the market in 2010.
Patent protection in the US for Arimidex expired in June, following 
which multiple generic formulations of Arimidex were approved 
by the FDA and entered the market. As a result, sales of Arimidex 
declined 44% to $494 million (2009: $878 million). Generic 
competition also caused Casodex sales to decline by 89% to 
$16 million (2009: $148 million).
Sales for Pulmicort Respules were down 72% to $194 million 
(2009: $692 million) as a result of sales of Teva’s generic product 
which entered the market under an exclusive licence from 
AstraZeneca in December 2009.
In 2010, sales of Synagis in the US were down 17% to $646 million 
(2009: $782 million). Sales in the 2009-2010 respiratory syncytial 
virus (RSV) season started slower than anticipated due to payer 
pressure as a result of the introduction of more restrictive guidelines 
regarding the use and dosing of Synagis by the American Academy 
of Pediatrics and the adoption of these guidelines.
Revenue from the sale of the H1N1 pandemic inﬂuenza (swine ﬂu) 
vaccine to the US government fell to $39 million (2009: $389 million) 
as the order for the US Department of Health and Human Services 
was fulﬁlled in the ﬁrst quarter of 2010 and this strain has now been 
incorporated into the traditional seasonal inﬂuenza vaccine.
Sales for Aptium Oncology, Inc. fell by 44% to $219 million  
(2009: $393 million) and sales for Astra Tech AB rose by 22%  
to $101 million (2009: $83 million).
In March 2010, the Affordable Care Act came into force. It has had 
and is expected to have a signiﬁcant impact on our US sales and 
the US healthcare industry as a whole. For further information, see 
the Pricing pressure section from page 11.
Currently, there is no direct government control of prices for 
commercial prescription drug sales in the US. However, some 
publicly funded programmes, such as Medicaid and TRICARE 
(Department of Veterans Affairs), have statutorily mandated rebates 
and discounts that have the effect of price controls for these 
programmes. Additionally, pressure on pricing, availability and 
utilisation of prescription drugs for both commercial and public 
payers continues to increase. This is driven by, among other things, 
an increased focus on generic alternatives. Primary drivers of 
increased generic use are budgetary policies within healthcare 
systems and providers, including the use of ‘generics only’ 
formularies, and increases in patient co-insurance or co-payments. 
In 2010, 78% of the prescriptions dispensed in the US were generic. 
While it is unlikely that there will be widespread adoption of a broad 
national price-control scheme in the near future, there will continue 
to be increased attention to pharmaceutical prices and their impact 
on healthcare costs for the foreseeable future.
Rest of World
Sales performance outside the US in 2010 was strong, up 7%  
to $19,542 million (2009: $18,027 million), despite the continuing 
challenging economic environment. Combined sales of key 
products (Arimidex, Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel and Symbicort) were 
up 11% with sales of $9,923 million (2009: $8,824 million). Emerging 
Markets delivered particularly strong sales, up 16% with sales of 
$5,198 million (2009: $4,352 million).
Western Europe
AstraZeneca is the seventh largest prescription-based 
pharmaceutical company in Western Europe, with a 4.8% market 
share of prescription sales by value.
Total sales in Western Europe were up 2% (Reported: down 1%)  
to $9,168 million (2009: $9,252 million) as volume growth exceeded 
the negative impact from price reductions chieﬂy related to 
government interventions. Much of the volume growth was 
attributable to Crestor, Seroquel XR and Symbicort.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 72 Geographical Review
Geographical Review Crestor outperformed the statin market with strong double-digit 
sales growth by volume. Likewise, Seroquel outperformed the 
atypical anti-psychotics market segment by three times, in value,  
with strong growth of Seroquel XR, primarily driven by the bipolar 
indication. Symbicort defended its position in the inhaled 
corticosteroid/beta-agonist market well, despite a highly 
competitive environment. Generic versions of Nexium are now 
available in several markets but overall sales were up 2% to  
$1,202 million (Reported: down 2%) (2009: $1,225 million).
Most governments in Europe intervene directly to control the price 
and reimbursement of medicines. The decision making power of 
prescribers in Europe has been eroded in favour of a diverse range 
of payers. While the systems to control pharmaceutical spending 
vary, they have all had a noticeable negative impact on the uptake 
and availability of innovative medicines. Several governments have 
imposed price reductions and increased the use of generic 
medicines as part of healthcare expenditure control. Several 
countries are applying strict criteria for cost-effectiveness 
evaluations of medicines, which has reduced access to medicines 
for European patients in areas of high unmet medical need. These 
and other measures all contribute to an increasingly difﬁcult 
environment for branded pharmaceuticals in Europe.
Further, in 2010, we experienced a number of government 
interventions in our markets which, combined with the current 
economic conditions, had a negative impact on our sales. In 
particular, sales growth in Germany slowed to 1% (Reported: down 
3%) to $1,235 million (2009: $1,278 million), principally owing to an 
increase of compulsory rebates for Symbicort and Seroquel and 
reference pricing for Crestor. However, Seroquel, Symbicort and 
Atacand all showed a strong performance on an underlying volume 
basis. As a result of the debt crisis in Greece, the Greek government 
implemented signiﬁcant price cuts in 2010 which resulted in an 
overall sales decline of 14% to $322 million (2009: $392 million).  
In the UK, a 3% decrease in sales to $1,022 million (2009: $1,056 
million) was caused, in part, by a 1.9% price cut across the portfolio 
although this was partially offset by strong performance of Crestor 
and Symbicort.
Overall sales in France increased by 7% to $1,848 million (2009: 
$1,810 million), driven by double-digit growth of Crestor and Nexium 
and continued strong growth of Symbicort despite very aggressive 
competition. Sales in Italy were up 4% (Reported: unchanged) to 
$1,198 million (2009: $1,199 million). Crestor showed particularly 
strong growth of 24%. However, from August, performance was 
impacted by a general price cut in sales to the private sector of 1.8%.
Established ROW
Sales in Established ROW increased by 7%. The key products 
driving sales growth in 2010 were Crestor, Symbicort, Nexium 
and Seroquel.
Canada
AstraZeneca remains the second largest research-based 
pharmaceutical company in Canada by sales value. In 2010,  
total Canadian sales increased by 14% to $1,510 million  
(2009: $1,203 million), compared to a year-on-year increase of  
3.6% for the Canadian pharmaceutical industry. Combined sales  
of Crestor, Nexium, Symbicort and Atacand were $1,133 million 
(2009: $872 million), with Crestor and Nexium the second and ﬁfth 
largest prescription products in Canada by sales. An established 
product in the Canadian marketplace, Crestor sales grew by 25% 
to $600 million (2009: $434 million). Despite limited formulary 
access, Nexium sales reached $271 million (2009: $217 million), 
representing year-on-year growth of 13%.
The Canadian provinces continue to adopt provincial and regional 
approaches to pharmaceutical funding, from one end of the 
continuum in Quebec, with more open access, to more restricted 
access in British Columbia. In 2010, there was a reduction in 
generic prices, led by Ontario, and changes to the pharmacy 
reimbursement model. Overall, the trend in Canada indicates  
that provinces will continue to introduce policy changes that drive 
cost savings, while providing reasonable patient access to 
innovative medicines.
Japan
Sales in Japan increased by 4% to $2,617 million (2009: $2,367 million). 
Strong volume gains of 7 .3% were driven mainly by the continued 
growth of Crestor and Losec, as well as the launch of Symbicort 
Turbuhaler, which is co-promoted with Astellas. By the end of 2010, 
Symbicort Turbuhaler had a 14% share (by volume) of the market for 
inhaled corticosteroid/beta-agonists. AstraZeneca’s oncology 
business remains one of the leaders in Japan and delivered growth 
from Iressa (+8%), Arimidex (+4%) and Zoladex (+1%), partially 
offset by the decline of Casodex (-19%) which has faced generic 
competition since 2009. This was achieved despite the biennial 
reimbursement price reductions by the Ministry of Health, Labour 
and Welfare which were imposed in April 2010. As expected,  
the price reductions were accompanied by the introduction of a 
new system to exempt certain products from the biennial price 
reductions. The system was introduced on a temporary basis linked 
to industry and company commitments to seek registration for 
products and indications not currently available in Japan.
Other Established ROW
Sales in Other Established ROW showed robust growth of 6% to 
$1,049 million (2009: $853 million). Double-digit volume growth in 
Australia for our key products was partially offset by price cuts 
imposed in April 2010 on Crestor and Nexium. Crestor continued to 
perform particularly strongly and had a 22% volume share in the 
Australian statin market.
Emerging Markets
In the Emerging Markets, sales increased by 16% to $5,198 million 
(2009: $4,352 million), accounting for nearly 57% of total sales 
growth outside the US. This was driven by growth in China and 
Latin America.
In many of the larger markets, such as Brazil and Mexico, patients 
tend to pay directly for prescription medicines and consequently 
these markets are at less risk of direct government interventions on 
pricing and reimbursement. In other markets such as South Korea, 
Taiwan and Turkey where governments do pay for medicines, we 
are seeing the introduction of measures to reduce the cost of 
prescriptions in line with the systems in Europe, Canada and 
Australia.
Emerging Europe
Sales in Emerging Europe were up 6% to $1,165 million (2009: 
$1,091 million) driven by increased sales in Russia and Romania, 
which more than offset a reduction in sales in Turkey.
We have continued to build our presence in Russia, where sales 
were up 26% to $232 million (2009: $180 million), mainly driven by 
sales of Zoladex (+38%), Symbicort (+41%), Nexium (+109%) and 
Crestor (+43%).
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Geographical Review 73 In Romania, we delivered a strong performance with sales up  
36% to $119 million (2009: $92 million). This was driven by sales of 
Crestor (+41%), Seroquel (+48%) and Symbicort (+97%). In 2010, the 
government imposed a claw back system to ﬁnance the healthcare 
budget deﬁcit. In addition, the government imposed extended 
payment terms for distributors to drug manufacturers.
In late 2009, the Turkish government imposed unprecedented levels 
of price reductions on the pharmaceutical industry. As a result, our 
2010 sales were down 13% to $304 million (2009: $339 million), 
despite an underlying 4.9% volume growth.
China
In 2010, our business in China (excluding Hong Kong) increased by 
28% to $1,047 million (2009: $811 million), becoming AstraZeneca’s 
eighth market to pass the $1 billion mark. We continue to be one of 
the fastest growing multinational pharmaceutical companies in 
China and the second largest in the prescription market by value. 
Crestor, Symbicort, Nexium i.v. and Betaloc Zok (Seloken/Toprol-XL) 
were listed on the National Reimbursement Drug list in November 
2009 and provincial level listings are being ﬁnalised. 
Emerging Asia Paciﬁc
Sales in Emerging Asia Paciﬁc showed strong growth of 7% to  
$890 million (2009: $780 million). This was driven by double-digit 
sales growth in South Korea, India, Malaysia and Vietnam. Growth 
was more subdued in markets which were more signiﬁcantly 
impacted by government interventions on pricing or by measures 
which promoted local generic penetration, primarily in Taiwan, 
Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia.
Other Emerging ROW
In Latin America, sales were up 19% to $1,391 million (2009:  
$1,118 million) mainly due to continued sales growth in Brazil and 
Mexico. In Brazil, our overall sales grew by 17% to $605 million 
(2009: $457 million). Atacand, Crestor, Nexium and Seroquel 
showed strong performance, with overall sales up 28% to  
$314 million (2009: $216 million). Seroquel was our number one 
prescription product, with sales up 34% to $103 million (2009:  
$68 million), followed by Crestor, with overall sales up 33% to 
$102 million (2009: $67 million). 
Sales in Mexico were strong, increasing by 17% to $325 million 
(2009: $261 million). Overall sales of Atacand, Crestor, Nexium, 
Symbicort and Seroquel were up 33% to $140 million (2009: 
$100 million). Nexium increased sales by 35% to $58 million (2009: 
$41 million). Overall sales of Crestor were up 37% to $38 million 
(2009: $27 million).
In the Middle East and Africa, we further accelerated our growth 
with sales up 28% and continued to gain market share, by value,  
in the region. Our largest markets in the region were Saudi Arabia, 
the United Arab Emirates and Egypt, and growth in 2010 has mainly 
been driven by Maghreb. In South Africa, sales were up 15%,  
mainly driven by growth of Symbicort (+22%), Seroquel (+29%) 
and Crestor (+27%).
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 74 Geographical Review
Geographical Review Astra Tech
Astra Tech AB (Astra Tech) is engaged in the research, 
development, manufacture and marketing of dental implants and 
medical devices for use primarily in urology and surgery. Astra Tech 
has two main business divisions: Astra Tech Dental, which is 
responsible for the odontology area of the business, and Astra Tech 
Healthcare, which is responsible for the urology and surgery areas 
of the business. Astra Tech has a leading position in several 
countries in Europe and is expanding its operations in key markets, 
particularly in Russia, the US, Japan and Emerging Asia Paciﬁc.
All product lines showed continued good sales growth in 2010. 
Despite the current economic downturn, the dental implant  
market is estimated to have grown by 3% during 2010 and Astra 
Tech Dental grew its implant sales and increased its market share  
in several key markets. The downturn in the world economy  
has had no signiﬁcant impact on the market for Astra Tech 
Healthcare products.
Since Astra Tech’s acquisition of Atlantis Components Inc. (Atlantis) 
in 2007 , Astra Tech has introduced the Atlantis product range into 
most European markets and the market response has been very 
favourable. The European manufacturing facility for Atlantis 
products, which Astra Tech opened in late 2008, is now in full 
operation, meeting an increasing demand from the European 
market. The acquisition of Atlantis has given Astra Tech a strong 
platform for development within digital dentistry, offering an 
important opportunity for continued growth for the dental implants 
product line.
Major investments have been made in new production equipment 
for the manufacturing of new LoFric catheter products which were 
launched in the ﬁrst quarter of 2010.
The Astra Tech training and education programme has been further 
developed and, in combination with its state-of-the-art centre for 
training and education at its headquarters, advanced international 
education programmes and seminars are continuously being 
offered to existing and potential customers. Further investments 
have been made in R&D, clinical research and new production 
facilities to strengthen the product portfolio.
In November, AstraZeneca formally commenced a review of its 
strategic options for Astra Tech. AstraZeneca continues to evaluate 
all alternatives for value maximisation from this business and any 
ﬁnal decision will only be made when the results of the review have 
concluded. During the period of this review, AstraZeneca remains 
committed to supporting Astra Tech’s business, customers and 
stakeholders.
Aptium Oncology 
For more than 25 years, Aptium Oncology, Inc. (Aptium Oncology) 
has been developing and managing hospital-based outpatient 
cancer centres in the US. Ownership of Aptium Oncology provides 
AstraZeneca with a unique window into the provider sector of the 
US oncology market and access to a network of over 140 doctors 
who can help to shape early phase drug development decisions. It 
is also involved in clinical study delivery for a number of our pipeline 
products and provides scientiﬁc advice and staff training for 
oncology teams.
In 2010, Aptium Oncology continued to reﬁne its business model to 
adapt to the ever-changing dynamics of the US healthcare industry, 
while continuing to perform well in its cancer centre management 
business with positive proﬁt and cash ﬂow contributions. It remains 
focused on growth and its consultancy business continues to lay 
the groundwork for new management relationships. For example,  
in the second quarter of 2010, Aptium Oncology entered into a  
long-term management agreement with Beth Israel Medical Center 
in New York, a member of the Continuum Health Network, to 
manage its West Side Cancer Center.
Clinical research is an integral part of care delivery at Aptium 
Oncology’s cancer centres and an area of strategic strength for the 
company. In addition to Aptium Oncology’s Gastrointestinal Cancer 
Consortium, which has been successful in bringing together eight 
leading US academic institutions to speed up the process of ﬁnding 
and testing active new compounds for patients with gastrointestinal 
cancers, Aptium Oncology created a similar consortium in 2010 
focused on multiple myeloma.
Other Businesses
Our ﬁnancial performance
World US Western Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2010
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER 
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Reported 
growth 
%
CER
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER 
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Reported
growth 
%
CER
growth 
%
World
sales 
$m
Aptium 
Oncology 219 (44) (44) 219 (44) ––– ––– ––– 393
Astra Tech 535 6 7 101 22 393 2 4 38 6 (3) 3 200 100 506
Total 754 (16) (15) 320 (33) 393 2 4 38 6 (3) 3 200 100 899
2009
Aptium 
Oncology 39 3 (1) (1) 39 3 (1) ––– ––– ––– 395
Astra Tech 506 (4) 2 83 4 386 (6) 2 36 10 20 1 – – 529
Total 899 (3) 1 476 – 386 (6) 2 36 10 20 1 – – 924
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Other Businesses 75   What is being 
done to improve 
health in China?
AstraZeneca is one of the country’s fastest growing 
multinational pharmaceutical companies. At present, 
most of our business comes from big hospitals in 200 of 
the largest cities that have a population of more than one 
million. We are investing to improve our sales capabilities 
in these and in a further 100 large cities.
At the same time, nearly 900 million people live outside 
big cities and the Chinese government is investing 
$125 billion between 2009 and 2011 to support 
healthcare reform by expanding basic healthcare 
insurance and upgrading community and rural hospitals. 
We have plans to build a sustainable business in this 
broader market.
We are also supporting the Chinese Ministry of Health in 
improving patient health with an innovative programme to 
increase the capacity of community healthcare services 
by strengthening the training of general practitioners. In 
collaboration with the China Medical Association, which 
will be providing the training, AstraZeneca is sponsoring 
a three-year programme. It will help train some 30,000 
community general practitioners so that they can better 
treat some common chronic diseases.
Because health connects us all
For more information go to the Geographical Review 
from page 70. How did the 
business perform 
ﬁnancially in 2010?
Our performance  
in 2010 underlines 
the resilience  
and strength of 
AstraZeneca’s 
business
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 78 Financial Review AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010         Our performance 
in 2010 enabled us to 
deliver increased 
earnings, increase the 
dividend and return 
residual cash to 
shareholders through 
share repurchases
Contents
79 Introduction 
80 Measuring performance
81 2010 Business background and results overview
82  Results of operations – summary analysis of year  
to 31 December 2010
84 Cash ﬂow and liquidity – 2010
85 Financial position – 2010
86 Capitalisation and shareholder return
87 Future prospects
87  Results of operations – summary analysis of year  
to 31 December 2009
89 Cash ﬂow and liquidity – 2009
89 Financial position – 2009
90 Financial risk management
90 Critical accounting policies and estimates
93 Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404
Despite government pricing pressures and anticipated patent 
expiries in the US and Western Europe, revenue in 2010 remained in 
line with the prior year in constant currency terms, as a result of an 
excellent performance for key brands and continued growth in 
Emerging Markets.
Core operating proﬁt was also unchanged in constant currency 
terms. Core earnings per share increased by 5%, beneﬁting from 
lower net ﬁnance expense, a lower tax rate and fewer shares 
outstanding as a result of share repurchases.
Our extensive efforts to reshape the cost base to maintain 
competitiveness continue. The ﬁrst phase of our restructuring 
programme is now complete, and it has delivered exactly as 
planned. We have achieved annual beneﬁts of $2.4 billion by the 
end of 2010 at a total programme cost of $2.5 billion incurred over 
the 2007 to 2009 period. The second phase of restructuring, 
announced in January 2010, is expected to deliver a further  
$1.9 billion in annual beneﬁts by the end of 2014, at a planned  
cost of $2.0 billion, of which $1.2 billion was charged in 2010.
Our cash generation remains strong, enabling us to invest for future 
growth and value by funding research and development and capital 
expenditures while also providing $5.5 billion in cash returns to 
shareholders by way of dividends and share repurchases: a nearly 
two-fold increase compared with 2009.
Driving operating execution in line with our mid-term planning 
assumptions for revenue and pre-R&D operating margin will 
generate the requisite cash ﬂow to provide for the needs of the 
business while providing attractive shareholder returns, as 
evidenced by the 11% increase in the dividend for 2010 and the 
planned $4 billion in net share repurchases for 2011.
Simon Lowth 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Financial Review Introduction 79
Financial Review The purpose of this Financial Review is to provide a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the 
ﬁnancial performance of the business during 2010, the ﬁnancial position as at the end of the year  
and the main business factors and trends which could affect the future ﬁnancial performance of  
the business.
All growth rates in this Financial Review are expressed at constant exchange rates unless noted otherwise.
Measuring performance 
The following measures are referred to when reporting on our 
performance both in absolute terms but more often in comparison 
to earlier years in this Financial Review:
>  Reported performance. Reported performance takes into 
account all the factors (including those which we cannot 
inﬂuence, principally currency exchange rates) that have 
affected the results of our business as reﬂected in our Group 
Financial Statements prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the EU and as issued by the IASB. 
>  Core ﬁnancial measures. These are non-GAAP measures 
because, unlike Reported performance, they cannot be 
derived directly from the information in the Group’s Financial 
Statements. These measures are adjusted to exclude certain 
signiﬁcant items, such as charges and provisions related to 
our global restructuring programmes, amortisation and 
impairment of the signiﬁcant intangibles relating to the 
acquisition of MedImmune in 2007 , the amortisation and 
impairment of the signiﬁcant intangibles relating to our current 
and future exit arrangements with Merck in the US and other 
speciﬁed items. See the 2010 Reconciliation of Reported 
results to Core results table on page 82 for a reconciliation of 
Reported to Core performance. 
>  Constant exchange rate (CER) growth rates. These are also 
non-GAAP measures. These measures remove the effects of 
currency movements (by retranslating the current year’s 
performance at previous year’s exchange rates and adjusting 
for other exchange effects, including hedging). A reconciliation 
of the Reported results adjusted for the impact of currency 
movements is provided in the 2010 Reported operating proﬁt 
table on page 82. 
>  Core pre-R&D operating margin. This is a non-GAAP measure 
of our Core ﬁnancial performance. A reconciliation of Core 
pre-R&D operating margin to our operating proﬁt is provided 
on pages 82 and 88.
>  Gross margin and operating proﬁt margin percentages. These 
measures set out the progression of key performance margins 
and demonstrate the overall quality of the business. 
>  Prescription volumes and trends for key products. These 
measures can represent the real business growth and the 
progress of individual products better and more immediately 
than invoiced sales. 
>  Net funds/debt. This represents our cash and cash 
equivalents, current investments and derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments less interest-bearing loans and borrowings. 
CER measures allow us to focus on the changes in sales and 
expenses driven by volume, prices and cost levels relative to the 
prior period. Sales and cost growth expressed in CER allows 
management to understand the true local movement in sales and 
costs, in order to compare recent trends and relative return on 
investment. CER growth rates can be used to analyse sales in a 
number of ways but, most often, we consider CER growth by 
products and groups of products, and by countries and regions. 
CER sales growth can be further analysed into the impact of sales 
volumes and selling price. Similarly, CER cost growth helps us to 
focus on the real local change in costs so that we can manage the 
cost base effectively.
We believe that disclosing Core ﬁnancial and growth measures in 
addition to our Reported ﬁnancial information enhances investors’ 
ability to evaluate and analyse the underlying ﬁnancial performance 
of our ongoing business and the related key business drivers.  
The adjustments made to our Reported ﬁnancial information in 
order to show Core ﬁnancial measures illustrate clearly, and on  
a year-on-year or period-by-period basis, the impact upon our 
performance caused by factors such as changes in sales and 
expenses driven by volume, prices and cost levels relative to  
such prior years or periods.
Further, as shown in the 2010 Reconciliation of Reported results  
to Core results table on page 82, our reconciliation of Reported 
ﬁnancial information to Core ﬁnancial measures includes a 
breakdown of the items for which our Reported ﬁnancial 
information is adjusted and a further breakdown of those items  
by speciﬁc line item as such items are reﬂected in our Reported 
income statement, to illustrate the signiﬁcant items that are 
excluded from Core ﬁnancial measures and their impact on our 
Reported ﬁnancial information, both as a whole and in respect  
of speciﬁc line items.
Core pre-R&D operating margin is our operating margin before 
research and development costs recorded in the year. This 
measure reﬂects Core operating performance before reinvestment 
in internal research and development.
Management presents these results externally to meet investors’ 
requirements for transparency and clarity. Core ﬁnancial measures 
are also used internally in the management of our business 
performance, in our budgeting process and when determining 
compensation.
Core ﬁnancial measures are non-GAAP adjusted measures. All 
items for which Core ﬁnancial measures are adjusted are included 
in our Reported ﬁnancial information because they represent 
actual costs of our business in the periods presented. As a result, 
Core ﬁnancial measures merely allow investors to differentiate 
between different kinds of costs and they should not be used in 
isolation. You should also refer to our Reported ﬁnancial 
information in the 2010 Reported operating proﬁt table on page 82, 
our reconciliation of Core ﬁnancial measures to Reported ﬁnancial 
information in the Reconciliation of Reported results to Core results 
table on page 82, and to the Results of operations – summary 
analysis of year to 31 December 2009 section from page 87 for 
our discussion of comparative Reported growth measures that 
reﬂect all of the factors that affect our business. Our determination 
of non-GAAP measures, together with our presentation of them 
within this ﬁnancial information, may differ from similarly titled 
non-GAAP measures of other companies.
The SET retains strategic management of the costs excluded  
from Reported ﬁnancial information in arriving at Core ﬁnancial 
measures, tracking their impact on Reported operating proﬁt  
and EPS, with operational management being delegated on a 
case-by-case basis to ensure clear accountability and consistency 
for each cost category. 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 80 Financial Review Measuring Performance
Financial Review 2010 Business background and results overview
The business background is covered in the Our marketplace 
section, the Therapy Area Review and the Geographical Review 
and describes in detail the developments in both our products  
and geographical regions. 
As described earlier in our Annual Report, sales of our products are 
directly inﬂuenced by medical need and are generally paid for by 
health insurance schemes or national healthcare budgets. Our 
operating results can be affected by a number of factors other than 
the delivery of operating plans and normal competition, such as:
>  The adverse impact on pharmaceutical prices as a result of the 
macroeconomic and regulatory environment. For instance, 
although there is no direct governmental control on prices in the 
US, action from federal and individual state programmes and 
health insurance bodies is leading to downward pressures on 
realised prices. In other parts of the world, there are a variety of 
price and volume control mechanisms and retrospective rebates 
based on sales levels that are imposed by governments. In 2010, 
we saw the introduction of the US healthcare reform legislation 
and government imposed price reductions in Western Europe (as 
detailed in the Pricing pressure section from page 11).
>  The risk of generic competition following loss of patent protection 
or patent expiry or an ‘at risk’ launch by a competitor, with the 
potential adverse effects on sales volumes and prices. For 
example in 2010, our performance was affected by generic 
competition in the US for Arimidex, Pulmicort Respules and 
Toprol-XL. Further details of the impact of patent expiry on our 
revenue streams are included in the Patent expiries section on 
page 31.
>  The timings of new product launches, which can be inﬂuenced  
by national regulators, and the risk that such new products do not 
succeed as anticipated, together with the rate of sales growth  
and costs following new product launches. 
>  Currency ﬂuctuations. Our functional and reporting currency  
is the US dollar, but we have substantial exposures to other 
currencies, in particular the euro, Japanese yen, pound sterling 
and Swedish krona. 
>  Macro factors such as greater demand from an ageing population 
and increasing requirements of servicing Emerging Markets. 
Over the longer term, the success of our R&D is crucial, and we 
devote substantial resources to this area. The beneﬁts of this 
investment emerge over the long term and there is considerable 
inherent uncertainty as to whether and when it will generate  
future products.
The most signiﬁcant features of our ﬁnancial results in 2010 are:
>  Reported revenue of $33,269 million was unchanged (Reported: 
up 1%).
>  Strong revenue growth in markets outside the US broadly offset 
the loss of more than $1.6 billion of revenue in the US from 
generic competition on several products and the absence of 
H1N1 pandemic inﬂuenza vaccine revenue. 
>  Strong double-digit sales growth at CER for Crestor, Symbicort 
and Seroquel XR. Crestor and Seroquel franchise sales now 
exceed $5 billion each for the full year. 
>  Revenue in Emerging Markets grew to over $5.1 billion, a 16% 
increase (Reported: 19%). Sales in China increased to over  
$1.0 billion.
>  Core operating proﬁt for the full year was unchanged on both a 
Reported and a CER basis at $13,603 million. Operating proﬁt 
decreased by 1% (Reported: unchanged). 
>  Excluded from Core results were speciﬁc legal provisions of  
$612 million (which impacted Reported results in the year) mainly 
in respect of the ongoing Seroquel product liability litigation and 
state attorney general investigations into sales and marketing 
practices, and a gain of $791 million arising from changes made 
to beneﬁts under certain of the Group’s post-retirement plans, 
chieﬂy the Group’s UK pension plan.  
>  Basic EPS of $5.60 represented an increase of 7%  
(Reported: 8%). Core EPS for the full year increased by 5%  
to $6.71 (Reported: 6%). 
>  Net cash inﬂow from operating activities was $10,680 million 
(2009: $11,739 million). 
>  Dividends paid increased to $3,361 million (2009: $2,977 million). 
>  Net funds at 31 December were $3,653 million, an improvement 
of $3,118 million on $535 million in the previous year. 
>  Total restructuring costs associated with the global programme to 
reshape the cost base of the business were $1,202 million in 2010 
(2009: $659 million). This brings the total restructuring costs 
charged to date to $3,708 million.
 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Financial Review 2010 Business background and results overview 81 Results of operations – summary analysis of year to 31 December 2010
2010 Reported operating proﬁt
2010 2009 Percentage of sales 2010 compared with 2009
Reported
$m
CER
growth
$m
Growth
due to
exchange
effects
$m
Reported
$m
Reported
2010 
%
Reported
2009 
%
CER 
growth
%
Reported
growth 
%
Revenue 33,269 164 301 32,804 –1
Cost of sales (6,389) (497) (117) (5,775) (19.2) (17.6) 9 11
Gross proﬁt 26,880 (333) 184 27,029 80.8 82.4 (1) (1)
Distribution costs (335) (31) (6) (298) (1.0) (0.9) 10 12
Research and development (5,318) (871) (38) (4,409) (16.0) (13.5) 20 21
Selling, general and administrative costs (10,445) 955 (68) (11,332) (31.4) (34.5) (8) (8)
Other operating income and expense 712 159 – 553 2.1 1.7 29 29
Operating proﬁt 11,494 (121) 72 11,543 34.5 35.2 (1) –
Net ﬁnance expense (517) (736)
Proﬁt before tax 10,977 10,807
Taxation (2,896) (3,263)
Proﬁt for the period 8,081 7,544
Basic earnings per share ($) 5.60 5.19
2010 Core operating results
2010 2009 2010 compared with 2009
Core
$m
CER
growth
$m
Growth 
due to
exchange
effects 
$m
Core
$m
CER 
growth 
%
Total
Core
growth 
%
Gross margin 27,024 (386) 193 27,217 (1) (1)
Distribution costs (335) (30) (7) (298) 10 12
Research and development (4,219) 176 (61) (4,334) (4) (3)
Selling, general and administrative costs (9,777) 190 (77) (9,890) (2) (1)
Other operating income and expense 910 (16) – 926 (2) (2)
Operating proﬁt 13,603 (66) 48 13,621 ––
Net ﬁnance expense (517) (736)
Proﬁt before tax 13,086 12,885
Taxation (3,416) (3,703)
Proﬁt for the period 9,670 9,182
Basic earnings per share ($) 6.71 6.32
2010 Reconciliation of Reported results to Core results
Merck & MedImmune
2010
Reported
$m
Restructuring
costs
$m
Amortisation 
$m
Intangible
impairments
$m
Legal 
provisions
$m
Post-
retirement
plan
amendments
$m
2010 Core
$m
Gross margin 26,880 144–––– 27,024
Distribution costs (335) – – – – – (335)
Research and development (5,318) 654 – 445 – – (4,219)
Selling, general and administrative costs (10,445) 404 443 – 612 (791) (9,777)
Other operating income and expense 712– 75 123–– 910
Operating proﬁt 11,494 1,202 518 568 612 (791) 13,603
Add back: Research and development 5,318 (654) – (445) – – 4,219
Pre-R&D operating margin 16,812 548 518 123 612 (791) 17,822
Net ﬁnance expense (517) ––––– (517)
Proﬁt before tax 10,977 1,202 518 568 612 (791) 13,086
Taxation (2,896) (317) (100) (150) (162) 209 (3,416)
Proﬁt for the period 8,081 885 418 418 450 (582) 9,670
Basic earnings per share ($) 5.60 0.62 0.29 0.29 0.31 (0.40) 6.71
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 82 Financial Review Results of operations – summary analysis of year to 31 December 2010
Financial Review Revenue was unchanged (Reported: up 1%). Revenue beneﬁted 
from strong growth of Crestor, Symbicort and Seroquel offset by 
lower revenues for Pulmicort, Arimidex and Casodex and the 
absence of H1N1 vaccine revenue. Emerging Markets sales growth 
of 16% (Reported: 19%) and Established ROW 7% (Reported: 17%) 
was offset by a decline in US sales of 7% (Reported: 7%) with sales 
in Western Europe up 2% (Reported: down 1%). Further details of 
our sales performance are contained in the Performance 2010 
sections of the Therapy Area Review from page 50 and the 
Geographical Review from page 70.
Core gross margin of 81.2% declined 1.6 percentage points 
(Reported: 1.8 percentage points). The impairment of lesogaberan 
(AZD3355), the 2009 beneﬁt from the release of a provision with 
respect to the resolution of an issue related to a third party supply 
contract, higher royalties and adverse regional and product mix 
were only partially offset by lower payments to Merck.
Core R&D expenditure was $4,219 million, 4% lower than last year 
(Reported: 3%). Increased investment in biologics was more than 
offset by lower project costs and operational efﬁciencies. The lower 
project costs are the result of several late stage projects completing 
their trials, partially offset by the commencement of Phase III 
programmes for TC-5214 and fostamatinib. 
Core SG&A costs of $9,777 million were 2% lower than the previous 
year (Reported: 1%). Investment in Emerging Markets and recently 
launched brands were more than offset by operational efﬁciencies 
across Established Markets.
Core other income of $910 million was $16 million less than the 
previous year. 2009 beneﬁted from disposal gains related to 
Abraxane
TM
 and the Nordic OTC business and 2010 included 
royalties from sales of Teva’s generic version of Pulmicort Respules.
Core pre-R&D operating margin was 53.5%, down 1.0 percentage 
points (Reported: 1.2 percentage points), with the lower gross 
margin only partially offset by efﬁciencies within selling, general and 
administrative areas.
Core operating proﬁt was $13,603 million, unchanged at CER. Core 
operating margin declined by 0.4 percentage points to 40.8%, with 
lower R&D expense and operational efﬁciencies only partially 
offsetting the decline in the gross margin. 
Core earnings per share were $6.71, up 5% (Reported: 6%), with 
the operating performance boosted by lower net ﬁnance expense, 
the beneﬁt of a lower average number of shares outstanding and a 
lower effective tax rate. 
Core adjustments were broadly in line with last year’s level with 
increased restructuring costs and intangible impairments offset by 
gains chieﬂy attributable to changes in the Group’s UK pension 
arrangements. Excluded from Core were: 
>  impairment charges of $568 million, arising from impairments in 
respect of motavizumab ($445 million) and our HPV cervical 
cancer vaccine income stream ($123 million), both capitalised as 
part of the MedImmune acquisition. Total impairment charges 
relating to intangible ﬁxed assets were $833 million in the year.
>  $612 million of legal provision charges, of which $592 million is in 
respect of the ongoing Seroquel product liability litigation and 
state attorney general investigations into sales and marketing 
practices in aggregate. In line with prior years these have been 
excluded from our Core performance and full details of these 
matters are included in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from 
page 178.
>  restructuring costs totalling $1,202 million, incurred as the Group 
continues its previously announced efﬁciency programmes. 
>  amortisation totalling $518 million relating to assets capitalised as 
part of the MedImmune acquisition and the Merck exit 
arrangements. 
>  a credit of $791 million chieﬂy attributable to a curtailment gain 
related to changes made to beneﬁts under the Group’s UK 
pension arrangements. In 2010, we amended our UK deﬁned 
beneﬁt fund. Pensionable pay was frozen at its 30 June 2010 level 
but the deﬁned beneﬁt fund remains open to existing members. 
Members of the pension fund were given the option of remaining 
in the fund or leaving the fund. Those that chose to leave the fund 
were offered funding which they could contribute to a new Group 
Self Invested Personal Pension Plan. This change to the UK 
deﬁned beneﬁt scheme represented an accounting curtailment  
of certain pension obligations and, in accordance with IAS 19 
‘Employee Beneﬁts’, these obligations were revalued by the 
scheme actuaries immediately prior to the curtailment and the 
assumptions updated at that date.
Operating proﬁt was down 1% at CER (Reported: unchanged) at 
$11,494 million. Basic earnings per share were $5.60, up 7% 
(Reported: 8%), as a result of the factors affecting Core earnings  
per share. 
Net ﬁnance expense was $517 million, versus $736 million in 2009. 
Fair value gains of $5 million were recorded on the long-term bonds 
in the year, versus fair value losses of $145 million for 2009. In 
addition to this, there is reduced interest payable on lower debt 
balances, and slightly increased returns from higher cash and cash 
equivalent balances.
The 2010 taxation charge of $2,896 million (2009: $3,263 million) 
consists of a current tax charge of $3,435 million (2009: $3, 105 million) 
and a credit arising from movements on deferred tax of $539 million 
(2009: charge of $158 million). The current year tax charge includes 
a prior period current tax adjustment of $370 million (2009: $251 
million) relating mainly to an increase in provisions for tax 
contingencies and double tax relief partially offset by a beneﬁt of 
$342 million arising from a number of tax settlements (including the 
UK matters described in Note 25 to the Financial Statements on 
page 195) and tax accrual to tax return adjustments. The 2009 prior 
period current tax adjustments related mainly to tax accrual to tax 
return adjustments, an increase in provisions in respect of a number 
of transfer pricing audits and double tax relief. The effective tax rate 
for the year was 26.4% (2009: 30.2%, 28.8% excluding the impact of 
legal provisions). A description of our tax exposures is set out in Note 
25 to the Financial Statements on page 195.  
Total comprehensive income for the year increased by $616 million 
from 2009. This was driven by the increase in proﬁt for the year of 
$537 million and an increase of $79 million in other comprehensive 
income.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Financial Review Results of operations – summary analysis of year to 31 December 2010 83 Cash generated from operating activities was $10,680 million in the 
year to 31 December 2010, compared with $11,739 million in 2009. 
The decline of $1,059 million is primarily driven by legal settlements 
of $709 million relating to Seroquel sales and marketing practices 
and product liability and Average Wholesale Price Litigation in the 
US, and the ﬁrst instalment of $562 million (£350 million) in respect 
of the UK tax settlement (for which the second instalment of £155 
million is due in March 2011).
Investments cash outﬂows of $2,236 million include the acquisition 
of Novexel ($348 million), the payment of $647 million to Merck 
(resulting in the Group acquiring Merck’s interest in certain 
AstraZeneca products) and a further $537 million paid out on other 
externalisation arrangements. Cash outﬂows on the purchase of 
tangible ﬁxed assets amounted to $791 million in the year. Further 
details of the Novexel business acquisition and our arrangements 
with Merck are included in Note 22 and Note 25 to the Financial 
Statements respectively.
Net cash distributions to shareholders increased from $2,842 million 
in 2009 to $5,471 million in 2010 through dividend payments of 
$3,361 million and net share repurchases of $2,110 million.
At 31 December 2010, outstanding gross debt (interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings) was $9,222 million (2009: $11,063 million). 
The reduction in gross debt of $1,841 million during the year was 
principally due to the repayment on maturity of Euro bonds of Euro 
500 million and Euro 750 million. The ﬁrst repayment was the Euro 
500 million 18 month bond issued in July 2008 and maturing in 
January 2010, and the second was the Euro 750 million 3 year bond 
issued in November 2007 and maturing in November 2010. Of the 
gross debt outstanding at 31 December 2010, $125 million is due 
within one year (2009: $1,926 million). Strong business cash ﬂows 
have improved net funds by $3,118 million since 31 December 
2009, resulting in net funds of $3,653 million at 31 December 2010.
Off-balance sheet transactions and commitments 
We have no off-balance sheet arrangements and our derivative 
activities are non-speculative. The table below sets out our 
minimum contractual obligations at the year end.
Cash ﬂow and liquidity – 2010 
All data in this section is on a Reported basis. 
Net funds/(debt)
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Net funds/(debt) brought forward at 1 January 535 (7,174) (9,112) 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment 14,235 13,630 11,764 
Movement in working capital and provisions 82 1,329 (210) 
Tax paid (2,533) (2,381) (2,209) 
Interest paid (641) (639) (690) 
Other non-cash movements (463) (200) 87 
Net cash available from operating activities 10,680 11,739 8,742 
Purchase of intangibles (net) (1,180) (355) (2,944) 
Other capital expenditure (net) (708) (824) (1,057) 
Acquisitions (348) – – 
Investments (2,236) (1,179) (4,001) 
Dividends (3,361) (2,977) (2,739) 
Net share (repurchases)/issues (2,110) 135 (451) 
Distributions (5,471) (2,842) (3,190) 
Other movements 145 (9) 387 
Net funds/(debt) carried forward at 31 December 3,653 535 (7,174) 
Comprised of:
Cash, short-term investments and derivatives (net) 12,875 11,598 4,674 
Loans and borrowings (9,222) (11,063) (11,848)
Payments due by period
Less than 
1 year 
$m 
1-3 years 
$m 
3-5 years 
$m 
Over
5 years 
$m 
Total 
$m 
Bank loans and other borrowings 646 2,691 2,532 10,095 15,964
Operating leases 161 137 105 103 506
Contracted capital expenditure 259 – – – 259
Total 1,066 2,828 2,637 10,198 16,729
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 84 Financial Review Cash ﬂow and liquidity – 2010
Financial Review Financial position – 2010
All data in this section is on a Reported basis.
Summary statement of ﬁnancial position
2010 
$m
Movement 
$m
2009 
$m
Movement 
$m
2008 
$m
Property, plant and equipment 6,957 (350) 7,307 264 7,043 
Goodwill and intangible assets 22,029 (86) 22,115 (82) 22,197 
Inventories 1,682 (68) 1,750 114 1,636 
Trade and other receivables 7,847 138 7,709 448 7,261 
Trade and other payables (9,034) (103) (8,931) (1,604) (7,327)
Provisions (1,938) (252) (1,686) (544) (1,142)
Net income tax payable (3,855) (1,002) (2,853) (885) (1,968) 
Net deferred tax liabilities (1,670) 285 (1,955) (65) (1,890) 
Retirement beneﬁt obligations (2,472) 882 (3,354) (622) (2,732)
Non-current other investments 211 27 184 28 156 
Net funds/(debt) 3,653 3,118 535 7,709 (7,174) 
    
Net assets 23,410 2,589 20,821 4,761 16,060 
In 2010, net assets increased by $2,589 million to $23,410 million. 
The increase in net assets as a result of the Group proﬁt of $8,081 
million was offset by dividends of $3,494 million and share 
repurchases of $2,604 million. Shares issued in the year increased 
net assets by $494 million.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment decreased by $350 million to $6,957 
million. Additions of $808 million (2009: $967 million) were offset by 
depreciation of $1,076 million (2009: $893 million).
Goodwill and intangible assets
Our goodwill of $9,871 million (2009: $9,889 million) principally 
arose on the acquisition of MedImmune and on the restructuring  
of our US joint venture with Merck in 1998. No goodwill has been 
capitalised in 2010; the movement of $18 million in 2010 being due 
to exchange rate movements.
Intangible assets amounted to $12,158 million at 31 December 2010 
(2009: $12,226 million). Intangible assets additions were $1,791 million 
in 2010 (2009: $1,003 million), amortisation was $810 million (2009: 
$729 million) and impairments totalled $833 million (2009: $415 million). 
Additions to intangible assets in 2010 included $647 million paid to 
Merck under pre-existing arrangements under which Merck’s 
interest in our products in the US will be terminated and $548 million 
from our acquisition of Novexel (of which $239 million of intangible 
assets acquired were subsequently sold to Forest as detailed in 
Note 22 to the Financial Statements). 
Intangible asset impairment charges recorded in 2010 included 
$445 million following our decision to withdraw our FDA biological 
license application for motavizumab detailed on page 156 and  
$128 million related to our decision to discontinue further 
development of lesogaberan (AZD3355). The impairment balance 
also includes $123 million following reassessment of the licensing 
income generated by the HPV cervical cancer vaccine and  
$126 million written off other products in development.
Receivables, payables and provisions
Exchange rate movements contributed $119 million of the overall 
increase of $138 million in receivables with an increase in the trade 
receivables balance being offset by a reduction on other receivables 
mainly due to a reduction in our Seroquel related insurance 
receivable balance during the year. Trade and other payables 
increased by $103 million. 
The movement in provisions of $252 million in 2010 includes  
$1,361 million of additional charges recorded in the year, offset by 
$1,109 million of cash payments. Included within the $1,361 million 
of charges in the year is $592 million in respect of the ongoing 
Seroquel product liability litigation and state attorney general 
investigations into sales and marketing practices in aggregate and 
$497 million for our global restructuring initiative. Further details of 
the charges made against our provisions are contained in Notes  
17 and 25 to our Financial Statements. Cash payments of  
$1,109 million include $335 million against our global restructuring 
initiative and $709 million related to legal provisions.
Tax payable and receivable
Net income tax payable has increased by $1,002 million to  
$3,855 million, principally due to an increase in accruals for tax 
contingencies, cash tax timing differences and exchange rate 
movements. Tax receivable largely comprises tax owing to 
AstraZeneca from certain governments expected to be received on 
settlements of transfer pricing audits and disputes (see Note 25 to 
the Financial Statements on page 195). Net deferred tax liabilities 
reduced by $285 million in the year. This movement includes a 
reclassiﬁcation from deferred tax to current tax of amounts provided 
in relation to tax contingencies for prior periods.
Retirement beneﬁt obligations
Net retirement beneﬁt obligations reduced by $882 million, 
principally as a result of recognising a gain of $791 million arising 
from changes made to beneﬁts under certain of the Group’s  
post-retirement beneﬁts plans, chieﬂy the Group’s UK pension  
plan detailed on page 162. In 2010, approximately 96.5% of the 
Group’s obligations were concentrated in the UK, the US, Sweden 
and Germany. 
Commitments and contingencies
The Group has commitments and contingencies which are 
accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies described 
in the Financial Statements in the Group Accounting Policies section 
from page 142. The Group also has taxation contingencies. These 
are described in the Taxation section in the Critical accounting 
policies and estimates section on page 93. These matters are 
explained fully in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178. 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Financial Review Financial position – 2010 85 Research and development collaboration payments
Details of future potential research and development collaboration 
payments are also included in Note 25 to the Financial Statements 
from page 178. As detailed in Note 25, payments to our collaboration 
partners may not become payable because of the inherent 
uncertainty in achieving the development and revenue milestones 
linked to the future payments. As part of our overall externalisation 
strategy, we may enter into further collaboration projects in the 
future that may include milestone payments and, therefore, as 
certain milestone payments fail to crystallise due to, for example, 
development not proceeding, they may be replaced by potential 
payments under new collaborations.
Investments, divestments and capital expenditure 
As detailed earlier in Research and Development from page 26, 
AstraZeneca views collaborations, including externalisation 
arrangements in the ﬁeld of research and development, as a crucial 
element of the development of our business.
The Group has completed over 80 major externalisation 
transactions over the past three years, one of which was a  
business acquisition and all others were strategic alliances and 
collaborations. Details of our signiﬁcant externalisation transactions 
are given below. The Group determines these to be signiﬁcant using 
a range of factors. We look at the speciﬁc circumstances of the 
individual externalisation arrangement and apply several quantitative 
and qualitative criteria. Because we consider our externalisation 
strategy to be an extension of our research and development 
strategy, the expected total value of development payments under 
the transaction and its proportion in our annual R&D spend, both of 
which are proxies for overall research and development effort and 
cost, are important elements of the signiﬁcance determination. 
Other quantitative criteria we apply include, without limitation, 
expected levels of future sales, the possible value of milestone 
payments and the resources used for commercialisation activities 
(for example, the number of staff). Qualitative factors we consider in 
our determination of whether an externalisation arrangement is 
signiﬁcant include, without limitation, new market developments, 
new territories, new areas of research and strategic implications.
Based on the application of the quantitative and qualitative factors 
described above, we have determined that the following two 
externalisation arrangements are signiﬁcant:
>  In January 2007 , AstraZeneca signed an exclusive co-
development and co-promotion agreement with BMS for the 
development and commercialisation of saxagliptin, a dipeptidyl 
peptidase IV inhibitor (DPP-IV) for the treatment of Type 2 
diabetes, and dapagliﬂozin, a selective sodium-glucose co-
transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor. The agreement is global (with the 
exception of Japan) for saxagliptin. Under each agreement the 
two companies jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy 
and share development and commercialisation expenses on a 
global basis. To date, AstraZeneca has made upfront and 
milestone payments totalling $300 million for saxagliptin and  
$50 million for dapagliﬂozin and may make future milestone 
payments of $350 million on dapagliﬂozin contingent on 
achievement of regulatory milestones and launch in key markets. 
Following launch, proﬁts and losses globally are shared equally 
and an additional $300 million of sales-related payments for each 
product may be triggered based on worldwide sales success. 
The Group made milestone payments to BMS of $50 million in 
2010, $150 million in 2009 and $50 million in 2008.
>  In December 2009, AstraZeneca and Targacept entered into an 
in-licence agreement for AstraZeneca to obtain exclusive global 
development and commercialisation rights to Targacept’s 
investigational product for major depressive disorder (MDD), 
TC-5214. TC-5214, which recently completed a Phase IIb clinical 
trial, is a nicotinic channel blocker that is thought to treat 
depression by modulating the activity of various neuronal nicotinic 
receptor (NNR) subtypes. Under the deal, AstraZeneca made an 
upfront payment of $200 million and may make milestone 
payments to a maximum of $540 million up to launch. In addition, 
Targacept will be entitled to receive royalties on worldwide 
product sales and additional milestone payments linked to 
worldwide product sales. 
Details of our business acquisitions in the last three years are 
contained in Note 22 to the Financial Statements from page 167 .
In aggregate, milestones capitalised under the Group’s other 
externalisation arrangements totalled $337 million in 2010, $306 
million in 2009 and $62 million in 2008, and the Group recognised 
other income in respect of other externalisation arrangements 
totalling $82 million in 2010, $440 million in 2009 and $216 million  
in 2008.
Capitalisation and shareholder return
Dividend for 2010
$ Pence SEK Payment date
First interim dividend 0.70 44.9 5.12 13.09.10 
Second interim dividend 1.85 116.7 11.99 14.03.11
Total 2.55 161.6 17.11
Summary of shareholder distributions
Shares 
repurchased 
(million)
Cost 
$m
Dividend per
share
$
Dividend 
cost 
$m
Shareholder
distributions
$m 
2000 9.4 352 0.70 1,236 1,588 
2001 23.5 1,080 0.70 1,225 2,305 
2002 28.3 1,190 0.70 1,206 2,396 
2003 27.2 1,154 0.795 1,350 2,504 
2004 50.1 2,212 0.94 1,555 3,767 
2005 67.7 3,001 1.30 2,068 5,069 
2006 72.2 4,147 1.72 2,649 6,796 
2007 79.9 4,170 1.87 2,740 6,910 
2008 13.6 610 2.05 2,971 3,581 
2009 – – 2.30 3,339 3,339 
2010 53.7 2,604 2.55 3,617
1
 6,221
Total 425.6 20,520 15.625 23,956 44,476
1
 Total dividend cost estimated based upon number of shares in issue at 31 December 2010.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 86 Financial Review Capitalisation and shareholder return
Financial Review Results of operations – summary analysis of year to 31 December 2009
2009 Reported operating proﬁt 
2009 2008 Percentage of sales 2009 compared with 2008
 
Reported 
$m 
CER 
growth 
$m 
Growth 
due to
exchange
effects 
$m 
Reported 
$m 
Reported 
2009 
% 
Reported 
2008 
% 
CER 
growth
 % 
Reported
growth 
% 
Revenue 32,804 2,317 (1,114) 31,601 7 4 
Cost of sales (5,775) 540 283 (6,598) (17.6) (20.9) (8) (12) 
Gross proﬁt 27,029 2,857 (831) 25,003 82.4 79.1 11 8 
Distribution costs (298) (37) 30 (291) (0.9) (0.9) 13 3 
Research and development (4,409) 298 472 (5,179) (13.5) (16.4) (6) (15) 
Selling, general and administrative costs (11,332) (945) 526 (10,913) (34.5) (34.6) 9 4 
Other operating income and expense 553 33 (4) 524 1.7 1.7 6 6 
Operating proﬁt 11,543 2,206 193 9,144 35.2 28.9 24 26 
Net ﬁnance expense (736)  (463)  
Proﬁt before tax 10,807  8,681  
Taxation (3,263)  (2,551)  
Proﬁt for the period 7,544  6,130  
Basic earnings per share ($) 5.19 4.20 
Capitalisation
The total number of shares in issue at 31 December 2010 was 
1,409 million. 11.8 million shares were issued in consideration  
of share option exercises for a total of $494 million. Share 
repurchases amounted to 53.7 million ordinary shares at a cost  
of $2,604 million. Shareholders’ equity increased by a net  
$2,553 million to $23,213 million at the year end. Non-controlling 
interests increased to $197 million (2009: $161 million).
Dividend and share repurchases
In recognition of the Group’s strong balance sheet, sustainable 
signiﬁcant cash ﬂow and the Board’s conﬁdence in the strategic 
direction and long-term prospects for the business, the Board has 
adopted a progressive dividend policy, intending to maintain or 
grow the dividend each year.
The Board has recommended an 8% increase in the second interim 
dividend to $1.85 (116.7 pence, 11.99 SEK) to be paid on 14 March 
2011. This brings the full year dividend to $2.55 (161.6 pence,  
17 .11 SEK), an increase of 11%.
In 2010, the Group recommenced its share repurchase  
programme. The Group completed net share repurchases of  
$2,110 million in 2010. The Board has announced that the Group 
intends to complete net share repurchases in the amount of  
$4 billion during 2011.
In setting the distribution policy and the overall ﬁnancial strategy, the 
Board’s aim is to continue to strike a balance between the interests 
of the business, our ﬁnancial creditors and our shareholders. After 
providing for business investment, funding the progressive dividend 
policy and meeting our debt service obligations, the Board will keep 
under review the opportunity to return cash in excess of these 
requirements to shareholders through periodic share repurchases.
Future prospects 
As described earlier in our Annual Report, the coming years will be 
challenging for the industry and for AstraZeneca as its revenue base 
transitions through a period of exclusivity losses and new product 
launches. AstraZeneca makes high level planning assumptions for 
revenue evolution, margins, cash ﬂow and business reinvestment to 
help guide the management of the business. The planning outlook 
extends to 2014. AstraZeneca assumes that the global 
biopharmaceutical industry can grow at least in line with real GDP 
over the planning horizon. While downward pressure on revenue 
from government interventions in the marketplace remains a 
continuing feature of the challenging market environment, 
AstraZeneca’s assessment remains that, as yet, these have not 
risen to a “step-change” in trend. The assumptions for revenue, 
margins and cash ﬂow assume no material mergers, acquisitions or 
disposals. In addition, our plans assume no premature loss of 
exclusivity for key AstraZeneca products. It was also assumed that 
exchange rates for our principal currencies will not differ materially 
from the average rates that prevailed during January 2010, and 
AstraZeneca sees no basis for material changes to exchange rate 
assumptions. 
It is expected that revenue growth from key franchises that retain 
exclusivity and continued growth in Emerging Markets will be 
pressured by the loss of market exclusivity on a number of 
products. Revenue for 2011 will continue to be affected by the loss 
of market exclusivity for Arimidex in the US, and for Arimidex 
in Europe and in Established ROW once exclusivity expires in 
February 2011. The extent of generic competition to Nexium 
in Europe is another variable that could inﬂuence 2011 revenue. 
Over the last several years, the Group has undertaken signiﬁcant 
restructuring initiatives aimed at reshaping the cost base to improve 
long-term competitiveness. The ﬁrst phase of the restructuring 
programme is now complete at a cumulative cost of $2.5 billion. 
The second phase of restructuring, which was announced in 
January 2010, is comprised of a signiﬁcant change programme  
in R&D as well as additional productivity improvement initiatives in  
the supply chain and SG&A. Of the estimated $2.0 billion in costs 
anticipated for this phase of the programme, $1.2 billion was 
charged in 2010; the remainder will largely be taken in 2011. This 
programme will deliver annual beneﬁts to the Group by 2014. 
Planning assumptions remain that continued productivity 
improvements (including successful completion of restructuring 
initiatives), will aid the achievement of levels of revenue and margins 
to generate the requisite operating cash ﬂow over the planning 
period to support the reinvestment needs of the business, debt 
service obligations and shareholder distributions. 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Financial Review Future prospects 87 2009 Core operating results
2009 2008 2009 compared with 2008
Core
$m
CER
growth
$m
Growth 
due to
exchange
effects 
$m
Core
$m
CER 
growth 
%
Total
Core
growth 
%
Gross margin 27,217 2,660 (851) 25,408 10 7 
Distribution costs (298) (37) 30 (291) 13 3 
Research and development (4,334) 150 469 (4,953) (3) (13) 
Selling, general and administrative costs (9,890) (452) 502 (9,940) 5 (1) 
Other operating income and expense 926 194 (2) 734 26 26 
Operating proﬁt 13,621 2,515 148 10,958 23 24 
Net ﬁnance expense (736) (463) 
Proﬁt before tax 12,885   10,495 
Taxation (3,703) (3,056) 
Proﬁt for the period 9,182 7,439 
Basic earnings per share ($) 6.32 5.10 
2009 Reconciliation of Reported results to Core results
Merck & MedImmune
2009
Reported
$m
Restructuring
costs
$m
Amortisation 
$m
Intangible
impairments
$m
Legal 
provisions
$m
2009 Core
$m
Gross margin 27,029 188 – – – 27,217 
Distribution costs (298)  – – – – (298) 
Research and development (4,409) 68 – 7 – (4,334) 
Selling, general and administrative costs (11,332) 403 403 – 636 (9,890) 
Other operating income and expense 553 – 108 265 – 926 
Operating proﬁt 11,543 659 511 272 636 13,621 
Add back: Research and development 4,409 (68) – (7) – 4,334
Pre-R&D operating margin 15,952 591 511 265 636 17,955
Net ﬁnance expense (736) – – – – (736) 
Proﬁt before tax 10,807 659 511 272 636 12,885 
Taxation (3,263) (199) (125) (82) (34) (3,703) 
Proﬁt for the period 7,544 460 386 190 602 9,182 
Basic earnings per share ($) 5.19 0.32 0.27 0.13 0.41 6.32 
In 2009, sales increased by 7% (Reported: 4%). 2009 revenues 
beneﬁted from strong growth of the Toprol-XL franchise in the US, 
as a result of the withdrawal from the market of two other generic 
metoprolol succinate products and from US government orders for 
the H1N1 inﬂuenza (swine ﬂu) vaccine; adjusting for these factors, 
global revenue increased by 4%. Further details of our 2009 sales 
performance are given in the Performance 2009 sections of the 
Therapy Area Review from page 50.
Core gross margin of 83% for 2009 was 2.4% higher than 2008 
(Reported: 3.3%). Lower payments to Merck and continued 
efﬁciency gains and mix factors were partially offset by higher 
royalty payments resulting from higher volumes of sales of  
relevant products.
Core R&D expenditure was $4,334 million for 2009, 3% lower than 
the prior year (Reported: 15%), as increased investment in biologics 
was more than offset by the continued productivity initiatives and 
lower costs associated with late-stage development projects that 
have progressed to pre-registration.
Core SG&A costs of $9,890 million for 2009 were 5% higher than 
the prior year (Reported: 4%). Stronger than expected revenue 
performance provided the opportunity to drive future growth 
through accelerated marketing investment for Emerging Markets 
and currently marketed brands, and to support launch planning for 
the new products awaiting registration. SG&A expense growth also 
included increased legal expenses and impairment of intangible 
assets related to information systems, which were only partially 
offset by operational efﬁciencies.
Core other operating income and expense of $926 million was  
$192 million higher than 2008, chieﬂy as a result of the disposal of 
the co-promotion rights of Abraxane™ and Nordic OTC portfolio 
disposals in the ﬁrst half of 2009.
Impairment charges relating to intangible ﬁxed assets totalled  
$415 million during 2009. Charges totalling $272 million, being the 
charges arising from impairments in respect of assets relating to our 
HPV cervical cancer vaccine income stream and other assets 
capitalised as part of the MedImmune acquisition were excluded 
from Core results.
Developments in several legal matters resulted in provisions totalling 
$636 million in 2009. 
2009 restructuring costs totalling $659 million, incurred as the 
Group continued its previously announced efﬁciency programmes, 
and amortisation totalling $511 million relating to assets capitalised 
as part of the MedImmune acquisition and the Merck partial 
retirement, which impacted Reported operating proﬁt, were also 
excluded from Core performance.
Core operating proﬁt was $13,621 million in 2009, an increase of 
23% (Reported: 26%). Core operating margin increased by 5.1% to 
41.5% of revenue, as a result of sales growth, efﬁciencies across the 
cost base, lower R&D spend and the disposals within other income.
Net ﬁnance expense was $736 million in 2009, versus $463 million 
in 2008. The principal factors contributing to this increase were the 
continued reversal of a fair value gain, reduced interest received due 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 88 Financial Review Results of operations – summary analysis of year to 31 December 2009
Financial Review to lower interest rates and a higher net interest expense on pension 
obligations, partially offset by reduced interest payable on lower net 
debt balances.
Net ﬁnance expense included a net fair value loss of $145 million 
(2008: $130 million gain) as credit spreads reduced since the 2008 
year end.
The effective tax rate for 2009 was 30.2%. Excluding the impact of 
the $636 million legal provisions, the effective tax rate would have 
been 28.8% (2008: 29.4%).
2009 Core EPS were $6.32, an increase of 23% from 2008, as the 
increase in Core operating proﬁt was partially offset by increased 
net ﬁnance expense. 2009 Reported EPS increased 24% to $5.19.
Total comprehensive income for 2009 increased by $3,266 million 
from 2008. This was principally due to an increase in proﬁt in 2009 
of $1,414 million, beneﬁcial exchange rate impacts on consolidation 
of $1,365 million and reduced actuarial losses of $663 million 
compared with 2008.
Cash ﬂow and liquidity – 2009
All data in this section is on a Reported basis.
Cash generated from operating activities was $11,739 million in 
2009, compared with $8,742 million in 2008. The increase of  
$2,997 million was principally driven by an increase in operating 
proﬁt before depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs of 
$1,866 million, offset by a decrease in non-cash items of $287 
million, which includes fair value adjustments. An improvement in 
working capital ﬂows, including short-term provisions of $1,539 
million, which also contributed signiﬁcantly to this increase, arose 
principally from an increase in returns and chargebacks provisions 
and the legal provisions made in 2009.
Net cash outﬂows from investing activities were $2,476 million in 
2009 compared with $3,896 million in 2008. The movement of 
$1,420 million was due primarily to the payment of $2,630 million to 
Merck in 2008 as part of the partial retirement, and the proceeds 
from the disposal of the Abraxane™ co-promotion rights of $269 
million received in 2009, countered by an increase in the purchase 
of short-term investments and ﬁxed deposits of $1,372 million.
Cash distributions to shareholders, through dividend payments, 
were $2,977 million in 2009.
Gross debt (including loans, short-term borrowings and overdrafts) 
was $11,063 million as at 31 December 2009 (2008: $11,848 
million). Of this debt, $1,926 million was due within one year  
(2008: $993 million).
Net funds of $535 million improved by $7 ,709 million from net debt 
of $7 ,174 million at 31 December 2008.
Financial position – 2009
All data in this section is on a Reported basis (unless noted 
otherwise).
Net assets increased by $4,761 million to $20,821 million in 2009. 
The increase due to Group proﬁt of $7 ,521 million was offset by 
dividends of $3,026 million. Exchange rate movements arising on 
consolidation and actuarial losses also reduced net assets during 
2009.
Property, plant and equipment
In 2009, property, plant and equipment increased by $264 million to 
$7 ,307 million, primarily due to additions of $967 million and 
exchange rate movements of $391 million offset by depreciation 
and impairments of $943 million.
Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill and intangible assets increased by $82 million to  
$22,115 million.
Goodwill principally arose on the acquisition of MedImmune and on 
the restructuring of our US joint venture with Merck in 1998. No 
goodwill was capitalised in 2009.
Intangible assets reduced by $97 million in 2009 to $12,226 million. 
Additions totalled $1,003 million, amortisation was $729 million and 
impairments totalled $415 million. Exchange rate impacts increased 
intangible assets by $178 million.
Additions in 2009 included $300 million in respect of milestone 
payments made under our collaboration agreement with BMS, 
$200 million in respect of our agreement with Targacept and  
$126 million in respect of our agreement with Nektar.
During 2009, impairments totalled $415 million. $150 million was 
impaired as a result of a reassessment of the licensing income 
generated by the HPV cervical cancer vaccine. Impairments of 
other assets acquired with MedImmune totalled $122 million. 
Impairments related to our acquisition of MedImmune and therefore 
excluded from our Core results totalled $272 million. In addition,  
$93 million was written off products in development.
Inventories
Inventories increased by $114 million to $1,750 million in 2009, 
principally due to exchange rate impacts.
Receivables, payables and provisions
Trade and other receivables increased by $448 million to  
$7 ,709 million. Exchange rate movements increased receivables  
by $220 million. The underlying increase of $228 million was driven 
by increased sales in the ﬁnal quarter and an increase in insurance 
recoverables.
As of 31 December 2009, legal defence costs of approximately 
$656 million (2008: $512 million) have been incurred in connection 
with Seroquel-related product liability claims. The ﬁrst $39 million is 
not covered by insurance. At 31 December 2009, AstraZeneca 
recorded an insurance receivable of $521 million (2008: $426 
million), representing the maximum insurance receivable that 
AstraZeneca could recognise under applicable accounting 
principles at that time.
In 2009, trade and other payables increased by $1,604 million 
primarily due to increases in US managed market accruals, accruals 
in respect of intangibles investments made in the fourth quarter and 
other accruals. Trade and other payables included $2,618 million  
in respect of accruals relating to rebates and chargebacks in our  
US market.
During 2009 AstraZeneca made a provision of $636 million in 
respect of various federal and state investigations and civil litigation 
matters relating to drug marketing and pricing practices.  
$524 million of this provision was made in respect of the US 
Attorney’s Ofﬁce investigation into sales and marketing practices 
involving Seroquel with the remainder relating to average wholesale 
price litigation. 
Tax payable and receivable
Net income tax payable increased by $885 million to $2,853 million 
in 2009, principally due to tax audit provisions, cash tax timing 
differences and exchange rate movements.
Retirement beneﬁt obligations
Net retirement beneﬁt obligations increased by $622 million, 
principally as a result of actuarial losses of $569 million and adverse 
exchange rate effects of $215 million. In 2009, approximately  
97% of the Group’s obligations were concentrated in the UK, the  
US and Sweden. 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Financial Review Cash ﬂow and liquidity – 2009 89 Financial risk management
Financial risk management policies
Insurance
Our risk management processes are described in the Managing risk 
section from page 95. These processes enable us to identify risks 
that can be partly or entirely mitigated through the use of insurance. 
We negotiate best available premium rates with insurance providers 
on the basis of our extensive risk management procedures. In the 
current insurance market, the level of cover is decreasing while 
premium rates are increasing. Rather than simply paying higher 
premiums for lower cover, we focus our insurance resources on the 
most critical areas, or where there is a legal requirement, and where 
we can get best value for money. Risks to which we pay particular 
attention include business interruption, Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ 
liability and property damage. Recently, insurance for product 
liability has not been available on commercially acceptable terms 
and the Group has not held product liability insurance since 
February 2006.
Taxation
Tax risk management forms an integrated part of the Group risk 
management processes. Our tax strategy is to manage tax risks 
and tax costs in a manner consistent with shareholders’ best 
long-term interests, taking into account both economic and 
reputational factors. We draw a distinction between tax planning 
using artiﬁcial structures and optimising tax treatment of business 
transactions, and we engage only in the latter.
Treasury
The principal ﬁnancial risks to which the Group is exposed are those 
arising from liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit. The 
Group has a centralised treasury function to manage these risks in 
accordance with Board-approved policies. Speciﬁcally, liquidity risk 
is managed through maintaining access to a number of sources of 
funding to meet anticipated funding requirements, including 
committed bank facilities and cash resources. Interest rate risk is 
managed through maintaining a debt portfolio that is weighted 
towards ﬁxed rates of interest. Accordingly, the Group’s net interest 
charge is not signiﬁcantly affected by movements in ﬂoating rates of 
interest. We do not currently hedge the impact on earnings and 
cash ﬂow of changes in exchange rates, with the exception of the 
currency exposure that arises between the booking and settlement 
dates on non-local currency purchases and sales by subsidiaries 
and the external dividend, along with certain non-US dollar debt. 
Credit risk is managed through setting and monitoring credit limits 
appropriate for the assessed risk of the counterparty.
Our capital and risk management objectives and policies are 
described in further detail in Note 23 to the Financial Statements 
from page 168 and in the Managing risk section from page 95.
Sensitivity analysis of the Group’s exposure to exchange rate and 
interest rate movements is also detailed in Note 23 to the Financial 
Statements from page 168.
Critical accounting policies and estimates
Our Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS  
as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRS) and as issued by the IASB, 
and the accounting policies employed are set out in the Group 
Accounting Policies section in the Financial Statements from  
page 142. In applying these policies, we make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The 
actual outcome could differ from those estimates. Some of these 
policies require a high level of judgement because the areas are 
especially subjective or complex. We believe that the most critical 
accounting policies and signiﬁcant areas of judgement and 
estimation are in:
>  Revenue recognition 
>  Research and development 
>  Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets 
>  Litigation 
>  Post-retirement beneﬁts 
>  Taxation 
>  Segmental reporting.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recorded at the invoiced amount (excluding inter-
company sales and value added taxes) less movements in 
estimated accruals for rebates and chargebacks given to managed-
care and other customers and product returns – a particular feature 
in the US. The impact in the rest of the world is not signiﬁcant. It  
is the Group’s policy to offer a credit note for all returns and to 
destroy all returned stock in all markets. Cash discounts for prompt 
payment are also deducted from sales. Revenue is recognised at 
the point of delivery, which is usually when title passes to the 
customer either on shipment or on receipt of goods by the 
customer depending on local trading terms. Income from royalties 
and from disposals of intellectual property, brands and product  
lines is included in other operating income.
Rebates, chargebacks and returns in the US
At the time of invoicing sales in the US, rebates and chargebacks 
that we expect to pay, in as little time as two weeks or as much  
as eight months, are estimated. These rebates typically arise  
from sales contracts with third party managed-care organisations, 
hospitals, long-term care facilities, group purchasing organisations 
and various federal or state programmes (Medicaid ‘best price’ 
contracts, supplemental rebates etc) and can be classiﬁed as follows:
>  Chargebacks, where we enter into arrangements under which 
certain parties, typically hospitals, the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, Public Health Service Covered Entities and the 
Department of Defense, are able to buy products from 
wholesalers at the lower prices we have contracted with them. 
The chargeback is the difference between the price we invoice to 
the wholesaler and the contracted price charged by the 
wholesaler. Chargebacks are paid directly to the wholesalers.
>  Regulatory, including Medicaid and other federal and state 
programmes, where we pay rebates based on the speciﬁc terms 
of agreements with the US Department of Health and Human 
Services and with individual states, which include product usage 
and information on best prices and average market prices 
benchmarks.
>  Contractual, under which entities such as third party managed-
care organisations, long-term care facilities and group purchasing 
organisations are entitled to rebates depending on speciﬁed 
performance provisions, which vary from contract to contract.
The effects of these deductions on our US pharmaceuticals revenue 
and the movements on US pharmaceuticals revenue provisions are 
set out opposite.
Accrual assumptions are built up on a product-by-product and 
customer-by-customer basis, taking into account speciﬁc contract 
provisions coupled with expected performance, and are then 
aggregated into a weighted average rebate accrual rate for each of 
our products. Accrual rates are reviewed and adjusted on a monthly 
basis. There may be further adjustments when actual rebates are 
invoiced based on utilisation information submitted to us (in the 
case of contractual rebates) and claims/invoices are received (in the 
case of regulatory rebates and chargebacks). We believe that we 
have been reasonable in our estimates for future rebates using a 
similar methodology to that of previous years. Inevitably, however, 
such estimates involve judgements on aggregate future sales levels, 
segment mix and the customer’s contractual performance.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 90 Financial Review Financial risk management
Financial Review Gross to net sales
2010 
$m 
2009 
$m 
2008 
$m 
Gross sales 22,909 22,646 20,029 
Chargebacks (2,075) (1,841) (1,726) 
Regulatory – US government and state programmes (1,949) (1,357) (1,005) 
Contractual – Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates (4,755) (4,752) (3,658) 
Cash and other discounts (437) (428) (390) 
Customer returns (21) (193) (48) 
Other (265) (196) (167) 
Net sales 13,407 13,879 13,035 
Movement in provisions
Brought 
forward at 
1 January
2010 
$m 
Provision for
current year 
$m 
Adjustment in
respect of 
prior years 
$m 
Returns and
payments 
$m 
Carried 
forward at 
31 December
2010 
$m 
Chargebacks 396 2,107 (32) (1,948) 523
Regulatory – US government and state programmes 775 1,984 (35) (1,602) 1,122
Contractual – Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates 1,447 4,826 (71) (5,008) 1,194
Cash and other discounts 41 438 (1) (437) 41
Customer returns 177 22 (1) (65) 133
Other 59 269 (4) (260) 64
Total  2,895 9,646 (144) (9,320) 3,077
Brought
forward at 
1 January 
2009 
$m 
Provision for
current year 
$m 
Adjustment in
respect of 
prior years 
$m 
Returns and
payments 
$m 
Carried 
forward at 
31 December
2009 
$m 
Chargebacks 359  1,947  (106)  (1,804)  396 
Regulatory – US government and state programmes 520  1,373  (16)  (1,102)  775 
Contractual – Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates 1,084  4,732  20  (4,389)  1,447 
Cash and other discounts 39  428  –  (426)  41 
Customer returns 77  194  (1)  (93)  177 
Other 57  198  (2)  (194)  59 
Total  2,136  8,872 (105) (8,008)  2,895 
Brought 
forward at 
1 January 
2008 
$m 
Provision for
current year 
$m 
Adjustment in 
respect of 
prior years 
$m 
Returns and
payments 
$m 
Carried 
forward at 
31 December
2008 
$m 
Chargebacks 186  1,745  (19)  (1,553)  359 
Regulatory – US government and state programmes 428  997  8  (913)  520 
Contractual – Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates 900  3,622  36  (3,474)  1,084 
Cash and other discounts 38  390 –  (389)  39 
Customer returns 85  48 –  (56)  77 
Other 53  167 –  (163)  57 
Total  1,690  6,969  25  (6,548)  2,136 
Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt 
payment. Accruals are calculated based on historical experience 
and are adjusted to reﬂect actual experience.
Industry practice in the US allows wholesalers and pharmacies to 
return unused stocks within six months of, and up to 12 months 
after, shelf-life expiry. The customer is credited for the returned 
product by the issuance of a credit note. Returned product is not 
exchanged for product from inventory and once a return claim has 
been determined to be valid and a credit note has been issued to 
the customer, the returned goods are destroyed and not resold.  
At the point of sale in the US, we estimate the quantity and value  
of goods which may ultimately be returned. Our returns accruals  
in the US are based on actual experience. Our estimate is based  
on the preceding 12 months for established products together  
with market-related information, such as estimated stock levels  
at wholesalers and competitor activity, which we receive via third 
party information services. For newly launched products, we  
use rates based on our experience with similar products or a 
pre-determined percentage.
For products facing generic competition (such as Arimidex and 
Merrem in the US) our experience is that we usually lose the ability 
to estimate the levels of returns from wholesalers with the same 
degree of precision that we can for products still subject to patent 
protection. This is because we have limited or no insight into a 
number of areas – the actual timing of the launch of a generic 
competitor following regulatory approval of the generic product (for 
example, a generic manufacturer may or may not have produced 
adequate pre-launch inventory), the pricing and marketing strategy 
of the competitor, the take-up of the generic and (in cases where  
a generic manufacturer has approval to launch just one dose size  
in a market of several dose sizes) the likely level of switching from 
one dose to another. Under our accounting policy, revenue is 
recognised only when the amount of the revenue can be measured 
reliably. Our approach in meeting this condition for products facing 
generic competition will vary from product to product depending  
on the speciﬁc circumstances.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Financial Review Critical accounting policies and estimates 91 The closing adjustment in respect of prior years beneﬁted 2010 net 
US pharmaceuticals revenue by 1.1% (2009: increased revenue by 
0.8%; 2008: decreased revenue by 0.2%). However, taking into 
account the adjustments affecting both the current and the  
prior year, 2009 revenue beneﬁted by 0.3% and 2008 revenue 
decreased by 1.0%.
We have distribution service agreements with major wholesaler 
buyers which serve to reduce the speculative purchasing behaviour 
of the wholesalers and reduce short-term ﬂuctuations in the level  
of inventory they hold. We do not offer any incentives to encourage 
wholesaler speculative buying and attempt, where possible, to restrict 
shipments to underlying demand when such speculation occurs.
Sales of intangible assets
A consequence of charging all internal R&D expenditure to the 
income statement in the year in which it is incurred (which is normal 
practice in the pharmaceutical industry) is that we own valuable 
intangible assets which are not recorded on the balance sheet.  
We also own acquired intangible assets which are included on the 
balance sheet. As a consequence of regular reviews of product 
strategy, from time to time we sell such assets and generate 
income. Sales of product lines are often accompanied by an 
agreement on our part to continue manufacturing the relevant 
product for a reasonable period (often about two years) while the 
purchaser constructs its own manufacturing facilities. The contracts 
typically involve the receipt of an upfront payment, which the 
contract attributes to the sale of the intangible assets, and ongoing 
receipts, which the contract attributes to the sale of the product  
we manufacture. In cases where the transaction has two or more 
components, we account for the delivered item (for example,  
the transfer of title to the intangible asset) as a separate unit of 
accounting and record revenue on delivery of that component 
provided that we can make a reasonable estimate of the fair value  
of the undelivered component. Where the fair market value of the 
undelivered component (for example, a manufacturing agreement) 
exceeds the contracted price for that component, we defer an 
appropriate element of the upfront consideration and amortise this 
over the performance period. However, where the fair market value 
of the undelivered component is equal to or lower than the 
contracted price for that component, we treat the whole of the 
upfront amount as being attributable to the delivered intangible 
assets and recognise that part of the revenue upon delivery. No 
element of the contracted revenue related to the undelivered 
component is allocated to the sale of the intangible asset. This  
is because the contracted revenue relating to the undelivered 
component is contingent on future events (such as sales) and so 
cannot be anticipated.
Research and development
Our business is underpinned by our marketed products and 
development portfolio. The R&D expenditure on internal activities  
to generate these products is generally charged to proﬁt in the  
year that it is incurred. Purchases of intellectual property and 
product rights to supplement our R&D portfolio are capitalised as 
intangible assets. Further details of this policy are included in the 
Group Accounting Policies section of our Financial Statements on 
page 142. Such intangible assets are amortised from the launch of 
the underlying products and are tested for impairment both before 
and after launch. This policy is in line with practice adopted by major 
pharmaceutical companies.
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets
We have signiﬁcant investments in goodwill and intangible assets as 
a result of acquisitions of businesses and purchases of assets, such 
as product development and marketing rights.
Details of the estimates and assumptions we make in our annual 
impairment testing of goodwill are included in Note 8 to the Financial 
Statements on page 154. No impairment of goodwill was identiﬁed.
Impairment reviews have been carried out on all intangible assets 
that are in development (and not being amortised), all major 
intangible assets acquired during the year and all intangible assets 
that have had indications of impairment during the year. Sales 
forecasts and speciﬁc allocated costs (which have both been 
subject to appropriate senior management sign-off) are discounted 
using appropriate rates based on AstraZeneca’s risk-adjusted 
pre-tax weighted average cost of capital. In building to the range of 
rates used in our internal investment appraisal of future projects and 
capital investment decisions, we adjust our weighted average cost 
of capital for other factors, which reﬂect, without limitation, local 
matters such as risk on a case by case basis.
Intangible asset impairment charges recorded in 2010 included 
$445 million following our decision to withdraw our FDA biological 
license application for motavizumab as detailed on page 156 and 
$128 million related to our decision to discontinue further 
development of lesogaberan (AZD3355).
The majority of our investments in intangible assets and goodwill 
arose from the restructuring of the joint venture with Merck in 1998, 
the acquisition of MedImmune in 2007 and the payments to partially 
retire Merck’s interests in our products in the US in 2008 and 2010, 
and we are satisﬁed that the carrying values at 31 December 2010 
are fully justiﬁed by estimated future cash ﬂows. The accounting for 
our arrangements with Merck is fully explained in Note 25 to the 
Financial Statements from page 178.
Further details of the estimates and assumptions we make in 
impairment testing of intangible assets are included in Note 9 to  
the Financial Statements from page 155.
Litigation
In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise 
from product-speciﬁc and general legal proceedings, from 
guarantees or from environmental liabilities connected with our 
current or former sites. Where we believe that potential liabilities 
have a less than 50% probability of crystallising or where we are 
unable to make a reasonable estimate of the liability, we treat them 
as contingent liabilities. These are not provided for but are disclosed 
in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178.
In cases that have been settled or adjudicated, or where 
quantiﬁable ﬁnes and penalties have been assessed and which are 
not subject to appeal (or other similar forms of relief), or where a loss 
is probable (more than 50% assessed probability) and we are able 
to make a reasonable estimate of the loss, we indicate the loss 
absorbed or the amount of the provision accrued.
AstraZeneca is defending its interests in various federal and state 
investigations and civil litigation matters relating to product liability 
and to drug marketing and pricing practices and in respect of which 
AstraZeneca has made an aggregate provision of $612 million in  
the year. $592 million of this provision has been made in respect of 
the ongoing Seroquel product liability litigation and state attorney 
general investigations into sales and marketing practices in 
aggregate. The current status of these matters is described more 
fully in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178, including 
our position on recovery of legal defence costs on page 190. This 
provision constitutes our best estimate at this time of the losses 
expected for these matters.
Where it is considered that the Group is more likely than not to 
prevail, or in the rare circumstances where the amount of the  
legal liability cannot be estimated reliably, legal costs involved in 
defending the claim are charged to proﬁt as they are incurred. 
Where it is considered that the Group has a valid contract which 
provides the right to reimbursement (from insurance or otherwise)  
of legal costs and/or all or part of any loss incurred or for which a 
provision has been established and we consider recovery to be 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 92 Financial Review Critical accounting policies and estimates
Financial Review virtually certain, then the best estimate of the amount expected to 
be received is recognised as an asset.
Assessments as to whether or not to recognise provisions or assets 
and of the amounts concerned usually involve a series of complex 
judgements about future events and can rely heavily on estimates 
and assumptions. AstraZeneca believes that the provisions 
recorded are adequate based on currently available information and 
that the insurance recoveries recorded will be received. However, 
given the inherent uncertainties involved in assessing the outcomes 
of these cases and in estimating the amount of the potential losses 
and the associated insurance recoveries, we could in future periods 
incur judgments or insurance settlements that could have a material 
adverse effect on our results in any particular period.
The position could change over time, and there can, therefore, be 
no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any 
legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions that 
have been booked in the accounts.
Although there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of legal 
proceedings, we do not currently expect them to have a material 
adverse effect on our ﬁnancial position, but they could signiﬁcantly 
affect our ﬁnancial results in any particular period.
Post-retirement beneﬁts
We offer post-retirement beneﬁt plans which cover many of our 
employees around the world. In keeping with local terms and 
conditions, most of these plans are ‘deﬁned contribution’ in nature, 
where the resulting income statement charge is ﬁxed at a set level 
or is a set percentage of employees’ pay. However, several plans, 
mainly in the UK (which has by far the largest single scheme), the 
US and Sweden, are deﬁned beneﬁt plans where beneﬁts are 
based on employees’ length of service and ﬁnal salary (typically 
averaged over one, three or ﬁve years). The UK and US deﬁned 
beneﬁt schemes were closed to new entrants in 2000. All new 
employees in these countries are offered deﬁned contribution 
schemes. The beneﬁts provided by the UK pension plan were 
modiﬁed during 2010. As detailed on page 83 and Note 18 to the 
Financial Statements from page 162, in accordance with IAS 19 
‘Employee Beneﬁts’, we recognised a gain of $791 million in the year 
arising from changes made to beneﬁts under certain of the Group’s 
post-retirement plans, chieﬂy the freezing of future pensionable pay 
at 30 June 2010 levels under the Group’s UK pension plan.
In applying IAS 19, we recognise all actuarial gains and losses 
immediately through reserves. This methodology results in a  
less volatile income statement charge than under the alternative 
approach of recognising actuarial gains and losses over time. 
Investment decisions in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are 
based on underlying actuarial and economic circumstances with 
the intention of ensuring that the schemes have sufﬁcient assets  
to meet liabilities as they fall due, rather than meeting accounting 
requirements. The trustees follow a strategy of awarding mandates 
to specialist, active investment managers, which results in a broad 
diversiﬁcation of investment styles and asset classes. The 
investment approach is intended to produce less volatility in  
the plan asset returns.
In assessing the discount rate applied to the obligations, we have 
used rates on AA corporate bonds with durations corresponding to 
the maturities of those obligations except in Sweden where we have 
used rates on government bonds as the market in high quality 
bonds is insufﬁciently deep.
In all cases, the pension costs recorded in the Financial Statements 
are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent 
qualiﬁed actuaries but require the exercise of signiﬁcant judgement 
in relation to assumptions for future salary and pension increases, 
long-term price inﬂation and investment returns.
Taxation
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make 
judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and 
exposures. Amounts accrued are based on management’s 
interpretation of country-speciﬁc tax law and the likelihood of 
settlement. Tax beneﬁts are not recognised unless the tax positions 
are probable of being sustained. Once considered to be probable, 
management reviews each material tax beneﬁt to assess whether a 
provision should be taken against full recognition of the beneﬁt on 
the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and/or 
litigation. All such provisions are included in creditors due within one 
year. Any recorded exposure to interest on tax liabilities is provided 
for in the tax charge.
AstraZeneca faces a number of transfer pricing audits in 
jurisdictions around the world and, in some cases, is in dispute with 
the tax authorities. These disputes usually result in taxable proﬁts 
being increased in one territory and correspondingly decreased in 
another. Our balance sheet positions for these matters reﬂect 
appropriate corresponding relief in the territories affected.
Further details of the estimates and assumptions we make in 
determining our recorded liability for transfer pricing audits and 
other tax contingencies are included in the tax section of Note 25 of 
the Financial Statements on page 195.
Segmental reporting
In 2009, AstraZeneca adopted IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’. IFRS 
8 requires an entity to report ﬁnancial and descriptive information 
about its reportable segments. Reportable segments are operating 
segments or aggregations of operating segments that meet 
speciﬁed criteria. In addressing these criteria, it was determined  
that AstraZeneca is engaged in a single business activity of 
pharmaceuticals and that the Group does not have multiple 
operating segments. Further details of our consideration of IFRS 8 
are given in our Group Accounting Policies from page 145.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404
As a consequence of our listing on the NYSE, AstraZeneca is 
required to comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
applicable to foreign issuers. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act requires companies annually to assess and make public 
statements about the quality and effectiveness of their internal 
control over ﬁnancial reporting.
Our approach to the assessment has been to select key transaction 
and ﬁnancial reporting processes in our largest operating units and 
a number of specialist areas, such as ﬁnancial consolidation and 
reporting, treasury operations and taxation, so that, in aggregate, 
we have covered a signiﬁcant proportion of each of the key line 
items in our Financial Statements. Each of these operating units  
and specialist areas has ensured that its relevant processes and 
controls are documented to appropriate standards, taking into 
account, in particular, the guidance provided by the SEC. We have 
also reviewed the structure and operation of our ‘entity level’ control 
environment. This refers to the overarching control environment, 
including structure of reviews, checks and balances that are 
essential to the management of a well-controlled business.
The Directors have concluded that our internal control over ﬁnancial 
reporting is effective at 31 December 2010 and the assessment is 
set out in the Directors’ Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal 
Control over Financial Reporting on page 136. KPMG Audit Plc has 
audited the effectiveness of our internal control over ﬁnancial 
reporting at 31 December 2010 and, as noted in the Auditor’s 
Report on the Financial Statements and on Internal Control over 
Financial Reporting (Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404) on page 137 , 
their report is unqualiﬁed.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview Business Review
Financial Review Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 93 What is our 
approach to risk 
management?
We encourage clear 
decision making as 
to which risks we 
take and how we 
manage them
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 94 Risk In this section we describe our key risk 
management and assurance mechanisms, and 
the principal risks and uncertainties which we 
currently consider to be material to our business 
in that they may have a signiﬁcant effect on our 
ﬁnancial condition, results of operations and/or 
reputation. Speciﬁc risks and uncertainties are 
also discussed at various points in the Business 
Review section from page 24, where relevant.
Managing risk
As an innovation-driven, global, prescription-based 
biopharmaceutical business, we face a diverse range of risks and 
uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. Our approach 
to risk management is designed to encourage clear decision 
making as to which risks we take as a business and how we 
manage those risks, in each case informed by an understanding  
of the commercial, ﬁnancial, compliance, legal and reputational 
implications of these risks.
We work continuously to ensure that we have effective risk 
management processes in place to support the delivery of our 
strategic objectives, the material needs of our stakeholders and our 
core values. We monitor our business activities and our external 
and internal environments for new, emerging and changing risks to 
ensure that these are proactively managed at the appropriate level 
as they arise.
The Board believes that the processes and accountabilities which 
are in place (and described below in further detail) provide it with 
adequate information on the key risks and uncertainties facing the 
business. Further information about these risks and uncertainties is 
set out in the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page 96.
Embedded in business processes 
We strive to ensure sound risk management is embedded within 
our strategy, planning, budgeting and performance management 
processes. The Board has deﬁned the Group’s risk appetite 
expressing the acceptable levels of risk for the Group using three 
key dimensions (earnings and cash ﬂow, return on investment and 
reputation). This deﬁnition provides a clear statement of the Board’s 
position on risk and enables, in quantitative and qualitative terms, 
the level of risk the Group is prepared to take in individual decisions, 
in pursuit of its overall objectives, to be taken into account. 
Annually, the Group develops a long-term business plan to support 
the delivery of its strategy and the Board reviews and conﬁrms that 
the business plan conforms to its risk appetite. Line management 
are accountable for identifying and managing risks, and for 
delivering business objectives within the Group’s risk appetite.  
Each area for which a SET member is responsible (a SET function) 
is required to provide a comprehensive assessment of its risks as 
part of the annual business planning process. Identiﬁed risks are 
mapped to AstraZeneca’s risk ‘taxonomy’, which provides a 
structured disaggregation of the potential strategic, operational, 
compliance and reputational risks facing the Group.
The CEO and the CFO undertake quarterly business reviews 
(QBRs) with each SET function where the key risks are reviewed. 
Business managers within each SET function are required to 
provide quarterly updates on their key risks and these are 
consolidated to create the list of key risks for that SET function for 
review at the QBRs. The key risks for each SET function are then 
aggregated into a Group risk register. The purpose of the risk review 
is to identify and measure risks, and to deﬁne and review risk 
management and mitigation plans. Risk management standards, 
guidelines and supporting tools are in place to support the 
managers in the effective identiﬁcation, reporting, management  
and mitigation of risk. 
Our approach to risk management includes the development of 
business resilience plans to provide for situations where speciﬁc risks 
have the potential to severely impact our business. Global business 
resilience plans covering crisis management, business continuity 
and emergency responses are in place, supported by the training  
of relevant business managers and crisis simulation activities.
One of our strategic priorities is to ensure that a culture of ethics 
and integrity is embedded in all business practices. Our Code of 
Conduct and our Global Policies and Standards set mandatory 
minimum standards of responsible behaviour for all employees. In 
addition, all employees receive annual training on the requirements 
of our Code of Conduct, as well as more speciﬁc targeted training 
on particular policies and standards. Employees are encouraged to 
raise questions on the practical application of these standards and 
to report suspected breaches and incidents of non-compliance 
through the reporting channels described in our Code of Conduct. 
For information about how we identify and manage the risks 
associated with ‘responsible business’, please see the 
Accountabilities and responsibilities section of the Responsible 
Business section on page 41. 
Key responsibilities
Management of risk 
Day-to-day management of risk is delegated from the Board to  
the CEO and through the SET to line managers. SET management 
areas are accountable for establishing an appropriate line 
management-led process and for providing the resources for 
supporting effective risk management.
Line and project management are accountable for the management 
of risk within the context of their functional or cross-functional remit 
or project. Line managers have primary responsibility for identifying 
and managing risk and for putting in place appropriate controls and 
procedures to monitor their effectiveness.
Oversight and monitoring
The SET is responsible for overseeing and monitoring the 
effectiveness of the risk management processes implemented by 
management. Specialist risk and compliance functions support the 
SET by providing and advising on policy and standard setting, 
monitoring and auditing, communication and training, and reporting 
on the adequacy of line management processes as they apply to 
managing risk throughout the business.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Risk 95
Risk Our compliance organisation is comprised of the Global 
Compliance function together with a wide range of specialist 
compliance functions. Global Compliance maintains our Code of 
Conduct and Global Policies and Standards and ensures that an 
effective compliance programme is in place to ensure compliance 
with the 16 Principles of our Code of Conduct and relevant policies 
and standards. 
The specialist compliance functions support line management and 
SET to manage risk in speciﬁc regulated areas to ensure ongoing 
legal and regulatory compliance. These specialist groups include: 
Good Laboratory, Clinical and Manufacturing Compliance; Sales 
and Marketing Compliance; Medical and Regulatory Affairs; 
Financial Control and Compliance; Safety, Health and Environment; 
Information Security and Data Privacy; and Security. 
When a potential compliance breach is identiﬁed, the compliance 
organisation undertakes an internal investigation. Should the 
investigation conclude that an actual compliance breach has 
occurred, the compliance organisation will consider whether the 
Company needs to make a disclosure and/or to report the ﬁndings 
to a regulatory or governmental authority. When appropriate, the 
compliance organisation will engage external advisers to conduct 
and/or advise on investigations.
Management reporting and assurance 
The Audit Committee is comprised of ﬁve Non-Executive Directors 
and is accountable, among other things, for assessing the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management systems and 
processes implemented by management. The Audit Committee 
receives regular reports from the external auditor and the following 
business functions:
>  Group Internal Audit (GIA) – independent assurance reports  
on the Group’s risk management and control framework.
>  Global Compliance – compliance programme reports on  
key compliance risks, updates on key compliance initiatives, 
performance against the Global Compliance scorecard, 
compliance incidents and investigations including calls made  
by employees to the AZethics and MedImmune helplines.
>  Financial Control and Compliance Group – reports on Sarbanes-
Oxley Act compliance and the ﬁnancial control framework.
>  Management – the Group-level risk summary from the annual 
business planning process and QBRs and reports on the 
performance management and monitoring processes.
The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board following 
each Audit Committee meeting on the overall framework of risk 
management and internal controls and is responsible for promptly 
bringing to the Board’s attention any signiﬁcant concerns about the 
conduct, results or outcome of internal audits and other compliance 
matters. For further information on the Audit Committee, see the 
Audit Committee section from page 113.
GIA is an independent assurance and advisory function that reports 
to, and is accountable to, the Audit Committee. GIA’s budget, 
resources and programme of audits are approved by the Audit 
Committee on an annual basis and the ﬁndings from its audit work 
are reported to, and are discussed at, each Audit Committee 
meeting. A core part of the audit work carried out by GIA includes 
assessing how AstraZeneca is managing risk and reviewing the 
effectiveness of selected aspects of AstraZeneca’s risk control 
framework, including the effectiveness of other assurance and 
compliance functions within the business. During 2010, GIA 
assessed the effectiveness of a number of core compliance and 
operational processes operating within the business as well as the 
effectiveness of risk mitigation plans in a number of high risk and/or 
business critical areas.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The pharmaceutical sector is inherently risky and a variety of risks 
and uncertainties may affect our business. Here we summarise, 
under the headings: Product pipeline risks; Commercialisation and 
business execution risks; Supply chain and delivery risks; Legal, 
regulatory and compliance risks; and Economic and ﬁnancial risks, 
the principal risks and uncertainties which we currently consider to 
be material to our business in that they may have a signiﬁcant effect 
on our ﬁnancial condition, results of operations and/or reputation. 
These risks are not listed in any assumed order of priority. Other 
risks, unknown or not currently considered material, could have a 
similar effect. We believe that the forward-looking statements about 
AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, identiﬁed by words such as 
‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘expects’ and ‘intends’, are based on 
reasonable assumptions. However, forward-looking statements 
involve inherent risks and uncertainties such as those summarised 
below because they relate to events and depend on circumstances 
that will occur in the future, and may be inﬂuenced by factors 
beyond our control and/or may have actual outcomes materially 
different from our expectations.
Product pipeline risks
Failure to meet development targets
The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a 
complex, risky and time-intensive process involving signiﬁcant 
ﬁnancial, R&D and other resources, which may fail at any stage  
of the process due to a number of factors, including:
>  Failure to obtain the required regulatory or marketing approvals for 
the product candidate or the facilities in which it is manufactured.
>  Unfavourable data from key studies.
>  Adverse reactions to the product candidate or indications of other 
safety concerns.
>  Failure of R&D to develop new and differentiated product 
candidates.
>  Failure to demonstrate adequately cost-effective beneﬁts to 
regulators.
>  The emergence of competing products.
A succession of negative drug project results and a failure to  
reduce development timelines effectively could adversely affect the 
reputation of our R&D capabilities. Furthermore, the failure of R&D 
to yield new products that achieve commercial success is likely to 
have a material adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results 
of operations.
Production and release schedules for biologics may be more 
signiﬁcantly impacted by regulatory processes than other products 
due to more complex and stringent regulation on the manufacturing 
of biologics and their supply chain.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Risk
96 Risk Difﬁculties of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals  
for new products 
We are subject to strict controls on the development, labelling, 
manufacture, distribution and marketing of our pharmaceutical 
products. The requirements to obtain regulatory approval based  
on a product’s safety, efﬁcacy and quality before it can be marketed 
for a speciﬁed therapeutic indication or indications in a particular 
country, and to maintain and to comply with licences and other 
regulations relating to its manufacture and marketing, are 
particularly important. The submission of an application to 
regulatory authorities (which are different, with different 
requirements, in each region or country) may or may not lead to 
approval to market the product. Regulators can refuse to grant 
approval or may require additional data before approval is given, 
even though the medicine may already be launched in other parts  
of the world. The countries that constitute key markets for our 
pharmaceutical products include the US, certain countries of the 
EU and Japan. The approval of a product is required by the relevant 
regulatory authority in each country, although a single pan-EU MAA 
can be obtained through a centralised procedure.
In recent years, companies sponsoring new drug applications and 
regulatory authorities have been under increased public pressure to 
apply more conservative risk/beneﬁt criteria and, in some instances, 
the applicable regulatory authorities require a company to develop 
plans to ensure safe use of a marketed product before a 
pharmaceutical product is approved, or after approval, if a new  
and signiﬁcant safety issue is established. In addition, third party 
interpretation of publicly available data on our marketed products 
has the potential to inﬂuence the approval status or labelling of a 
currently approved and marketed product. Further, the predictability 
of the outcome and timing of review processes remains challenging, 
particularly in the US, due to competing regulatory priorities and  
a continuing sentiment of risk aversion on the part of regulatory 
reviewers and management. Delays in regulatory reviews and 
approvals could impact the timing of a new product launch and  
the drive for public transparency of the review processes through 
the more extensive use of public advisory committees, which in  
the US, continue to add to the unpredictability of the process.  
For example, the approval of Brilinta and Axanum in the US has 
been delayed by Complete Response Letters which requested 
further data and/or analyses.
Failure to obtain effective intellectual property protection 
Our policy and a key business priority is to protect our investment  
in R&D by securing appropriate intellectual property protection  
in respect of our inventions and innovations. Our ability to obtain 
and enforce patents and other proprietary rights in relation to our 
products is, therefore, an important element of our ability to create 
long-term value for the business.
A number of the countries in which we operate are still developing 
their intellectual property laws or may even be limiting the 
applicability of these laws to pharmaceutical inventions such  
that certain countries may seek to limit or deny effective patent 
protection for pharmaceuticals. Limitations on the availability of 
patent protection or the use of compulsory licensing in certain 
countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect 
on the pricing and sales of our products and, consequently, could 
materially adversely affect our revenues from them. More 
information about protecting our intellectual property is contained  
in the Intellectual Property section from page 30 and information 
about the risk of patent litigation and the early loss of intellectual 
property rights is contained in the Patent litigation and early loss  
of intellectual property rights section from page 98.
Delay to new product launches 
Our continued success depends on the development and 
successful launch of innovative new drugs. The anticipated launch 
dates of major new products have a signiﬁcant impact on a number 
of areas of our business, including investment in large clinical 
studies, the manufacture of pre-launch stocks of the products, 
investment in marketing materials ahead of a product launch, sales 
force training and the timing of anticipated future revenue streams 
from commercial sales of new products. These launch dates are 
primarily driven by the development programmes that we run and 
the demands of the regulatory authorities in the approvals process, 
as well as pricing negotiation in some countries. Delays to 
anticipated launch dates can result from a number of factors 
including adverse ﬁndings in pre-clinical or clinical studies, 
regulatory demands, competitor activity and technology transfer. 
Signiﬁcant delays to anticipated launch dates of new products could 
have a material adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results 
of operations. For example, for the launch of products that are 
seasonal in nature, delays for regulatory approval or manufacturing 
difﬁculties can have the effect of delaying launch to the next season 
which, in turn, may signiﬁcantly reduce the return on costs incurred 
in preparing for the launch for that season. In addition, a delay in the 
launch may give rise to increased costs if, for example, marketing 
and sales efforts need to be rescheduled or protracted for longer 
than expected.
Strategic alliances formed as part of our externalisation strategy may 
be unsuccessful
We seek technology licensing arrangements and strategic 
collaborations to expand our product portfolio and geographical 
presence as part of our business strategy.
Such licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations are key  
to enable us to grow and strengthen the business. If we fail to 
complete these types of collaborative projects in a timely manner, 
on a cost-effective basis, or at all, we may not realise the expected 
beneﬁts of any such collaborations. The success of such current 
and future arrangements is largely dependent on the technology 
and other intellectual property we acquire and the resources, efforts 
and skills of our partners. There is a risk that these collaborative 
projects may be unsuccessful. Disputes and difﬁculties in such 
relationships may arise, often due to conﬂicting priorities or conﬂicts 
of interest of the parties, which may erode or eliminate the beneﬁts 
of these alliances if, for example, the agreements are terminated; 
insufﬁcient ﬁnancial or other resources are made available to the 
alliances; intellectual property is negatively impacted; obligations  
are not performed as expected; controls and commercial limitations 
are imposed over the marketing and promotion of the collaboration 
products; or challenges in achieving commercial success of the 
product are encountered during the development process. Also, 
under many of our strategic alliances, we make milestone payments 
well in advance of the commercialisation of the products, with no 
assurance that we will recoup these payments. If these types of 
transactions are unsuccessful, this may have a material adverse 
effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, we experience strong competition from other 
pharmaceutical companies in respect of licensing arrangements 
and strategic collaborations, which means that we may be 
unsuccessful in establishing some of our intended projects. If we 
are unsuccessful in establishing such projects in the future, this may 
have a material adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results 
of operations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Risk 97 Commercialisation and business execution risks
Challenges to achieving commercial success of new products
The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical product involves 
substantial investment in sales and marketing activities, launch 
stocks and other items. The commercial success of our new 
medicines is of particular importance to us in order to replace sales 
lost as and when patent protection expires. If a new product does 
not succeed as anticipated or its rate of sales growth is slower than 
anticipated, there is a risk that the costs incurred in launching it 
could have a material adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition  
and results of operations. We may ultimately be unable to achieve 
commercial success for any number of reasons, including:
>  Inability to manufacture sufﬁcient quantities of the product 
candidate for development or commercialisation activities  
in a timely and cost-efﬁcient manner.
>  Excessive costs of, or difﬁculty in, manufacturing.
>  Erosion of patent term and other intellectual property rights, and 
infringement of those rights and the intellectual property rights 
owned by third parties.
>  Failure to show value or a differentiated proﬁle for our products.
As a result, we cannot be certain that compounds currently under 
development will achieve success.
In addition, the methods of distributing and marketing biologics 
could have a material impact on the revenue we are able to 
generate from the sales of products such as Synagis and FluMist/
Fluenz. The commercialisation of biologics is often more complex 
than for traditional pharmaceutical products. This is primarily due  
to differences in the mode of administration, the technical aspects 
of the product, and the rapidly changing distribution and 
reimbursement environments.
Performance of new products 
Although we carry out numerous and extensive clinical studies on  
all our products before they are launched, it can be difﬁcult, for a 
period following the launch of a new product, to establish from 
available data, a complete assessment of its eventual efﬁcacy and/
or safety in broader clinical use on the market. Due to the relatively 
short time that a product has been tested and the relatively small 
number of patients who have taken the product in clinical studies, 
the available data may be immature. Simple extrapolation of the data 
may not be accurate and could lead to a misleading interpretation  
of the likely future commercial performance of a new product.
Product counterfeiting 
Counterfeit medicines may contain harmful substances, the wrong 
dose of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) or no API at all. 
Counterfeit medicines are a danger to patients in all parts of the 
world. The International Medical Products Anti-Counterfeiting 
Taskforce (IMPACT) of the WHO estimates that up to 30% of 
medicines in emerging economies are counterfeit, a percentage 
which is exceeded in parts of Latin America, Asia and Africa.  
By contrast, in established economies with effective regulatory 
systems, counterfeit medicines represent less than 1% of the 
market by market value. Public loss of conﬁdence in the integrity  
of pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting could 
materially adversely affect our reputation and ﬁnancial performance. 
In addition, undue or misplaced concern about the issue might 
induce some patients to stop taking their medicines, with 
consequential risks to their health.
Developing our business in emerging markets 
The development of our business in emerging markets will be  
a critical factor in determining our future ability to sustain or  
increase the level of our global product revenues. Challenges that 
arise in relation to the development of the business in emerging 
markets include: 
>  more volatile economic conditions 
>  competition from companies that are already present in  
the market
>  the need to identify correctly and to leverage appropriate 
opportunities for sales and marketing
>  poor protection of intellectual property
>  inadequate protection against crime (including counterfeiting, 
corruption and fraud)
>  the need to impose developed market compliance standards  
in emerging markets
>  inadvertent breaches of local and international law/regulation
>  not being able to recruit sufﬁcient personnel with appropriate skills 
and experience
>  identiﬁcation of the most appropriate and effective sales channels 
and route to market interventions by national governments or 
regulators to restrict access to a market and/or to introduce 
adverse price controls. 
The failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in 
emerging markets may have a material adverse effect on our 
reputation, ﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
Expiry of intellectual property rights 
Pharmaceutical products are normally only protected from being 
copied during the period of protection under patent rights or related 
intellectual property rights such as Regulatory Data Protection or 
Orphan Drug status. Following expiry of such rights, the product  
is generally open to competition from generic versions. Products 
under patent protection or within the period of Regulatory Data 
Protection typically generate signiﬁcantly higher revenues than 
those not protected by such rights. See the Intellectual Property 
section from page 30 for a table of certain patent expiry dates for 
our key marketed products.
Patent litigation and early loss of intellectual property rights 
Any of the intellectual property rights protecting our products may 
be asserted or challenged in intellectual property litigation initiated 
against or by alleged infringers. Such intellectual property rights 
may be affected by validity challenges in patent ofﬁces. In any event, 
we expect our most valuable products to receive the greater 
number of challenges. Despite our efforts to establish and defend 
robust patent protection for our products, we may not succeed in 
such litigation and challenges to our patents. If we are not 
successful in maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of 
our major products, particularly in the US where we have our 
highest revenue, our revenue and margins could be materially 
adversely affected.
Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions 
of many of our more important products prior to expiries of our 
patents and Regulatory Exclusivity periods. For example, we are 
currently facing challenges in the US from numerous generic drug 
manufacturers regarding certain of our patents for Seroquel XR, 
Nexium and Crestor, three of our best selling products. If such 
challenges succeed and generic products are launched, or 
launched ‘at risk’ on the expectation that challenges to our 
intellectual property will be successful, this may have a material 
adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations. 
In 2010, US sales for Seroquel XR, Nexium and Crestor were 
$640 million, $2,695 million, and $2,640 million respectively.  
The more signiﬁcant patent litigation relating to our products is 
described in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Risk
98 Risk In addition to patent challenges by generic drug manufacturers 
seeking to market generic versions of our products, we bear the  
risk that we may be found to infringe patents owned or licensed 
exclusively by third parties, including research-based and generic 
pharmaceutical companies and individuals. Such third party patents 
may allegedly cover, for example, compositions, devices, products, 
processes, methods, biological materials, or research tools relating 
to our products. Infringement accusations may implicate, for 
example, our manufacturing processes, product intermediates or 
use of research tools. Managing or litigating infringement disputes 
over so-called ‘freedom to operate’ can be costly. We may be 
subject to injunctions against our products or processes and/or be 
liable for damages or royalties. We may need to obtain costly 
licences. These risks may be greater in respect of biologics and 
vaccines, where such infringement accusations relating to patents 
claiming processes, research tools, methods, and biological 
materials are frequently found. We may mitigate such risks 
successfully through, for example, acquiring licences, foregoing 
certain activities or uses, or modifying processes to avoid 
infringement claims and permit commercialisation of our products, 
but there is no certainty that any such action or modiﬁcation will be 
possible; and any such action may entail signiﬁcant cost. Details of 
signiﬁcant infringement claims against AstraZeneca by third parties 
enforcing intellectual property rights can be found in Note 25 to the 
Financial Statements from page 178.
In addition to the challenges to our patented products from 
manufacturers of generic or other patented pharmaceutical 
products, there is a risk that some countries, particularly some  
of those in the developing world, may seek to impose limitations  
on the availability of patent protection for pharmaceutical products, 
or on the extent to which such protection may be obtained  
and/or enforced, within their jurisdictions. As a result, generic 
manufacturers in these countries may be increasingly and more 
easily able to introduce competing products to the market earlier 
than they would have been able to had more robust patent 
protection been available.
Combined with patent protection and Regulatory Exclusivities, 
products protected by valid trade marks usually generate higher 
revenues than those without trade marks. We believe that we have 
robust trade mark protection for our products but cannot be certain 
that we would be able to defend any challenge successfully.
Biosimilars
Various regulatory authorities are implementing or considering 
abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars (similar versions of 
existing biologics, also referred to as ‘similar biological medicinal 
products’ and ‘follow-on biologics’).
For example, in 2010, the US enacted the Biologics Price 
Competition and Innovation Act within the Affordable Care Act, 
which contains general directives for biosimilar applications. The 
FDA sought stakeholder input on speciﬁc issues and challenges  
in implementing an abbreviated biosimilar approval pathway and 
further guidance is expected to be issued. In Europe, the EMA 
published a draft guideline on similar biological medicinal products 
containing MAbs. This draft guideline will likely be ﬁnalised in 2011. 
In May 2010, the WHO published ‘Guidelines for Evaluation of 
Similar Biotherapeutic Products’, which are intended for national 
regulatory authorities in other markets.
While it is uncertain when any such processes may be fully 
adopted, particularly for complex protein molecules such as MAbs, 
any such processes could have a material adverse effect on the 
future commercial prospects for patented biologics.
Expiry or earlier loss of patents covering competing products
The expiry or earlier loss of patents covering other innovator 
companies’ products may lead to the availability of generic products 
in the same product class as our currently patented products earlier 
than anticipated. Such events could have a material adverse effect 
on our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations. For example, 
the loss of patent rights covering major products in the US, such as 
Advair Diskus™ before 2012 or Celebrex™ before 2014, or the early 
entry of generic versions of still-patented products, prior to the 
expiry of the patents protecting such products, such as Lipitor™ 
(expected in 2011), may adversely affect the growth of our still-
patented products in the same product class (ie Symbicort, Vimovo 
and Crestor, respectively) in that market.
Competition, price controls and price reductions
All our products compete directly with other products marketed 
either by major research-based pharmaceutical companies or by 
generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. These competitors may 
invest greater resources in the marketing of their products than we 
do depending on the relative priority of these competitor products 
within their company’s portfolio. Generic versions of products are 
often sold at lower prices than branded products because the 
manufacturer does not have to recoup the signiﬁcant cost of R&D 
investment. Also, generic pharmaceutical companies do not 
generally invest the same amounts in education services for 
healthcare professionals as research-based pharmaceutical 
companies, so the sales of their generic products do not need to 
cover these costs. All our patented products, including Nexium, 
Crestor and Seroquel, are subject to price pressure from 
competition from generic products in the same product class.
Industry consolidation has resulted in a small number of very large 
companies. This trend, if it continues, could materially adversely 
affect our competitive position, while consolidation among our 
customers may increase price pressures. 
In most of our key markets there is continued economic, regulatory 
and political pressure to limit or reduce the cost of pharmaceutical 
products. Concurrently, many markets are adopting the use of 
Health Technology Assessment (HTA) to provide a rigorous 
evaluation of the clinical efﬁcacy of a product, at or post-launch.  
HTA evaluations are also increasingly being used to assess the 
clinical as well as the cost effectiveness of products in a particular 
health system. This comes as payers and policy-makers attempt to 
drive increased efﬁciencies in the use and choice of pharmaceutical 
products. A summary of the principal aspects of price regulation and 
how price pressures are affecting our business in our most important 
markets is set out in the Geographical Review from page 70.
In the US, realised prices are being depressed through the use of  
a range of cost-control tools such as restricted lists, or formularies, 
employing ‘generic ﬁrst’ strategies, which require physicians to 
obtain prior approval for the use of a branded medicine where a 
generic version exists. These mechanisms put pressure on 
manufacturers to reduce prices and to limit access to branded 
products. Many of these mechanisms shift a greater proportion  
of the cost of medicines on to the individual via out-of-pocket 
payments at the pharmacy counter. The patient out-of-pocket 
spend is generally in the form of a co-payment or, in some cases,  
a co-insurance, which is designed, among other reasons, to 
encourage patients to use generic medicines. Many of these 
management tools are also employed by institutional customers in 
response to the current cost-containment environment and these 
increasingly restrictive reimbursement policies could have a material 
adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Risk 99 In the US, new legislation is possible that may allow the commercial 
importation of medicines into the US from selected countries where 
these medicines are available at lower prices than in the US. The 
adoption of such legislation could result in an increase in the volume 
of cross-border product movements which could have a material 
adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
The US recently passed the Affordable Care Act, a comprehensive 
health reform package with provisions initially taking effect between 
2010 and 2014. Among other things, the law expands insurance 
coverage, establishes new national entities focused on health 
system reforms, and calls on the pharmaceutical industry and other 
healthcare industries to offset spending increases through ‘pay-
fors’. In terms of speciﬁc provisions impacting our industry, the law 
mandates higher rebates and discounts on branded drugs for 
certain Medicare and Medicaid patients as well as an industry-wide 
excise tax. The law also includes several health system delivery 
reforms that will be implemented over the next four years, including 
the establishment of a new comparative effectiveness research 
organisation, the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute 
and an Independent Payment Advisory Board with broad authority 
to propose to cut Medicare expenditures. The combined work of 
these two entities could lead to continued downward price pressure 
on pharmaceuticals. As the US continues to struggle with federal 
and state budget deﬁcits, it is expected that there will be continued 
downward pressure on healthcare spending growth.
The health reform legislation expands the patient population eligible 
for Medicaid and provides new insurance coverage for individuals 
through state-operated health insurance exchanges. Large 
employers have typically offered generous health insurance 
beneﬁts, but many are struggling with increasing health insurance 
premiums and may therefore opt to shift employee coverage into 
the health insurance exchanges, which will be operational by 2014. 
The pharmaceutical industry could be adversely impacted by such 
shifts if the health insurance exchanges do not offer a prescription 
drug beneﬁt that is as robust as beneﬁts historically provided by 
large employers.
In the EU, efforts by the European Commission to reduce 
inconsistencies and to improve standards and best practice in the 
disparate national regulatory systems have met with little immediate 
success. The industry continues to be exposed in Europe to a 
range of disparate pricing systems, ad hoc cost-containment 
measures and reference pricing mechanisms, which impact prices. 
This can lead to marked price differentials between markets,  
which increases the pricing pressure affecting the industry. The 
importation of pharmaceutical products from countries where 
prices are low due to government price controls or other market 
dynamics, to countries where prices for those products are higher, 
is already prevalent and may increase. In particular, as discussed  
in the Pricing pressure section from page 11, Germany, Spain, 
Portugal and Greece have introduced a number of short-term 
measures to lower healthcare spending, including price cuts or 
increased mandatory rebates. This could have a material adverse 
effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations. 
We expect that pressures on pricing will continue and may increase. 
Due to these pressures, there can be no certainty that we will be 
able to charge prices for a product that, in a particular country or  
in the aggregate, enable us to earn an adequate return on our 
investment in that product.
Increasing implementation and enforcement of more stringent 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation 
There is an increasing focus globally on the implementation of 
legislation of an anti-bribery and anti-corruption nature and on  
the enforcement of such legislation. For example, in the UK, the  
new Bribery Act 2010 received Royal Assent in April 2010 and  
is expected to come into force in 2011. While there remains 
speculation as to the practical impact of the Bribery Act on 
companies, it has extensive extra-territorial application, implements 
signiﬁcant changes to existing UK anti-bribery legislation and 
broadens the scope of statutory offences and the potential 
penalties applicable thereto, including, among others things, the 
creation of liability for any bribe paid on behalf of an organisation 
where the organisation failed to have adequate preventative 
procedures in place at the time of the offence. There is also an 
increase in the maximum applicable penalties for bribery, including 
up to ten years’ imprisonment and unlimited ﬁnes. There have also 
been increased enforcement efforts in the UK by the Serious Fraud 
Ofﬁce and, in the US, there has been signiﬁcant enforcement 
activity in respect of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by the SEC 
and US Department of Justice against US companies as well as 
non-US companies listed in the US. 
We devote signiﬁcant resources to the considerable challenge  
of compliance with this legislation, including in emerging and 
developing markets, at considerable cost. AstraZeneca is the 
subject of current anti-corruption investigations and there can be no 
assurance that we will not, from time to time, continue to be subject 
to informal inquiries and formal investigations from governmental 
agencies. In the context of our business, governmental ofﬁcials 
interact with us in a variety of roles that are important to our 
operations, such as in the capacity of a regulator, partner or 
healthcare payer, reimburser or prescriber, among others. Inquiries 
and investigations from governmental agencies require additional 
resources to be devoted and, notwithstanding the measures that 
we take to prevent breaches of applicable anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption laws by our personnel, breaches may result in the 
imposition of signiﬁcant penalties, such as the payment of ﬁnes, the 
requirement to comply with monitoring or self-reporting obligations 
or debarment or exclusion from government sales or reimbursement 
programmes, any of which could have material adverse 
consequences on our business operations, ﬁnancial condition and 
results of operations, and could cause damage to our reputation.
Any expected gains from productivity initiatives are uncertain 
We continue to implement various productivity initiatives and 
restructuring programmes with the aim of enhancing the long-term 
efﬁciency of the business. However, anticipated cost savings and 
other beneﬁts from these programmes are based on estimates and 
the actual savings may vary signiﬁcantly. In particular, these cost 
reduction measures are based on current conditions and do not 
take into account any future changes to the pharmaceutical industry 
or our operations, including new business developments, wage and 
price increases and other factors.
If inappropriately managed, the expected value of the initiatives can 
be lost through low employee engagement and hence productivity, 
increased absence and attrition levels, and industrial action.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Risk
100 Risk Our failure to successfully implement these planned cost reduction 
measures, either through the successful conclusion of employee 
relations processes (including consultation and engagement, talent 
management, recruitment and retention), or the possibility that 
these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, 
could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations 
and ﬁnancial condition.
Acquisitions may be unsuccessful
The Group seeks to acquire complementary businesses as part  
of its business strategy. The integration of an acquired business 
could involve incurring signiﬁcant debt and unknown or contingent 
liabilities, as well as having a negative effect on our reported results 
of operations from acquisition-related charges, amortisation of 
expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of 
long-term assets. These effects, individually or in combination, 
could cause a deterioration in our credit rating and/or increased 
borrowing costs and interest expense. We could also experience 
difﬁculties in integrating geographically separated organisations, 
systems and facilities, and personnel with different organisational 
cultures. Integration of an acquired business may also divert 
management resources that would otherwise be available for the 
continuing development of our existing business. The integration 
process may result in business disruption, the loss of key 
employees, slower execution of various work processes, 
compliance failures due to a change in applicable regulatory 
requirements and other issues such as a failure to integrate 
information technology and other systems. In addition, if liabilities 
are uncovered in an acquired business, the Group may suffer 
losses and may not have remedies against the seller or third parties.
Failure to manage a crisis 
We handle chemical and biological materials, operate research  
and manufacturing plants and distribute products worldwide. Major 
disruption to our business and damage to our reputation may be 
triggered by an operational incident or by actions by our employees 
or third parties. In these circumstances, a plan for addressing 
operational and other issues should ensure a timely response and 
the ability to resume business as usual. Failure to institute proper 
communication to internal and external stakeholders and to 
mobilise a rapid operational response could have a material adverse 
effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations. Further 
information about our business resilience plans and processes are 
contained in the Managing risk section from page 95.
Failure of information technology
We are dependent on effective IT systems. These systems support 
key business functions such as our R&D, manufacturing and sales 
capabilities, and are an important means of internal and external 
communication. Any signiﬁcant disruption of these IT systems or 
failure to integrate new and existing IT systems could have a material 
adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
Failure of outsourcing 
We have outsourced a number of business critical operations  
to third party providers; for example, some R&D processes, 
information services and IT systems, facilities management, human 
resources, and ﬁnance and accounting services among other 
support functions. Failure of the outsource provider to deliver 
services in a timely manner and to the required level of quality could 
have an adverse impact on our ability to meet business targets and 
maintain a good reputation within the industry and with stakeholders.  
It may also result in non-compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. Failure to adequately manage the risk associated with 
outsourcing could have a material adverse effect on our ﬁnancial 
condition and results of operations.
Supply chain and delivery risks
Manufacturing biologics 
Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often 
complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to 
handle living micro-organisms and facilities speciﬁcally designed 
and validated for this purpose, with sophisticated quality assurance 
and control procedures. Slight deviations in any part of the 
manufacturing process may result in lot failure, product recalls or 
spoilage, for example due to contamination.
Reliance on third parties for goods
Like most, if not all, major research-based pharmaceutical 
companies we increasingly rely on third parties for the timely supply 
of goods, such as speciﬁed raw materials (for example, the active 
pharmaceutical ingredient in some of our medicines), equipment, 
formulated drugs and packaging, all of which are key to our 
operations.
However, events beyond our control could result in the failure of 
supplies of goods which could have a material adverse effect on our 
ﬁnancial condition and results of operations. For example, suppliers 
of some of the key goods we rely on may cease to trade. The 
consequence of this may be signiﬁcant delays and/or difﬁculties  
in obtaining goods and services on commercially acceptable terms, 
if at all.
In addition, we may have limited access to and/or supply of 
biological materials, such as cells, animal products or by-products. 
Furthermore, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions could 
result in restricted access to, use or transport of such materials. 
Loss of access to sufﬁcient sources of such materials, or tighter 
restrictions on the use of such materials, may interrupt or prevent 
our research activities as planned and/or increase our costs. Further 
information is contained in the Managing sourcing risk section on 
page 35.
Legal, regulatory and compliance risks
Adverse outcome of litigation and/or governmental investigations
We may be subject to any number of legal proceedings and/or 
governmental investigations. Note 25 to the Financial Statements 
includes information about material legal proceedings in which we 
are currently involved. Such investigations or legal proceedings, 
regardless of their outcome, could be costly, divert management 
attention, or damage our reputation and demand for our products.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently unpredictable and 
unexpectedly high awards of damages can result if AstraZeneca 
receives an adverse verdict. In many cases, particularly in the US, 
the practice of the plaintiff bar is to claim damages (compensatory, 
punitive and statutory) in extremely high amounts. Accordingly,  
it is difﬁcult to quantify the potential exposure to claims in many 
proceedings of the type referred to in Note 25 to the Financial 
Statements. Unfavourable resolution of current and similar future 
proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ﬁnancial 
condition and results of operations, particularly where such 
circumstances are not covered by insurance. We may become 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Risk 101 subject to ﬁnes, penalties and other monetary and/or non-monetary 
sanctions and/or may be required to make signiﬁcant provisions  
in our accounts related to legal proceedings and/or governmental 
investigations, which could have a material adverse effect on our 
ﬁnancial condition and results of operations.
Legal proceedings regarding business practices 
The marketing, promotional, clinical and pricing practices of 
pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which 
manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, 
are subject to extensive regulation, litigation and government 
investigation. Many companies, including AstraZeneca, have been 
subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal and 
state governmental authorities and private payers and consumers. 
These have resulted in substantial expense and other signiﬁcant 
consequences to AstraZeneca. For example, see Note 25 to the 
Financial Statements for a discussion of litigation and investigations 
regarding sales and marketing practices, as well as pricing  
litigation. It is possible that additional such claims could be made  
in the future. As a general matter, these types of claims can result  
in criminal liability, ﬁnes, penalties, or other monetary or non-
monetary remedies.
Substantial product liability claims 
Given the widespread impact that prescription drugs may have  
on the health of large patient populations, pharmaceutical, 
biopharmaceutical and medical device companies have, historically, 
been subject to large product liability damages claims, settlements 
and awards for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their 
products. Adverse publicity relating to the safety of a product or of 
other competing products may increase the risk of product liability 
claims. Substantial product liability claims that result in court 
decisions against us or in the settlement of proceedings could have 
a material adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results of 
operations, particularly where such circumstances are not covered 
by insurance. We are currently subject to extensive product liability 
litigation in relation to Seroquel and further details about this are 
set out in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178. 
Information about our approach to patient safety is set out in the 
Patient safety section from page 44.
Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations 
We operate globally in complex legal and regulatory environments. 
Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations  
in these jurisdictions may result in civil and/or criminal legal 
proceedings being ﬁled against us, or in us becoming subject to 
regulatory sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on 
the conduct of our business, our ﬁnancial condition and results of 
operations. Regulatory authorities have wide-ranging administrative 
powers to deal with any failure to comply with continuing regulatory 
oversight (and this could affect us, whether such failure is our own 
or that of third parties with whom we have relationships). As these 
laws, rules and regulations change or as governmental 
interpretation of these laws, rules and regulations evolves, prior 
conduct may no longer be sufﬁcient to ensure ongoing compliance.
For example, once a product has been approved for marketing  
by regulatory authorities, it is subject to continuing control and 
regulation, such as the manner of its manufacture, distribution, 
marketing and safety surveillance. In addition, any amendments  
that are made to the manufacturing, distribution, marketing and 
safety surveillance processes of our products may require additional 
regulatory approvals, which could result in signiﬁcant additional 
costs and/or disruption to these processes. Such amendments 
may be imposed on us as a result of the continuing inspections to 
which we are subject or that may be made at our discretion. It is 
possible, for example, that regulatory issues concerning compliance 
with current Good Manufacturing Practice or pharmacovigilance  
(ie post-marketing safety surveillance) regulations for pharmaceutical 
products could arise and lead to loss of product licences, product 
recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading to product 
shortages, and delays in the approvals of new products pending 
resolution of the issues.
Environmental/occupational health and safety liabilities
We have environmental and/or occupational health and safety 
related liabilities at some currently or formerly owned, leased and 
third party sites, the most signiﬁcant of which are detailed in Note 
25 to the Financial Statements. These liabilities are carefully 
managed by designated technical, legal and business personnel 
and there is no reason for us to believe that associated current  
and expected expenditure and/or risks are likely to have a material 
adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations 
as a general matter, but, to the extent that they exceed applicable 
provisions, they could have a material adverse effect on our ﬁnancial 
condition and results of operations for the relevant period. In 
addition, a change in circumstances (including a change in 
applicable laws or regulations) may result in such an effect.
A signiﬁcant non-compliance issue or other environmental or 
occupational health or safety incident for which we are responsible 
could result in our being liable to pay compensation, ﬁnes or 
remediation costs. In some circumstances, such liability could have 
a material adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results of 
operations. In addition, our ﬁnancial provisions for any obligations 
that we may have relating to environmental or occupational health 
and safety liabilities may be insufﬁcient if the assumptions 
underlying the provisions, including our assumptions regarding  
the portion of waste at a site for which we are responsible, prove 
incorrect, or if we are held responsible for additional contamination 
or occupational health and safety related claims.
Economic and ﬁnancial risks
Adverse impact of a sustained economic downturn 
A variety of signiﬁcant risks may arise from a sustained global 
economic downturn, including those referred to here. Additional 
pressure from governments and other healthcare payers on 
medicine prices and volumes of sales in response to recessionary 
pressures on budgets may cause a slowdown or a decline in 
growth in some markets. In some cases, those governments most 
severely impacted by the economic downturn may seek alternative 
ways to settle their debts through, for example, the issuance of 
government bonds which might trade at a discount to the value  
of the debt. In addition, the Group’s customers may cease to trade, 
which in turn may result in losses from writing off debts. Further,  
we are highly dependent on being able to access a sustainable ﬂow  
of liquid funds due to the high ﬁxed costs of operating an innovation-
driven, global, prescription-based biopharmaceutical business and 
the long and uncertain development cycles for our products. In a 
sustained and/or severe economic downturn, ﬁnancial institutions 
that hold our cash and other short-term deposits may cease to 
trade and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to access 
our assets without a protracted, expensive and uncertain process,  
if at all. Although we have adopted conservative cash management 
and treasury policies to mitigate this risk (further information on 
which is contained in the Financial risk management policies 
section on page 90), we cannot be certain that these will be 
completely effective should a number of major ﬁnancial institutions 
cease to trade. Additionally, if we need access to external sources 
of ﬁnancing to sustain and/or grow our business, such as the debt 
or equity capital ﬁnancial markets, this may not be available on 
commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a severe  
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 102 Risk
Risk and/or sustained economic downturn. This may particularly be the  
case in the event of any default by the Group on its debt obligations, 
which may have materially adverse consequences on our ability  
to secure debt funding in the future or generally on our ﬁnancial 
condition. Further information on debt-funding arrangements  
is contained in the Financial risk management policies section  
on page 90.
Impact of ﬂuctuations in exchange rates 
As a global business, currency ﬂuctuations can signiﬁcantly affect 
our results of operations, which are accounted for in US dollars. 
Approximately 41% of our global 2010 sales were in the US, which 
is expected to remain our largest single market for the foreseeable 
future. Sales in other countries are predominantly in currencies 
other than the US dollar, including the euro, Japanese yen, 
Australian dollar and Canadian dollar. We also have a growing 
exposure to emerging market currencies, although the exchange 
rates of some of these currencies are linked to the US dollar. Major 
components of our cost base are located in the UK and Sweden, 
where an aggregate of approximately 28.5% of our employees are 
based. Movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign 
currencies into US dollars may, therefore, have a material adverse 
effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results of operations. 
Additionally, some of our subsidiaries import and export goods  
and services in currencies other than their own functional currency 
and so the results of such subsidiaries could be affected by 
currency ﬂuctuations arising between the transaction dates and  
the settlement dates for these transactions. Further information  
is contained in Note 23 to the Financial Statements from page 168.
Credit and return on substantial investments
As part of its normal operations, the Group will hold signiﬁcant cash 
balances. The amount of cash held at any point reﬂects the level  
of cash ﬂow generated by the business and the timing of the use  
of that cash. The majority of excess cash is centralised within the 
Group Treasury function for investment and as such is subject to 
counterparty risk on the principal invested. See the Financial risk 
management policies section on page 90 for details of how the 
Group seeks to mitigate this risk.
Limited third party insurance coverage 
Recent insurance loss experience in the pharmaceutical industry, 
including product liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and 
narrowed the coverage afforded by, pharmaceutical companies’ 
product liability insurance. In order to contain insurance costs in 
recent years, we have continued to adjust our coverage proﬁle, 
accepting a greater degree of uninsured exposure. The Group has 
not held product liability insurance since February 2006. In addition, 
where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers may 
reserve the right to deny coverage on various grounds. If such 
denial of coverage is ultimately upheld, this could result in material 
additional charges to our earnings. An example of a dispute with 
insurers relating to the availability of insurance coverage and in 
relation to which costs incurred by the Group may not ultimately  
be recovered through such coverage is included in Note 25 to  
the Financial Statements in the Seroquel – product liability section 
on page 190.
Taxation 
The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce 
conﬂicting claims from revenue authorities as to the proﬁts to be 
taxed in individual territories. The resolution of these disputes can 
result in a reallocation of proﬁts between jurisdictions and an 
increase or decrease in related tax costs, and has the potential to 
affect our cash ﬂows and EPS. Claims, regardless of their merits  
or their outcome, are costly, divert management attention and may 
adversely affect our reputation.
The majority of the jurisdictions in which we operate have double 
tax treaties with other foreign jurisdictions, which enable us to 
ensure that our revenues and capital gains do not incur a double 
tax charge. If any of these double tax treaties should be withdrawn 
or amended, especially in a territory where a member of the Group 
is involved in a taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to 
cross-border transactions, such withdrawal or amendment could 
have a material adverse effect on our ﬁnancial condition and results 
of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax dispute or a 
failure by the tax authorities to agree through competent authority 
proceedings. See the Financial risk management policies section  
on page 90 for tax risk management policies and Note 25 to the 
Financial Statements on page 195 for details of current tax disputes.
Pensions 
A particular risk relates to the Group’s pension obligations, the 
single largest of which is the UK pension fund. The obligations are 
backed by assets invested across the broad investment market. 
Sustained falls in these asset values will put a strain on funding 
which may result in requirements for additional cash, restricting 
cash available for strategic business growth. Similarly, if the liabilities 
rise as a result of a sustained low interest rate environment, there 
will be a strain on funding from the business. The likely increase  
in the IAS 19 accounting deﬁcit generated by any of these factors 
may cause the ratings agencies to review our credit rating, with the 
potential to negatively affect our ability to raise debt. See Note 18  
to the Financial Statements from page 162 for further details of the 
Group’s pension obligations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Risk 103 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 104 Delivering our strategy: R&D
In a world where there is increasing 
pressure on healthcare budgets, we can  
be more effective if we can identify the 
patients likely to beneﬁt most from particular 
medicines. We have experience of this 
personalised healthcare approach with our 
lung cancer therapy Iressa. 
At one stage Iressa had its submissions withdrawn because 
its beneﬁts failed to reach statistical signiﬁcance in the overall 
population. However, it worked well on some patients and 
subsequent analysis of data from clinical studies showed that  
it was superior to conventional chemotherapy in 1st line 
treatment of lung cancer patients who had a mutation of the 
EGFR gene. 
Identifying the right treatment for the right patient at the right 
time and to embed it as part of routine clinical practice was  
the major challenge for Iressa. We worked with a variety of 
healthcare professionals (HCPs) to improve education and best 
practice in EGFR testing. Workshops involving pathologists, 
oncologists and respiratory physicians were run around the 
world. These were complemented by digital activities, including 
websites, e-learning, and even iPhone applications, to promote 
best practice and facilitate routine diagnostic testing.
As the ﬁrst personalised medicine in lung cancer, Iressa is 
pioneering, not just for the beneﬁts it offers patients, but for the 
way in which it has brought together different groups of HCPs 
and changed the way patients are tested and treated as part of 
routine clinical practice.
      How do I 
ﬁnd a cancer 
treatment 
that’s right 
for me?
Because health connects us all
For more information go to the website,  
egfr-mutation.com. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy: R&D 105
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
How is our business 
structured and 
managed?
We have a clear 
structure in which 
the Board reserves 
and delegates  
its powers
Corporate Governance 105 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 1 Louis Schweitzer (68)
Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee
Appointed as a Director in March 2004 and as Chairman in January 
2005. Louis Schweitzer has extensive leadership experience at both 
executive and non-executive levels in large, multinational companies. 
He is Non-Executive Chairman of AB Volvo and a Non-Executive 
Director of BNP-Paribas, Veolia Environnement SA and L ’Oréal SA. 
Previously he has held the roles of Non-Executive Chairman, 
Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Renault SA. 
2 David Brennan (57)
Executive Director and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Appointed as a Director in March 2005 and as CEO in January 
2006. David Brennan is President of the International Federation  
of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations (IFPMA) and  
a member of the executive board of the European Federation  
of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). He is a  
past Chairman of the board of the Pharmaceutical Research and 
Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) and remains a member of the 
PhRMA board. From 2001 until January 2006, he was President 
and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the Company’s North American 
subsidiary. He was Chairman of the board of the Southeastern 
Pennsylvania Chapter of the American Heart Association 2004-
2006. He began his career in 1975 at Merck, where he started as  
a sales representative in the US division and later worked in sales 
and marketing management in the US and international divisions. 
He joined Astra Merck in 1992 and helped to build the joint venture 
into a multi-billion dollar business in the US. He is an alumnus of 
Gettysburg College where he studied Business Administration.
3 Simon Lowth (49) 
Executive Director and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Appointed as a Director and as CFO in November 2007 . Simon 
Lowth is also a Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC. 
He was previously at ScottishPower where he was Finance Director, 
a position he left following completion of the sale of the company to 
Iberdrola. His move to ScottishPower followed 15 years’ experience 
with the global management consultancy, McKinsey & Company, 
where he advised leading multinational companies on a wide range 
of strategic, ﬁnancial and operational issues. He has an engineering 
degree from Cambridge University and an MBA from the London 
Business School. 
4 Michele Hooper (59) 
Senior independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and member of the Nomination and Governance Committee
Appointed as a Director in July 2003 and as Senior independent 
Non-Executive Director in April 2007 . Michele Hooper is a 
recognised corporate governance expert and has considerable 
healthcare industry expertise. She is President and Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer of The Directors’ Council, a private company which she 
co-founded in 2003, that works with corporate boards to increase 
their independence, effectiveness and diversity, and a non-
executive member of the boards of UnitedHealth Group Inc.,  
PPG Industries, Inc. and Warner Music Group, Inc. Previously  
she was President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Stadtlander  
Drug Company, Inc. and Corporate Vice-President and President, 
International Businesses of Caremark International Inc.
5 Bruce Burlington (62)
Non-Executive Director and member of the Science Committee
Appointed as a Director in August. Bruce Burlington is a 
pharmaceutical product development and regulatory affairs 
consultant and brings extensive experience in those areas to the 
Board. He is also a non-executive board member of Cangene 
Corporation and a member of the scientiﬁc advisory boards of the 
International Medica Foundation and H. Lundbeck A/S. Previously 
he spent 17 years with the FDA, serving as director of the FDA’s 
Center for Devices and Radiological Health as well as holding a 
number of senior roles in the Center for Drug Evaluation and 
Research. After leaving the FDA he served in a series of senior 
executive positions at Wyeth (now part of Pﬁzer Inc.).
6 Jean-Philippe Courtois (50)
Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee
Appointed as a Director in February 2008. Jean-Philippe Courtois 
has over 25 years’ experience in the global technology industry  
and is President of Microsoft International, Senior Vice-President  
of Microsoft Corporation, a board member of PlaNet Finance  
and Microsoft’s ofﬁcial representative at the Institut Montaigne. 
Previously he was Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and President of 
Microsoft EMEA and has served as co-chairman of the World 
Economic Forum’s Global Digital Divide Initiative Task Force and  
on the European Commission Information and Communication 
Technology Task Force. In 2009, he also served as an EU 
Ambassador for the Year of Creativity and Innovation. 
1 2
6 7 8
3
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 106 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team
Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team
Board of Directors at 31 December 7 Jane Henney (63) 
Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee, the 
Nomination and Governance Committee and the Science Committee
Appointed as a Director in September 2001. Jane Henney has 
extensive clinical and health policy expertise and is currently 
Professor of Medicine, University of Cincinnati, a non-executive 
member of the boards of AmerisourceBergen Corporation and 
CIGNA Corporation and a board member of The Commonwealth 
Fund and China Medical Board. Previous positions within the health 
industry include her role as Commissioner of Food and Drugs at the 
FDA and Senior Vice-President and Provost for Health Affairs, 
University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center.
8 Rudy Markham (64)
Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee
Appointed as a Director in September 2008. Rudy Markham has 
signiﬁcant international business and ﬁnancial experience, having 
formerly held a number of senior commercial and ﬁnancial positions 
worldwide with Unilever, culminating in his appointment as Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer of Unilever. He is currently Chairman and Non-
Executive Director of Moorﬁelds Eye Hospital NHS Foundation  
Trust and a non-executive member of the boards of United Parcel 
Services Inc., the UK Financial Reporting Council, Standard 
Chartered PLC and Legal & General plc. He is also a non-executive 
member of the board of the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Ofﬁce, 
a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and 
a Fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers. 
9 Dame Nancy Rothwell (55)
Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Science Committee and 
member of the Remuneration Committee
Appointed as a Director in April 2006 and has responsibility for 
overseeing Responsible Business. Nancy Rothwell is a 
distinguished life scientist and academic and is the President and 
Vice-Chancellor of the University of Manchester. She is also 
President of the Society of Biology. Previously she has served as 
President of the British Neuroscience Association and has been  
on the councils of the Medical Research Council, the Royal Society, 
the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council,  
the Academy of Medical Sciences and Cancer Research UK. 
10 John Varley (54)
Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and member of the Nomination and Governance Committee
Appointed as a Director in July 2006. John Varley was formerly 
Group Chief Executive of the Barclays Group, having held a 
number of senior positions with the bank during his career, 
including that of Group Finance Director. He brings additional 
international, executive business leadership experience to the 
Board. He is also a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock, Inc., 
Chairman of Business Action on Homelessness, President of  
the Employers’ Forum on Disability, a member of the International 
Advisory Panel of the Monetary Authority of Singapore and 
Honorary President of the UK Drug Policy Commission. 
11 Marcus Wallenberg (54) 
Non-Executive Director and member of the Science Committee 
Appointed as a Director in April 1999. Marcus Wallenberg has 
international business experience across a broad range of 
industry sectors, including the pharmaceutical industry from his 
directorship with Astra AB prior to 1999. He is the Chairman of 
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, AB Electrolux and Saab AB, 
Vice-Chairman of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ) and a 
Non-Executive Director of Stora Enso Oyj and the Knut and Alice 
Wallenberg Foundation.
Other ofﬁcers of the Company at 31 December included members of the Senior Executive 
Team, as set out on page 108, and Adrian Kemp, Company Secretary.
Shriti Vadera was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit 
Committee with effect from 1 January 2011. 
4 5
9 10 11
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team 107 1 David Brennan
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
See page 106.
2 Simon Lowth
Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer
See page 106.
3 Martin Mackay
President, Global R&D
Martin Mackay joined AstraZeneca in July. He was previously at 
Pﬁ zer Inc. where he was Head of PharmaTherapeutics R&D and a 
member of the Pﬁ zer Inc. executive leadership team. Prior to joining 
Pﬁ zer Inc. in 1995, he held several discovery and development roles 
culminating in his appointment as Head of Molecular and Cell 
Biology, CNS Research at Ciba-Geigy. He has a degree in 
microbiology from Heriot-Watt University and a PhD in molecular 
genetics from the University of Edinburgh.
4 Jeff Pott
General Counsel
Jeff Pott was appointed General Counsel in January 2009 and has 
overall responsibility for all aspects of AstraZeneca’s Legal and 
Intellectual Property function. He joined AstraZeneca in 1995 and 
has worked in various litigation roles, where he has had 
responsibility for intellectual property, anti-trust and product liability 
litigation. Prior to joining AstraZeneca, he spent ﬁ ve years at the US 
legal ﬁ rm Drinker Biddle and Reath LLP , where he specialised in 
pharmaceutical product liability litigation and anti-trust advice and 
litigation. He received his bachelor’s degree in political science from 
Wheaton College and his Juris Doctor Degree from Villanova 
University School of Law.
5 David Smith
Executive Vice-President, Global Operations and Information Services
David Smith joined AstraZeneca in 2006 as Executive Vice-
President, Operations. He leads AstraZeneca’s global manufacturing 
and supply organisation and is also responsible for the Safety, 
Health and Environment; Regulatory Compliance; Procurement; and 
Engineering functions and has overall responsibility for Information 
Services. He spent his early career in pharmaceuticals, initially with 
the Wellcome Foundation in the UK. He subsequently spent nine 
years in the consumer goods sector working for Estée Lauder and 
Timberland in senior supply chain roles. In 2003, he returned to the 
pharmaceutical sector and joined Novartis in Switzerland.
6 Lynn Tetrault 
Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs
Lynn Tetrault was appointed Executive Vice-President, Human 
Resources and Corporate Affairs in 2007 , having previously been 
Vice-President, Corporate Affairs. She has also held the role of 
Vice-President HR, Global Drug Development and Vice-President, 
HR for the US subsidiary of AstraZeneca following the merger 
between Astra and Zeneca. She started her career in private law 
practice where she specialised in general corporate and healthcare 
law. She joined Astra USA in 1993 as Associate General Counsel 
in the company’s legal department. She received her bachelor’s 
degree from Princeton University and her law degree from the 
University of Virginia Law School.
7 Tony Zook
Executive Vice-President, Global Commercial Operations
Tony Zook was appointed Executive Vice-President of 
AstraZeneca’s global Commercial organisation in January 2010. 
He has responsibility for worldwide sales and marketing activities, 
as well as the commercial infrastructure in support of those efforts. 
Prior to his current role, he was President and CEO for 
AstraZeneca’s US business and headed AstraZeneca’s Global 
Marketing function. He was also President of MedImmune. He has 
held various other positions in AstraZeneca’s sales and marketing 
organisation. He joined Astra USA in 1997 as Vice-President, 
Marketing and Sales, having begun his pharmaceutical career at 
Berlex Laboratories. He earned a bachelor’s degree in biology from 
Frostburg University and an associate’s degree in chemical 
engineering from Pennsylvania State University. He is a member of 
the board for First State Innovation, the Pennsylvania Division of the 
American Cancer Society and is a member of the Board of Trustees 
for the Healthcare Leadership Council.
Senior Executive Team at 31 December
4 5 6 7
1 2 3
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 108 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team
Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team “The Board regards the setting, maintenance 
and review of high standards of corporate 
governance as an essential part of our work. 
During 2010, we reviewed the revised UK 
Corporate Governance Code and no signiﬁcant 
changes were required to our corporate 
governance practices as a result.”
In this part of the Annual Report, we explain  
our approach to corporate governance and 
describe, in general terms, how our business is 
organised and managed.
Corporate governance
We have prepared this Annual Report with reference to the 
Combined Code published by the UK Financial Reporting Council 
(FRC) in June 2008 and the new UK Corporate Governance Code 
published by the FRC in May 2010 (together, the UK Corporate 
Governance Codes). This Report (together with other sections  
of this Annual Report) describes how we apply the main principles 
of good governance in the UK Corporate Governance Codes.  
We have complied throughout the accounting period with the 
provisions of the Combined Code. Although the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code only applies for accounting periods beginning  
on or after 29 June 2010, we have taken the decision to comply with 
the new provisions, in line with best practice, since its publication  
in May 2010. Both the Combined Code and UK Corporate 
Governance Code are available on the FRC’s website, frc.co.uk.
Leadership
The roles of Chairman and CEO are split. Louis Schweitzer, our 
Non-Executive Chairman, is responsible for leadership of the Board. 
Our CEO, David Brennan, leads the SET and has executive 
responsibility for running our business. The Board comprises 10 
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and two 
Executive Directors – the CEO and the CFO, Simon Lowth.
All Directors are collectively responsible for our long-term success. 
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for 
exercising independent, objective judgement in respect of Board 
decisions and for scrutinising and challenging the actions of 
executive management.
The Board holds an annual strategy review day, which is attended 
by all SET members. The CEO, the CFO and the SET take the lead 
in developing our strategy, which is then reviewed, constructively 
challenged and approved by the Board at the strategy review day.
Michele Hooper, who joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director 
in 2003, was appointed as our Senior independent Non-Executive 
Director in April 2007 . The role of the Senior independent Director  
is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as  
an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary. The Senior 
independent Director is also available to shareholders if they have 
concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman or 
Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or for which such contact 
is inappropriate. 
There are four principal Board Committees – the Audit Committee, 
the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination and Governance 
Committee and the Science Committee. The membership and 
work of these Committees is described below. In addition, there 
may from time to time be constituted ad hoc Board Committees 
for speciﬁc projects or tasks. In these cases, the scope and 
responsibilities of the Committee are documented. The Board 
provides adequate resources to enable each Committee to 
undertake its duties.
Reserved matters and delegation of authority
The Board maintains and periodically reviews a list of matters that 
are reserved to, and can only be approved by, the Board. These 
include: the appointment, termination and remuneration of any 
Director; approval of the annual budget; any item of ﬁxed capital 
expenditure or any proposal for the acquisition or disposal of an 
investment or business which exceeds $150 million; the raising  
of capital or loans by the Company (subject to certain exceptions); 
the giving of any guarantee in respect of any borrowing of the 
Company; and allotting shares of the Company. The matters that 
have not been expressly reserved to the Board are either delegated 
by the Board to its Committees or to the CEO.
The CEO is responsible to the Board for the management, 
development and performance of our business in relation to those 
matters in respect of which he has been delegated authority from 
the Board.
Although the CEO retains full responsibility for the authority 
delegated to him by the Board, he has established and chairs  
the SET, which is the vehicle through which he exercises certain  
of that authority in respect of our business.
The roles of the Board, the Board Committees, the Chairman, the 
CEO and the SET are documented, as are the Board’s delegated 
authorities and reserved powers, the means of operation of the 
business, and the roles of corporate functions.
Operation of the Board
The Board is responsible for setting our strategy and policies, 
oversight of risk and corporate governance, and also monitors 
progress towards meeting our objectives and annual plans. The 
Board discharges these responsibilities through a programme of 
meetings that includes regular reviews of ﬁnancial performance  
and critical business issues, and the formal, annual strategy review 
day. The Board also aims to ensure that a good dialogue with our 
shareholders takes place and that their issues and concerns are 
understood and considered.
Louis Schweitzer
Chairman and Chairman of the  
Nomination and Governance Committee
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Corporate Governance Report 109
Corporate Governance Report The Board held six meetings and its annual strategy review day  
in 2010. All the meetings took place in London, UK. The Board is 
currently scheduled to meet six times and hold a strategy review 
day in 2011, and will meet at such other times as may be required  
to conduct business.
As part of the business of each Board meeting, the CEO typically 
submits a progress report on each key business area, giving details 
of progress against the goals the Board has approved. To ensure 
that the Board has good visibility of the key operating decisions of 
the business, members of the SET routinely attend Board meetings 
on a rotational basis and Board members regularly meet other 
senior executives throughout the year. The Board also receives 
accounting and other management information about our 
resources, and presentations from internal and external speakers 
on legal, governance and regulatory developments. At the end of 
Board meetings, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the 
Executive Directors present to review and discuss any matters that 
have arisen during the meeting and/or such other matters as may 
appear to the Non-Executive Directors to be relevant in properly 
discharging their duty to act independently.
Board effectiveness
Composition of the Board
The Nomination and Governance Committee and, where 
appropriate, the full Board regularly review the composition of  
the Board and the status of succession to both senior executive 
management and Board-level positions. Directors have regular 
contact with, and access to, succession candidates for senior 
executive management positions.
The Board aims to maintain a balance in terms of the range of 
experience and skills of individual Board members, which includes 
relevant international business, pharmaceutical industry and 
ﬁnancial experience, as well as appropriate scientiﬁc and regulatory 
knowledge. The biographies of Board members set out on pages 
106 to 107 give more information about current Directors in this 
respect. The Board views gender, nationality and cultural diversity 
among Board members as important considerations when 
reviewing the composition of the Board. The following changes  
to the composition of the Board have occurred during the period 
covered by this Annual Report:
>  Bo Angelin and John Buchanan, both Non-Executive Directors, 
retired from the Board on 29 April 2010.
>  Bruce Burlington was appointed as a Non-Executive Director  
and member of the Science Committee with effect from  
1 August 2010.
>  Shriti Vadera was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and a 
member of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2011.
Independence of the Non-Executive Directors
During 2010, the Board considered the independence of each 
Non-Executive Director for the purposes of the UK Corporate 
Governance Codes and the corporate governance listing standards 
of the NYSE (Listing Standards). With the exception of Marcus 
Wallenberg, the Board considers that all of the Non-Executive 
Directors are independent. Louis Schweitzer was considered by  
the Board to be independent upon his appointment as Chairman;  
in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Codes, the test 
of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after 
his appointment.
Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as a Director of Astra in May 
1989 and subsequently became a Director of the Company in 1999. 
Until September 2005, he was a member of the board of directors 
and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Investor AB, which has a 3.7% 
interest in the issued share capital of the Company as at 27 January 
2011. Wallenberg family foundations remain Investor AB’s largest 
shareholders in terms of votes controlled. For these reasons, the 
Board does not believe that Marcus Wallenberg can be determined 
independent under the UK Corporate Governance Codes. 
However, the Board believes that he has brought, and continues  
to bring, considerable business experience and makes a valuable 
contribution to the work of the Board.
The Board has also considered, in particular, the position of Michele 
Hooper who joined the board of UnitedHealth Group as a Non-
Executive Director in 2007 . The Board’s approval of this appointment 
was conditional on Michele Hooper resigning from the board of 
UnitedHealth Group in the event of a conﬂict or non-independence. 
It is the Board’s view that Michele Hooper is independent and that 
she discharges her duties in a properly independent manner, 
constructively and appropriately challenging the Executive Directors 
and the Board.
Jane Henney is a Non-Executive Director of AmerisourceBergen 
Corporation and CIGNA Corporation, both of which are customers 
of the Group in the US. The Board has considered these 
relationships and concluded that they did not compromise her 
independence.
Conﬂicts of interest
The Articles enable the Directors to authorise any situation in  
which a Director has an interest that conﬂicts or has the potential to 
conﬂict with the Company’s interests and which would otherwise be 
a breach of the Director’s duty, under section 175 of the Companies 
Act 2006. The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to 
declare such situations to be considered for authorisation by those 
Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.  
In deciding whether to authorise a situation, the non-conﬂicted 
Directors must act in the way they consider, in good faith, would  
be most likely to promote the success of the Company, and they 
may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, or 
subsequently, if they think this is appropriate. Situations considered 
by the Board and authorisations given are recorded in the Board 
minutes and in a register of conﬂicts maintained by the Company 
Secretary and reviewed annually by the Board. The Board 
considers that this system continues to operate effectively.
Appointments to the Board
The Nomination and Governance Committee section on page 115 
gives information about the appointment process for new Directors.
Newly appointed Directors are provided with comprehensive 
documentation containing information about the Group and their 
role as Non-Executive Directors. They also typically attend tailored 
induction programmes that take account of their individual skills  
and experience.
Time commitment
Our expectation is that Non-Executive Directors should be prepared 
to commit about 15 days per annum, as a minimum, to the Group’s 
business. In practice, Board members’ time commitment usually 
exceeds this minimum expectation when all the work that they 
undertake for the Group is considered, particularly in the case of the 
Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the Board Committees. 
As well as their work in relation to formal Board and Board 
Committee meetings, the Non-Executive Directors also commit 
time throughout the year to meetings and telephone calls with 
various levels of executive management, visits to AstraZeneca’s 
sites throughout the world and, for new Non-Executive Directors, 
induction sessions, meetings and site visits.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 110 Corporate Governance Report
Corporate Governance Report On occasions when a Director is unavoidably absent from a Board 
or Board Committee meeting, for example through illness or where 
a meeting clashes with his or her existing commitments, he or she 
still receives and reviews the papers for the meeting and typically 
provides verbal or written input ahead of the meeting, usually 
through the Chairman of the Board or the Chairman of the Board 
Committee, so that his or her views are made known and 
considered at the meeting. In addition, given the nature of the 
business to be conducted, some Board meetings are convened  
at short notice, which can make it difﬁcult for some Directors to 
attend due to prior commitments.
Information and support
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring 
that all Board and Board Committee meetings are properly 
conducted, that the Directors receive appropriate information prior 
to meetings to enable them to make an effective contribution, and 
that governance requirements are considered and implemented.
The Company maintained directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance 
cover throughout 2010. The Directors are also able to obtain 
independent legal advice at the expense of the Company, as 
necessary, in their capacity as Directors.
The Company has entered into a deed of indemnity in favour of 
each Board member since 2006. These deeds of indemnity are still 
in force and provide that the Company shall indemnify the Directors 
to the fullest extent permitted by law and the Articles, in respect of 
all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their 
powers, duties and responsibilities, as Directors of the Company  
or any of its subsidiaries. This is in line with current market practice 
and helps us attract and retain high-quality, skilled Directors.
Performance evaluation
Prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the Board conducted 
the annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
committees and individual Directors. This was carried out internally, 
using a series of web-based questionnaires that covered a range  
of topics, including: the nature and level of the Board’s interaction 
with the Group’s management; the quality, quantity and scope of 
information which ﬂows to the Board from management, and the 
way in which it ﬂows; the content of and presentations to Board 
meetings; the composition of the Board; the practical arrangements 
for the work of the Board; and the work and operation of the Board’s 
committees. Overall, it was concluded that the Board and its 
committees were operating in an effective and constructive manner.
As part of the assessment process, each Non-Executive Director 
received feedback about his or her individual performance. The 
Non-Executive Directors reviewed the performance of the CEO  
and CFO in their absence. In addition, the Board, under the 
chairmanship of the Senior independent Non-Executive Director, 
reviewed the performance of the Chairman in his absence. Each 
Director continues to perform effectively and to demonstrate 
commitment to the role.
The last occasion on which the Board’s annual performance 
evaluation was externally facilitated was in 2008 and the Board 
intends to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
guidance that the evaluation should be externally facilitated at least 
every three years.
Re-election of Directors
In accordance with Article 66 of the Articles, all Directors retire  
at each AGM and may offer themselves for re-election by 
shareholders. Accordingly, all the Directors will retire at the AGM  
in April 2011. The Notice of AGM will give details of those Directors 
seeking re-election.
Accountability
Risk management and internal control
The Non-Executive Directors have various responsibilities 
concerning the integrity of ﬁnancial information, internal controls  
and risk management.
The Board has overall responsibility for our system of internal 
controls and risk management policies and is also responsible  
for reviewing their effectiveness. During 2010, the Directors have 
continued to review the effectiveness of our system of controls,  
risk management and our high-level internal control arrangements. 
These reviews have included an assessment of internal controls, 
and in particular, ﬁnancial, operational and compliance controls  
and risk management and their effectiveness, supported by 
management assurance of the maintenance of controls reports 
from Group Internal Audit (GIA), as well as the external auditor on 
matters identiﬁed in the course of its statutory audit work. The 
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable (not necessarily absolute) assurance of effective 
operation and compliance with laws and regulations.
Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2010
Name Board Audit Remuneration Nomination and Governance
Bo Angelin
1
2 (2) – – –
David Brennan 6 (6) – – –
John Buchanan
2
2 (2) 2 (2) 1 (3) –
Bruce Burlington
3
3 (3) – – –
Jean-Philippe Courtois 5 (6) 3 (4) – –
Jane Henney 5 (6) 4 (4) – 4 (6)
Michele Hooper 6 (6) 4 (4) – 6 (6)
Simon Lowth 6 (6) – – –
Rudy Markham
4
6 (6) 3 (4) 4 (4) –
Nancy Rothwell 5 (6) – 6 (7) –
Louis Schweitzer 6 (6) – 7 (7) 6 (6)
John Varley 5 (6) – 7 (7) 5 (6)
Marcus Wallenberg
5
4 (6) – – –
1
 Bo Angelin retired from the Board on 29 April 2010.
2
 John Buchanan retired from the Board on 29 April 2010.
3
 Bruce Burlington was appointed as a Director with effect from 1 August 2010.
4
 Rudy Markham was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 29 April 2010.
5
 Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as a member of the Science Committee with effect from 28 April 2010.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Corporate Governance Report 111 Underpinning these reviews is an annual ‘letter of assurance’ 
process by which responsible managers conﬁrm the adequacy of 
their systems of internal ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial controls, their 
compliance with Group policies and relevant laws and regulations 
(including the industry’s regulatory requirements), and that they have 
reported any control weaknesses through our ‘continuous 
assurance’ process.
The internal control framework has been in operation for the whole 
of 2010 and continues to operate up to the date of the approval of 
this Annual Report. The Directors believe that the Group maintains 
an effective, embedded system of internal controls and complies 
with the Turnbull Report guidance and, in the view of the Directors, 
no signiﬁcant failings have been identiﬁed in the system.
Further information about the ways in which we manage our 
business risks is set out in the Risk section from page 94, which 
also contains a list of the principal risks and uncertainties that  
we face.
Remuneration
Information about our approach to remuneration and the role and 
work of the Remuneration Committee, including our policy on 
executive remuneration, is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report from page 119.
Relations with shareholders
In our ﬁnancial and business reporting to shareholders and other 
interested parties by means of quarterly, half-yearly and annual 
reports, we aim to present a balanced and understandable 
assessment of our strategy, ﬁnancial position and prospects.
We make information about the Group available to shareholders 
through a range of media, including a fully integrated html corporate 
website, astrazeneca.com, containing a wide range of data of 
interest to institutional and private investors. We consider our 
website to be an important means of communication with our 
shareholders. 
The Company has been authorised by shareholders to place 
shareholder communications (such as the Notice of AGM and this 
Annual Report) on the corporate website in lieu of sending paper 
copies to shareholders (unless speciﬁcally requested by 
shareholders). While recognising and respecting the fact that some 
of our stakeholders may have different preferences about how they 
receive information from us, we will continue to promote the beneﬁts 
of electronic communication given the advantages that this has  
over traditional paper-based communications, both in terms of the 
conﬁgurability and accessibility of the information provided and the 
consequent cost savings and reduction in environmental impact 
associated with reduced printing and distribution costs.
We have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on  
a range of issues. These include individual meetings with some  
of our largest institutional shareholders to seek their views. Board 
members are kept informed of any issues and receive regular 
reports and presentations from executive management and our 
brokers in order to assist them to develop an understanding of 
major shareholders’ views about the Group. From time to time,  
we conduct an audit of institutional shareholders to ensure that  
we are communicating clearly with them and that a high-quality 
dialogue is being maintained. The results of this audit are reported 
to and discussed by the full Board.
We also respond to individual ad hoc requests for discussions from 
institutional shareholders and analysts. Our Investor Relations team 
acts as the main point of contact for investors throughout the year. 
As discussed above, the Senior independent Non-Executive 
Director, currently Michele Hooper, is also available to shareholders 
if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of 
Chairman, CEO and/or CFO has failed to resolve, or in relation to 
which such contact is inappropriate. All shareholders, including 
private investors, have an opportunity at the AGM to put questions 
to members of the Board about our operation and performance. 
Formal notiﬁcation of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least  
one month in advance. The Chairmen of the Board Committees 
ordinarily attend the AGM to answer questions raised by 
shareholders. In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are 
given at the AGM and are posted on our website following the AGM.
Board Committee membership
 
Name
 
Audit 
 
Remuneration 
Nomination and  
Governance 
 
Science 
 
Independent
1
Bo Angelin
2
  
David Brennan n/a 
John Buchanan
3
Chair
3
 
Bruce Burlington
Jean-Philippe Courtois  
Jane Henney   
Michele Hooper
4
Chair
3
    
Simon Lowth n/a
Rudy Markham 
5
 
Nancy Rothwell Chair 
Louis Schweitzer Chair n/a
6
 
John Varley Chair   
Marcus Wallenberg
7
 
1
 As determined by the Board for UK Corporate Governance Codes purposes.
2
 Bo Angelin retired from the Board on 29 April 2010.
3
 John Buchanan retired from the Board on 29 April 2010. Michele Hooper was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 29 April 2010.
4
 Michele Hooper is the Senior independent Non-Executive Director. 
5
 Rudy Markham was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 29 April 2010.
6
  Louis Schweitzer was considered independent by the Board upon his appointment as Chairman; in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Codes, the test of independence is not 
appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
7
 Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as a member of the Science Committee with effect from 28 April 2010.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 112 Corporate Governance Report
Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee are Michele Hooper 
(Chairman of the Audit Committee), Jane Henney, Jean-Philippe 
Courtois, Rudy Markham and, with effect from her appointment  
to the Board on 1 January 2011, Shriti Vadera. They are all Non-
Executive Directors. The Board considers each member to be 
independent under the UK Corporate Governance Codes and under 
the general guidance and speciﬁc criteria of the Listing Standards 
concerning the composition of audit committees applicable to 
non-US companies. John Buchanan ceased to be a member and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee upon his retirement from the 
Board at the 2010 AGM. In April 2010, we submitted the required 
annual written afﬁrmation to the NYSE conﬁrming our full compliance 
with those standards. For the purposes of the UK Corporate 
Governance Codes, the Board remains satisﬁed that at least one 
member of the Committee has recent and relevant ﬁnancial 
experience. At its meeting in December, the Board determined that 
Michele Hooper and Rudy Markham are audit committee ﬁnancial 
experts for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Deputy 
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
The core terms of reference of the Audit Committee include 
reviewing and reporting to the Board on:
>  Matters relating to the audit plans of the external auditor and  
GIA as well as oversight of the work of the Global Compliance 
function.
>  Our overall framework for internal control over ﬁnancial reporting 
and for other internal controls and processes.
>  Our overall framework for risk management, particularly ﬁnancial 
risks.
>  Our accounting policies and practices.
>  Our annual and quarterly ﬁnancial reporting.
>  Compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement.
The Audit Committee is responsible for notifying the Board of any 
signiﬁcant concerns of the external auditor or the Vice-President, 
GIA arising from their audit work, any matters that may materially 
affect or impair the independence of the external auditor, any 
signiﬁcant deﬁciencies or material weaknesses in the design or 
operation of our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting or other 
internal controls, and any serious issues of non-compliance.  
It oversees the establishment, implementation and maintenance  
of our Code of Conduct and other related policies. It monitors  
the Company’s response to letters requesting information and 
investigations initiated by regulatory and governmental authorities 
such as the SEC and the US Department of Justice pertaining to 
matters within the ambit of the Committee’s work. It has established 
procedures for the receipt and handling of complaints concerning 
accounting or audit matters. It recommends to the Board the 
appointment of the external auditor, subject to the approval of the 
Company’s shareholders at a general meeting. Shareholders in  
a general meeting authorise the Directors to ﬁx the remuneration  
of the external auditor. The Committee reviews and approves the 
appointment and dismissal of the Vice-President, GIA.
The Audit Committee maintains policies and procedures for the 
pre-approval of all audit services and permitted non-audit services 
undertaken by the external auditor, the principal purpose of which  
is to ensure that the independence of the external auditor is not 
impaired. The policies and procedures cover three categories of 
work – audit services, audit-related services and tax services.  
The policies deﬁne the type of work that falls within each of these 
categories and the non-audit services that the external auditor is 
prohibited from performing under the rules of the SEC and other 
relevant UK and US professional and regulatory requirements.  
The pre-approval procedures permit certain audit, audit-related and 
tax services to be performed by the external auditor during the year, 
subject to fee limits agreed with the Committee in advance. The 
CFO (supported by the Senior Vice-President, Group Finance) 
monitors the status of all services being provided by the external 
auditor. The procedures also deal with placing non-audit work out 
for tender, where appropriate. Authority to approve work in excess 
of the pre-agreed fee limits is delegated to the Chairman of the 
Committee in the ﬁrst instance. A standing agenda item at 
Committee meetings covers the operation of the pre-approval 
procedures and regular reports are provided to the full Committee.
The Audit Committee held four scheduled meetings in 2010. The 
individual attendance record of members of the Committee is set 
out in the Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2010 
table on page 111. Following each Committee meeting, the 
Chairman of the Committee reported to the Board on the principal 
matters covered at the meeting and minutes of the meetings were 
circulated to all Board members.
During 2010, members of the Audit Committee met individual 
managers or groups of managers on a number of occasions in 
order to gain a deeper insight into areas relevant to the Committee’s 
work and to provide an opportunity to discuss speciﬁc areas of 
interest. In particular, members of the Committee travelled to the US 
to meet senior leaders of the US business and to learn what steps 
the business has taken and is taking to ensure compliance with the 
Corporate Integrity Agreement there.
During the year, in line with its normal practice, the Audit Committee 
also held a number of private meetings, without management 
present, with the Vice-President, GIA, the Global Compliance 
Ofﬁcer and the lead partners from the Company’s external audit 
ﬁrm. The purpose of these meetings was to facilitate free and open 
discussions between Committee members and those individuals, 
separately from the main sessions of the Committee, which were 
attended by the CEO, the CFO and the Senior Vice-President, 
Group Finance.
During 2010 and January 2011, the business considered and 
discussed by the Audit Committee included the matters referred  
to below:
>  Our ﬁnancial disclosures were reviewed and various accounting 
matters considered.
>  Reports were received from the external auditor concerning its 
audit of the Financial Statements of the Group and from 
management, GIA, Global Compliance and the external auditor 
on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls and, in 
particular, our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting. This 
included review and discussion of the results of the ‘continuous 
assurance’ and annual ‘letter of assurance’ processes. The 
Committee also reviewed quarterly activity reports of audit work 
carried out by GIA and the status of follow-up actions with 
management as well as reports from the Global Compliance 
function.
>  The systems and processes that management has developed 
pertaining to risk identiﬁcation, classiﬁcation and mitigation.
>  Continuing work to comply with the applicable provisions of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In particular, the Committee regularly 
reviewed the status of compliance with the programme of internal 
controls over ﬁnancial reporting implemented pursuant to section 
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Further information about this is 
set out in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 section on page 93.
>  Data about calls made by employees via the AZethics telephone 
lines and other routes regarding potential breaches of the Code of 
Conduct together with the results of inquiries into these matters.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Corporate Governance Report 113 >  Quarterly reports were received from the compliance ofﬁcer 
responsible for monitoring the US business’s compliance with  
the Corporate Integrity Agreement.
>   Accounting issues relevant to litigation and taxation matters.
>  Reports from the Group Treasury function and, in particular,  
the Group’s liquidity and cash position and the appropriateness 
of its cash management policies in the context of the current 
economic situation.
>  Other reports concerning the GIA, Global Compliance and 
Finance functions, including the internal audit plan and progress 
and plans of the Global Compliance Ofﬁcer.
>  The amount of audit and non-audit fees of the external auditor 
throughout 2010. The Committee was satisﬁed throughout the 
year that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor 
were not in any way impaired by the nature of the non-audit work 
undertaken by the external auditor during the year, the level of 
non-audit fees charged for such work or any other facts or 
circumstances. Further information about the audit and non-audit 
fees for 2010 is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements 
on page 196.
>  A review and assessment of the Committee’s performance which 
concluded that such performance was satisfactory.
In line with best practice, we periodically consider how the audit 
requirements of the Group are best served in the context of 
business need and the prevailing external environment and, against 
the background of this review, consider whether to undertake a 
formal tendering programme with audit ﬁrms of appropriate size  
and calibre. Following discussions at its meeting in January 2011, 
the Audit Committee unanimously recommended to the Board that 
a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as the 
Company’s external auditor be proposed to shareholders at the 
AGM in April 2011. Based on its experience of working with external 
auditors, the Committee believes that the quality of the interaction 
with and level of service received from KPMG Audit Plc were key 
factors supporting this recommendation. The Committee was also 
satisﬁed that, notwithstanding the length of tenure of KPMG Audit 
Plc, KPMG Audit Plc met the independence criteria under the 
relevant statutory, regulatory and ethical standards applicable to 
auditors. Consistent with current market practice, KPMG Audit Plc’s 
services to the Group are provided pursuant to terms of 
engagement which are reviewed by the Committee. These terms  
of engagement do not include any contractual obligations under 
which the Directors would be prevented from appointing a different 
audit ﬁrm were they to consider this to be in the best interests of  
the Group. The Committee, through management, continues to 
maintain contact and dialogue with other major audit ﬁrms who  
are familiar with the Group’s business for succession purposes  
as required. This is reported to the Committee in order to ensure a 
smooth transition from the current auditor, should this be necessary.
At the same meeting, the CEO and the CFO presented to the  
Audit Committee their conclusions following the evaluation of the 
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures required  
by Item 15(a) of Form 20-F at 31 December 2010. Based on their 
evaluation, the CEO and the CFO concluded that, as at that date, we 
maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures.
There was no change in our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting 
that occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report that 
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our 
internal control over ﬁnancial reporting.
The Audit Committee is currently scheduled to meet six times  
in 2011 and will meet at such other times as may be required.
The Audit Committee reviewed its terms of reference during 
January 2011 and recommended changes, which were approved 
by the Board in January 2011. The revised terms of reference are 
available on our website, astrazeneca.com.
Code of Conduct
Our Code of Conduct, which is available on our website, 
astrazeneca.com, applies to all Directors, ofﬁcers, full-time, 
part-time, contractor and temporary staff at all levels in every 
country where we operate. It has been translated into over 40 
languages and every employee has a copy in his/her local 
language. It is designed to provide clear direction as to how our 
commitment to honesty and integrity is to be translated into 
consistent actions across all areas of the business. Compliance 
with the Code of Conduct and with the standards detailed by the 
Group in support of it is mandatory. The same applies to the laws 
and regulations of the countries in which we work and do business, 
as well as applicable national and international codes, and we seek 
to operate to the highest of these standards. The Code of Conduct 
is reviewed on a regular basis and updated where necessary to take 
account of changing legal and regulatory standards and obligations 
(eg the introduction of the UK Bribery Act 2010).
The Code of Conduct also includes information on how to report 
possible violations of the Code of Conduct through the appropriate 
channels, including the AZethics telephone lines and the global 
website, AZethics.com. Anyone who raises a possible breach in 
good faith will be supported by management and will not be subject 
to retaliation, which would itself be considered a serious violation of 
the Code of Conduct. We review all alleged compliance breaches 
and concerns, and we investigate and report them to the Audit 
Committee, as appropriate.
During 2010, 368 reports of alleged compliance breaches or other 
ethical concerns were made via the telephone lines, the AZethics.com 
website or the Global Compliance e-mail or postal addresses 
described in the Code of Conduct. The number of reports through 
equivalent channels in 2009 was 289. We believe that the increase 
in the number of reports via these channels is due to our ongoing 
focus on compliance matters and work to raise awareness of the 
Code of Conduct and supporting policies through focused 
communication and training.
As with the Code of Conduct, our global policies apply to all 
members of the Group. Like the Code of Conduct, the global 
policies provide clear and comprehensive guidance, in plain 
language, to all managers and employees as to their 
accountabilities in key ethical, compliance and corporate 
responsibility risk areas.
A critical element of the effectiveness of the Code of Conduct and 
global policies is to deliver clear training and education to employees 
on an ongoing basis.
A Group Finance Code of Conduct complements the Code of 
Conduct. It applies to the CEO, the CFO, the Group’s principal 
accounting ofﬁcers (including key Finance staff in major overseas 
subsidiaries) and all Finance function employees, and it reinforces 
the importance of the integrity of the Group’s Financial Statements, 
of the reliability of the accounting records on which they are based 
and of the robustness of the relevant controls and processes.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 114 Corporate Governance Report
Corporate Governance Report Remuneration Committee
The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to consider 
and set, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration (including pension 
rights and compensation payments) of Executive Directors and other 
senior executives. It also considers and sets the remuneration of the 
Chairman, in conjunction with the Senior independent Non-
Executive Director and in the absence of the Chairman. No Director 
is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration. More information 
is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report from page 119.
Nomination and Governance Committee
The Nomination and Governance Committee’s role is to 
recommend to the Board any new appointments of Directors.  
Any decisions relating to the appointment of Directors are made  
by the entire Board based on the merits of the candidates and the 
relevance of their background and experience, measured against 
objective criteria, with care taken to ensure that appointees have 
enough time to devote to our business. The Committee also advises 
the Board periodically on signiﬁcant developments in corporate 
governance and the Company’s compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Codes.
During 2010, the members of the Nomination and Governance 
Committee were Louis Schweitzer (Chairman of the Committee), 
Jane Henney, Michele Hooper and John Varley. They are all 
Non-Executive Directors. The Board considers them all to be 
independent; Louis Schweitzer was considered by the Board to  
be independent upon his appointment as Chairman; in accordance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Codes, the test of independence 
is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Nomination and Governance Committee met six times in 2010. 
The individual attendance record of its members is set out in the 
Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2010 table  
on page 111. During the year, it reviewed the knowledge, experience 
and balance of the Board overall and considered its likely future 
requirements given the strategic and business objectives of the 
Company. It recommended to the Board the appointment of two 
new Non-Executive Directors – Bruce Burlington and Shriti Vadera. 
For both these appointments, external board search ﬁrms were 
instructed to assist the Committee in identifying potential 
candidates and recruiting the new Board members. In addition,  
the Committee received reports about corporate governance 
developments and their potential impact on the Group. In particular, 
it reviewed the new UK Corporate Governance Code published in 
May 2010; no signiﬁcant changes were required to our corporate 
governance framework as a result of the changes contained in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Nomination and Governance Committee reviewed its terms  
of reference during 2010 and recommended minor changes, which 
were approved by the Board in January 2011. The revised terms  
of reference are available on our website, astrazeneca.com.
Science Committee
The Science Committee’s core role continues to be to provide 
assurance to the Board regarding the quality, competitiveness and 
integrity of the Group’s R&D activities by way of: meetings and 
dialogue with our R&D leaders and other scientist employees; visits 
to our R&D sites throughout the world; and review and assessment of: 
>  The approaches we adopt in respect of our chosen Therapy Areas 
>  The scientiﬁc technology and R&D capabilities deployed 
>  The decision making processes for R&D projects and 
programmes
>  The quality of our scientists. 
The Science Committee also reviews, from time to time, important 
bioethical issues that we face, and assists in the formulation of, and 
agrees on behalf of the Board, appropriate policies in relation to 
such issues. It may also consider, from time to time, future trends in 
medical science and technology. The Committee does not review 
individual R&D projects.
During 2010, the members of the Science Committee, all of whom 
have a knowledge of, or an interest in, life sciences, were Nancy 
Rothwell (Chairman of the Committee), Jane Henney, Bruce 
Burlington (from his appointment as a Non-Executive Director in 
August), Marcus Wallenberg (from 28 April 2010) and Bo Angelin 
(until his retirement from the Board on 29 April 2010), all Non-
Executive Directors. The President, Global R&D; the Executive 
Vice-President, Innovative Medicines; the Senior Vice-President, 
R&D, MedImmune; and the Executive Vice-President, Global 
Medicines Development attend meetings of the Committee. The 
Vice-President, Strategy, Portfolio & Performance, R&D also attends 
all meetings and acts as secretary to this Committee.
The Science Committee met twice in 2010, once by telephone and 
once at Gaithersburg, one of our US biologics sites. It reviewed its 
terms of reference during 2010 and recommended minor changes, 
which were approved by the Board in July. The revised terms of 
reference are available on our website, astrazeneca.com.
US corporate governance requirements
Our ADSs are traded on the NYSE and, accordingly, we are subject 
to the reporting and other requirements of the SEC applicable to 
foreign private issuers. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
requires companies to include in their annual report on Form 20-F 
ﬁled with the SEC a report by management stating its responsibility 
for establishing internal control over ﬁnancial reporting and to 
assess annually the effectiveness of such internal control. We have 
complied with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
applicable to foreign private issuers. The Board continues to believe 
that the Group has a sound corporate governance framework, 
good processes for the accurate and timely reporting of its ﬁnancial 
position and results of operations and an effective and robust 
system of internal controls. We have established a Disclosure 
Committee, further details of which can be found in the Disclosure 
Committee section on page 116.
The Directors’ assessment of the effectiveness of the internal 
control over ﬁnancial reporting is set out in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal Control over Financial 
Reporting section in the Financial Statements on page 136.
We are required to disclose any signiﬁcant ways in which our 
corporate governance practices differ from those followed by  
US companies under the Listing Standards. In addition, we must 
comply fully with the provisions of the Listing Standards relating to 
the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees. 
These provisions incorporate the rules concerning audit committees 
implemented by the SEC under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have 
reviewed the corporate governance practices required to be 
followed by US companies under the Listing Standards and our 
corporate governance practices are generally consistent with  
those standards.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Corporate Governance Report 115 Business organisation
Senior Executive Team
The CEO has established and chairs the SET. The SET normally 
meets once a month to consider and decide major business issues, 
or as otherwise required by business needs. Typically, it also 
reviews, in advance of submission to the Board, those matters  
that are to be submitted to the Board for review and decision.
In addition to the CEO, the SET’s members are: the CFO; the 
President, Global R&D; the Executive Vice-President, Global 
Commercial Operations; the General Counsel; the Executive 
Vice-President, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs; and the 
Executive Vice-President, Global Operations and Information 
Services. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the SET.
Portfolio Investment Board (PIB)
The CEO has established and chairs the PIB, which is a senior-level, 
cross-functional governance body, which seeks to maximise the 
value of our internal and external R&D investments through robust, 
transparent and well-informed decisions that drive business 
performance and accountability. 
Speciﬁcally, the PIB has responsibility for: 
>  Reviewing the R&D portfolio – by conducting an objective and 
transparent review of R&D performance, product launch proﬁle 
and alignment with corporate strategy. The review is also an 
important step in reconﬁrming the R&D three-year budget. 
>  Approving the business plans of the Innovative Medicines Units 
and the Global Medicines Development demand forecast – by 
conﬁrming the allocation of resources across early- and late-stage 
elements of R&D as well as assessing licensing and acquisition 
opportunities. 
>  Approving late-stage (internal and external) investment decisions.
>  Monitoring environmental events that could have a major 
transformational or disruptive impact on our business.
In addition to the CEO, the PIB’s members are the CFO; the 
President, Global R&D; the Executive Vice-President, Global 
Commercial Operations; the Executive Vice-President, Innovative 
Medicines; the Senior Vice-President, R&D, MedImmune; the 
Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines Development; and the 
Vice-President, Strategic Partnering & Business Development. The 
PIB has a permanent secretary and typically meets at around the 
time of the monthly SET meetings, or as otherwise required by 
business needs.
Disclosure Committee
Our disclosure policy provides a framework for the handling and 
disclosure of inside information and other information of interest to 
shareholders and the investment community. It also deﬁnes the role 
of the Disclosure Committee. The members of the Committee are: 
the CFO, who chairs the Committee; the President, Global R&D; the 
General Counsel; the Vice-President, Corporate Affairs; the 
Vice-President, Investor Relations; and the Senior Vice-President, 
Group Finance. The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary 
to this Committee. The Committee meets regularly to assist and 
inform the decisions of the CEO concerning inside information and 
its disclosure. Periodically, it reviews our disclosure controls and 
procedures and its own operation as part of work carried out to 
enable management and the Board to assure themselves that 
appropriate processes are operating for our planned disclosures, 
such as our quarterly results announcements and scheduled 
investor relations events.
Disclosure of information to auditors 
The Directors who held ofﬁce at the date of approval of this Annual 
Report conﬁrm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she 
ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Compliance and Group Internal Audit (GIA)
The role of the Global Compliance function is to manage and 
maintain the compliance programme infrastructure and to help 
embed a culture of ethics and integrity in the Group. Global 
Compliance works closely with GIA, with whom it provides joint 
assurance reporting to the Audit Committee. The key priorities for 
our Global Compliance function for 2010/2011 are closely aligned 
with the Group’s strategic priorities and include strengthening our 
efforts for oversight at all levels of our business, including third 
parties, anti-bribery and anti-corruption efforts, and data privacy. 
During 2011, the Global Compliance function will continue to focus 
on ensuring the delivery of an aligned approach to compliance that 
addresses key risk areas across the business.
During 2010, the Global Compliance function was restructured with 
a formal change to centralise the reporting of all globally-deployed 
compliance programme resources under the Global Compliance 
Ofﬁcer who reports to the CEO. A new management structure, at 
the head of which is the Global Compliance leadership team, now 
incorporates all operational elements of the business. The remit  
of the team is to oversee and co-ordinate the implementation of  
an effective global compliance programme and evaluate its 
effectiveness. It does this by assessing key compliance risks within 
and across the SET functions; working with GIA to ensure co-
ordination of compliance auditing and monitoring; reviewing results; 
addressing signiﬁcant policy violations; and identifying trends.
Global Compliance provides direct assurance to the Audit Committee 
on matters concerning compliance issues, with a particular focus 
on compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation as 
well as IFPMA, EFPIA and PhRMA codes. Complementing this,  
GIA carries out a range of audits that include compliance-related 
audits and reviews of the assurance activities of other Group 
assurance functions. The results from these activities are reported 
to the Audit Committee.
GIA is an independent appraisal function that derives its authority 
from the Board through the Audit Committee. Its primary role is to 
provide reasonable and objective assurance to the Directors 
regarding the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and control framework and the internal controls over 
key business risks, including ﬁnancial controls and compliance with 
laws, regulations and policies.
GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities set down in its charter  
by reviewing:
>  The processes for ensuring that key business risks are effectively 
managed.
>  The ﬁnancial and operational controls that help to ensure that the 
Group’s assets are properly safeguarded from losses, including 
fraud.
>  The controls that help to ensure the reliability and integrity of 
management information systems.
>  The processes for ensuring compliance with policies and 
procedures, external legislation and regulation.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 116 Corporate Governance Report
Corporate Governance Report In addition to fulﬁlling its primary remit of assurance to the Audit 
Committee, GIA acts as a source of constructive advice and best 
practice, assisting senior management to improve governance, 
control, compliance and risk management.
Other matters
Corporate governance statement under the UK Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules
The disclosures that fulﬁl the requirements of a corporate 
governance statement under the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules can be found in this section and in other parts of this Annual 
Report as listed below, each of which is incorporated into this 
section by reference:
>  Signiﬁcant holders of the Company’s shares (contained in  
the Shareholder Information section from page 211).
>  Articles (contained in the Corporate Information section on  
page 216).
>  Amendments to the Company’s Articles (contained in the 
Corporate Information section on page 216).
Subsidiaries and principal activities
The Company is the holding company for a group of subsidiaries 
whose principal activities are described in this Annual Report. 
Principal subsidiaries and their locations are given in the Principal 
Subsidiaries section in the Financial Statements on page 197 .
Branches and countries in which the Group conducts 
business 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we disclose below 
our subsidiary companies that have representative or scientiﬁc 
branches/ofﬁces outside the UK:
>  AstraZeneca UK Limited: Albania, Algeria, Angola, Armenia, 
Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, 
Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Georgia, Ghana (scientiﬁc ofﬁce), 
Ireland, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya (scientiﬁc ofﬁce), Macedonia, 
Romania, Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovenia and Ukraine
>  AstraZeneca AB: Egypt (scientiﬁc ofﬁce), Latvia, Saudi Arabia 
(scientiﬁc ofﬁce) and Slovakia
>  AstraZeneca Export and Trading AB: Estonia, Lithuania, Romania 
and the United Arab Emirates
> AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: Cambodia and Vietnam.
Distributions to shareholders and dividends for 2010 
Our distribution policy comprises both a regular cash dividend and 
a share repurchase component, further details of which are set out 
in the Financial Review on page 87 and Notes 21 and 20 to the 
Financial Statements on page 167 . 
The Company’s dividends for 2010 of $2.55 (161.6 pence, SEK 
17 .11) per Ordinary Share amount to, in aggregate, a total dividend 
payment to shareholders of $3,617 million. Two of our employee 
share trusts, AstraZeneca Share Trust Limited and AstraZeneca 
Quest Limited, waive their right to a dividend on the Ordinary 
Shares that they hold and instead receive a nominal dividend.
A shareholders’ resolution was passed at the 2010 AGM authorising 
the Company to purchase its own shares. Pursuant to this 
resolution, the Company repurchased (and subsequently cancelled) 
53,691,507 Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of $0.25 each, at 
an aggregate cost of $2,604 million, representing 3.8% of the total 
issued share capital of the Company. The Company will seek a 
renewal of its current permission from shareholders to purchase its 
own shares at the AGM on 28 April 2011.
During our share repurchase programmes that operated between 
1999 and 2010, a total of 430 million Ordinary Shares were 
repurchased, and subsequently cancelled, at an average price  
of 2,718 pence per share for a consideration, including expenses,  
of $20,702 million.
Going concern accounting basis 
Information on the business environment in which we operate, 
including the factors underpinning the industry’s future growth 
prospects, are included in the section describing Our marketplace 
from page 10. Details of our product portfolio, our approach to 
product development and a summary of our development pipeline 
are included in the Business Review section from page 24. 
Additional information on our Therapy Areas is included in the 
Therapy Area Review from page 50. The table showing our 
development pipeline can be found from page 206.
The ﬁnancial position of the Group, our cash ﬂows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review from 
page 78. In addition, Notes 15 and 23 to the Financial Statements 
from pages 158 and 168 respectively, include our objectives, 
policies and processes for managing our capital, our ﬁnancial risk 
management objectives, details of our ﬁnancial instruments and 
hedging activities and our exposures to credit, market and liquidity 
risk. Further details of our cash balances and borrowings are 
included in Notes 13 and 14 to the Financial Statements on pages 
157 and 158 respectively.
We have considerable ﬁnancial resources available. At 31 
December 2010, we had $15.25 billion in ﬁnancial resources (cash 
balances of $11.1 billion and committed undrawn bank facilities of 
$4.25 billion, with only $0.1 billion of debt due within one year). Our 
revenues are largely derived from sales of products which are 
covered by patents and for which, in the short term at least, 
demand is relatively unaffected by changes in the global economy. 
In addition, we have a wide diversity of customers and suppliers 
across different geographic areas. As a consequence, the Directors 
believe that we are well placed to continue to manage our business 
risks successfully.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that we have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing this Annual Report and the Financial Statements.
Changes in share capital 
Changes in the Company’s Ordinary Share capital during 2010, 
including details of the allotment of new shares under the 
Company’s share plans, are given in Note 20 to the Financial 
Statements on page 167 .
Directors’ shareholdings 
The Articles require each Director to be the beneﬁcial owner of 
Ordinary Shares in the Company with an aggregate nominal value 
of $125 (which currently represents at least 500 shares). Such 
holding must be obtained within two months of the date of the 
Director’s appointment. At 31 December 2010, all of the Directors 
complied with this requirement and full details of each Director’s 
interests in shares of the Company are set out in the Directors’ 
interests in shares section on page 132. Information about the 
shareholding expectations of the Remuneration Committee (in 
respect of Executive Directors and SET members) and the Board  
(in respect of Non-Executive Directors) is also set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 121 and 128 respectively.
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Corporate Governance Report 117 Political donations 
Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries made any EU political 
donations or incurred any EU political expenditure in 2010 and they 
do not intend to do so in the future in respect of which shareholder 
authority is required, or for which disclosure in this Annual Report  
is required, under the Companies Act 2006. However, to enable the 
Company and its subsidiaries to continue to support interest groups 
or lobbying organisations concerned with the review of government 
policy or law reform without inadvertently breaching the Companies 
Act 2006, which deﬁnes political donations and other political 
expenditure in broad terms, a resolution will be put to shareholders 
at the 2011 AGM, similar to that passed at the 2010 AGM, to 
authorise the Company and its subsidiaries to: 
> make donations to political parties 
> make  donations to political organisations other than political parties
> incur political expenditure, up to an aggregate limit of $250,000.
In 2010, the Group’s US legal entities made contributions amounting 
in aggregate to $1,999,150 (2009: $733,687) to state political party 
committees and to campaign committees of various state 
candidates afﬁliated with the major parties in accordance with 
pre-established guidelines. The increase from 2009 to 2010 reﬂects 
the fact that many US states held legislative and executive elections 
in 2010, resulting in more state candidate and state political party 
activity. No corporate donations were made at the federal level and 
all contributions were made only where allowed by US federal and 
state law. US citizens or individuals holding valid green cards 
exercised decision making over the contributions and the funds  
were not provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal entity. Such 
contributions do not constitute political donations or political 
expenditure for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and were 
made without any involvement of persons or entities outside the US. 
Signiﬁcant agreements
There are no signiﬁcant agreements to which the Company is a 
party that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of  
the Company following a takeover bid. There are no persons with 
whom we have contractual or other arrangements, who are deemed 
by the Directors to be essential to our business.
Use of ﬁnancial instruments 
Notes 15 and 23 to the Financial Statements, from pages 158  
and 168 respectively, include further information on our use of 
ﬁnancial instruments.
Creditor payment policy 
It is not our policy formally to comply with the Confederation of 
British Industry’s code of practice on the prompt payment of 
suppliers. It is, however, our policy to agree appropriate payment 
terms with all suppliers when agreeing to the terms of each 
transaction, to ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the 
terms of payment and, subject to their compliance, to abide by  
the terms of payment. The total amount of money owed by the 
Company’s subsidiaries to trade creditors at the balance sheet  
date was equivalent to 62 days’ average purchases (2009: 56 days).  
A considerable part of the trade creditors’ balance continues to 
relate to the Merck account in the US, which has particularly long 
contractual payment terms. By removing this balance and other 
items not directly related to trade purchases in the US, a more 
accurate average of 57 days is obtained (2009: 47 days).
The Company has no external trade creditors.
Annual General Meeting 
The Company’s AGM will be held on 28 April 2011. The meeting 
place will be in London. A Notice of AGM will be sent to all 
registered holders of Ordinary Shares and, where requested, to the 
beneﬁcial holders of shares.
External auditor 
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 28 April 2011 for the 
re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company.  
The external auditor has undertaken various non-audit work for  
us during 2010. More information about this work and the audit  
and non-audit fees that we have paid are set out in Note 27 to  
the Financial Statements on page 196. The external auditor is not 
engaged by us to carry out any non-audit work in respect of which 
it might, in the future, be required to express an audit opinion. As 
explained more fully in the Audit Committee section from page 113, 
the Audit Committee has established pre-approval policies and 
procedures for audit and non-audit work permitted to be carried out 
by the external auditor and has carefully monitored the objectivity 
and independence of the external auditor throughout 2010.
Bureau Veritas 
Bureau Veritas has provided external assurance on corporate 
responsibility related information within this Annual Report and  
of the detailed content of the ‘Responsibility’ section of our website. 
Bureau Veritas has found the information provided within this 
Annual Report to be accurate and reliable (based on the evidence 
provided and subject to the scope, objectives and limitations 
deﬁned in the full assurance statement). The full assurance 
statement which contains detailed scope, methodology, overall 
opinion and recommendations can be found on our website, 
astrazeneca.com; web page content assured by Bureau Veritas  
is marked at the bottom of each page.
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company 
that specialises in quality, health, safety, social and environmental 
management with a long history of providing independent 
assurance services, and an annual turnover in 2009 of €2.6 billion.
Directors’ Report
The Directors’ Report, which has been prepared in accordance  
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, comprises the 
following sections:
> Our Strategy and Performance
> Business Review
> Corporate Governance
> Development Pipeline
> Shareholder Information
> Corporate Information
and has been signed on behalf of the Board.
A C N Kemp
Company Secretary 
27 January 2011
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 118 Corporate Governance Report
Corporate Governance Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Directors’ Remuneration Report 119
In this introduction to the 2010 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report I highlight a number of 
points to give context to the report that follows. 
As we indicated in our 2009 annual report, the Remuneration 
Committee’s main objectives during 2010 were to develop long-
term compensation structures to support the strategic and ﬁnancial 
progress of the Group, to invest in the development of human 
capital in AstraZeneca, and to focus on stewardship and 
shareholder value-creation over the long term. In particular, we 
stated our intention to reshape the Group’s long-term incentive 
arrangements, maintaining (but not increasing) the overall value  
of the package, but recognising that AstraZeneca operates in a 
uniquely long-term industry. We sought thereby to strengthen the 
alignment between the time horizons over which our business 
investment decisions are taken and those to which part of our share 
incentive programmes relate. An important and informative part of 
this process was extensive consultation with institutional investors. 
We are grateful for their contribution to the development of the 
proposals. Our recommendations received strong support from 
shareholders at our AGM in April 2010 and the new AstraZeneca 
Investment Plan was approved. 
Meanwhile, 2010 has been a year of considerable change for  
the senior leadership of AstraZeneca. Remuneration policy and 
practices play a key role in supporting the implementation of our 
strategy to be a focused, integrated, innovation-driven, global, 
prescription-based biopharmaceutical business. The Committee 
has endeavoured to strike an appropriate balance between levels  
of remuneration that reﬂect the need to attract and retain top talent 
in a highly competitive global market and policies that are aligned 
with best practice through risk adjustment, deferral, claw-back and 
reward for success. The Committee has applied careful oversight  
to internal moves and external hires to ensure that AstraZeneca 
attracts and retains world-class talent in its Senior Executive Team, 
particularly, in 2010, in light of the changes in our R&D organisation, 
across its R&D senior leadership. 
There have also been changes to the membership of the 
Committee itself during 2010. In April 2010, John Buchanan retired 
from the Committee when he stepped down from the Board. On 
behalf of the Committee I would like to thank John for his immensely 
valuable contribution to the Committee’s operation and decisions 
during his tenure as a member. Following John’s retirement, Rudy 
Markham has joined the Committee, bringing with him a wealth of 
relevant experience, including as a Non-Executive Director of the 
Financial Reporting Council. Rudy is also a member of the Audit 
Committee, and we thereby maintain an important link between  
the work and deliberations of the two Committees. As can be seen 
from the Committee members’ biographies on page 106, each  
of AstraZeneca’s Board Committees (including the Science 
Committee, which is chaired by Dame Nancy Rothwell) is 
represented in the membership of the Remuneration Committee. 
This is intentionally so, and ensures that critical issues concerning 
performance, productivity, risk and reputation continue to be at the 
forefront of the Committee’s considerations. 
The changes that were made to executive remuneration during  
the year (explained more fully below) reﬂect a clear desire in the 
business, which the Committee fully supported, to move towards  
a longer-term framework which will strengthen alignment with the 
inherently long-term nature of pharmaceutical drug development 
and thereby with the long-term interests of shareholders. The 
revised long-term incentive (LTI) structures have been designed, 
cognisant of shareholder views and expectations, to provide a clear 
focus for the business to outperform its industry peers over time,  
to deliver operational efﬁciency and engender a strong sense of 
stewardship that will deliver long-term sustainable shareholder value.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I commend this 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to you.
John Varley 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
John Varley 
Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This Directors’ Remuneration Report (Report) has been prepared  
in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (Regulations)  
and meets the relevant requirements of the Financial Services 
Authority’s Listing Rules. As required by the Regulations, a 
resolution to approve this Report will be proposed at the AGM  
on 28 April 2011. 
The following sections of this Report, up to and including the 
Non-Executive Directors section on page 128, were not subject  
to audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
Remuneration Committee membership and meetings
The members of the Committee are John Varley (Chairman), Rudy 
Markham, Louis Schweitzer and Nancy Rothwell. Rudy Markham 
became a member of the Committee on 29 April 2010. Until that 
date, upon which he retired from the Board, John Buchanan was a 
member of the Committee. Throughout 2010, all the members of 
the Committee were independent Non-Executive Directors – Louis 
Schweitzer was considered by the Board to be independent upon 
his appointment as Chairman. The independence of the Non-
Executive Directors is discussed in more detail in the Corporate 
Governance Report from page 109. The Company Secretary acts 
as the secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met seven times in 2010. The individual attendance 
record of members of the Committee is set out in the Board and 
Board Committee meeting attendance in 2010 table on page 111.
At the invitation of the Committee, except where their own 
remuneration was being discussed, David Brennan, CEO; Lynn 
Tetrault, Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and 
Corporate Affairs; Simon Appleby, Vice-President, Performance  
and Reward; and Viv Gill and her successor, Katie Jackson-Turner, 
Vice-President, Global Compensation attended one or more 
Committee meetings in 2010 and provided advice and services  
that materially assisted the Committee.
The Committee retains Carol Arrowsmith of Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) 
who provided independent advice on various matters it considered 
in 2010. During the year, the Committee reviewed the voluntary 
code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting  
in the UK, which is operated under the aegis of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group, in which Deloitte participates. During the year, 
Deloitte also provided taxation advice and other speciﬁc non-audit 
services to the Group. The Committee reviewed the potential for 
conﬂicts of interest and judged that there was none and that the 
independence of its adviser was not called into question.
Committee terms of reference and main work during  
the year
Committee terms of reference
A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference is available on our 
website, astrazeneca.com.
The role of the Committee is to develop and deploy remuneration 
policies and practices for senior management, and for the Group 
more broadly, that support the implementation of our business 
strategy and which thereby help the organisation to create value  
for shareholders over time.
The Committee has responsibility for determining, on behalf of the 
Board, the individual compensation paid to Executive Directors and 
SET members. It takes responsibility on behalf of the Board for 
reviewing the design and operation of total compensation structures 
and practices across AstraZeneca. In this regard, the Committee’s 
approval is required in relation to, among other things, decisions 
regarding:
>  The eligibility, structure, award/grant levels, performance metrics 
and targets, costs and ﬁnal vesting levels under LTI plans for 
Directors, other SET members and the Company Secretary.
>  Annual bonus payments for Executive Directors, other SET 
members and senior executives below SET level.
>  The pension entitlements of Executive Directors and other  
SET members.
>  The Chairman of the Board’s remuneration (which is approved by 
the other members of the Committee and the Senior independent 
Non-Executive Director).
>  Any single payment or award over $1 million.
>  Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and other  
SET members.
>  The contractual terms and conditions of, and any potential or 
actual payments arising on termination to, Executive Directors, 
other SET members and the Company Secretary so as to ensure 
that they are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is 
not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
The Committee conducted a review of its terms of reference during 
2010 and agreed to recommend to the Board a small number of 
changes, principally to reﬂect provisions in the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code. These were approved by the Board in January 
2011 and the revised terms of reference are available on our 
website, astrazeneca.com.
Main work during the year
The Committee considered the following principal matters  
during 2010:
>  Completion of the strategic review of the remuneration and 
incentive framework for Executive Directors and other SET 
members. This included signiﬁcant consultation with major 
shareholders and institutional investor organisations.
>  A review of the terms of senior executives’ remuneration 
packages on appointment, promotion and termination, including 
the remuneration packages on the appointment of a number of 
senior leaders in R&D.
>  The assessment of Group and individual performance against 
performance targets to determine the level of executive bonuses 
for 2009 and to set executive bonus performance targets for 2010.
>  The approval of the rules of the new AstraZeneca Investment Plan 
(AZIP) prior to the AZIP being proposed to shareholders for 
approval at the 2010 AGM, and the approval of the rules of the 
new AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan (GRSP), which did 
not require shareholder approval. 
>  The approval of the introduction of a new cash ﬂow target for  
the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan (PSP), to be used in 
conjunction with the existing TSR performance condition.
>  The approval of awards made under the Group’s main LTI plans: 
the PSP; the AZIP; and the GRSP to SET members and other 
participants.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 120 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report >  The approval of restricted share awards to a limited number  
of senior executives under the AstraZeneca Restricted Share  
Plan (RSP).
>  A review of the use of claw-back provisions by the Company.
>  A review of the Company’s governance arrangements for global 
compensation matters.
>  A benchmarking review of the Committee’s activities and policies 
against institutional investor guidelines.
>  A review of the levels of share ownership of Executive Directors 
and other SET members.
>  A review of the pension entitlements of Executive Directors and 
other SET members.
>  A review of the impact on compensation policies and practices  
of the current economic environment, including ensuring the 
appropriate degree of risk adjustment to aggregate and individual 
compensation decisions. 
>  A review of the voluntary code of conduct operated under the 
aegis of the Remuneration Consultants Group in relation to 
executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
>  In conjunction with the Senior independent Non-Executive Director 
and not in the presence of the Chairman of the Board, a review of 
the basic fee paid to the Chairman of the Board for his services.
>  The preparation, review and approval (in January 2011) of this 
Report.
Key remuneration principles
The Committee considers that the following objectives should 
continue to deﬁne its approach to the formation and execution  
of AstraZeneca’s remuneration policy:
>  All aspects of executive remuneration should be designed to help 
AstraZeneca create sustainable growth in shareholder value by 
the successful implementation of strategy and be developed in 
the context of shareholder views on best practice. 
>  Reward structures and performance measures should support  
a strong performance culture enabling delivery of the business 
strategy, where all employees have a clear understanding of the 
Group’s objectives, how their work will impact those objectives and 
how they will beneﬁt from delivering high levels of performance.
>  Base pay and total compensation positioning against the market 
should be appropriate to attract and develop high-calibre talent 
and SET remuneration should continue to be referenced to 
competitive levels of remuneration.
Following the 2010 AGM, the shareholding guidelines for Executive 
Directors and other SET members were increased. The 
shareholding requirement for the CEO was increased to 200% of 
base salary (from 100%) and the requirement for all other Executive 
Directors and SET members was increased to 125% of base salary 
(from 100%).
Incentive programmes designed to deliver long-term 
shareholder value
The long-term share interests of Executive Directors and other SET 
members are provided through two complementary share plans, 
the PSP and the AZIP .
Under the PSP , a relative TSR performance condition applies in 
respect of one half of any award made and the other half of the 
award is subject to a cash ﬂow performance measure that reﬂects 
operational management of the business in a way that is consistent 
with generating value for shareholders. A cash ﬂow measure was 
introduced in 2010 because it encompasses all elements of 
operational and ﬁnancial performance, represents a strong proxy 
through time for shareholder value creation and is a key measure for 
the Group. Together, the TSR and cash ﬂow performance conditions 
focus reward under the PSP on outperformance of competitors.
The AZIP , approved by shareholders in 2010, operates with an 
eight-year time horizon where reward is conditional on sustainable 
shareholder returns and ﬁnancial performance. The AZIP creates 
the opportunity for annual awards to Executive Directors and other 
SET members which must be held for a total of eight years and  
are subject to a four-year performance requirement from the date  
of award.
The greater weighting within the LTI opportunity is given to awards 
under the PSP . Awards under the PSP are positioned so that 
interests under this plan can deliver 75% of the overall expected value 
from long-term remuneration and the AZIP 25%. The Committee 
keeps under review the appropriateness of this weighting.
The combination of awards under these two plans enhances the 
alignment between the time horizons over which our business 
investment decisions are taken and those to which our long-term 
remuneration vehicles relate.
The AstraZeneca Share Option Plan (SOP) expired during 2010 and 
grants of share options no longer form part of our LTI arrangements.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors’ Remuneration Report 121 Components of remuneration
During 2010, the remuneration components for all Group employees 
(including those of SET members) comprised ﬁxed and variable 
performance-related elements. Summaries of these elements are 
included in the Components of remuneration table below. 
The way in which these elements of remuneration are combined 
and applied varies according to a range of factors, including speciﬁc 
business needs and practices in different markets, although, in 
general, the more senior the role within the business, the greater 
the proportion of total remuneration is made up of variable 
performance-related elements. The Committee seeks to ensure that 
the overall proportion of variable pay to which Executive Directors 
and other SET members may become entitled forms a signiﬁcant 
part of their overall remuneration opportunity. The Committee’s 
objective for senior management is to ensure that such variable pay 
is linked to a range of measures designed to promote both 
individual and team behaviour and performance in a way that 
supports the success of AstraZeneca and creates value for its 
shareholders. Such measures are designed to stretch and 
challenge the relevant individuals while at the same time giving them 
an opportunity to participate as shareholders in the creation  
of long-term economic value.
The Committee has continued to take into account the wider 
business environment and employment conditions across the 
Group. In particular, with the exception of the CFO whose base 
salary had remained unchanged since he joined the Group, no base 
pay increases were awarded in respect of the 2010 calendar year  
to Executive Directors or other SET members whose responsibilities 
were unchanged. In addition, award opportunities for SET members 
under the Group’s LTI plan framework have been held at a 
consistent level since the adoption of the PSP in 2005. 
For 2011, the Company will continue to benchmark against 
appropriate comparator companies and will assess whether or not 
and to what extent the overall opportunities for remuneration offered 
by the current structure of remuneration remain appropriate in the 
context of changes within the business and the external 
environment in which it operates, taking note also of the guidance 
issued within the last 12 months from bodies representing 
institutional shareholders.
Components of remuneration
Component of remuneration Role within the remuneration framework Summary of policy Applies to
Base salary (ﬁxed) Base ﬁxed remuneration. Based on conditions in the relevant market and 
recognising the value of an individual’s sustained 
personal performance and contribution to the 
business, taking account of the market rate for an 
individual’s skills and experience. Benchmarked 
against external comparators.
All employees
Pension arrangements 
(ﬁxed)
Provision of retirement beneﬁts. Benchmarked against the relevant local  
employment market.
All employees
Beneﬁts (ﬁxed) Provision of standard non-cash employment beneﬁts, 
such as healthcare, insurances and, for certain 
employees, facilitated car purchase arrangements. 
Cost-effective and compatible with relevant welfare 
arrangements and local market norms.
All employees
Short-term bonus 
(variable)
An annual cash incentive opportunity determined  
by reference to Group, functional and individual 
performance, measured over a single ﬁnancial year  
of the Company and taking into account external 
expectations of performance.
Differs by market, but the Group performance 
measures ensure that all eligible employees receive  
an element of reward based on the Group’s overall 
ﬁnancial performance.
The functional goals are agreed by the Committee at 
the start of the year and are derived from the business 
scorecard, the key elements of which are set out in the 
Business objectives and key performance indicators 
section from page 16, and are monitored as part of the 
quarterly business review (QBR) process.
Individual goals are based on annual objectives, which 
are linked to functional goals.
All eligible 
employees
Deferred bonus plan 
(variable)
Aligns SET members’ interests with those of 
shareholders.
SET members must defer a proportion of their 
short-term bonus (one-third of pre-tax bonus for 
Executive Directors and one-sixth for other SET 
members) into Ordinary Shares or ADSs for a 
three-year period.
SET members
LTI plans (variable) Long-term equity incentive awards to provide individual 
executives and employees with total compensation 
opportunities that are competitive against local market 
practice, for the achievement of operational excellence, 
strong ﬁnancial performance and actions that are 
closely aligned with the interests of shareholders. The 
primary LTI plans in which SET members participate 
are the PSP and the AZIP.
AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan. SET members and 
other senior 
executives
AstraZeneca Investment Plan. SET members
Share Option Plan (ﬁnal awards made in 2009). Senior management 
and SET members
Global Restricted Stock Plan. Eligible employees 
globally
Other share plans ‘All employee’ share participation arrangements, 
including some that are tax-approved, for example  
in the UK.
Examples include the Share Incentive Plan and 
Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK)
1
.
Eligible employees
Shareholding guidelines Aligning SET members’ interests with those of 
shareholders.
The CEO is expected to hold shares equivalent to 200% 
of base salary and the CFO and other SET members 
are expected to hold 125% of base salary in shares.
SET members
Overall approach When assessing the overall value of a SET member’s remuneration the Committee considers, both separately and in aggregate, each 
component of the SET member’s total remuneration.
1
 Further information on these plans is provided in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 173.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 122 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report Illustration of ﬁ xed and variable performance-related 
remuneration
Based on AstraZeneca’s remuneration policy, the Components of 
remuneration – expected value charts below illustrate the potential 
weighting given to ﬁ xed and variable performance-related elements 
of the remuneration package at Executive Director level. Variable 
performance-related elements of the package are shown on an 
‘expected value’ basis, and in the event that performance 
conditions are not met, such elements would not deliver any value. 
The ‘expected value’ approach considers the range of possible 
outcomes and the probability attached to each, in order to provide 
a value that represents the average that would be delivered if the 
arrangements were operated over many years. The ‘expected value’ 
for bonus payment is taken to be the target payout level.
Fixed remuneration
Both Executive Directors’ terms and conditions are UK-based apart 
from David Brennan’s pension and health insurance arrangements, 
which are described below, and are benchmarked against external 
UK comparators.
Base salary
The base salary for Executive Directors and other SET members 
is determined by the Committee. Salary decisions reﬂ ect the 
experience and performance of the individuals to whom they apply, 
taking account of market competitiveness and the level of increases 
applicable to employees in the wider Group. There was no increase 
to the base salary of the CEO in either 2009 or 2010. The CFO’s 
base salary was increased in 2010 for the ﬁ rst time since he joined 
the Group in 2007 . Effective from 2011, the Committee awarded 
David Brennan and Simon Lowth base salary increases of 2.5%, 
illustrated in the Executive Directors’ base salaries in 2010 and 2011 
table below. This is in line with the adjustments being made to the 
base salaries of other employees within the Group in 2011.
Executive Directors’ base salaries in 2010 and 2011
Executive Director
Annual salary 
in 2010
£
Annual salary 
in 2011
£
Increase
%
David Brennan 972,900 997,223 2.5
Simon Lowth 620,000 635,500 2.5
Components of remuneration – expected value
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (%) 
Fixed
 Base Salary  
Variable
 Bonus  
 PSP  
 AZIP  
 
22
14
42
22
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (%) 
Fixed
 Base Salary  
Variable
 Bonus  
 PSP  
 AZIP  
 
29
11
34
26
Fixed Elements Variable Elements
Base salary Linked to short-term performance Linked to long-term performance
Pension Bonus AstraZeneca Investment Plan
Beneﬁ ts (such as healthcare) Deferred Bonus (share-based) Performance Share Plan
Remuneration and terms of employment for Executive Directors and other SET members
Components of Executive Director and SET remuneration
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors’ Remuneration Report 123 Pension arrangements
The table in the Deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements section on page 130 
gives details of the changes in the value of the Executive Directors’ 
accrued pensions during 2010.
CEO’s pension arrangements
David Brennan is a member of the AstraZeneca US Deﬁned Beneﬁt 
Pension Plan (US DBP), by virtue of his membership of pension 
plans applicable to legacy Astra Merck employees. On his 
appointment to the Board, the rules of the US DBP were amended 
so as to remove bonus payments from the calculation of his 
pensionable pay. Beneﬁts for members of the US DBP are delivered 
on a tax-qualiﬁed basis, with accrued beneﬁts that exceed speciﬁc 
limits under the plan’s formula and the US Tax Code being delivered 
through a supplementary, non-qualiﬁed plan.
The normal pension age under the US DBP is 65. However, on 
leaving or retiring from employment, David Brennan is eligible to take 
a pension or lump sum equivalent based on accrued service and ﬁnal 
pensionable pay (ie without actuarial reduction) due to his satisfaction 
of a condition in the pension plan relating to the combined age and 
service exceeding 85 years, as previously disclosed.
David Brennan’s participation in the US DBP is subject to a service 
cap at 35 years’ service, which will be attained in January 2011, 
after which no further service accrual can be earned.
Members and, in the event of death, surviving spouses/dependants 
can elect, in relation to those beneﬁts delivered on a tax-qualiﬁed 
basis under the US DBP , to take pensions in lump sum form based 
on actuarial valuation. Members or spouses/dependants may not 
make such an election in relation to any supplementary non-
qualiﬁed beneﬁts which must be taken in lump sum form.
In addition, David Brennan (as a US citizen) is a contributing 
member of the US 401(k) savings plan
1
. He also contributes to 
an associated non-qualiﬁed plan, as described in the Deﬁned 
contribution arrangements section on page 131.
In the event of a US participant becoming incapacitated, permanent 
health insurance cover will provide continuation of a proportion of 
salary, subject to the satisfaction of certain medical criteria. In the 
event of the death of a participant prior to retirement, a life 
assurance policy will provide surviving spouses/dependants with a 
lump sum equivalent to one times salary (such salary being capped 
at the maximum pensionable salary under the plan).
CFO’s pension arrangements
Simon Lowth is eligible to join the AstraZeneca Group Self Invested 
Personal Pension (UK Deﬁned Contribution Plan (UK DCP)) at a 
company contribution rate of 24% of annual base salary or, 
alternatively, to take the company contribution as a cash allowance. 
For the option years 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010 
to 30 June 2011, he elected to take the cash allowance, as detailed 
in the Deﬁned contribution arrangements section on page 131.
In the event of a senior employee in the UK DCP (including one who 
has taken an alternative cash allowance) becoming incapacitated, 
permanent health insurance cover provides continuation of a 
proportion of salary, subject to the satisfaction of certain medical 
criteria. In the event of death prior to retirement, dependants are 
entitled to a pension and/or lump sum secured from a multiple of  
10 times salary.
1
  The 401(k) savings plan is a qualiﬁed plan to which eligible employees may make salary-deferral 
contributions on a post-tax and/or pre-tax basis. Employers may also make matching or 
non-elective contributions to the plan. There is a supplementary non-qualiﬁed plan in place for 
all eligible employees whose earnings exceed speciﬁc limits under the US Tax Code.
Beneﬁts
Consistent with the majority of employers, certain beneﬁts are made 
available to Executive Directors and other SET members via local 
beneﬁts programmes offered by AstraZeneca. Beneﬁts under these 
programmes typically include healthcare, insurances and facilitated 
car purchase arrangements.
Variable performance-related remuneration
Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible to 
participate in different elements of variable performance-related pay, 
which are described below. The decision as to whether or not, in 
any given year, they receive any or all of their elements of variable 
pay is determined by the Committee, which, in making such a 
determination, will typically have regard to the performance of the 
individual and the Group and will consider the elements of variable 
pay applicable to senior employees in other comparable 
organisations.
Short-term bonus
Performance criteria
Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible for a 
short-term bonus. The basis for the payment of any short-term 
bonus is determined by reference to a range of factors linked to the 
underlying performance of AstraZeneca’s business, the 
performance of the functional area for which the individual is 
responsible and the performance of the individual in his or her role.
Structure and assessment of performance 
As set out in the 2009 Directors’ Remuneration Report, the 
performance criteria for the determination of annual bonuses for 
Executive Directors and other SET members have been aligned 
more closely with the current objectives and measures that are 
used by the business. This approach continued to apply for 2010 
and will do so for 2011. For 2011, the bonus ranges are unchanged 
from 2010. The bonus deferral requirements, described in more 
detail below, applied for 2010 and will be reviewed during 2011. 
Executive Directors’ and other SET members’ bonuses for 2010 
were based on performance criteria linked to the following targets:
>  60% by reference to EPS, cash ﬂow targets and the objectives in 
each of the strategic priority areas identiﬁed by the Board for the 
business, the key elements of which are set out in the Business 
objectives and key performance indicators section from page 16 
and which are monitored as part of the quarterly business review 
(QBR) process against targets set by the Committee at the 
beginning of the year and, which among other things, take into 
account external expectations of performance;
>  40% by reference to individual measures and initiatives which link 
to the business objectives relevant to the individual’s functional 
accountability (or, in the case of the CEO, the average of these 
individual outcomes).
These measures reinforce AstraZeneca’s emphasis on individual 
and business accountability. The key measures referred to above 
are clearly set out in the Business objectives and key performance 
indicators section from page 16, whereby Group and functional 
objectives and measures are managed in a robust and consistent 
way and assessed by the SET as part of the QBR process. The 
outcome of this process is rigorously scrutinised by the Committee.
Bonus ranges for 2011
For 2011, the bonus ranges for each Executive Director are shown 
below and are the same as 2010.
Executive Director
Bonus range for 2011
%
David Brennan 0-180
Simon Lowth 0-150
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 124 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report Bonus outcomes for 2010
In assessing bonuses for 2010, the Committee took into account 
the strong EPS (excluding restructuring and synergy costs) and 
cash ﬂow performance, which in both cases signiﬁcantly exceeded 
target, together with overall business and ﬁnancial outcomes and 
relevant functional performance against clear measures and 
initiatives set at the beginning of the bonus year. The key elements 
of these strategic priorities and business objectives are set out in 
the Business objectives and key performance indicators section 
from page 16, in relation to the following categories, which the 
Committee believes are consistent with delivering shareholder value:
> Pipeline
> Deliver the business
> Business shape
> People and values.
When assessing the performance of the business in these 
categories, the Committee noted that during 2010:
>  In relation to the pipeline and life-cycle management, Vimovo was 
approved in the US and the EU; Brilique was approved in the EU; 
Kombiglyze™ XR (Onglyza™/metformin combination) was 
approved in the US; additional indications were approved for 
other products; decisions were made in December to discontinue 
development of motavizumab and Certriad. 
>  Although we suffered some pipeline disappointments, the new 
R&D leadership team has made signiﬁcant progress in 2010 with 
the creation of a single R&D organisation. 
>  The Commercial organisation has continued to drive strong sales 
performance in the face of an increasingly challenging 
environment.
>  Our Operations function has continued to deliver on efﬁciency. 
>  The business broadly maintained a good level of employee 
engagement despite a period of signiﬁcant organisational change. 
>  The business response to the Corporate Integrity Agreement has 
been rigorous with signiﬁcant work undertaken to continue to 
promote a culture of responsibility and accountability across the 
organisation.
Having assessed the Company’s performance against all the 
measures set out above, the Committee is satisﬁed that the bonus 
payments that have been earned against stretching performance 
targets are fully justiﬁed.
The bonus outcomes for the Executive Directors for 2010 are 
shown in the table below.
Bonus outcomes for 2010 
Short-term bonus (delivered as a combination 
of cash and shares, as shown in the Directors’ 
emoluments in 2010 section from page 129)
1
Executive Director £ % of salary
David Brennan
1,583,025 162.71
Simon Lowth
918,245 148.10
1
 Bonuses for Executive Directors are not pensionable.
Bonus share deferral requirements
Consistent with best practice, and to encourage a long-term view 
and align SET members’ interests with those of shareholders, the 
Committee has put in place a requirement that certain proportions 
of any short-term bonus payment (as speciﬁed below) be deferred 
and invested into Ordinary Shares or ADSs (together, Shares). 
Broadly, these are acquired on the open market at the prevailing 
market price and held for a period of three years from the date of 
acquisition before being delivered to individual Executive Directors 
and other SET members. This arrangement is one of the ways in 
which, over time, Executive Directors and other SET members will 
be able to build up a signiﬁcant shareholding in the Company.  
The proportion currently deferred into shares is one-third of the 
pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for other SET 
members. The Committee will review whether the proportion of 
bonus to be deferred should be increased in 2011. On leaving, 
participants would normally have to wait for the shares to be 
released at the end of the three-year period. For Executive Directors 
and other SET members who cease employment for reasons other 
than that of good leaver (for example, those who are dismissed),  
the deferred bonus award will lapse, unless the Committee decides 
otherwise before the cessation of employment.
AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan
The PSP was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2005 and 
provides for the grant of performance share awards (PSP Share 
Awards) over Shares. The operation of the PSP was reviewed in 
2010 and a new cash ﬂow performance condition, described in 
more detail below, was introduced.
Basis of participation
Participation in the PSP is highly selective and usually includes only 
senior employees on the basis of their performance. 
Generally, PSP Share Awards can be granted at any time (although 
in practice they are awarded annually), but not during a close or 
prohibited period of the Company. In 2010, the main grant of PSP 
Share Awards was made on 26 March, (for SET members on 7 
May) with other Share Awards approved by the Committee in 
relation to, for example, new appointments, promotions or 
assignments being granted on 27 August and 5 November. The 
value of Shares subject to a PSP Share Award is determined by 
reference to the market price of Shares over the three-day period 
immediately preceding the date of grant.
Details of PSP Share Awards granted to Executive Directors are 
shown in the Performance Share Plan table on page 133.
Individual limit
In respect of any ﬁnancial year of the Company, the maximum 
market value of Shares that may in theory be put under a PSP 
Share Award in respect of an employee is 500% of that employee’s 
base salary.
The actual individual limits that apply under the PSP , subject to this 
maximum, are set by the Committee from time to time.
Performance conditions
Other than in exceptional circumstances, which are prescribed in 
the PSP rules, the vesting of PSP Share Awards is contingent on 
the satisfaction of speciﬁed performance targets and continued 
employment with the Group. In addition to the satisfaction of these 
performance targets, PSP Share Awards will generally not vest until 
the third anniversary of the date of grant. If a participant ceases to 
be in relevant employment, the award will be time pro-rated and 
vest at the end of the performance period.
Performance period and vesting dates
In the case of all PSP Share Awards granted to date, the 
performance target relates to the three-year period commencing  
on 1 January of the year of grant. Therefore, for PSP Share Awards 
made in 2010, the performance period runs from 1 January 2010  
to 31 December 2012. The vesting date is the third anniversary of 
the date of grant.
Performance targets
>  50% of the award is based on relative TSR against a selected 
peer group of global pharmaceutical companies, of which:
 –  25% of the maximum award vests for performance at the 
median of the peer group; 
 –  75% of the maximum award vests for upper quartile 
performance; and 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors’ Remuneration Report 125  –  100% of the maximum award may vest at the Committee’s 
discretion if the Company’s TSR performance is substantially 
better than that of the upper quartile of the comparator group. 
For PSP Share Awards to vest at this level the Company would 
need to have sustained a level of performance signiﬁcantly in 
excess of upper quartile over a period of years and the 
Committee would need to be satisﬁed that this was warranted.
>  50% of the award vests subject to the achievement of the free 
cash ﬂow target, which operates as a cumulative cash ﬂow target 
over a three-year performance period.
The peer group for the TSR measure is: Abbott Laboratories, Inc., 
BMS, Eli Lilly & Company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Johnson & 
Johnson, Merck, Novartis AG, Pﬁzer Inc., F. Hoffmann-La Roche 
Ltd and Sanoﬁ-Aventis. 
TSR measures share price growth, and dividends reinvested in 
respect of a notional number of shares from the beginning of the 
relevant performance period to the end of it, and ranks the 
companies in the selected comparator group by reference to their 
TSR achieved over that period. The rank which the Company’s TSR 
achieves over the performance period will determine how many 
Shares will vest under the relevant PSP Share Award. Payouts 
against performance in relation to TSR for PSP Share Awards are 
expressed as a percentage of the maximum PSP Share Award 
currently payable, shown within a range of 0% to 100%. This 
presentation is shown in the table below.
The TSR vesting schedule is as follows:
TSR ranking of the Company Vesting %
Below median
 0
Median
25
Between median and upper quartile
Pro rata
Upper quartile
75
Signiﬁcantly above upper quartile
Up to 100
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return index is averaged in 
the TSR calculations for each company over the three months prior 
to the start and end of the relevant performance period.
In addition to the TSR performance target being met for each PSP 
Share Award as set out above, the Committee also has to satisfy 
itself that achievement of the TSR performance target is a genuine 
reﬂection of the Group’s underlying ﬁnancial performance and has 
the discretion to prevent PSP Share Awards from vesting or only to 
allow them to partially vest where this appears to the Committee to 
be warranted.
The cash ﬂow target will operate as a cumulative performance 
target over the same three-year performance period as the TSR 
measure. The measure for the cash ﬂow target is net cash ﬂow 
(before distributions) and the level of vesting will be based on a 
sliding scale between a threshold cash ﬂow target of $16 billion and 
an upper target of $23 billion. Twenty ﬁve percent of the relevant 
portion of the award will vest for achievement of the threshold 
target, rising on a sliding scale to full vesting for achievement  
of the upper target as shown in the table below. Net cash ﬂow  
is considered to be the most appropriate measure of cash ﬂow 
performance because it relates to the residual cash available to 
ﬁnance additional investment in speciﬁc business needs, debt 
repayments and our distribution policy.
The cash ﬂow measure encompasses a number of important 
elements of operational and ﬁnancial performance and helps to 
align executives’ rewards with shareholder value creation. The level 
of vesting of this element is based on a sliding scale against a target 
that is intended to represent a signiﬁcant challenge for the business. 
It is intended that the Committee should have the discretion to 
adjust, but on an exceptional basis only, the free cash ﬂow target 
during the performance period for material factors that might 
otherwise distort the performance measure in either direction.  
This is so that performance can be assessed against targets that 
have been set on a consistent basis. For example, adjustments  
may be required to reﬂect exchange rate movements, signiﬁcant 
acquisitions or divestments, and major legal and taxation 
settlements. Any major adjustments to the calculation are disclosed 
to shareholders. There is no retesting of performance. 
Adjusted cumulative cash ﬂow Vesting %
Less than $16 billion
0
$16 billion
25
Between $16 billion and $23 billion
Pro rata
$23 billion and above
100
For PSP Share Awards granted up to and including 2007 , the 
companies included in the peer group for the TSR measure were: 
Abbott Laboratories, Inc., BMS, Eli Lilly & Company, GlaxoSmithKline 
plc, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis AG, Pﬁzer Inc., F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Sanoﬁ-Aventis, Schering-Plough 
Corporation and Wyeth Inc. As a result of corporate actions in the 
pharmaceutical sector during 2009, Schering-Plough Corporation 
and Wyeth Inc. have been removed from the peer group. As a result, 
the Committee has decided the following in relation to outstanding 
unvested awards:
>  PSP Share Awards in 2007: the TSR performance for Schering-
Plough Corporation and Wyeth Inc. was adjusted from a date a 
week before the announcement of the relevant corporate action 
to the end of the relevant performance period so as to track the 
TSR of the acquiring companies (Merck in the case of Schering-
Plough and Pﬁzer Inc. in the case of Wyeth Inc.).
>  PSP Share Awards from 2008 onwards: Schering-Plough 
Corporation and Wyeth Inc. were removed from the peer group 
thus reducing the size of the peer group to 10 companies 
(excluding AstraZeneca). For these awards, AstraZeneca’s TSR 
will be compared with the TSR for the 10 companies remaining  
in the peer group in respect of the relevant performance period.
Performance under the PSP in 2010
The TSR graphs on page 131 show, for each PSP Share Award, 
how the Company’s TSR performance has compared with the TSR 
for the companies in the comparator group from the ﬁrst day of the 
relevant performance period to 31 December 2010 and how the 
Company ranks against those other peer companies on this basis. 
At the end of 2010, the Company is on track to meet the cash ﬂow 
target. We will continue to report on the performance of each PSP 
Share Award against the relevant performance target during the 
relevant vesting period.
AstraZeneca Investment Plan 
The AZIP was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM and 
provides for the grant of share awards (AZIP Share Awards) over 
Shares.
Basis of participation
Participation in the AZIP is highly selective and usually includes only 
senior employees on the basis of their performance. 
The ﬁrst grant of AZIP Share Awards was made on 7 May, shortly 
after the approval of the AZIP by shareholders. In future years, AZIP 
Share Awards are likely to be made annually at the same time as the 
annual awards under other long-term incentive plans. The value of 
Shares subject to an AZIP Share Award is determined by reference 
to the market price of Shares over the three-day period immediately 
preceding the date of grant.
Details of AZIP Share Awards granted to Executive Directors are 
shown in the AstraZeneca Investment Plan table on page 133.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 126 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report Performance period and holding period
It is intended to operate the AZIP with a four-year performance 
period (Performance Period) and a four-year holding period (Holding 
Period). Under the rules of the AZIP , the Performance Period is the 
period of up to eight years (and not less than three years) from 
1 January of the ﬁnancial year in which the AZIP Share Award is 
made. The Holding Period starts at the end of the Performance 
Period and ends eight years from the ﬁrst day of the ﬁnancial year  
in which the AZIP Share Award was made.
Performance requirement for awards under the AZIP
The AZIP is aligned to AstraZeneca’s targeted product development 
cycle, reﬂecting the long-term investment horizons that are a feature 
of the industry. The performance requirement attached to awards 
under the AZIP is a combination of dividend and dividend cover 
tests, assessed over a period of up to four ﬁnancial years beginning 
at the start of the ﬁrst ﬁnancial year of the Company in which the 
award is granted. 
At the end of the Performance Period, the extent to which the 
performance hurdle has been met will determine the number of 
Shares in respect of which the AZIP Share Award will vest at the 
end of the Holding Period. 
The Committee’s intention in its choice of proposed performance 
tests has been to establish a performance requirement that 
motivates ﬁnancial business performance that will generate returns 
for shareholders on a sustainable basis over an extended time 
period. The performance hurdle for Share Awards made in 2010 is 
that the annual dividend per share paid to holders of Ordinary 
Shares is increased from $2.30 over the four year Performance 
Period ($2.30 being the full year dividend for 2009) and that 
dividend cover (based on reported earnings before restructuring 
costs) does not fall below 1.5 times.
Performance under the AZIP in 2010
The full year dividend was $2.55 for 2010 and dividend cover did 
not fall below the 1.5 times threshold. We will continue to report on 
the performance of each AZIP Share Award against the relevant 
performance hurdle during the relevant performance period.
Cessation of employment during the Performance Period
If a participant ceases to be in employment (and also, if relevant, an 
Executive Director) with the Group during the Performance Period, 
his/her AZIP Share Award will generally lapse, unless his cessation 
is because of death, ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, 
retirement with the agreement of his/her employing company, or 
because of a sale or transfer out of the Group (each a Good Leaver 
Reason). In these circumstances, the maximum number of Shares 
comprised in an AZIP Share Award will, unless the Committee 
determines otherwise, be pro-rated to reﬂect the proportion of the 
period of employment between grant and cessation, relative to the 
four-year Performance Period. In circumstances where the Good 
Leaver Reason is death, ill-health, injury or disability (being 
compassionate circumstances), the performance hurdle will be 
assessed and the AZIP Share Award may vest following cessation 
of employment, unless the Committee determines otherwise. On 
cessation of employment for any other Good Leaver Reason, the 
pro-rated AZIP Share Award will remain subject to the performance 
hurdle, which will be assessed at the end of the Performance 
Period, unless the Committee determines that special 
circumstances apply, and the AZIP Share Award may then vest on 
the later of: (i) the end of the Performance Period; or (ii) 24 months 
after cessation of employment, unless the Committee determines 
otherwise. 
Cessation of employment during the Holding Period
If a participant ceases to be in employment (and also, if relevant, an 
Executive Director) with the Group during the Holding Period, his/
her AZIP Share Award will generally lapse, unless his/her cessation 
is because of a Good Leaver Reason. In circumstances where the 
Good Leaver Reason is death, ill-health, injury or disability (being 
compassionate circumstances), the AZIP Share Award will vest in 
respect of all the Shares subject to the AZIP Share Award (as 
calculated at the end of the Performance Period) as soon as 
possible following cessation of employment. On cessation of 
employment for any other Good Leaver Reason, the AZIP Share 
Award will vest in respect of all the Shares subject to the AZIP Share 
Award (as calculated at the end of the Performance Period) on the 
earlier of: (i) the end of the period of 24 months from the date of 
cessation of employment; and (ii) the end of the Holding Period. The 
Committee does have discretion to determine otherwise if it believes 
the circumstances justify this.
Individual limit
In respect of any ﬁnancial year of the Company, the maximum 
market value of Shares that may in theory be put under an AZIP 
Share Award in respect of an employee is 500% of that employee’s 
base salary. The actual individual limits that apply under the AZIP , 
subject to this maximum, are set by the Committee from time to 
time. Share Awards made to Executive Directors in 2010 did not 
exceed 65% of base salary.
Claw-back of Shares
The Committee can claw back some or all of the Shares that are  
the subject of a participant’s AZIP Share Award at any time during 
the Performance Period and the Holding Period if, in the opinion  
of the Committee (acting fairly and reasonably), any of the 
underlying performance of the Company, the occurrence of an 
event that causes or is very likely to cause reputational damage  
to the Company, or serious misconduct by the participant, warrants 
the claw-back. If this discretion is exercised, the AZIP Share Award 
will be deemed to have been granted over the reduced number  
of Shares.
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan
The SOP was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2000 and 
provided for the grant of share option awards (Option Awards) over 
Shares. The SOP was approved for a period of 10 years and 
expired in May. The Company did not seek re-approval of the SOP 
by shareholders.
Details of outstanding Option Awards granted to Executive Directors 
are shown in the Share option plan table on page 134.
The Committee imposed performance conditions in respect of  
the exercise of such Option Awards by SET members (including  
the Executive Directors) which, in the view of the Committee, were 
considered appropriately stretching. In order for Option Awards  
to vest, the EPS of the Group must increase at least in line with the  
UK Retail Prices Index plus 5% per annum on average, over a three 
year period, the base ﬁgure being the EPS for the ﬁnancial year 
preceding the date of grant, with no retesting. In addition, since  
the review of executive remuneration in 2004, the Committee has 
included a condition that, if an event occurs which causes material 
reputational damage to the Company, such that it is not appropriate 
for the Option Awards to vest and become exercisable, the 
Committee can make a determination to reﬂect this.
Other incentive plans
Global Restricted Stock Plan 
The GRSP was introduced in 2010 and provides for the grant of 
restricted stock awards (Stock Awards) over Shares. As the GRSP 
is operated for below SET-level employees only, no SET member 
participates in the GRSP . During 2010, two restricted stock plans 
(the AZ RSU Plan and the MedImmune RSU Plan described below) 
applicable to below SET-level employees were discontinued and 
replaced by the GRSP (on broadly similar terms to the existing 
plans, with no increase in overall award levels) for the purposes of 
simplifying the administration. 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors’ Remuneration Report 127 In 2010, Stock Awards were made under the GRSP on 26 March, 
with other Stock Awards approved by the Committee in relation to, 
for example, new appointments, promotions or assignments being 
granted on 27 August. Stock Awards granted under the GRSP do 
not involve the issue and allotment of new Ordinary Shares but 
rather rely on the market purchase of Shares that have already been 
issued. There is no increase in the overall quantum of awards 
applicable to target employees through the introduction of the GRSP . 
Restricted Stock Unit Plans 
The AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Restricted Stock Unit Award 
Plan (AZ RSU Plan) was introduced in 2007 and provided for the 
grant of restricted stock unit awards to selected employees 
(predominantly in the US). The MedImmune, Inc. 2008 Restricted 
Stock Unit Award Plan (MedImmune RSU Plan) was introduced in 
2008 to make restricted stock unit awards to employees of 
MedImmune. The AZ RSU Plan and the MedImmune RSU Plan 
were used in conjunction with the SOP to provide a mix of restricted 
stock units and share options. Restricted stock unit awards typically 
vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant and are contingent 
on continued employment with AstraZeneca. The AZ RSU Plan and 
the MedImmune RSU Plan were replaced in 2010 by the GRSP . 
Restricted Share Plan
The AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan (RSP) was introduced  
in 2008 and provides for the grant of restricted share awards  
(RS Awards) to key employees, excluding Executive Directors.  
RS Awards are made on an ad hoc basis with variable vesting dates 
and may not operate in respect of newly issued Ordinary Shares  
or Ordinary Shares transferred from treasury. The RSP was used  
a number of times in 2010 to make RS Awards to a limited number 
of key senior executives in speciﬁc situations considered by the 
Committee. The Committee has responsibility for agreeing any  
RS Awards under the RSP and for setting the policy for the way  
in which the RSP should operate. 
Other plans
In addition to the plans described above, the Company operates a 
Share Incentive Plan and a Savings-Related Share Option Plan in 
the UK, both of which are HM Revenue & Customs approved plans. 
Certain Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible to 
participate in these plans, more detailed descriptions of which can 
be found in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 173. 
Dilution under LTI Plans
Only outstanding awards under the SOP are settled using newly 
issued Ordinary Shares. None of the other LTI plans currently 
operated by the Company have a dilutive effect because they  
do not involve the issue and allotment of new Ordinary Shares  
but rather rely on the market purchase of Shares that have already 
been issued. 
Service contracts
Details of the service contracts for each of the Executive Directors, 
including their notice periods, are set out opposite. Either the 
Company or the Executive Director may terminate the service 
contract on 12 months’ notice. It is the Committee’s intention that,  
in the event of early termination of an Executive Director’s 
employment, any compensation payable under his/her service 
contract should not exceed the salary and beneﬁts that would have 
been received had the contractual notice period been worked and 
this may be further reduced in line with the Executive Director’s duty 
to mitigate losses. None of the Executive Directors has any provision 
in their service contracts giving them a right to liquidated damages 
or an automatic entitlement to bonus for the duration of their notice 
period. Compensation for any bonus entitlement will be assessed 
initially as ‘on target’ but subject to adjustment by the Committee  
to take account of the particular circumstances of the termination.
Policy on external appointments and retention of fees
Subject to the speciﬁc approval of the Board in each case, 
Executive Directors and other SET members may accept external 
appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and 
retain any related fees paid to them, provided always that such 
external appointments are not considered by the Board to prevent 
or reduce the ability of the executive to perform his or her role within 
the Group to the required standard. Such appointments are seen as 
a way in which executives can gain a broader business experience 
and, in turn, beneﬁt the Company.
During 2010, with the approval of the Board, Simon Lowth was 
appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC. 
In respect of such position, he retained the fees paid to him for his 
services which, during the period of his directorship from 1 May to 
31 December, amounted to £66,667 .
Non-Executive Directors
None of the Non-Executive Directors has a service contract but  
all have letters of appointment. The effective dates of appointment 
for each of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table 
opposite. In accordance with the Company’s Articles, following their 
appointment, Directors must retire at each AGM and may present 
themselves for election or re-election. None of the Non-Executive 
Directors has any provision in their letter of appointment giving them 
a right to compensation payable upon early termination of their 
appointment. They are not eligible for performance-related bonuses 
or the grant of share awards or options. No pension contributions 
are made on their behalf.
During 2010, the annual fees paid to Non-Executive Directors were 
reviewed. The basic Board fee, the fee of the Chairman and of the 
Senior independent Non-Executive Director, and the fee for 
membership of the Audit Committee were increased. These 
increases took into account the need for the Company to continue 
to attract skilled and experienced Non-Executive Directors, having 
regard to comparable fees at other UK public listed companies of a 
similar size, and to recognise the signiﬁcant responsibility and time 
commitment expected of Non-Executive Directors. The increases 
ensure that the Company is well positioned when seeking to recruit 
new Non-Executive Directors as part of routine refreshment of the 
Board and succession planning. The annual aggregate 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors remains well below the 
limit in the Articles approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM. 
None of the Non-Executive Directors has participated or will 
participate in any decision made in relation to the determination of 
their own fees.
The Chairman’s annual fee is £500,000, and the annual fees 
applicable to other Non-Executive Directors are set out opposite.  
In addition to the mandatory shareholding requirement imposed  
on all Directors under the Articles described in the Directors’ section 
on page 216, in December 2008 the Board agreed that each 
Non-Executive Director should also be encouraged to build up, over 
time, a shareholding in the Company with a value approximately 
equivalent to the basic annual fee for a Non-Executive Director 
(£75,000) or, in the case of the Chairman, approximately equivalent 
to his annual fee (£500,000).
Audit
The Directors’ emoluments in 2010 disclosed in the Directors’ 
emoluments in 2010 section from page 129 and the details of the 
Directors’ interests in Ordinary Shares disclosed in the Directors’ 
interests in shares section from page 132, have been audited by 
KPMG Audit Plc.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 128 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report Details of Executive Directors’ service contracts at 31 December 2010
Executive Director
1
Date of service 
contract
Unexpired term at 
31 December 2010
Notice 
period
David Brennan 1 January 2006 12 months 12 months
Simon Lowth 5 November 2007 12 months 12 months
1
  Neither of the Executive Directors has any provision in their service contracts giving them a right to liquidated damages or an automatic entitlement to a bonus for the duration of their notice period.
Non-Executive Directors’ terms and conditions
Non-Executive Director
1, 2
Effective date of appointment
Bruce Burlington 1 August 2010
Jean-Philippe Courtois 18 February 2008
Jane Henney 24 September 2001
Michele Hooper 1 July 2003
Rudy Markham 12 September 2008
Nancy Rothwell 27 April 2006
Louis Schweitzer 11 March 2004
John Varley 26 July 2006
Marcus Wallenberg 6 April 1999
1
 None of the letters of appointment applicable to Non-Executive Directors confers upon them any right to compensation payable on early termination of their appointment.
2
 Pursuant to the Articles, the continued appointment of each Non-Executive Director is subject to their election or re-election at each AGM.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
£
Basic Fee 75,000
Senior independent Non-Executive Director 30,000
Membership of the Audit Committee 20,000
Membership of the Remuneration Committee 15,000
Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee
1
20,000
Membership of the Science Committee 10,000
Chairman of the Science Committee
1
7,000
1
 This fee is in addition to the fee for membership of the relevant Committee.
Directors’ emoluments in 2010
The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions and the value of shares under option and shares subject to Share Awards, 
paid to or accrued for all Directors for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2010 was £5,880,000 ($9,088,000).  
The remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in pounds sterling and US dollars. All salaries, fees, bonuses and other beneﬁts  
for Directors are established in pounds sterling.
Directors’ remuneration – pounds sterling 
Name
Salary 
and fees
 £000
Bonus 
cash
 £000
Bonus 
Shares
1
 
£000
Taxable 
beneﬁts
£000
Other 
payments 
and 
allowances 
£000
Total 
2010 
£000
Total
2009
£000
Total
2008 
£000
Louis Schweitzer 456 – – – – 456 325 303
David Brennan 973
2
1,055 528 24 464
3
3,044 3,186 2,506
Simon Lowth 620 612 306 8 96
4
1,642 1,426 1,304
Bruce Burlington
5
33 – – – – 33 ––
Jean-Philippe Courtois 80 – – – – 80 75 58
Jane Henney 90 – – – – 90 85 76
Michele Hooper 120 – – – – 120 100 90
Rudy Markham 90 – – – – 90 75 23
Nancy Rothwell 96 – – – – 96 92 80
John Varley 99 – – – – 99 95 83
Marcus Wallenberg 71 – – – – 71 60 53
Former Directors
Bo Angelin
6
23 – – – – 23 70 63
John Buchanan
6
36 – – – – 36 110 96
Others – – – –– – 479 1,181
Total 2,787 1,667 834 32 560 5,880 6,178 5,916
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors’ Remuneration Report 129 Directors’ remuneration – US dollars
Name
Salary 
and fees
 $000
Bonus 
cash
 $000
Bonus 
Shares
1
 
$000
Taxable 
beneﬁts
$000
Other 
payments 
and 
allowances 
$000
Total 
2010 
$000
Total
2009
$000
Total
2008 
$000
Louis Schweitzer 705–––– 705 504 567
David Brennan 1,504
2
1,631 816 37 717
3
4,705 4,937 4,692
Simon Lowth 958 946 473 12 148
4
2,537 2,209 2,442
Bruce Burlington
5
51 –––– 51 ––
Jean-Philippe Courtois 124–––– 124 116 109
Jane Henney 139–––– 139 132 142
Michele Hooper 185–––– 185 155 169
Rudy Markham 139–––– 139 116 43
Nancy Rothwell 148–––– 148 143 150
John Varley 153–––– 153 147 155
Marcus Wallenberg 110–––– 110 93 99
Former Directors
Bo Angelin
6
36 –––– 36 108 118
John Buchanan
6
56 –––– 56 170 180
Others –––––– 743 2,211
Total 4,308 2,577 1,289 49 865 9,088 9,573 11,077
1
  These ﬁgures represent that portion of the 2010 bonuses required to be deferred into Shares to be held for a three-year period, as explained in the Bonus share deferral requirements section 
on page 125.
2
  This ﬁgure includes a sum of $356,000/£230,000 in respect of member contributions to the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and 401(k) plan which were paid into the plan 
by means of a salary sacriﬁce (see the Deﬁned contribution arrangements section on page 131 for further details).
3
 Relates to relocation allowances, a car allowance and cash payments in respect of dividends accrued on vesting of LTI share plan awards. 
4
  Relates to remaining cash following selection of beneﬁts within AstraZeneca’s UK ﬂexible beneﬁts programme and a cash payment in respect of dividends accrued on vesting of an LTI share 
plan award.
5
  Part-year only as appointed as a Director with effect from 1 August 2010.
6
  Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 29 April 2010.
In the tables on this page and on the previous page, salaries have been converted between pounds sterling and US dollars at the average 
exchange rate for the year in question. These rates were:
GBP/USD
2010 0.647
2009 0.645
2008 0.534
Details of share options exercised by Directors and the aggregate of gains realised on the exercise of options, and of awards under the  
LTI plans, in the year are given in the Director’s interests in shares section from page 132.
No Director has a family relationship with any other Director.
Pensions
Deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements
Pension is payable to David Brennan in US dollars. For ease of understanding, the table below has been presented in both pounds sterling 
and US dollars using the exchange rates for 2010 set out above. 
David Brennan
£000 $000
Deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements
1. Accrued pension at 1 January 2010 918 1,419
2. Increase in accrued pension during year as a result of inﬂation ––
3. Adjustment to accrued pension as a result of salary increase relative to inﬂation 69 107
4. Increase in accrued pension as a result of additional service 19 29
5. Accrued pension at 31 December 2010 1,006 1,555
6. Employee contributions during 2010 ––
7. Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2009 12,890 19,922
8. Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2010
1
14,711 22,738
9. Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 1,822 2,816
10. Age at 31 December 2010 57
4
⁄12 57
4
⁄12
11. Pensionable service (years) at 31 December 2010 35 35
1
  For David Brennan, transfer values are calculated to be consistent with the value of the lump sum distribution equivalent to his deferred accrued pension annuity. The value shown at 
31 December 2010 has been adjusted to reﬂect a change in the lump sum factor at 31 December 2009.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 130 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report Deﬁned contribution arrangements
In addition to the deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements set out in the Deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements section above, David Brennan participates in  
a 401(k) plan. He also participates in AstraZeneca’s Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (EDCP) which is operated as a supplemental 
non-qualiﬁed plan in respect of US employees should annual contributions exceed the limit applicable to contributions under the qualiﬁed 
401(k) plan. During 2010, total employer matching contributions of $91,000 (£59,000) (2009: $98,000 (£64,000)) were made to his 401(k)  
plan and EDCP . Member contributions of $356,000 (£230,000) were paid through salary sacriﬁce into the plans. As described in the Pension 
arrangements section on page 124, Simon Lowth chose to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, which during 2010 amounted to 
£149,000 ($230,000) (2009: £132,000 ($205,000)).
Transactions with Directors
There were no material recorded transactions between the Company and the Directors during 2010 or 2009.
Total shareholder return
The Regulations require the inclusion of a graph showing TSR over a ﬁve-year period in respect of a holding of the Company’s shares, plotted 
against TSR in respect of a hypothetical holding of shares of a similar kind and number by reference to which a broad equity market index  
is calculated. The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and consequently, for the purposes of this graph, which is set out below,  
we have selected the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate index. This graph is re-based to 100 at the start of the rolling ﬁve-year period. We 
have also included a ‘Pharma Peers Average’ (excluding Schering-Plough Corporation and Wyeth Inc.), which reﬂects the TSR of the same 
comparator group used for the graphs below.
The PSP requires that the TSR in respect of a holding of the Company’s shares over the relevant performance period be compared with the 
TSR of a peer group of pharmaceutical companies (as described in the Performance targets section from page 125). The graphs below show 
how the Company’s TSR performance has compared with the TSR for the relevant companies in the comparator group from the ﬁrst day in 
the relevant three-year performance period in respect of each Share Award to 31 December 2010 and how the Company ranks against those 
other companies on this basis.
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return index is averaged in the TSR calculations for each company over the three months prior to the start 
of the relevant performance period (as stipulated in the PSP) and, for the purposes of the graphs below, over the last three months of 2010. 
TSR – AstraZeneca compared with peer group 
1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010 (%)
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
-10
-20
-30
AZ GSK BMS J&J NOV AL SA PFI LLY RCH MRK
TSR – AstraZeneca compared with peer group 
1 January 2009 to 31 December 2010 (%)
50
40
30
20
10
0
-10
-20
BMS MRK AZ SA GSK LLY PFI J&J NOV AL RCH
TSR – AstraZeneca compared with peer group 
1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 (%)
20
15
10
5
0
-5
-10
-15
AZ BMS MRK NOV LLY J&J GSK PFI SA AL RCH
TSR over a ﬁve-year period
160
140
120
100
80
January
2006
January
2007
January
2008
January
2009
January
2010
January
2011
 AstraZeneca  
 Pharmaceutical peers (average)  
 FTSE 100 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors’ Remuneration Report 131 Directors’ interests in shares
Beneﬁcial interests
The table below shows any change in the interests of the Directors (including the interests of their Connected Persons, as such term is 
deﬁned in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) in Ordinary Shares from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 or on the date of 
resignation of such Director (if earlier). All such interests were beneﬁcial except as otherwise stated. However, interests in Ordinary Shares  
or ADSs that are the subject of PSP Share Awards, AZIP Share Awards and/or the Deferred Bonus Plan discussed in this Report, are not 
included in the table below but are shown in the Performance Share Plan, AstraZeneca Investment Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan tables on 
page 133. None of the Directors has a beneﬁcial interest in the shares of any of the Company’s subsidiaries. Between 31 December 2010 
and 27 January 2011, there was no change in the interests in Ordinary Shares shown in the table below. 
Name
Beneﬁcial interest in Ordinary
Shares at 1 January 2010 or 
(if later) appointment date
Change to beneﬁcial 
interest
Beneﬁcial interest in Ordinary
Shares at 31 December 2010 
or (if earlier) resignation date
Louis Schweitzer 5,356 11,259 16,615
David Brennan 128,375 58,607 186,982
Simon Lowth 850 8,496 9,346
Bo Angelin
1
787 – 787
John Buchanan
1
2,500 – 2,500
Bruce Burlington
2
553 – 553
Jean-Philippe Courtois 2,635 – 2,635
Jane Henney 787 527 1,314
Michele Hooper 1,700 700 2,400
Rudy Markham 1,420 520 1,940
Nancy Rothwell 787 527 1,314
John Varley 500 794 1,294
Marcus Wallenberg
3
67,264 (3,618) 63,646
1
 Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 29 April 2010.
2
 Part-year only as appointed as a Director on 1 August 2010.
3
 Ceased to have an interest in 3,618 shares held by a family member who ceased to be a Connected Person during 2010.
Unitised stock plans
David Brennan, in common with other participating executives in the US, has interests in the following plans which were awarded to  
him prior to him becoming CEO: the AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan, the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and the 
AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan. These are unitised stock plans into which the value of certain previous share incentive awards has 
been deferred (and are not incentive awards in their own right). Participants hold units in each plan, which represent a long-term equity 
interest in the Company. A unit comprises part cash and part ADSs. The overall unit value can be determined daily by taking the market value 
of the underlying ADSs and adding the cash position. The ADSs held within these units carry both voting and dividend rights. David Brennan 
is deemed to have a notional beneﬁcial interest in these ADSs, calculated by reference to the fund value and the closing price of ADSs. 
Therefore, the number of ADSs in which a notional beneﬁcial interest arises can vary daily as a consequence of stock price movements.
Unitised stock plan
ADSs held at 
1 January 2010
Net ADSs acquired
during 2010
ADSs held 
at 31 December 2010
AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan 35,906 1,835 37,741
AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan 8,103 420 8,523
No Director or senior executive beneﬁcially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, nor do they 
have different voting rights from other shareholders.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 132 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report Performance Share Plan
The interests of Directors at 31 December 2010 in Shares that are the subject of Share Awards under the PSP are not included in the table on 
the previous page but are shown below:
Number of 
shares
Award price
(pence)
Price on 
vesting 
date (pence) Grant date
1
Vesting date
1
Performance period
1
David Brennan
2007 Share Award 107,051 2744 30.03.07 30.03.10 01.01.07 – 31.12.09
2008 Share Award 161,546 1882 28.03.08 28.03.11 01.01.08 – 31.12.10
2009 Share Award 133,347 2280 27.03.09 27.03.12 01.01.09 – 31.12.11
Total at 1 January 2010 401,944
Partial vesting of 2007 Share Award
2
(83,499)
3,5
2980
Partial lapse of 2007 Share Award (23,552)
2010 Share Award 127,520 2861 07.05.10 07.05.13 01.01.10 – 31.12.12
Total at 31 December 2010 422,413
Simon Lowth
2007 Share Award 15,554 2210 16.11.07 16.11.10 01.01.07 – 31.12.09
2008 Share Award 58,448 1882 28.03.08 28.03.11 01.01.08 – 31.12.10
2009 Share Award 54,276 2280 27.03.09 27.03.12 01.01.09 – 31.12.11
Total at 1 January 2010 128,278
Partial vesting of 2007 Share Award
2
(12,132)
4,5
3016
Partial lapse of 2007 Share Award (3,422)
2010 Share Award 52,009 2861 07.05.10 07.05.13 01.01.10 – 31.12.12
Total at 31 December 2010 164,733
1
 UK date convention applies.
2
   Share Awards granted in 2007 vested in 2010 at 78% based on the outcome of the performance conditions and targets (which are set out in the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan section from page 125).
3
 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneﬁcially interested in a net number of 49,264 Ordinary Shares.
4
 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, Simon Lowth became beneﬁcially interested in a net number of 5,944 Ordinary Shares.
5
  Cash payments equivalent to dividends accruing over the vesting period are made at the date of vesting and are included in ‘Other payments and allowances’ in the Directors’ remuneration tables 
from page 129.
AstraZeneca Investment Plan
The interests of Directors at 31 December 2010 in Shares that are the subject of Share Awards under the AZIP are not included in the table 
on the previous page but are shown below:
Number of 
shares
Award price
(pence) Grant date
1
Vesting date
1
Performance period
1
David Brennan
2010 Share Award 21,253 2861 07.05.10 01.01.18 01.01.10 – 31.12.13
Total at 31 December 2010 21,253
Simon Lowth
2010 Share Award 8,668 2861 07.05.10 01.01.18 01.01.10 – 31.12.13
Total at 31 December 2010 8,668
1
  UK date convention applies.
Deferred Bonus Plan
As described in the Bonus share deferral requirements section on page 125, there is a requirement for Executive Directors and SET members 
to defer a certain proportion of any short-term bonus payments into Ordinary Shares or ADSs. The proportion of bonus currently deferred into 
Ordinary Shares or ADSs is one-third of the pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for all other SET members. The interests of 
Directors at 31 December 2010 in Ordinary Shares or ADSs that are the subject of awards under these arrangements are not included in the 
table on the previous page but are shown below:
Number of 
shares
Award price
(pence)
Price on 
vesting 
date (pence) Grant date
1
Vesting date
1
David Brennan
2007 Award 12,014 2911 23.02.07 23.02.10
2008 Award 16,810 1999 25.02.08 25.02.11
2009 Award 17,992 2400 25.02.09 25.02.12
Total at 1 January 2010 46,816
Vesting of 2007 Award (12,014)
2,3
2810
2010 Award 20,718 2817.5 25.02.10 25.02.13
Total at 31 December 2010 55,520
Simon Lowth
2008 Award 1,340 1999 25.02.08 25.02.11
2009 Award 9,775 2400 25.02.09 25.02.12
Total at 1 January 2010 11,115
2010 Award 9,760 2817.5 25.02.10 25.02.13
Total at 31 December 2010 20,875
1
 UK date convention applies.
2
 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneﬁcially interested in a net number of 7,088 Ordinary Shares.
3
  Cash payments equivalent to dividends accruing over the vesting period are made at the date of vesting and are included in ‘Other payments and allowances’ in the Directors’ remuneration tables 
from page 129.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Directors’ Remuneration Report 133 Share option plans 
The interests of Directors who served during 2010, in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares, granted under the SOP and, where 
indicated, the Zeneca Plan, are included in the following table. None of the Directors in the table below hold options under the AstraZeneca 
Savings-Related Share Option Plan. There were no grants of options made under any of the plans in 2010.
Number of 
Ordinary 
Shares under 
option
1
Exercise 
price per 
Ordinary 
Share
2
Market price 
on date 
of exercise
First day 
exercisable
3,4
Last day
exercisable
3,4
David Brennan At 1 January 2010 – options over Ordinary Shares 592,975 2375p 24.03.09 26.03.19
– market price above option price (Ordinary Shares) 505,244 2271p 19.05.09 26.03.19
– market price at or below option price (Ordinary Shares) 87,731 2975p 24.03.09 23.03.16
At 31 December 2010 – options over Ordinary Shares 592,975 2375p 24.03.09 26.03.19
– market price above option price (Ordinary Shares) 505,244 2271p 19.05.09 26.03.19
– market price at or below option price (Ordinary Shares) 87,731 2975p 24.03.09 23.03.16
At 1 January 2010 – options over ADSs 355,246 $45.22 16.03.03 23.03.15
– market price above option price (ADSs) 210,255 $42.91 26.03.07 23.03.15
– market price at or below option price (ADSs) 144,991 $48.58 29.03.04 27.03.12
Exercised 2 March 2010 (32,727)
5
$44.00 $44.35 16.03.03 26.03.19
At 31 December 2010 – options over ADSs 322,519 $45.35 29.03.04 23.03.15
– market price above option price (ADSs) 110,987 $40.35 24.03.08 23.03.15
– market price at or below option price (ADSs) 211,532 $47.97 29.03.04 25.03.14
Simon Lowth At 1 January 2010 153,934 2090p 16.11.10 26.03.19
– market price above option price 153,934 2090p 16.11.10 26.03.19
– market price at or below option price – n/a n/a n/a
Exercised 17 November 2010 (18,665) 2210p 3048p 16.11.10 15.11.17
At 31 December 2010 135,269 2074p 28.03.11 26.03.19
– market price above option price 135,269 2074p 28.03.11 26.03.19
– market price at or below option price – n/a n/a n/a
1
  Vesting is subject to satisfying the relevant performance conditions set out in each of the relevant share option plans. Further information on the performance conditions applicable to the SOP 
is set out in the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan section on page 127. As a Save As You Earn scheme, the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan is not subject to any performance 
conditions. Awards granted under the Zeneca Plan are no longer subject to any performance conditions.
2
 Exercise prices are weighted averages.
3
 First and last exercise dates of groups of options, within which period there may be shorter exercise periods.
4
 UK date convention applies.
5
 Option granted under the Zeneca Plan.
Gains by Directors on exercise of share options
The aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year and the two previous years are set out below.
Year
Gains made by Directors 
on the exercise of share options
$
Gains made by the 
highest paid Director
$
2010 260,182.40 11,454.45
2009 ––
2008 1,764.96 –
During 2010, the market price of Ordinary Shares or ADSs was as follows:
Stock Exchange
Ordinary Share/ADS market price 
at 31 December 2010
Range of the Ordinary Share/
ADS market price during 2010
London 2922p 2732p to 3385p
Stockholm 309.3 SEK 309.3 SEK to 382.2 SEK
New York $46.19 $40.91 to $53.50
On behalf of the Board
A C N Kemp 
Company Secretary 
27 January 2011
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 134 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report How are the 
ﬁnancial statements 
structured?
136  Preparation of the Financial Statements and  
Directors’ Responsibilities
136  Directors’ Responsibilities for, and Report on,  
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
137  Auditor’s Reports on the Financial Statements  
and on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
(Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404)
137  Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members  
of AstraZeneca PLC
138  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive  
Income for the year ended 31 December
139  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  
at 31 December
140  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  
for the year ended 31 December
141  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the  
year ended 31 December
142 Group Accounting Policies 
147 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 
 147 1 Product revenue information
 148 2 Operating proﬁt
 148 3 Finance income and expense
 149 4 Taxation
 151 5 Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share
 151 6 Segment information
 153 7 Property, plant and equipment
 154 8 Goodwill
 155 9 Intangible assets
 157 10 Other investments
 157 11 Inventories
 157 12 Trade and other receivables
 157 13 Cash and cash equivalents
 158 14 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
 158 15 Financial instruments
 161  16 Trade and other payables
 161 17 Provisions for liabilities and charges
 162 18 Post-retirement beneﬁts
 166 19 Capital and reserves
 167 20 Share capital of the Company
 167 21 Dividends to shareholders
 167  22 Acquisitions of business operations
 168 23  Financial risk management objectives  
and policies
 173 24  Employee costs and share option plans  
for employees
 178 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities 
 196 26 Leases
 196 27 Statutory and other information 
197 Principal Subsidiaries
 198  Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members  
of AstraZeneca PLC
199 Company Balance Sheet at 31 December
200 Company Accounting Policies 
201 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
 201 1 Fixed asset investments
 201 2 Non-trade creditors
 201 3 Loans
 202 4 Reserves
 202 5  Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds
 202 6 Share capital
 203 7 Litigation and environmental liabilities
 203 8 Statutory and other information
204 Group Financial Record
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 135 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 136 Financial Statements
The Directors assessed the effectiveness of AstraZeneca’s internal 
control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2010 based on 
the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations 
of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated 
Framework. Based on this assessment, the Directors believe that, 
as at 31 December 2010, the internal control over financial 
reporting is effective based on those criteria.
KPMG Audit Plc, an independent registered public accounting firm, 
has audited the effectiveness of internal control over financial 
reporting as at 31 December 2010 and, as explained on page 137, 
has issued an unqualified report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
adequate internal control over financial reporting. AstraZeneca’s 
internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide 
reasonable assurance over the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles.
Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial 
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the 
risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Directors’ Responsibilities for, and Report on, 
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with 
that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement pursuant to DTR 4
The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 > The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole.
 > The Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the issuer 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board of Directors on 27 January 2011
David R Brennan
Director
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
Form 20-F Information and the Group and Parent Company Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements 
in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and 
of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group 
and Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are 
required to:
 > Select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently.
 > Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent.
 > For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
 > For the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the Parent Company Financial Statements.
 > Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business.
Preparation of the Financial Statements and Directors’ Responsibilities
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 137
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
as at 31 December 2010 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404). 
The Directors’ statement on internal control over financial reporting 
is set out on page 136.
KPMG Audit Plc has also reported separately on the Company 
Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC and on the information 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having 
been audited. This audit report is set out on page 198.
The report set out below is provided in compliance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). KPMG Audit Plc has also 
issued reports in accordance with auditing standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board in the US, which will be 
included in the Annual Report on Form 20-F to be filed with the 
US Securities and Exchange Commission. Those reports are 
unqualified and include opinions on the Group Financial Statements 
and on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting 
Auditor’s Reports on the Financial Statements and on Internal Control over 
Financial Reporting (Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404)
In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements comply with IFRSs 
as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared 
is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 > Certain disclosures of Directors’ Remuneration specified by 
law are not made.
 > We have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 > The Directors’ Statement, set out on page 142, in relation 
to going concern.
 > The part of the corporate governance statement relating 
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
 > Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on directors’ remuneration.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial 
Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the year ended 31 December 
2010 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
that is described as having been audited.
Jimmy Daboo 
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL
27 January 2011
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC 
for the year ended 31 December 2010 set out on pages 138 to 197. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 
and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), on terms 
agreed with the Company. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and, in respect 
of the separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB, 
those matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our 
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 136, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express 
an opinion on, the Group Financial Statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 
provided on the APB’s website, frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements:
 > Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended.
 > Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU.
 > Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in the Group Accounting Policies section to the Group 
Financial Statements set out on pages 142 to 146, the Group, in 
addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued 
by the IASB.
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 138 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Notes
2010
$m
2009 
$m
2008 
$m
Revenue 1 33,269 32,804 31,601
Cost of sales (6,389) (5,775) (6,598)
Gross profit 26,880 27,029 25,003
Distribution costs (335) (298) (291)
Research and development 2 (5,318) (4,409) (5,179)
Selling, general and administrative costs 2 (10,445) (11,332) (10,913)
Other operating income and expense 2 712 553 524
Operating profit 2 11,494 11,543 9,144
Finance income 3 516 462 854
Finance expense 3 (1,033) (1,198) (1,317)
Profit before tax 10,977 10,807 8,681
Taxation 4 (2,896) (3,263) (2,551)
Profit for the period 8,081 7,544 6,130
Other comprehensive income:
Foreign exchange arising on consolidation 26 388 (1,336)
Foreign exchange differences on borrowings forming net investment hedges 101 (68) 291
Amortisation of loss on cash flow hedge 1 11
Net available for sale gains taken to equity 4 22
Actuarial loss for the period 18 (46) (569) (1,232)
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 4 (61) 192 368
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 25 (54) (1,906)
Total comprehensive income for the period 8,106 7,490 4,224
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Parent 8,053 7,521 6,101
Non-controlling interests 28 23 29
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Parent 8,058 7,467 4,176
Non-controlling interests 48 23 48
Basic earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share 5 $5.60 $5.19 $4.20
Diluted earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share 5 $5.57 $5.19 $4.20
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 5 1,438 1,448 1,453
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 5 1,446 1,450 1,453
Dividends declared and paid in the period 21 3,494 3,026 2,767
All activities were in respect of continuing operations.
$m means millions of US dollars.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 139
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Notes
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 7 6,957 7,307 7,043
Goodwill 8 9,871 9,889 9,874
Intangible assets 9 12,158 12,226 12,323
Derivative financial instruments 15 324 262 449
Other investments 10 211 184 156
Deferred tax assets 4 1,475 1,292 1,236
30,996 31,160 31,081
Current assets
Inventories 11 1,682 1,750 1,636
Trade and other receivables 12 7,847 7,709 7,261
Other investments 10 1,482 1,484 105
Derivative financial instruments 15 9 24 –
Income tax receivable 3,043 2,875 2,581
Cash and cash equivalents 13 11,068 9,918 4,286
25,131 23,760 15,869
Total assets 56,127 54,920 46,950
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 (125) (1,926) (993)
Trade and other payables 16 (8,661) (8,687) (7,178)
Derivative financial instruments 15 (8) (90) (95)
Provisions 17 (1,095) (1,209) (600)
Income tax payable (6,898) (5,728) (4,549)
(16,787) (17,640) (13,415)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 (9,097) (9,137) (10,855)
Derivative financial instruments 15 – – (71)
Deferred tax liabilities 4 (3,145) (3,247) (3,126)
Retirement benefit obligations 18 (2,472) (3,354) (2,732)
Provisions 17 (843) (477) (542)
Other payables 16 (373) (244) (149)
(15,930) (16,459) (17,475)
Total liabilities (32,717) (34,099) (30,890)
Net assets 23,410 20,821 16,060
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share capital 20 352 363 362
Share premium account 2,672 2,180 2,046
Capital redemption reserve 107 94 94
Merger reserve 433 433 433
Other reserves 19 1,377 1,392 1,405
Retained earnings 19 18,272 16,198 11,572
23,213 20,660 15,912
Non-controlling interests 197 161 148
Total equity 23,410 20,821 16,060
The Financial Statements on pages 138 to 197 were approved by the Board on 27 January 2011 and were signed on its behalf by
David R Brennan Simon Lowth
Director Director
Company’s registered number 2723534
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
at 31 December AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 140 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Share
capital
$m
Share
premium
account
$m
Capital
redemption
reserve
$m
Merger
reserve
$m
Other
reserves
$m
Retained
earnings
$m
Total
$m
Non-
controlling
interests
$m
Total
equity
$m
At 1 January 2008 364 1,888 91 433 1,378 10,624 14,778 137 14,915
Profit for the period – – – – – 6,101 6,101 29 6,130
Other comprehensive income ––––– (1,925) (1,925) 19 (1,906)
Transfer to other reserves
1
–––– 27 (27) –––
Transactions with owners
Dividends ––––– (2,767) (2,767) – (2,767)
Issue of Ordinary Shares 1 158–––– 159– 159
Repurchase of Ordinary Shares (3) – 3 – – (610) (610) – (610)
Share-based payments ––––– 176 176– 176
Transfer from non-controlling interests to payables – – – – – – – (11) (11)
Dividend paid by subsidiary to non-controlling interests – – – – – – – (26) (26)
Net movement (2) 158 3 – 27 948 1,134 11 1,145
At 31 December 2008 362 2,046 94 433 1,405 11,572 15,912 148 16,060
Profit for the period – – – – – 7,521 7,521 23 7,544
Other comprehensive income ––––– (54) (54) – (54)
Transfer to other reserves
1
–––– (13) 13–––
Transactions with owners
Dividends ––––– (3,026) (3,026) – (3,026)
Issue of Ordinary Shares 1 134–––– 135– 135
Share-based payments ––––– 172 172– 172
Transfer from non-controlling interests to payables – – – – – – – (9) (9)
Dividend paid by subsidiary to non-controlling interests – – – – – – – (1) (1)
Net movement 1 134 – – (13) 4,626 4,748 13 4,761
At 31 December 2009 363 2,180 94 433 1,392 16,198 20,660 161 20,821
Profit for the period ––––– 8,053 8,053 28 8,081
Other comprehensive income ––––– 5 5 20 25
Transfer to other reserves
1
–––– (15) 15–––
Transactions with owners
Dividends – – – – – (3,494) (3,494) – (3,494)
Issue of Ordinary Shares 2 492–––– 494– 494
Repurchase of Ordinary Shares (13) – 13 – – (2,604) (2,604) – (2,604)
Share-based payments ––––– 99 99– 99
Transfer from non-controlling interests to payables ––––––– (11) (11)
Dividend paid by subsidiary to non-controlling interests ––––––– (1) (1)
Net movement (11) 492 13 – (15) 2,074 2,553 36 2,589
At 31 December 2010 352 2,672 107 433 1,377 18,272 23,213 197 23,410
1
 Amounts charged or credited to other reserves relate to exchange adjustments arising on goodwill.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 141
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Notes
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 10,977 10,807 8,681
Finance income and expense 3 517 736 463
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2,741 2,087 2,620
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 10 (256) (1,032)
Decrease in inventories 88 6 185
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables and provisions (16) 1,579 637
Other non-cash movements (463) (200) 87
Cash generated from operations 13,854 14,759 11,641
Interest paid (641) (639) (690)
Tax paid (2,533) (2,381) (2,209)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 10,680 11,739 8,742
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisitions of business operations 22 (348) – –
Movement in short-term investments and fixed deposits (239) (1,371) 1
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (791) (962) (1,095)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 83 138 38
Purchase of intangible assets (1,390) (624) (2,944)
Disposal of intangible assets 210 269 –
Purchase of non-current asset investments (34) (31) (40)
Disposal of non-current asset investments 5 3 32
Interest received 174 113 149
Payments made by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests (10) (11) (37)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (2,340) (2,476) (3,896)
Net cash inflow before financing activities 8,340 9,263 4,846
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 494 135 159
Repurchase of shares (2,604) – (610)
Issue of loans – – 787
Repayment of loans (1,741) (650) –
Dividends paid (3,361) (2,977) (2,739)
Movement in short-term borrowings (8) (137) (3,959)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (7,220) (3,629) (6,362)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the period 1,120 5,634 (1,516)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 9,828 4,123 5,727
Exchange rate effects 33 71 (88)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 13 10,981 9,828 4,123
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 142 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Basis for preparation of financial statements 
on a going concern basis
Information on the business environment AstraZeneca operates 
in, including the factors underpinning the industry’s future growth 
prospects, are included in the Directors’ Report. Details of the 
product portfolio of the Group, our approach to product development 
and our development pipeline are covered in detail with additional 
information by Therapy Area in the Directors’ Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review from 
page 78. In addition, Note 23 to the Financial Statements includes 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing 
its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to 
credit, market and liquidity risk. Further details of the Group’s cash 
balances and borrowings are included in Notes 13 and 14 of the 
Financial Statements.
The Group has considerable financial resources available. As at 
31 December 2010, the Group has $15.25bn in financial resources 
(cash balances of $11.1bn and committed bank facilities of $4.25bn, 
with only $0.1bn of debt due within one year). The Group’s revenues 
are largely derived from sales of products which are covered by 
patents and for which, historically at least, demand has been relatively 
unaffected by changes in the general economy. In addition, the Group 
has a wide diversity of customers and suppliers across different 
geographic areas. As a consequence, the Directors believe that 
the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully 
despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to 
make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts 
of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and 
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting 
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Judgements include classification of transactions between profit 
and the consolidated statement of financial position and the 
determination of operating segments while estimates focus on 
areas such as carrying values and estimated lives.
AstraZeneca’s management considers the following to be the most 
important accounting policies in the context of the Group’s operations.
The accounting policy descriptions set out the areas where 
judgements and estimates need exercising, the most significant 
of which are revenue recognition, research and development 
(including impairment reviews of associated intangible assets), 
business combinations and goodwill, litigation and environmental 
liabilities, employee benefits, taxation and operating segments.
Further information on critical judgements made in applying 
accounting policies, including details of significant methods and 
assumptions used, is included in Notes 6, 8, 9, 15, 18, 22 and 25  
in the Financial Statements. Financial risk management policies  
are detailed in Note 23.
Basis of accounting and preparation of financial information
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under 
the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to 
fair value of certain financial instruments as described below, 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU 
(adopted IFRS) in response to the IAS regulation (EC 1606/2002). 
The Consolidated Financial Statements also comply fully with 
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
During the year the Company adopted the revised IFRS 3 ‘Business 
Combinations’ (issued in January 2008). The revised IFRS 3 included 
the following changes relevant to the Group’s operations:
 > Contingent consideration is measured at fair value, with 
subsequent changes to the fair value being recognised in profit.
 > Transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, are 
expensed as incurred. 
 > Any pre-existing interest in the acquiree is measured at fair value 
with the gain or loss recognised in profit.
 > Any non-controlling (minority) interest is measured at either fair 
value, or at its proportionate interest in the identifiable assets and 
liabilities of the acquiree, on a transaction-by-transaction basis.
The revised standard was effective for AstraZeneca business 
combinations on or after 1 January 2010 and has been applied 
prospectively from that date. Our acquisition of Novexel S.A. was 
accounted for under the revised standard. Further details of this 
acquisition are included in Note 22 of the Financial Statements. 
The adoption of this revised standard has not had a significant 
effect on the Group’s profit for the period, net assets or cash flows.
The amendments to IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements (2008)’, IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations’, IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement – Eligible Hedged Items’, IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 
‘Embedded Derivatives’, IFRS 2 ‘Group Cash-settled Share-based 
Payment Transactions’ and the Improvements to IFRS (issued April 
2009) have all been adopted in the year.
The adoptions of the amendments and improvements did not have 
a significant effect on the Group’s profit for the period, net assets or 
cash flows.
IFRIC 17 ‘Distribution of Non-Cash Assets to Owners’ and IFRIC 18 
‘Transfer of Assets from Customers’ have also been adopted by the 
Company, neither of which had a significant effect on the Group’s 
profit for the period, net assets or cash flows.
The Company has elected to prepare the Company Financial 
Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards. These 
are presented on pages 199 to 203 and the accounting policies in 
respect of Company information are set out on page 200.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in  
US dollars, which is the Company’s functional currency.
In preparing their individual financial statements, the accounting 
policies of some overseas subsidiaries do not conform with 
adopted IFRSs. Therefore, where appropriate, adjustments are 
made in order to present the Consolidated Financial Statements  
on a consistent basis.
Group Accounting Policies AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 143
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
three years to 20 years. These assets are not used in the research 
and development activities of other products.
Intangible assets relating to products in development (both internally 
generated and externally acquired) are subject to impairment testing 
annually. All intangible assets are tested for impairment when there 
are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Any 
impairment losses are recognised immediately in profit. Intangible 
assets relating to products which fail during development (or for which 
development ceases for other reasons) are tested for impairment 
at the point of termination and are written down to their fair value 
(which is usually zero).
Business combinations and goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the 
identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the 
fair value cannot be measured reliably in which case the value is 
subsumed into goodwill. Where fair values of acquired contingent 
liabilities cannot be measured reliably, the assumed contingent liability 
is not recognised but is disclosed in the same manner as other 
contingent liabilities. Goodwill is the difference between the fair 
value of the consideration and the fair value of net assets acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to an 
impairment review, both annually and when there is an indication that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. Between 1 January 1998 
and 31 December 2002, goodwill was amortised over its estimated 
useful life; such amortisation ceased on 31 December 2002.
The Group’s policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate 
goodwill arising upon acquisitions against reserves. Under IFRS 1 
‘First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ 
and IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’, such goodwill will remain 
eliminated against reserves.
Employee benefits
The Group accounts for pensions and other employee benefits 
(principally healthcare) under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. In respect of 
defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present 
value while plan assets are measured at fair value. The operating and 
financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in profit; 
current service costs are spread systematically over the lives of 
employees and financing costs are recognised in full in the periods 
in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
immediately in other comprehensive income.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised 
asset is limited to the present value of any available future refunds 
from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. 
Payments to defined contribution plans are recognised in profit as 
they fall due.
Taxation
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from reported profit because it excludes items 
that are never taxable or tax deductible. The Group’s current tax 
assets and liabilities are calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts 
used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognised to 
the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available 
against which the asset can be utilised. This requires judgements 
to be made in respect of the availability of future taxable income.
Revenue
Revenues comprise sales and income under co-promotion and 
co-development agreements.
Income under co-promotion and co-development agreements is 
recognised when it is earned as defined in the contract and can be 
reliably estimated. In general this is upon the sale of the co-promoted/
developed product or upon the delivery of a promotional or 
developmental service.
Revenues exclude inter-company revenues and value-added taxes 
and represent net invoice value less estimated rebates, returns and 
settlement discounts. Revenues are recognised when the significant 
risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party. 
In general, this is upon delivery of the products to wholesalers. 
In markets where returns are significant (currently only in the US), 
estimates of returns are accounted for at the point revenue is 
recognised. In markets where returns are not significant they are 
recorded when returned.
When a product faces generic competition particular attention 
is given to the possible levels of returns and, in cases where the 
circumstances are such that the level of returns (and, hence, revenue) 
cannot be measured reliably, revenues are only recognised when 
the right of return expires which is generally on ultimate prescription 
of the product to patients.
For the US market we estimate the quantity and value of goods which 
may ultimately be returned at the point of sale. Our returns accruals 
are based on actual experience over the preceding 12 months for 
established products together with market-related information such 
as estimated stock levels at wholesalers and competitor activity 
which we receive via third party information services. For newly 
launched products, we use rates based on our experience with 
similar products or a pre-determined percentage.
Research and development
Research expenditure is recognised in profit in the year in which it 
is incurred.
Internal development expenditure is capitalised only if it meets the 
recognition criteria of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. Where regulatory 
and other uncertainties are such that the criteria are not met, the 
expenditure is recognised in profit and this is almost invariably 
the case prior to approval of the drug by the relevant regulatory 
authority. Where, however, recognition criteria are met, intangible 
assets are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over 
their useful economic lives from product launch. At 31 December 
2010, no amounts have met recognition criteria.
Payments to in-licence products and compounds from external third 
parties for new research and development projects (in-process 
research and development), generally taking the form of up-front 
payments and milestones, are capitalised. Where payments made 
to third parties represent future research and development 
activities, an evaluation is made as to the nature of the payments. 
Such payments are expensed if they represent compensation for 
subcontracted research and development services not resulting in a 
transfer of intellectual property. By contrast, payments are 
capitalised if they represent compensation for the transfer of 
intellectual property developed at the risk of the third party. Since 
acquired products and compounds will only generate sales and 
cash inflows following launch, our policy is to minimise the period 
between final approval and launch if it is within AstraZeneca’s control 
to do so. Assets capitalised are amortised, generally on a straight-line 
basis, over their useful economic lives from product launch. Under 
this policy, it is not possible to determine precise economic lives for 
individual classes of intangible assets. However, lives range from  AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 144 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
The financial results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date 
control is obtained until the date that control ceases.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
The first in, first out or an average method of valuation is used. 
For finished goods and work in progress, cost includes directly 
attributable costs and certain overhead expenses (including 
depreciation). Selling expenses and certain other overhead expenses 
(principally central administration costs) are excluded. Net realisable 
value is determined as estimated selling price less all estimated costs 
of completion and costs to be incurred in selling and distribution.
Write-downs of inventory occur in the general course of business 
and are recognised in cost of sales.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value. 
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value. 
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments include interests in leases and 
rights and obligations under employee benefit plans which are dealt 
with in specific accounting policies.
The Group’s other financial instruments include:
 > Cash and cash equivalents
 > Fixed deposits
 > Other investments
 > Bank and other borrowings
 > Derivatives.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances 
with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid investments 
with maturities of three months or less when acquired. They are 
readily convertible into known amounts of cash and are held at 
amortised cost.
Fixed deposits
Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks and 
other financial institutions, are initially measured at fair value, plus 
direct transaction costs, and are subsequently remeasured to 
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method at each 
reporting date. Changes in carrying value are recognised in profit.
Other investments
Where investments have been classified as held for trading, they 
are measured initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured to 
fair value at each reporting date. Changes in fair value are recognised 
in profit.
In all other circumstances, the investments are initially measured at 
fair value (including direct transaction costs) and are subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at each reporting date. Changes in 
carrying value due to changes in exchange rates or impairments are 
recognised in profit. All other changes in fair value are recognised 
in other comprehensive income.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in respect of temporary 
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches 
and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the timing of 
reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the 
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability 
is settled or the asset realised based on tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make 
judgements and estimates of ultimate exposures in relation to tax 
audit issues. Tax benefits are not recognised unless the tax positions 
will probably be sustained. Once considered to be probable, 
management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether 
a provision should be taken against full recognition of that benefit 
on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and/or 
litigation. All provisions are included in current liabilities. Any recorded 
exposure to interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the tax charge. 
See Note 25 for further details.
Share-based payments
All plans are assessed and have been classified as equity settled. 
The grant date fair value of employee share option awards is 
generally calculated using the Black-Scholes model. In accordance 
with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’, the resulting cost is recognised 
in profit over the vesting period of the options, being the period in 
which the services are received. The value of the charge is adjusted 
to reflect expected and actual levels of awards vesting, except where 
the failure to vest is as a result of not meeting a market condition. 
Cancellations of equity instruments are treated as an acceleration 
of the vesting period and any outstanding charge is recognised in 
profit immediately.
Property, plant and equipment
The Group’s policy is to write off the difference between the cost 
of each item of property, plant and equipment and its residual value 
systematically over its estimated useful life. Assets under construction 
are not depreciated.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining lives and 
residual values of individual productive assets, taking account of 
commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal 
wear and tear. Under this policy it becomes impractical to calculate 
average asset lives exactly. However, the total lives range from 
approximately 10 to 50 years for buildings, and three to 13 years 
for plant and equipment. All items of property, plant and equipment 
are tested for impairment when there are indications that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. Any impairment losses are recognised 
immediately in profit.
Borrowing costs
The Group has no borrowing costs with respect to the acquisition 
or construction of qualifying assets. All other borrowing costs are 
recognised in profit as incurred and in accordance with the effective 
interest rate method.
Leases
Rentals under operating leases are charged to profit on a straight-
line basis.
Subsidiaries
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly or indirectly, by 
AstraZeneca PLC. Control is regarded as the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits 
from its activities. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 145
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
In the Consolidated Financial Statements, income and expense items 
for Group entities with a functional currency other than US dollars, 
are translated into US dollars at average exchange rates, which 
approximate to actual rates, for the relevant accounting periods. 
Assets and liabilities are translated at the US exchange rates prevailing 
at the reporting date. Exchange differences arising on consolidation 
are taken in other comprehensive income.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation of net investments 
in subsidiaries and of foreign currency loans which are designated 
in an effective hedge relationship are taken in other comprehensive 
income in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Gains and losses 
accumulated in the translation reserve will be recycled to profit when 
the foreign operation is sold.
Litigation and environmental liabilities
Through the normal course of business, AstraZeneca is involved 
in legal disputes, the settlement of which may involve cost to the 
Group. Provision is made where an adverse outcome is probable 
and associated costs, including related legal costs, can be estimated 
reliably. In other cases, appropriate disclosures are included.
Where it is considered that the Group is more likely than not to 
prevail, or in the rare circumstances where the amount of the 
legal liability cannot be estimated reliably, legal costs involved in 
defending the claim are charged to profit as they are incurred.
Where it is considered that the Group has a valid contract which 
provides the right to reimbursement (from insurance or otherwise) 
of legal costs and/or all or part of any loss incurred or for which 
a provision has been established, the best estimate of the amount 
expected to be received is recognised as an asset.
AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental liabilities relating to its 
past operations, principally in respect of soil and groundwater 
remediation costs. Provisions for these costs are made when there 
is a present obligation and where it is probable that expenditure on 
remedial work will be required and a reliable estimate can be made 
of the cost. Provisions are discounted where the effect is material.
Impairment
The carrying values of non-financial assets, other than inventories 
and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at least annually to determine 
whether there is any indication of impairment. For goodwill, intangible 
assets under development and for any other assets where such 
indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated based 
on the greater of its value in use and its fair value less cost to sell. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, adjusted 
for the risks specific to each asset, are discounted to their present 
value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the general risks affecting the 
pharmaceutical industry. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets 
that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely 
independent of the cash flows of other assets. Impairment losses 
are recognised in profit.
Operating segments
In 2009, the Company adopted IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’. IFRS 8 
requires an entity to report financial and descriptive information 
about its reportable segments. Reportable segments are operating 
segments or aggregations of operating segments that meet 
specified criteria. In addressing these criteria, it was determined 
that AstraZeneca is engaged in a single business activity of 
pharmaceuticals and that the Group does not have multiple 
operating segments. Our pharmaceuticals business consists of 
Impairments are recorded in profit when there is a decline in the 
value of an investment that is deemed to be other than temporary. 
On disposal of the investment, the cumulative amount recognised 
in other comprehensive income is recognised in profit as part of the 
gain or loss on disposal.
Bank and other borrowings
The Group uses derivatives, principally interest rate swaps, to hedge 
the interest rate exposure inherent in a portion of its fixed interest 
rate debt. In such cases the Group will either designate the debt 
as fair value through profit or loss when certain criteria are met or 
as the hedged item under a fair value hedge.
If the debt instrument is designated as fair value through profit, the 
debt is initially measured at fair value (with direct transaction costs 
being included in profit as an expense) and is remeasured to fair 
value at each reporting date with changes in carrying value being 
recognised in profit (along with changes in the fair value of the 
related derivative). Such a designation has been made where this 
significantly reduces an accounting mismatch which would result 
from recognising gains and losses on different bases.
If the debt is designated as the hedged item under a fair value hedge, 
the debt is initially measured at fair value (with direct transaction 
costs being amortised over the life of the bonds), and is remeasured 
for fair value changes in respect of the hedged risk at each reporting 
date with changes in carrying value being recognised in profit 
(along with changes in the fair value of the related derivative).
If certain criteria are met, non-US dollar denominated loans are 
designated as net investment hedges of foreign operations. Exchange 
differences arising on retranslation of net investments, and of foreign 
currency loans which are designated in an effective net investment 
hedge relationship, are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
All other exchange differences giving rise to changes in the carrying 
value of foreign currency loans and overdrafts are recognised in profit.
Other interest-bearing loans are initially measured at fair value 
(including direct transaction costs) and are subsequently remeasured 
to amortised cost using the effective interest rate method at each 
reporting date. Changes in carrying value are recognised in profit.
Derivatives
Derivatives are initially measured at fair value (with direct transaction 
costs being included in profit as an expense) and are subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at each reporting date. Changes in carrying 
value are recognised in profit.
Foreign currencies
Foreign currency transactions, being transactions denominated 
in a currency other than an individual Group entity’s functional 
currency, are translated into the relevant functional currencies of 
individual Group entities at average rates for the relevant monthly 
accounting periods, which approximate to actual rates.
Monetary assets, arising from foreign currency transactions, are 
retranslated at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. 
Exchange gains and losses on loans and on short-term foreign 
currency borrowings and deposits are included within finance 
expense. Exchange differences on all other foreign currency 
transactions are taken to operating profit in the individual Group 
entity’s accounting records.
Non-monetary items arising from foreign currency transactions are 
not retranslated in the individual Group entity’s accounting records. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 146 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Accounting standards and interpretations issued 
but not yet adopted
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ was issued in November 2009. It is 
applicable to financial assets and financial liabilities. For financial 
assets it requires classification and measurement in either the 
amortised cost or the fair value category. For a company’s own debt 
held at fair value, the standard requires the movement in the fair 
value as a result of changes in the company’s own credit risk to be 
included in other comprehensive income. It is effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The standard has 
not yet been endorsed by the EU. The adoption of IFRS 9 is not 
expected to have a significant impact upon the Group’s net results 
or net assets.
Improvements to IFRS (issued in May 2010) is yet to be endorsed 
by the EU and contains amendments to several individual accounting 
standards which are effective for accounting periods beginning on 
or after 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011. None of the amendments 
are expected to have a significant impact upon the Group’s net 
results, net assets or disclosures.
IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ was revised by the IASB in 
2009 and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2011. The changes introduced relate mainly to disclosure 
requirements for government-related entities, and the definition of 
a related party, and are not expected to have a significant impact 
on the disclosures of AstraZeneca. The revised standard was 
endorsed by the EU during 2010.
The amendments to IAS 32 ‘Classification of Rights Issues’ (endorsed 
by the EU in 2009) and IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures – Transfer of Financial 
Assets’ and IAS 12 ‘Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets’ 
(not yet endorsed by the EU) are effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 February 2010, 1 July 2011 and 1 January 
2012 respectively. They are not expected to have a significant 
impact upon the Group’s net results, net assets or disclosures.
The following IFRIC amendments and interpretations have been 
issued but are not yet adopted by AstraZeneca:
 > Amendments to IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’ – 
Fair value of award credit
 > Amendments to IFRIC 14 ‘Prepayments of a Minimum 
Funding Requirement’ 
 > IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with 
Equity Instruments’.
The amendments and interpretations are effective for accounting 
periods commencing on or after 1 January 2011, 1 January 2011 and 
1 July 2010 respectively. None of the amendments or interpretations 
are expected to have a significant impact upon adoption. 
There is no impact expected from any other standards that are 
available for early adoption but that have not been adopted.
the discovery and development of new products, which are then 
manufactured, marketed and sold. All of these functional activities 
take place (and are managed) globally on a highly integrated basis. 
We do not manage these individual functional areas separately. 
We consider that the Senior Executive Team (SET) is AstraZeneca’s 
chief operating decision-making body (as defined by IFRS 8). 
The operation of the SET is principally driven by the management 
of the commercial operations, research and development, and 
manufacturing and supply. The SET also includes Finance, HR 
and General Counsel representation.
All significant operating decisions are taken by the SET. While 
members of the SET have responsibility for implementation of 
decisions in their respective areas, operating decision making is 
at SET level as a whole. Where necessary these are implemented 
through cross-functional sub-committees that consider the Group-
wide impact of a new decision. For example, product launch 
decisions would be initially considered by the SET and, on approval, 
passed to an appropriate sub-team for implementation. The impacts 
of being able to develop, produce, deliver and commercialise 
a wide range of pharmaceutical products drive the SET decision 
making process.
In assessing performance, the SET reviews financial information 
on an integrated basis for the Group as a whole, substantially in 
the form of, and on the same basis as, the Group’s IFRS Financial 
Statements. The high upfront cost of discovering and developing 
new products coupled with the relatively insignificant and stable 
unit cost of production means that there is not the clear link that 
exists in many manufacturing businesses between the revenue 
generated on an individual product sale and the associated cost 
and hence margin generated on a product. Consequently, the 
profitability of individual drugs or classes of drugs is not considered 
a key measure of performance for the business and is not monitored 
by the SET.
Resources are allocated on a Group-wide basis according to need. 
In particular, capital expenditure, in-licensing, and research and 
development resources are allocated between activities on merit, 
based on overall therapeutic considerations and strategy under the 
aegis of the Group’s Portfolio Investment Board to facilitate a Group-
wide single combined discovery and development strategy. 
The Group’s acquisitions in the biologics area, MedImmune and 
Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc, have been integrated 
into the existing management structure of AstraZeneca both for 
allocation of resources and for assessment and monitoring of 
performance purposes. As such, although biologics is a relatively 
new technological area for the Group, it does not operate as 
a separate operating segment.
International accounting transition
On transition to using adopted IFRS in the year ended 31 December 
2005, the Company took advantage of several optional exemptions 
available in IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial 
Reporting Standards’. The major impacts which are of continuing 
importance are detailed below:
 > Business combinations – IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ has 
been applied from 1 January 2003, the date of transition, rather 
than being applied fully retrospectively. As a result, the combination 
of Astra and Zeneca is still accounted for as a merger, rather than 
through purchase accounting. If purchase accounting had been 
adopted, Zeneca would have been deemed to have acquired Astra.
 > Cumulative exchange differences – the Group chose to set the 
cumulative exchange difference reserve at 1 January 2003 to zero. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 147
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
1 Product revenue information
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Gastrointestinal:
Nexium 4,969 4,959 5,200
Losec/Prilosec 986 946 1,055
Others 133 106 89
Total Gastrointestinal 6,088 6,011 6,344
Cardiovascular:
Crestor 5,691 4,502 3,597
Atacand 1,483 1,436 1,471
Seloken/Toprol-XL 1,210 1,443 807
Plendil 255 241 268
Zestril 157 184 236
Onglyza
™
69 11 –
Others 538 559 584
Total Cardiovascular 9,403 8,376 6,963
Respiratory & Inflammation:
Symbicort 2,746 2,294 2,004
Pulmicort 872 1,310 1,495
Rhinocort 227 264 322
Oxis 63 63 71
Others 191 201 236
Total Respiratory & Inflammation 4,099 4,132 4,128
Oncology:
Arimidex 1,512 1,921 1,857
Zoladex 1,115 1,086 1,138
Casodex 579 844 1,258
Iressa 393 297 265
Faslodex 345 262 249
Nolvadex 89 88 85
Abraxane
™
– – 64
Ethyol 8 15 28
Others 4 5 10
Total Oncology 4,045 4,518 4,954
Neuroscience:
Seroquel 5,302 4,866 4,452
Local anaesthetics 605 599 605
Zomig 428 434 448
Diprivan 322 290 278
Others 47 48 54
Total Neuroscience 6,704 6,237 5,837
Infection and Other:
Synagis 1,038 1,082 1,230
Merrem 817 872 897
FluMist 174 145 104
Non Seasonal Flu 39 389 –
Other Products 108 143 220
Total Infection and Other 2,176 2,631 2,451
Astra Tech 535 506 529
Aptium Oncology 219 393 395
Total 33,269 32,804 31,601 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 148 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
2 Operating profit
Operating profit includes the following items:
Research and development
Research and development includes a $445m impairment of intangible assets related specifically to motavizumab (see Note 9).
Selling, general and administrative costs
Selling, general and administrative expenses includes a provision of $592m with respect to Seroquel legal matters. The current status of 
these matters is described in Note 25. These provisions constitute our best estimate at this time of losses expected for these matters.
Also included within selling, general and administrative costs in 2010 are gains of $791m arising from changes made to benefits under certain 
of the Group’s post-retirement benefit plans, chiefly the Group’s UK pension plan. Further details of this gain are included in Note 18.
In 2009, AstraZeneca was defending its interests in various federal and state investigations and civil litigation matters relating to drug marketing 
and pricing practices and in respect of which the Group made provisions in aggregate of $636m during 2009. $524m of this was made 
in respect of the US Attorney’s Office investigation into sales and marketing practices involving Seroquel and $112m related to average 
wholesale price litigation. 
Other operating income and expense
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
Royalties
Income 522 255 288
Amortisation (59) (79) (84)
Impairment (123) (150) (91)
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 66 86
Gains on disposal of product rights – 170 –
Net (loss)/gain on disposal of other intangible assets (1) 1 (17)
Gains on divestments of non-core products – 216 118
Impairment of intangible assets relating to future licensing and contractual income – (115) –
Other income 307 265 304
Other expense – (18) –
Other operating income and expense 712 553 524
Royalty amortisation relates to income streams acquired with MedImmune. 
Restructuring costs
During 2010, the Group continued the restructuring programmes approved by the SET and announced in previous years. In addition, the Group 
announced further programmes during the year. The tables below show the costs that have been charged in respect of these programmes 
by cost category and type. Severance provisions are detailed in Note 17.
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Cost of sales 144 188 405
Research and development 654 68 166
Selling, general and administrative costs 404 403 310
Total charge 1,202 659 881
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Severance costs 505 262 499
Accelerated depreciation and impairment 299 148 219
Other 398 249 163
Total charge 1,202 659 881
3 Finance income and expense
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Finance income
Returns on fixed deposits and equity securities 9 20 15
Returns on short-term deposits 33 22 127
Expected return on post-employment defined benefit plan assets 451 388 584
Fair value gains on debt, interest rate swaps and investments 23 1 128
Net exchange gains – 31 –
Total 516 462 854 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 149
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
3 Finance income and expense continued
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
Finance expense
Interest on debt and commercial paper (450) (542) (664)
Interest on overdrafts and other financing costs (29) (18) (50)
Interest on post-employment defined benefit plan liabilities (543) (493) (589)
Fair value charges on debt, interest rate swaps and investments – (145) (2)
Net exchange losses (11) – (12)
Total (1,033) (1,198) (1,317)
Net finance expense (517) (736) (463)
The amount of exchange gains and losses recognised in profit, other than those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value 
through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ (see Note 15), is a loss of $11m 
(2009: gain of $31m; 2008: loss of $12m).
4 Taxation
Taxation recognised in the profit for the period in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is as follows:
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
Current tax expense
Current year 3,065 2,854 2,946
Adjustment for prior years 370 251 130
3,435 3,105 3,076
Deferred tax expense
 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (369) 98 (486)
Adjustment to prior years (170) 60 (39)
(539) 158 (525)
Taxation recognised in the profit for the period 2,896 3,263 2,551
Taxation relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows:
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
Current and deferred tax
Foreign exchange arising on consolidation (29) 16 20
Actuarial loss for the period (18) 158 340
Share-based payments 9 17 9
Deferred tax impact of reduction in UK tax rate (23) ––
Other – 1 (1)
Taxation relating to components of other comprehensive income (61) 192 368
Taxation has been provided at current rates on the profits earned for the periods covered by the Group Financial Statements. The 2010 prior 
period current tax adjustment relates mainly to an increase in provisions for tax contingencies and double tax relief partially offset by a benefit 
of $342m arising from a number of tax settlements (including the UK matters described in Note 25) and tax accrual to tax return adjustments. 
The 2009 and 2008 prior period current tax adjustments relate mainly to tax accrual to tax return adjustments, an increase in provisions in 
respect of a number of transfer pricing audits and double tax relief. The 2010 prior period deferred tax adjustment relates mainly to tax accrual 
to tax return adjustments and a reclassification from deferred tax to current tax of amounts provided in relation to tax contingencies for prior 
periods. The 2009 and 2008 prior year deferred tax adjustments relate to tax accrual to tax return adjustments and the recognition of previously 
unrecognised deferred tax assets. To the extent that dividends remitted from overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are expected 
to result in additional taxes, appropriate amounts have been provided for. No deferred tax has been provided for unremitted earnings of Group 
companies overseas as these are considered permanently employed in the business of these companies. Unremitted earnings may be liable 
to overseas taxes and/or UK taxation (after allowing for double tax relief) if distributed as dividends. The aggregate amount of temporary 
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and branches for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised totalled 
approximately $16,768m at 31 December 2010 (2009: $14,846m; 2008: $8,449m).
Factors affecting future tax charges
As a group involved in worldwide operations, AstraZeneca is subject to several factors that may affect future tax charges, principally the levels 
and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions, transfer pricing regulations, tax rates imposed and tax regime reforms. It is the UK Government’s 
intention to enact legislation which will reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax to 24% by 2014. In November 2010, the UK Government 
also released a consultation document providing details on a proposed programme of corporate tax reforms including the introduction of 
a patent box regime. Details of material tax exposures and items currently under audit and negotiation are set out in Note 25. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 150 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
4 Taxation continued
Tax reconciliation to UK statutory rate
The table shown below reconciles the UK statutory tax charge to the Group’s total tax charge.
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
Profit before tax 10,977 10,807 8,681
Notional taxation charge at UK corporation tax rate of 28% (28% for 2009, 28.5%
 
for 2008) 3,074 3,026 2,474
Differences in effective overseas tax rates (333) (212) (8)
Deferred tax credit relating to reduction in Swedish, UK and other tax rates
1,2
(21) – (70)
Unrecognised deferred tax asset – 2 (7)
Items not deductible for tax purposes 12 156 119
Items not chargeable for tax purposes (36) (20) (48)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 200 311 91
Total tax charge for the year 2,896 3,263 2,551
1
 The 2010 item relates to the reduction in the UK statutory corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% effective from 1 April 2011.
2
 The 2008 item relates to the reduction in the Swedish statutory corporation tax rate from 28% to 26.3% effective from 1 January 2009. 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities and the movements during the year, before offset of balances within countries, are as follows:
Property, 
plant and 
equipment
$m
Intangible 
assets
$m
Pension 
and post- 
retirement 
benefits
$m
Inter-
company
inventory
transfers
$m
Untaxed
reserves
1
$m
Accrued
expenses
$m
Share
schemes
$m
Deferred
capital
gains
$m
Losses and
tax credits
carried
forward
$m
Other
$m
Total
$m
Deferred tax assets at 1 January 2008 66 59 531 907 – 611 62 – 330 71 2,637
Deferred tax liabilities at 1 January 2008 (693) (3,653) (3) (21) (1,171) (13) – (88) – (70) (5,712)
Net deferred tax balance at 1 January 2008 (627) (3,594) 528 886 (1,171) 598 62 (88) 330 1 (3,075)
Taxation expense 122 375 24 55 (119) 37 43 – 12 (24) 525
Other comprehensive income – – 340 – – – 9 – – (1) 348
Exchange 168 130 (113) (35) 199 (37) (14) 24 (7) (3) 312
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2008 (337) (3,089) 779 906 (1,091) 598 100 (64) 335 (27) (1,890)
Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2008 136 42 786 935 – 598 100 – 335 45 2,977
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2008 (473) (3,131) (7) (29) (1,091) – – (64) – (72) (4,867)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2008 (337) (3,089) 779 906 (1,091) 598 100 (64) 335 (27) (1,890)
Taxation expense 175 232 (61) 17 (303) (146) 5 – (100) 23 (158)
Other comprehensive income – – 140––– 17 ––– 157
Exchange (46) (36) 54 29 (80) 18 7 (7) (4) 1 (64)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2009 (208) (2,893) 912 952 (1,474) 470 129 (71) 231 (3) (1,955)
Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2009 266 47 918 968 – 553 129 – 231 34 3,146
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2009 (474) (2,940) (6) (16) (1,474) (83) – (71) – (37) (5,101)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2009 (208) (2,893) 912 952 (1,474) 470 129 (71) 231 (3) (1,955)
Taxation expense 131 465 (178) 3 24 66 (5) 2 50 (19) 539
Other comprehensive income –– (46) ––– 4–– 1 (41)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking
2
– (143) ––––––– 2 (141)
Exchange (6) 5 (9) 15 (81) 12 (1) 3 (10) – (72)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2010 (83) (2,566) 679 970 (1,531) 548 127 (66) 271 (19) (1,670)
Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2010 357 54 686 988 – 558 127 – 271 25 3,066
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2010 (440) (2,620) (7) (18) (1,531) (10) – (66) – (44) (4,736)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2010 (83) (2,566) 679 970 (1,531) 548 127 (66) 271 (19) (1,670)
Analysed in the statement of financial position, after offset of balances within countries, as:
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Deferred tax assets 1,475 1,292 1,236
Deferred tax liabilities (3,145) (3,247) (3,126)
Net deferred tax balance (1,670) (1,955) (1,890)
1
 Untaxed reserves relate to taxable profits where the tax liability is deferred to later periods.
2
 The deferred tax liability of $143m relates to the acquisition of Novexel S.A. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets of $128m have not been recognised in respect of deductible temporary differences (2009: $104m; 2008: $80m) 
because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits therefrom. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 151
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
5 Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share
2010 2009 2008
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders ($m) 8,053 7,521 6,101
Basic earnings per Ordinary Share $5.60 $5.19 $4.20
Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share $5.57 $5.19 $4.20
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue for basic earnings (millions) 1,438 1,448 1,453
Dilutive impact of share options outstanding (millions) 8 2 –
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 1,446 1,450 1,453
There are no options, warrants or rights outstanding in respect of unissued shares except for employee share option schemes. The number of 
options outstanding and the weighted average exercise price of these options is shown in Note 24. The earnings figures used in the calculations 
above are post-tax.
6 Segment information
AstraZeneca is engaged in a single business activity of pharmaceuticals and the Group does not have multiple operating segments. Our 
pharmaceuticals business consists of the discovery and development of new products, which are then manufactured, marketed and sold. 
All of these functional activities take place (and are managed) globally on a highly integrated basis. We do not manage these individual functional 
areas separately. We consider that the SET is AstraZeneca’s chief operating decision making body (as defined by IFRS 8). All significant 
operating decisions are taken by the SET. In assessing performance, the SET reviews financial information on an integrated basis for the 
Group as a whole, substantially in the form of, and on the same basis as, the Group’s IFRS Financial Statements. Resources are allocated 
on a Group-wide basis according to need. In particular, capital expenditure, in-licensing, and research and development resources are 
allocated between activities on merit, based on overall therapeutic considerations and strategy under the aegis of the Group’s Portfolio 
Investment Board to facilitate a Group-wide single combined discovery and development strategy.
Geographic areas
The tables below show information by geographic area and, for revenue and property, plant and equipment, material countries. The figures 
show the revenue, operating profit and profit before tax made by companies located in that area/country, together with segment assets, 
segment assets acquired, net operating assets and property, plant and equipment owned by the same companies; export sales and the 
related profit are included in the area/country from which those sales were made.
Revenue
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
UK
External 1,952 1,809 1,910
Intra-Group 9,957 9,056 8,460
11,909 10,865 10,370
Continental Europe
Belgium 331 353 380
France 1,929 1,880 1,945
Germany 1,151 1,197 1,225
Italy 1,000 1,012 1,145
Spain 762 742 832
Sweden 1,157 1,070 1,135
Others 2,440 2,622 2,696
Intra-Group 5,144 4,944 3,895
13,914 13,820 13,253
The Americas
Canada 1,492 1,188 1,269
US 14,010 14,994 13,657
Others 1,387 1,113 1,155
Intra-Group 2,341 1,962 1,169
19,230 19,257 17,250
Asia, Africa & Australasia
Australia 981 790 763
Japan 2,458 2,214 1,861
China 1,047 811 627
Others 1,172 1,009 1,001
Intra-Group 67 80 78
5,725 4,904 4,330
Continuing operations 50,778 48,846 45,203
Intra-Group eliminations (17,509) (16,042) (13,602)
33,269 32,804 31,601
Export sales from the UK totalled $10,944m for the year ended 31 December 2010 (2009: $9,864m; 2008: $9,439m). Intra-Group pricing is 
determined on an arm’s length basis. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 152 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
6 Segment information continued
Operating profit Profit before tax
Profit from
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
UK 3,258 3,124 2,907 3,098 2,813 2,612
Continental Europe 4,591 4,809 3,136 4,581 4,821 3,233
The Americas 3,278 3,265 2,705 2,932 2,832 2,440
Asia, Africa & Australasia 367 345 396 366 341 396
Continuing operations 11,494 11,543 9,144 10,977 10,807 8,681
Non-current assets
1
Total assets
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
UK 3,397 3,810 3,524 17,171 17,092 9,870
Continental Europe 4,470 3,966 3,674 7,596 6,706 6,275
The Americas 20,808 21,354 21,762 28,175 28,397 28,290
Asia, Africa & Australasia 522 476 436 3,185 2,725 2,515
Continuing operations 29,197 29,606 29,396 56,127 54,920 46,950
Assets acquired
2
Net operating assets
3
 
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
UK 314 537 440 3,273 4,473 4,234
Continental Europe 1,053 643 295 4,827 4,094 3,683
The Americas 1,125 711 3,252 18,795 19,186 21,033
Asia, Africa & Australasia 107 79 67 2,021 1,707 1,732
Continuing operations 2,599 1,970 4,054 28,916 29,460 30,682
1
 ‘Non-current assets’ exclude deferred tax assets and derivative financial instruments.
2
 Included in ‘assets acquired’ are those assets that are expected to be used during more than one period (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets).
3
 ‘Net operating assets’ exclude short-term investments, cash, short-term borrowings, loans, retirement benefit obligations and non-operating receivables and payables.
Property, plant and equipment
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
UK 1,628 1,901 1,750
Sweden 1,647 1,700 1,722
US 2,381 2,386 2,200
Rest of the world 1,301 1,320 1,371
Continuing operations 6,957 7,307 7,043
Geographic markets
The table below shows revenue in each geographic market in which customers are located.
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
UK 1,033 1,057 994
Continental Europe 9,315 9,286 9,937
The Americas 16,629 17,096 15,945
Asia, Africa & Australasia 6,292 5,365 4,725
Continuing operations 33,269 32,804 31,601
Revenue is recognised at the point of delivery, which is usually when title passes to the wholesaler. Transactions with two wholesalers 
individually represented greater than 10% of total revenue (2009: two; 2008: two). The values of these transactions recorded as revenue 
were $4,164m and $4,129m (2009: $4,319m and $4,228m; 2008: $3,936m and $3,900m). AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 153
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
7 Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
$m
Plant and
equipment
$m
Assets in course
of construction
$m
Total property,
plant and
equipment
$m
Cost
At 1 January 2008 5,819 10,174 842 16,835
Capital expenditure 49 239 825 1,113
Transfer of assets into use 275 404 (679) –
Disposals and other movements (123) (558) (25) (706)
Exchange adjustments (803) (1,725) (100) (2,628)
At 31 December 2008 5,217 8,534 863 14,614
Capital expenditure 8 209 750 967
Transfer of assets into use 218 388 (606) –
Disposals and other movements (400) (937) (20) (1,357)
Exchange adjustments 293 609 42 944
At 31 December 2009 5,336 8,803 1,029 15,168
Capital expenditure 13 225 570 808
Transfer of assets into use 342 668 (1,010) –
Disposals and other movements (40) (449) (4) (493)
Exchange adjustments 48 46 6 100
At 31 December 2010 5,699 9,293 591 15,583
Depreciation
At 1 January 2008 2,015 6,521 1 8,537
Charge for year 247 812 – 1,059
Impairment 91 32 – 123
Disposals and other movements (120) (529) (2) (651)
Exchange adjustments (303) (1,192) (2) (1,497)
At 31 December 2008 1,930 5,644 (3) 7,571
Charge for year 219 674 – 893
Impairment 44 6 – 50
Disposals and other movements (343) (859) (4) (1,206)
Exchange adjustments 117 434 2 553
At 31 December 2009 1,967 5,899 (5) 7,861
Charge for year 302 774 – 1,076
Impairment 2 20 – 22
Disposals and other movements (29) (396) 5 (420)
Exchange adjustments 32 55 – 87
At 31 December 2010 2,274 6,352 – 8,626
Net book value
At 31 December 2008 3,287 2,890 866 7,043
At 31 December 2009 3,369 2,904 1,034 7,307
At 31 December 2010 3,425 2,941 591 6,957
Impairment charges in 2010 were due to the termination of the Certriad co-promotion with Abbott and various productivity initiatives. 
These costs were recognised in cost of sales and research and development respectively.
Impairment charges in 2009 were due to the productivity initiatives in the global supply chain in Italy and research and development in 
Canada. These costs were recognised in cost of sales and research and development respectively.
Impairment charges in 2008 were due to the productivity initiatives in the global supply chain in France and research and development 
in Canada. These costs were recognised in cost of sales and research and development respectively.
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
Freeholds 3,425 3,369 3,287 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 154 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
8 Goodwill
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
Cost
At 1 January 10,228 10,211 10,225
Additions through business combinations – ––
Exchange adjustments (22) 17 (14)
At 31 December 10,206 10,228 10,211
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 339 337 341
Exchange adjustments (4) 2 (4)
At 31 December 335 339 337
Net book value at 31 December 9,871 9,889 9,874
For the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill, the Group is regarded as a single cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount is based on value in use using discounted risk-adjusted projections of the Group’s pre-tax cash flows over 10 years, 
a period reflecting the average patent-protected lives of our current products. The projections include assumptions about product launches, 
competition from rival products and pricing policy as well as the possibility of generics entering the market. In setting these assumptions we 
consider our past experience, external sources of information (including information on expected increases and ageing of the populations in 
our established markets and the expanding patient population in newer markets), our knowledge of competitor activity and our assessment 
of future changes in the pharmaceutical industry. The 10 year period is covered by internal budgets and forecasts. Given that internal budgets 
and forecasts are prepared for all projections, no general growth rates are used to extrapolate internal budgets and forecasts for the purposes 
of determining value in use. No terminal value is included as these cash flows are more than sufficient to establish that an impairment does 
not exist.
In arriving at value in use, we disaggregate our projected pre-tax cash flows into groups reflecting similar risks and tax effects. For each group 
of cash flows we use an appropriate discount rate reflecting those risks and tax effects. In arriving at the appropriate discount rate for each 
group of cash flows, we adjust AstraZeneca’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital (7.0% for 2010; 7.6% for 2009; 7.6% for 2008) to 
reflect the impact of relevant industry risks, the time value of money and tax effects. The weighted average pre-tax discount rate we used 
was approximately 10% (11% for 2009; 11% for 2008).
As a further check, we compare our market capitalisation to the book value of our net assets and this indicates significant surplus at 
31 December 2010 (and 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008).
No goodwill impairment was identified.
The Group has also performed sensitivity analysis calculations on the projections used and discount rate applied. The Directors have concluded 
that, given the significant headroom that exists, and the results of the sensitivity analysis performed, there is no significant risk that reasonable 
changes in any key assumptions would cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed its value in use. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 155
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
9 Intangible assets
Product, 
marketing and
distribution rights
$m
Other
intangibles
$m
Software
development
costs
$m
Total
$m
Cost
At 1 January 2008 11,549 2,385 976 14,910
Additions – separately acquired 2,743 20 178 2,941
Disposals – (33) (30) (63)
Exchange and other adjustments (770) (197) (133) (1,100)
At 31 December 2008 13,522 2,175 991 16,688
Additions – separately acquired 764 46 193 1,003
Disposals (200) (1) – (201)
Exchange and other adjustments 267 84 28 379
At 31 December 2009 14,353 2,304 1,212 17,869
Additions through business combinations 548 – – 548
Additions – separately acquired 1,017 20 206 1,243
Disposals (239) (2) – (241)
Exchange and other adjustments 125 13 (19) 119
At 31 December 2010 15,804 2,335 1,399 19,538
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2008 2,373 528 542 3,443
Amortisation for year 529 182 96 807
Impairment 516 91 24 631
Disposals – (9) (10) (19)
Exchange and other adjustments (357) (104) (36) (497)
At 31 December 2008 3,061 688 616 4,365
Amortisation for year 481 162 86 729
Impairment 93 273 49 415
Disposals (67) – – (67)
Exchange and other adjustments 159 25 17 201
At 31 December 2009 3,727 1,148 768 5,643
Amortisation for year 573 121 116 810
Impairment 699 131 3 833
Disposals – (1) – (1)
Exchange and other adjustments 89 26 (20) 95
At 31 December 2010 5,088 1,425 867 7,380
Net book value 
At 31 December 2008 10,461 1,487 375 12,323
At 31 December 2009 10,626 1,156 444 12,226
At 31 December 2010 10,716 910 532 12,158
Other intangibles consist mainly of licensing and rights to contractual income streams.
Amortisation charges are recognised in profit as follows:
Product, 
marketing and
distribution rights
$m
Other
intangibles
$m
Software
development
costs
$m
Total
$m
Year ended 31 December 2008
Cost of sales 39 – – 39
Research and development 10 – – 10
Selling, general and administrative costs 480 35 96 611
Other operating income and expense – 147 – 147
529 182 96 807
Year ended 31 December 2009
Cost of sales 48 – – 48
Selling, general and administrative costs 433 27 86 546
Other operating income and expense – 135 – 135
481 162 86 729
Year ended 31 December 2010
Cost of sales 60 – – 60
Selling, general and administrative costs 513 22 116 651
Other operating income and expense – 99 – 99
573 121 116 810 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 156 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
9 Intangible assets continued 
Impairment charges are recognised in profit as follows:
Product, 
marketing and
distribution rights
$m
Other
intangibles
$m
Software
development
costs
$m
Total
$m
Year ended 31 December 2008
Cost of sales 115 – – 115
Research and development 144 – – 144
Selling, general and administrative costs 257 – 24 281
Other operating income and expense – 91 – 91
516 91 24 631
Year ended 31 December 2009
Research and development 93 7 – 100
Selling, general and administrative costs – 1 49 50
Other operating income and expense – 265 – 265
93 273 49 415
Year ended 31 December 2010
Cost of sales 128 – – 128
Research and development 571 – – 571
Selling, general and administrative costs –336
Other operating income and expense – 128 – 128
699 131 3 833
Amortisation and impairment charges
The 2010 impairment of product, marketing and distribution rights results from the withdrawal of the biological license application pending 
at the FDA for motavizumab ($445m) and the termination of the lesogaberan development ($128m) and other development projects in the 
year. The 2010 impairment of other intangibles chiefly results from a reassessment of the future royalties expected to be received relating to the 
HPV cervical cancer vaccine.
The 2009 impairment of product, marketing and distribution rights results from the termination of development projects during the year. The 
2009 impairment of other intangibles results from a reassessment of the future royalties expected to be received relating to the HPV cervical 
cancer vaccine and a reassessment of other future licensing and contractual income expected to be earned within our biologics business. 
The 2008 impairment of product, marketing and distribution rights results, in part, from the settlement of the Pulmicort Respules patent 
litigation with Teva ($115m) and the ‘at risk’ launch of a generic competitor to Ethyol ($257m). The 2008 impairment of other intangibles 
results from a reassessment of the future royalties expected to be received relating to the HPV cervical cancer vaccine. These impairment 
charges were determined using value in use calculations applying the same considerations as above. The remaining $144m impairment of 
product, marketing and distribution rights results from the termination of projects in development during the year.
The write downs in value of intangible assets, other than those arising from termination of research and development activities, were determined 
based on value in use calculations using discounted risk-adjusted projections of the products’ expected cash flows over a period reflecting 
the patent-protected lives of the individual products. The full period of projections is covered by internal budgets and forecasts. In arriving at 
the appropriate discount rate to use for each product, we adjust AstraZeneca’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital (7.0% for 2010; 
7.6% for 2009; 7.6% for 2008) to reflect the impact of risks and tax effects specific to the individual products. The weighted average pre-tax 
discount rate we used was approximately 14% (2009: 14%; 2008: 14%).
Significant assets
Description
Carrying value
$m
Remaining amortisation 
period
Intangible assets arising from joint venture with Merck
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 186 3 and 7 years
Advance payment
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 490 8 years
Partial retirement
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 735 4-17 years
First Option
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 1,651 1-13 years
Non-refundable deposit
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 474 Not amortised
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of CAT
2
Product, marketing and distribution rights 363 5 and 10 years
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of KuDOS
2
Product, marketing and distribution rights 285 Not amortised
RSV franchise assets arising from the acquisition of MedImmune Product, marketing and distribution rights 4,174 15 years
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of MedImmune Licensing and contractual income 522 1-9 years
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of MedImmune Product, marketing and distribution rights 603 21 years
Intangible assets arising from the collaboration with BMS
3
Product, marketing and distribution rights 419 12-13 years
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of Novexel
2
Product, marketing and distribution rights 302 Not amortised
Intangible assets arising from the collaboration with Pozen
4
Product, marketing and distribution rights 213 13 years
1
 These assets are associated with the restructuring of the joint venture with Merck & Co., Inc. Further information can be found in Note 25.
2
 Assets in development are not amortised but are tested annually for impairment.
3
 These assets arise from the collaboration agreement with BMS for Onglyza
™
 and dapagliflozin.
4
 These assets arise from the collaboration agreement with Pozen for Vimovo. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 157
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
10 Other investments
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
Non-current investments
Equity securities available for sale 211 184 156
211 184 156
Current investments
Equity securities and bonds available for sale 355 ––
Equity securities held for trading 20 18 51
Fixed deposits 1,107 1,466 54
1,482 1,484 105
The equity securities and bonds available for sale in current investments of $355m are held in an escrow account. Further details of this 
escrow account are included in Note 18.
Fixed deposits relate to investments in US Treasury bills and commercial paper with a maturity of greater than 90 days at inception.
Impairment charges of $2m in respect of available for sale securities are included in other operating income and expense in profit (2009: $18m; 
2008: $25m).
11 Inventories
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
Raw materials and consumables 539 445 409
Inventories in process 665 726 631
Finished goods and goods for resale 478 579 596
1,682 1,750 1,636
Inventory write-offs in the year amounted to $69m (2009: $83m; 2008: $51m).
12 Trade and other receivables
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
Amounts due within one year
Trade receivables 6,328 5,863 5,657
Less: Amounts provided for doubtful debts (Note 23) (81) (81) (99)
6,247 5,782 5,558
Other receivables 607 1,170 978
Prepayments and accrued income 733 580 552
7,587 7,532 7,088
Amounts due after more than one year
Other receivables 64 27 44
Prepayments and accrued income 196 150 129
260 177 173
Trade and other receivables 7,847 7,709 7,261
13 Cash and cash equivalents
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
Cash at bank and in hand 1,750 1,077 1,039
Short-term deposits 9,318 8,841 3,247
Cash and cash equivalents 11,068 9,918 4,286
Unsecured bank overdrafts (87) (90) (163)
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 10,981 9,828 4,123
The Group’s insurance subsidiaries hold cash and cash equivalents totalling $415m (2009: $173m; 2008: $400m), of which $370m (2009: $49m; 
2008: $278m) is required to meet insurance solvency requirements and which, as a result, is not readily available for the general purposes 
of the Group. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 158 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
14 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Repayment
dates
2010
$m 
2009
$m
2008
$m
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts On demand 87 90 163
Floating rate note US dollars 2009 – – 650
4.625% Non-callable bond Euros 2010 – 1,073 –
5.625% Non-callable bond Euros 2010 – 717 –
Other loans Within one year 38 46 180
125 1,926 993
Non-current liabilities
4.625% Non-callable bond Euros 2010 – – 1,053
5.625% Non-callable bond Euros 2010 – – 702
5.4% Callable bond US dollars 2012 1,800 1,805 1,823
5.4% Callable bond US dollars 2014 837 821 789
5.125% Non-callable bond Euros 2015 993 1,072 1,051
5.9% Callable bond US dollars 2017 1,855 1,818 1,896
7% Guaranteed debentures US dollars 2023 359 346 324
5.75% Non-callable bond Pounds sterling 2031 535 558 501
6.45% Callable bond US dollars 2037 2,718 2,717 2,716
9,097 9,137 10,855
All loans and borrowings above are unsecured. 
15 Financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments
Set out below is a summary of the derivative financial instruments included in the consolidated statement of financial position at 
31 December 2010, 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008.
Non-current 
assets
$m
Current
assets
$m
Current
liabilities
$m
Non-current 
liabilities
$m
Total
$m
Designated in a fair value hedge 164––– 164
Related to instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 160––– 160
Other derivatives –9 (8) –1
31 December 2010 324 9 (8) – 325
Non-current 
assets
$m
Current 
assets
$m
Current 
liabilities
$m
Non-current 
liabilities
$m
Total
$m
Designated in a fair value hedge 135 – – – 135
Related to instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 127 – – – 127
Other derivatives  – 24 (90) – (66)
31 December 2009 262 24 (90) – 196
Non-current 
assets
$m
Current 
assets
$m
Current 
liabilities
$m
Non-current 
liabilities
$m
Total
$m
Designated in a fair value hedge 229 – – – 229
Related to instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 220 – – – 220
Other derivatives  – – (95) (71) (166)
31 December 2008 449 – (95) (71) 283 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 159
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
15 Financial instruments continued
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values and fair values of all the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities at 
31 December 2010, 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008. None of the financial assets or financial liabilities have been reclassified 
during the year.
Instruments
in a hedge
relationship
1
$m
Instruments
designated
at fair value
2
$m
Other financial
instruments
at fair value
3
$m
Available
for sale
$m
Held for
trading
$m
Amortised
cost
$m
Total
carrying
value
$m
Fair
value
$m
2010
Cash and cash equivalents ––––– 11,068 11,068 11,068
Overdrafts ––––– (87) (87) (87)
Loans due within one year ––––– (38) (38) (38)
Loans due after more than one year (1,659) (1,196) – – – (6,242) (9,097) (10,022)
Derivative financial instruments 164 160 1––– 325 325
Other investments – – – 566 20 1,107 1,693 1,693
Other financial assets – – 25 – – 6,893 6,918 6,918
Other financial liabilities – – (50) – – (8,963) (9,013) (9,013)
2009
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – – 9,918 9,918 9,918
Overdrafts ––––– (90) (90) (90)
Loans due within one year – – – – – (1,836) (1,836) (1,867)
Loans due after more than one year (1,629) (1,167) – – – (6,341) (9,137) (9,832)
Derivative financial instruments 135 127 (66) – – – 196 196
Other investments – – – 184 18 1,466 1,668 1,668
Other financial assets – – – – – 6,979 6,979 6,979
Other financial liabilities – – – – – (8,872) (8,872) (8,872)
2008
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – – 4,286 4,286 4,286
Overdrafts ––––– (163) (163) (163)
Loans due within one year – – – – – (830) (830) (830)
Loans due after more than one year (1,727) (1,113) – – – (8,015) (10,855) (11,238)
Derivative financial instruments 229 220 (166) – – – 283 283
Other investments – – – 156 50 54 260 260
Other financial assets – – – – – 6,580 6,580 6,580
Other financial liabilities – – – – – (7,239) (7,239) (7,239)
1
 Includes borrowings and derivatives designated as hedged items in fair value hedge relationships with respect to interest rate risk.
2
 Includes borrowings designated at fair value through profit or loss, and related derivatives.
3
 Includes derivatives not designated in hedge relationships or related to financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss, and contingent consideration arising on business 
combinations (Note 22).
Other financial assets represent trade and other receivables (Note 12) excluding prepayments and accrued income. Other financial liabilities 
represent trade and other payables (Note 16) excluding deferred income.
Credit risk increased the fair value of the bonds designated as fair value through profit or loss by $5m for the year and increased the fair value 
by $40m since designation. Changes in credit risk had no material effect on any other financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value in 
the Group’s Financial Statements. The change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk is calculated as the change in fair value not 
attributable to market risk. The amount payable at maturity on bonds designated at fair value through profit or loss is $1,037m.
The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair values of financial instruments together with their carrying values are as follows:
 > Cash and overdrafts – held on the consolidated statement of financial position at amortised costs. Fair value approximates to carrying value.
 > Loans due within one year and after more than one year – the fair value of fixed-rate publicly traded debt is based on year-end quoted 
market prices; the fair value of floating rate debt is nominal value, as mark to market differences would be minimal given the frequency of 
resets. The carrying value of loans designated at fair value through profit or loss is the fair value. For loans designated in a fair value hedge 
relationship, carrying value is initially measured at fair value and remeasured for fair value changes in respect of the hedged risk at each 
reporting date. All other loans are held at amortised cost.
 > Derivative financial instruments – consists of interest rate swaps (included in designated as fair value through profit or loss if related to debt 
designated at fair value, or instruments in a hedge relationship as a fair value hedge or other derivatives) and forward foreign exchange 
contracts (included in other derivatives). All derivatives are held at fair value.
 – Interest rate swaps – the fair value is estimated using appropriate zero coupon curve valuation techniques to discount future contractual 
cash flows based on rates current at year end.
 – Forward foreign exchange contracts – the majority of contracts for existing transactions had maturities of six months or less from year end. 
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows using appropriate yield 
curves based on market forward foreign exchange rates at the year end.
 > Other investments – held on the consolidated statement of financial position at fair value. These include equity securities held on the 
consolidated statement of financial position as other investments (Note 10). The fair value of listed investments is based on year end 
quoted market prices. Unlisted investments are held at cost which approximates to fair value. 
 > Other financial assets and other financial liabilities – with the exception of contingent consideration which is held at fair value (see Note 22), 
other financial assets and liabilities are held on the consolidated statement of financial position at amortised costs with carrying value 
being a reasonable approximation of fair value. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 160 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
15 Financial instruments continued
The interest rates used to discount future cash flows, where applicable, are based on market swap curves at the reporting date, and were 
as follows:
2010 2009 2008
Derivatives 0.7% to 4.0% 2.0% to 4.6% 3.8% to 4.6%
Loans and borrowings 0.7% to 4.0% 2.0% to 4.6% 3.8% to 4.6%
Fair value hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows:
 > Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 > Level 2:  inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (ie as prices) 
or indirectly (ie derived from prices).
 > Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 1
$m
Level 2
$m
Level 3
$m
Total
$m
31 December 2010
 
Equity securities and bonds available for sale 399 – 167 566
Equity securities held for trading 20 – – 20
Derivative assets – 333 – 333
Other financial assets – – 25 25
Assets 419 333 192 944
Borrowing designated at fair value through profit or loss (1,196) – – (1,196)
Derivative liabilities – (8) – (8)
Other financial liabilities – – (50) (50)
Liabilities (1,196) (8) (50) (1,254)
31 December 2009
 
Equity securities available for sale 41 – 143 184
Equity securities held for trading 18 – – 18
Derivative assets – 286 – 286
Assets 59 286 143 488
Borrowing designated at fair value through profit or loss (1,167) – – (1,167)
Derivative liabilities – (90) – (90)
Liabilities (1,167) (90) – (1,257)
Equity securities available for sale which are analysed at Level 3 represent investments in private biotech companies. These unlisted investments 
are held at cost, adjusted as necessary for impairments, which approximates to fair value. Hence, carrying value is adjusted only for additions, 
sales and permanent impairment and for no other movement. Consequently, in the current year, no change has been made to the fair value 
of individual investments. Level 3 other financial assets and liabilities arose on the acquisition of Novexel and the subsequent transaction with 
Forest as detailed in Note 22.
Net gains and losses on financial assets and financial liabilities
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Included in operating profit
Gains/(losses) on forward foreign exchange contracts 29 114 (399)
(Losses)/gains on receivables and payables (80) (141) 391
Losses on available for sale current investments (2) (18) (25)
(53) (45) (33)
Included in finance income and expense
Interest and fair value adjustments in respect of debt designated at fair value through profit or loss, net of derivatives (5) (169) 87
Interest and changes in carrying values of debt designated as hedged items, net of derivatives (18) (35) (64)
Interest and fair value changes on fixed and short-term deposits and equity securities 61 43 140
Interest on debt, overdrafts and commercial paper held at amortised cost (452) (501) (609)
Exchange (losses)/gains on financial assets and liabilities (11) 31 (12)
(425) (631) (458)
Included in other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange differences on borrowings forming net investment hedges 101 (68) 291
Amortisation of loss on cash flow hedge through profit 1 11
Available for sale (losses)/gains taken to equity 4 22
106 (65) 294 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 161
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
15 Financial instruments continued
$29m fair value gains (2009: $95m fair value losses) on interest rate fair value hedging instruments and $29m fair value losses (2009: $97m fair 
value gains) on the related hedged items have been included within interest and changes in carrying values of debt designated as hedged 
items, net of derivatives. All fair value hedge relationships were effective during the year. The accounting treatment for fair value hedges is 
disclosed in the Group Accounting Policies.
$33m fair value gains (2009: $94m fair value losses) on derivatives related to debt instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss and 
$28m fair value losses (2009: $53m fair value losses) on debt instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss have been included 
within interest and fair value adjustments in respect of debt designated at fair value through profit or loss, net of derivatives. The accounting 
treatment for debt designated at fair value through profit or loss is disclosed in the Group Accounting Policies section from page 142. 
The amortisation of loss on cash flow hedge through profit included in other comprehensive income relates to a loss on a cash flow hedge 
of a prospective debt issue which was taken directly to reserves in 2007 and is being amortised through profit over the remaining life of the 
underlying debt instrument. Ineffectiveness on the net investment hedge taken to profit was $nil (2009: $nil; 2008: $nil). The accounting 
treatment for net investment hedges is disclosed in the Group Accounting Policies section from page 142.
16 Trade and other payables
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Current liabilities
Trade payables 2,257 2,316 1,940
Value added and payroll taxes and social security 323 342 371
Rebates and chargebacks 2,839 2,618 1,963
Other payables 945 1,038 1,026
Accruals 2,297 2,373 1,878
8,661 8,687 7,178
Non-current liabilities
Other payables 373 244 149
Included in other payables are amounts totalling $259m (2009: $259m; 2008: $227m) to meet insurance obligations of the Group’s insurance 
subsidiaries. These amounts are net of intra-group set-off.
17 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Severance
$m
Environmental
$m
Employee 
benefits
$m
Legal
$m
Other 
provisions
$m
Total
$m
At 1 January 2008 643 111 100 25 141 1,020
Charge/(credit) for year 469 37 (23) – 164 647
Cash paid (405) (39) (1) – (12) (457)
Exchange and other movements (88) 21 8 – (9) (68)
At 31 December 2008 619 130 84 25 284 1,142
Charge for year 309 6 12 636 101 1,064
Cash paid (341) (23) – (13) (34) (411)
Reversals (89) – – – (28) (117)
Exchange and other movements 13 (1) (1) – (3) 8
At 31 December 2009 511 112 95 648 320 1,686
Charge for year 497 48 11 617 188 1,361
Cash paid (335) (43) – (709) (22) (1,109)
Reversals (26) – – (1) (22) (49)
Exchange and other movements 122 217 7 49
At 31 December 2010 659 119 127 562 471 1,938
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Due within one year 1,095 1,209 600
Due after more than one year 843 477 542
1,938 1,686 1,142
AstraZeneca is undergoing a global restructuring initiative which involves rationalisation of the Global Supply Chain, European Sales and 
Marketing, Information Services and Business Support infrastructure and Research and Development. Employee costs in connection with 
the initiatives are recognised in severance provisions.
Details of the environmental and legal provisions are provided in Note 25.
Employee benefit provisions include the executive deferred bonus plan. Further details are included in Note 24.
Other provisions comprise amounts relating to specific legal and constructive obligations and disputes.
No provision has been released or applied for any purpose other than that for which it was established. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 162 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
18 Post-retirement benefits
Pensions
Background
The Company and most of its subsidiaries offer retirement plans which cover the majority of employees in the Group. Many of these plans 
are ‘defined contribution’, where AstraZeneca’s contribution and resulting charge is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of employees’ 
pay. However, several plans, mainly in the UK, the US and Sweden, are ‘defined benefit’, where benefits are based on employees’ length of 
service and average final salary (typically averaged over one, three or five years). The major defined benefit plans, apart from the collectively 
bargained Swedish plan (which is still open to employees born before 1979), have been closed to new entrants since 2000.
The major defined benefit plans are funded through legally separate, fiduciary-administered funds. The cash funding of the plans, which 
may from time to time involve special payments, is designed, in consultation with independent qualified actuaries, to ensure that the assets 
together with future contributions should be sufficient to meet future obligations. The funding is monitored rigorously by AstraZeneca and 
appropriate fiduciaries specifically with reference to AstraZeneca’s credit rating, market capitalisation, cash flows and the solvency of the 
relevant pension scheme.
Financing Principles
96.5% of the Group’s defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2010 are in schemes within the UK, the US, Sweden or Germany. In these 
countries the pension obligations are funded with reference to the following financing principles:
 > The Group has a fundamental belief in funding the benefits it promises to employees.
 > The Group considers its pension arrangements in the context of its broader capital structure. In general it does not believe in committing 
excessive capital for funding while it has better uses of capital within the business nor does it wish to generate surpluses.
 > The pension funds are not part of the Group’s core business. The Group believes in taking some rewarded risks with the investments 
underlying the funding, subject to a medium to long-term plan to reduce those risks if opportunities arise.
 > The Group recognises that deciding to hold certain investments may cause volatility in the funding position. The Group would not wish 
to amend its contribution level for relatively small deviations from its preferred funding level, because it is expected that there will be short-
term volatility, but it is prepared to react appropriately to more significant deviations. 
 > In the event that local regulations require an additional level of financing, the Group would consider the use of alternative methods of providing 
this that do not require immediate cash funding but help mitigate exposure of the pension arrangement to the credit risk of the Group.
These principles are appropriate to AstraZeneca’s business at the present date; should circumstances change they may require review.
AstraZeneca has developed a funding framework to implement these principles. This determines the cash contributions payable to the 
pension funds, but does not affect the IAS 19 liabilities. To reduce the risk of committing excess capital to pension funds, liability valuations 
are based on the expected return on the actual pension assets, rather than a corporate bond yield. At present this puts a different value on 
the liabilities than IAS 19.
UK
With regard to the Group’s UK defined benefit fund, the above principles are modified in light of the UK regulatory requirements and resulting 
discussions with the Pension Fund Trustee. The most recent full actuarial valuation was carried out at 31 March 2008. 
Under the agreed funding principles for the UK, cash contributions will be paid to the fund to target a level of assets in excess of the current 
expected cost of providing benefits. In addition, AstraZeneca will make contributions to an escrow account which will be held outside of the 
pension fund. The escrow account assets will be payable to the fund in agreed circumstances, for example, in the event of AstraZeneca and 
Trustee agreeing on a change to the current long term investment strategy. 
The market value of the fund’s assets at the valuation date was £2,994m ($5,951m equivalent), representing 87% of the fund’s actuarially assessed 
liabilities as valued in accordance with the fund’s technical provisions. The escrow fund held an additional £33m ($65m) at the valuation date. 
During 2009, it was agreed to fund the shortfall by making a transfer of current escrow assets to the fund and by establishing a new funding 
schedule, making regular payments over seven years in the region of £42m per annum to the escrow and £132m per annum to the fund. This 
includes the contributions required to meet the benefits accruing in the region of £60m per annum. In addition, £90m per annum is being paid 
to the escrow for two years until the next valuation to cover the losses on the fund’s investments since the valuation date as a result of the 
market downturn. At 31 December 2010, £230m ($355m) escrow fund assets are included within other investments (see Note 10).
Under the agreed funding principles, the key assumptions as at 31 March 2008 for contributions to both the fund and escrow account are 
as follows: long-term UK price inflation set at 3.5% per annum, salary increases at 3.5% per annum, pension increases at 3.5% per annum 
and investment returns at 7.1% per annum (pre-retirement) and 5.96% per annum (post-retirement).
During the first half of 2010, AstraZeneca consulted with its UK employees’ representatives on proposals to freeze pensionable pay at 
30 June 2010 levels for defined benefit members of the UK pension fund. The defined benefit fund remains open to existing members and 
employees who choose to leave the defined benefit fund will retain a deferred pension in addition to being offered membership in a new 
Group Self Invested Personal Pension Plan. 
The amendment to the UK defined benefit fund to freeze pensionable pay at 30 June 2010 levels represents an accounting curtailment of 
certain pension obligations. The majority of members opted to remain in the defined benefit fund and continue benefit accrual with frozen 
pensionable pay. In accordance with IAS 19, the scheme obligations were revalued by the scheme actuaries immediately prior to the change 
and assumptions reviewed at that date. The resulting credit of $693m has been recognised in comprehensive income during the year.
In July 2010, the UK government announced changes to the inflation index used for statutory pension increases (both for pensions in payment 
and pensions in deferment) to apply to private sector pension schemes. This has resulted in a small actuarial gain during the period in respect 
of the AstraZeneca Pension Fund. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 163
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
18 Post-retirement benefits continued
Rest of Group
The IAS 19 positions as at 31 December 2010 are shown below for each of the other countries with significant defined benefit plans. These 
plans account for 90% of the Group’s defined benefit obligations outside of the UK. These plans are funded in line with the financing principles 
and contributions paid as prescribed by the funding framework.
 > The US defined benefits programme was actuarially revalued at 31 December 2010, when plan obligations were $1,757m and plan assets 
were $1,525m. This includes obligations in respect of the non-qualified plan which is largely unfunded.
 > The Swedish defined benefits programme was actuarially revalued at 31 December 2010, when plan obligations were estimated to amount 
to $1,338m and plan assets were $809m.
 > The German defined benefits programme was actuarially revalued at 31 December 2010, when plan obligations amounted to $241m and 
plan assets were $25m. 
On current bases, it is expected that contributions (excluding those in respect of past service cost) during the year ended 31 December 2011 
to the four main countries will be $342m.
Post-retirement benefits other than pensions
In the US, and to a lesser extent in certain other countries, AstraZeneca’s employment practices include the provision of healthcare and life 
assurance benefits for retired employees. As at 31 December 2010, some 3,973 retired employees and covered dependants currently benefit 
from these provisions and some 11,267 current employees will be eligible on their retirement. AstraZeneca accrues for the present value of 
such retiree obligations over the working life of the employee. In practice these benefits will be funded with reference to the financing principles.
The cost of post-retirement benefits other than pensions for the Group in 2010 was $18m (2009: $19m; 2008: $21m). Plan assets were $272m 
and plan obligations were $310m at 31 December 2010. These benefit plans have been included in the disclosure of post-retirement benefits 
under IAS 19.
Financial assumptions
Qualified independent actuaries have updated the actuarial valuations under IAS 19 of the major defined benefit schemes operated by the 
Group to 31 December 2010. The assumptions used by the actuaries are chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due 
to the long-term nature of the scheme, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. These assumptions were as follows:
2010 2009
UK Rest of Group UK Rest of Group
Inflation assumption 3.6% 2.3% 3.5% 2.3%
Rate of increase in salaries –
1
3.4% 4.5% 3.4%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.5% 0.9% 3.5% 0.9%
Discount rate 5.5% 4.9% 5.5% 5.0%
Long-term rate of return expected at 31 December
Equities 8.0% 7.9% 8.0% 8.1%
Bonds 5.1% 5.0% 5.5% 5.2%
Others 6.1% 4.7% 6.5% 4.8%
Rate of increase in medical costs (initial rate) 10.0% 10.0% 10.0% 10.0%
1
 Pensionable pay frozen at 30 June 2010 levels following UK fund changes.
The expected return on assets is determined with reference to the expected long-term level of dividends, interest and other returns derived 
from the plan assets, together with realised and unrealised gains or losses on the plan assets, less any costs of administering the plan, less 
any tax payable by the plan. The expected returns are based on long-term market expectations and analysed on a regular basis to ensure 
that any sustained movements in underlying markets are reflected.
Demographic assumptions
The mortality assumptions are based on country-specific mortality tables. These are compared to actual AstraZeneca experience and 
adjusted where sufficient data is available. Additional allowance for future improvements in life expectancy is included for all major schemes 
where there is credible data to support this continuing trend.
The table below illustrates life expectancy assumptions at age 65 for male members retiring in 2010 and members expected to retire in 2030.
Life expectancy assumption for a male member retiring at age 65
Country 2010 2030 2009 2029
UK 22.7 24.6 23.8 25.8
US 19.8 21.3 19.6 21.1
Sweden 20.4 22.4 20.4 22.4
Germany 17.9 20.7 17.7 20.5 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 164 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
18 Post-retirement benefits continued
Post-retirement scheme deficit
The assets and obligations of the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group at 31 December 2010, as calculated in accordance with 
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ are shown below. The fair values of the schemes’ assets are not intended to be realised in the short term and may 
be subject to significant change before they are realised. The present value of the schemes’ obligations is derived from cash flow projections 
over long periods and is therefore inherently uncertain.
2010 2009
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
Scheme assets
Equities 2,437 1,153 3,590 2,309 1,241 3,550 
Bonds 2,660 1,124 3,784 2,279 903 3,182
Others 52 341 393 265 258 523
Total fair value of scheme assets 5,149 2,618 7,767 4,853 2,402 7,255
Present value of scheme obligations (6,554) (3,691) (10,245) (7,055) (3,591) (10,646) 
Past service cost not yet recognised –66 – 37 37 
Deficit in the scheme as recognised  
in the statement of financial position (1,405) (1,067) (2,472) (2,202) (1,152) (3,354) 
Fair value of scheme assets
2010 2009
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
At beginning of year 4,853 2,402 7,255 3,835 2,013 5,848 
Expected return on scheme assets 305 146 451 261 127 388
Expenses (7) – (7) (6) – (6)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 244 (4) 240 293 180 473
Exchange (204) (4) (208) 430 17 447
Employer contributions 224 245 469 304 262 566
Participant contributions 28 3 31 31 3 34
Benefits paid (294) (170) (464) (295) (200) (495)
Scheme assets fair value at end of year 5,149 2,618 7,767 4,853 2,402 7,255
The actual return on the plan assets was a gain of $691m (2009: gain of $861m).
Movement in post-retirement scheme obligations
2010 2009
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
Present value of obligation in scheme at beginning of year (7,055) (3,591) (10,646) (5,029) (3,591) (8,620) 
Current service cost (97) (114) (211) (96) (126) (222)
Past service (cost)/credit (39) 106 67 (53) (21) (74)
Participant contributions (28) (3) (31) (31) (3) (34)
Benefits paid 294 170 464 295 200 495
Other finance expense (371) (172) (543) (330) (163) (493)
Expenses 7 –7 6 – 6
Actuarial (loss)/gain (221) (65) (286) (1,218) 176 (1,042)
Settlements and curtailments 693 6 699 – – –
Exchange 263 (28) 235 (599) (63) (662)
Present value of obligations in scheme at end of year (6,554) (3,691) (10,245) (7,055) (3,591) (10,646)
The obligation arises from the following plans:
2010 2009
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Funded (6,526) (3,232) (7,026) (3,159) 
Unfunded (28) (459) (29) (432)
Total (6,554) (3,691) (7,055) (3,591) AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 165
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
18 Post-retirement benefits continued
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income disclosures
The amounts that have been charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, in respect of defined benefit schemes for 
the year ended 31 December 2010, are set out below:
2010 2009
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
Operating profit
Current service cost (97) (114) (211) (96) (126) (222)
Past service (cost)/credit (39) 75 36 (53) (24) (77)
Settlements and curtailments 693 6 699 – –  –
Total charge to operating profit 557 (33) 524 (149) (150) (299)
Finance expense
Expected return on post-retirement scheme assets 305 146 451 261 127 388
Interest on post-retirement scheme obligations (371) (172) (543) (330) (163) (493)
Net return (66) (26) (92) (69) (36) (105)
Charge before taxation 491 (59) 432 (218) (186) (404)
Other comprehensive income
Difference between the actual return and the expected 
return on the post-retirement scheme assets 244 (4) 240 293 180 473
Experience (losses)/gains arising on the post-retirement 
scheme obligations (81) 5 (76) 105 (67) 38
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value 
of the post-retirement scheme obligations (140) (70) (210) (1,323) 243 (1,080)
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised 23 (69) (46) (925) 356 (569)
Included in total assets and obligations for the UK is $424m in respect of members’ defined contribution sections of the scheme. Costs in 
respect of the defined contribution sections of the scheme during the year were $228m (2009: $234m).
Actuarial gains and losses
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
UK
Present value of obligations ($m) (6,554) (7,055) (5,029) (7,644) (7,352)
Fair value of scheme assets ($m) 5,149 4,853 3,835 6,310 6,078
Deficit in the scheme ($m) (1,405) (2,202) (1,194) (1,334) (1,274)
Experience adjustments on:
Scheme assets
Amount ($m) 244 293 (1,185) (185) (259)
Percentage of scheme assets 4.7% 6.0% 30.9% 2.9% 4.3%
Scheme obligations
Amount ($m) (221) (1,218) 972 114 71
Percentage of scheme obligations 3.4% 17.3% 19.3% 1.5% 1.0%
Rest of Group
Present value of obligations ($m) (3,691) (3,591) (3,591) (3,348) (3,109)
Fair value of scheme assets ($m) 2,618 2,402 2,013 2,644 2,493
Deficit in the scheme ($m) (1,073) (1,189) (1,578) (704) (616)
Experience adjustments on:
Scheme assets
Amount ($m) (4) 180 (700) (24) 55
Percentage of scheme assets 0.2% 7.5% 34.8% 0.9% 2.2%
Scheme obligations
Amount ($m) (65) 176 (319) (18) 25
Percentage of scheme obligations 1.8% 4.9% 8.9% 0.5% 0.8%
Total
Present value of obligations ($m) (10,245) (10,646) (8,620) (10,992) (10,461)
Fair value of scheme assets ($m) 7,767 7,255 5,848 8,954 8,571
Deficit in the scheme ($m) (2,478) (3,391) (2,772) (2,038) (1,890)
Experience adjustments on:
Scheme assets
Amount ($m) 240 473 (1,885) (209) (204)
Percentage of scheme assets 3.1% 6.5% 32.2% 2.3% 2.4%
Scheme obligations
Amount ($m) (286) (1,042) 653 96 96
Percentage of scheme obligations 2.8% 9.8% 7 .6% 0.9% 0.9% AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 166 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
18 Post-retirement benefits continued
Transactions with pension schemes
During the year, the Group made loans to the UK and Swedish pension schemes to enable these schemes to manage their short-term liquidity 
requirements. The maximum balance outstanding in the year was $5m and the amount outstanding at 31 December 2010 was $5m.
Reserves
Included within the retained earnings reserve is the actuarial reserve. Movements on this reserve are as follows:
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
At 1 January (1,800) (1,371) (479)
Actuarial losses (46) (569) (1,232)
Deferred tax (19) 140 340
At 31 December (1,865) (1,800) (1,371)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses before deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income is $2,482m (2009: $2,436m; 
2008: $1,867m).
Discount rate sensitivity
The following table shows the US dollar effect of a 1% change in the discount rate on the retirement benefits obligations in our four main 
defined pension obligation benefit countries.
2010 2009
+1% –1% +1% –1%
UK ($m) 937 (1,093) 973 (1,129)
US ($m) 203 (232) 225 (256)
Sweden ($m) 222 (293) 192 (229)
Germany ($m) 37 (44) 35 (42)
Total ($m) 1,399 (1,662) 1,425 (1,656)
Sensitivity of medical cost assumptions
Effect of change in medical cost assumption increase/(decrease)
2010 2009
+1% –1% +1% –1%
Current service and interest cost of net periodic post-employment medical costs ($m) 4 (3) 4 (3)
Accumulated post-employment benefit obligation for medical costs ($m) 10 (11) 32 (28)
19 Capital and reserves
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Cumulative translation differences included within retained earnings
Balance at beginning of year 1,656 1,323 2,414
Foreign exchange arising on consolidation 26 388 (1,355)
Exchange adjustments on goodwill (recorded against other reserves) 15 13 (27)
Foreign exchange differences on borrowings forming net investment hedges 101 (68) 291
Net exchange movement in retained earnings 142 333 (1,091)
Balance at end of year 1,798 1,656 1,323
Other reserves
The other reserves arose from the cancellation of £1,255m of share premium account by the Company in 1993 and the redenomination of 
share capital ($157m) in 1999. The reserves are available for writing off goodwill arising on consolidation and, subject to guarantees given to 
preserve creditors at the date of the court order, are available for distribution.
Retained earnings
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off directly to reserves resulting from acquisitions, net of disposals, amounted to $682m (2009: $667m; 
2008: $654m) using year end rates of exchange. At 31 December 2010, 57,717 shares, at a cost of $3m, have been deducted from retained 
earnings (2009: 24,178 shares, at a cost of $1m; 2008: nil shares, at a cost of $nil).
There are no significant statutory or contractual restrictions on the distribution of current profits of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates; 
undistributed profits of prior years are, in the main, permanently employed in the businesses of these companies. The undistributed income 
of AstraZeneca companies overseas might be liable to overseas taxes and/or UK taxation (after allowing for double taxation relief) if they were 
to be distributed as dividends (see Note 4). AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 167
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
20 Share capital of the Company
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Issued Ordinary Shares ($0.25 each) 352 363 362
Redeemable Preference Shares (£1 each – £50,000) – – –
352 363 362 
At 31 December 2010, 1,409,023,452 Ordinary Shares were in issue.
The Redeemable Preference Shares carry limited class voting rights and no dividend rights. This class of shares is capable of redemption at 
par at the option of the Company on the giving of seven days’ written notice to the registered holder of the shares.
The movements in the number of Ordinary Shares during the year can be summarised as follows:
No. of shares (million)
2010 2009
At 1 January 1,451 1,447
Issues of shares 12 4
Repurchase of shares (54) – 
At 31 December 1,409 1,451 
Share repurchases
During the year, the Company repurchased 53,691,507 Ordinary Shares at an average price of 31 1 1 pence per share (2009: nil; 2008: 13,597 ,940 
Ordinary Shares at an average price of 2397 pence per share).
Share schemes
A total of 1 1,756,397 Ordinary Shares were issued during the year in respect of share schemes (2009: 3,477 ,014 Ordinary Shares; 2008: 4,078,635 
Ordinary Shares). Details of movements in the number of Ordinary Shares under option are shown in Note 24; details of options granted to 
Directors are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report from page 119.
Shares held by subsidiaries
No shares in the Company were held by subsidiaries in any year. 
21 Dividends to shareholders
2010
Per share
2009
Per share
2008
Per share
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Final $1.710 $1.500 $1.350 2,484 2,171 1,967
Interim $0.700 $0.590 $0.550 1,010 855 800
$2.410 $2.090 $1.900 3,494 3,026 2,767
The second interim dividend, to be confirmed as final, is $1.85 per Ordinary Share and $2,607m in total. This will be payable on 14 March 2011. 
On payment of the dividends, exchange gains of $19m (2009: gains of $17m; 2008: gains of $28m) arose. These exchange gains are included 
in Note 3.
22 Acquisitions of business operations
Novexel
On 3 March 2010, AstraZeneca completed the acquisition of Novexel S.A. Novexel is a research company focused on the infection therapy 
area and is based in France. This acquisition strengthens our research capabilities in the infection therapy area. AstraZeneca acquired one 
hundred percent of Novexel’s shares for an upfront consideration of $427m. Additional consideration of up to $75m will become payable to 
Novexel shareholders on the completion of certain development milestones. At both the date of acquisition and at 31 December 2010, the 
fair value of this contingent consideration was $50m. For both the period since acquisition and the full year, Novexel had no revenues and its 
loss was immaterial.
Book value
$m
Fair value
adjustment
$m
Fair value
$m
Non-current assets 1 548 549 
Current assets 89 – 89 
Current liabilities (18) – (18)
Non-current liabilities (85) (58) (143)
Total assets acquired (13) 490 477 
Goodwill –
Fair value of total consideration 477 
Less: fair value of contingent consideration (50)
Total upfront consideration  427  AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 168 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
22 Acquisitions of business operations continued
Subsequent to the completion of the acquisition of Novexel, AstraZeneca entered into a collaboration with Forest on the future co-development 
and commercialisation of two late-stage antibiotic development programmes acquired with Novexel: ceftazidime/NXL -104 (CAZ-104) and 
ceftaroline/NXL -104 (CEF-104). These antibiotic combinations utilise Novexel’s novel investigational beta-lactamase inhibitor NXL -104 to 
overcome antibiotic resistance and treat the increasing number of infections resistant to existing therapies. In addition, Forest acquired rights to 
CAZ-104 in North America and bought down payment obligations to Novexel in relation to CEF-104 from previous existing licence arrangements. 
In consideration for these rights, Forest paid Novexel, then an AstraZeneca group company, a sum of $210m on 3 March 2010 and will also 
pay additional sums equivalent to half of any future specified development milestone payments that become payable by AstraZeneca. This 
consideration is equivalent to the fair value attributed on acquisition to those assets and hence there is no profit impact from this divestment.
Cash flows
$m
Total upfront consideration 427
Cash and cash equivalents included in undertaking acquired (79)
Net cash consideration 348
Prior period aquisitions
There were no acquisitions made during either the year ended 31 December 2009 or the year ended 31 December 2008.
23 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, loans, current and non-current investments, 
cash and short-term deposits. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage the Group’s funding and liquidity requirements. 
The Group has other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations. 
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are those of liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit. Each of these is 
managed in accordance with Board-approved policies. These policies are set out below.
The Group uses foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency forwards and options, interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements for 
the purpose of hedging its foreign currency and interest rate risks. The Group may designate certain financial instruments as either fair value 
hedges or net investment hedges in accordance with IAS 39. Key controls applied to transactions in derivative financial instruments are: to 
use only instruments where good market liquidity exists, to revalue all financial instruments regularly using current market rates and to sell 
options only to offset previously purchased options. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Capital management
The capital structure of the Group consists of shareholders’ equity (Note 20), debt (Note 14) and cash (Note 13). For the foreseeable future, 
the Board will maintain a capital structure that supports the Group’s strategic objectives through:
 > managing funding and liquidity risk
 > optimising shareholder return
 > maintaining a strong investment-grade credit rating.
Funding and liquidity risk are reviewed regularly by the Board and managed in accordance with policies described below.
The Board’s distribution policy comprises both a regular cash dividend, and subject to business needs, a share repurchase component. 
The Board regularly reviews its shareholders’ return strategy, and in 2010 adopted a progressive dividend policy, whereby the Board intends 
to maintain or grow the dividend each year, targeting an average dividend cover of two times (ie a payout ratio of 50%), based on reported 
earnings, (before restructuring costs). In addition, after providing for business investment, funding the progressive dividend policy and meeting 
debt service obligations, the Board will regularly assess the opportunity to return cash in excess of these requirements to shareholders through 
share repurchases.
The Group’s net funds position (loans and borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents, current investments and derivative financial instruments) 
has increased from $535m at the beginning of the year to a net funds position of $3,653m at 31 December 2010 as a result of strong net operating 
cash inflows. 
Liquidity risk
The Board reviews the Group’s ongoing liquidity risks annually as part of the planning process and on an ad hoc basis. The Board considers 
short-term requirements against available sources of funding taking into account forecast cash flows. The Group manages liquidity risk by 
maintaining access to a number of sources of funding which are sufficient to meet anticipated funding requirements. Specifically, the Group 
uses US commercial paper, committed bank facilities and cash resources to manage short-term liquidity and manages long-term liquidity 
by raising funds through the capital markets. The Group’s current long-term credit rating is A1 by Moody’s and AA- by Standard and Poor’s, 
both with a stable outlook. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 169
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
23 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
In addition to cash and cash equivalents of $11,068m, fixed deposits of $1,107m less overdrafts of $87m at 31 December 2010, the Group 
has committed bank facilities of $4.25bn available to manage liquidity. At 31 December 2010, the Group has issued $1,528m under a Euro 
Medium Term Note programme and $7,569m under a SEC-registered programme. The Group regularly monitors the credit standing of the 
banking group and currently does not anticipate any issue with drawing on the committed facilities should this be necessary. The committed 
facilities consist of $3.6bn maturing in October 2012, and $0.65bn maturing between October and December 2011 and were undrawn at 
31 December 2010.
The maturity profile of the anticipated future contractual cash flows including interest in relation to the Group’s financial liabilities, on an 
undiscounted basis and which, therefore, differs from both the carrying value and fair value, is as follows:
Bank
overdrafts
and other
loans
$m
Bonds
$m
Trade
and other
payables
$m
Total
non-derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Interest
rate swaps
$m
Currency
swaps
$m
Total
derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Total
$m
Within one year 128 518 8,640 9,286 (120) – (120) 9,166
In one to two years – 2,268 373 2,641 (121) – (121) 2,520
In two to three years – 423 – 423 (87) – (87) 336
In three to four years – 1,153 – 1,153 (69) – (69) 1,084
In four to five years – 1,379 – 1,379 (50) – (50) 1,329
In more than five years – 10,095 – 10,095 (192) – (192) 9,903
128 15,836 9,013 24,977 (639) – (639) 24,338
Effect of interest (3) (7,012) – (7,015) 639 – 639 (6,376)
Effect of discounting, fair values and issue costs – 273 – 273 (324) – (324) (51)
31 December 2010 125 9,097 9,013 18,235 (324) – (324) 17,911
Bank
overdrafts
and other
loans
$m
Bonds
$m
Trade
and other
payables
$m
Total
non-derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Interest
rate swaps
$m
Currency
swaps
$m
Total
derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Total
$m
Within one year 139 2,373 8,687 11,199 (117) 89 (28) 11,171
In one to two years – 523 185 708 (117) – (117) 591
In two to three years – 2,246 – 2,246 (116) – (116) 2,130
In three to four years – 429 – 429 (86) – (86) 343
In four to five years – 405 – 405 (64) – (64) 341
In more than five years – 12,209 – 12,209 (239) – (239) 11,970
139 18,185 8,872 27,196 (739) 89 (650) 26,546
Effect of interest (3) (7,467) – (7,470) 739 – 739 (6,731)
Effect of discounting, fair values and issue costs – 209 – 209 (262) 1 (261) (52)
31 December 2009 136 10,927 8,872 19,935 (262) 90 (172) 19,763
Bank
overdrafts
and other
loans
$m
Bonds
$m
Trade
and other
payables
$m
Total
non-derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Interest
rate swaps
$m
Currency
swaps
$m
Total
derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Total
$m
Within one year 345 1,271 7,178 8,794 (60) – (60) 8,734
In one to two years – 2,335 61 2,396 (60) 66 6 2,402
In two to three years – 465 – 465 (59) – (59) 406
In three to four years – 2,241 – 2,241 (59) – (59) 2,182
In four to five years – 424 – 424 (46) – (46) 378
In more than five years – 12,478 – 12,478 (163) – (163) 12,315
345 19,214 7,239 26,798 (447) 66 (381) 26,417
Effect of interest (2) (7,956) – (7,958) 447 – 447 (7,511)
Effect of discounting, fair values and issue costs – 247 – 247 (449) 5 (444) (197)
31 December 2008 343 11,505 7,239 19,087 (449) 71 (378) 18,709
Where interest payments are on a floating rate basis it is assumed that rates will remain unchanged from the last business day of each year 
ended 31 December.
It is not expected that the cash flows in the maturity profile could occur significantly earlier or at significantly different amounts.
Market risk
Interest rate risk
The Group maintains a mix of fixed and floating rate debt. The portion of fixed rate debt was approved by the Board and any variation requires 
Board approval. A significant portion of the long-term debt entered into in 2007 in order to finance the acquisition of MedImmune has been 
held at fixed rates of interest. The Group uses interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to manage this mix. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 170 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
23 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
At 31 December 2010, the Group held interest rate swaps with a notional value of $2.5bn, converting the 5.4% callable bond maturing in 
2014, and the 7% guaranteed debentures payable in 2023 to floating rates and partially converting the 5.4% callable bond maturing in 2012 
and the 5.9% callable bond maturing in 2017 to floating rates. No new interest rate swaps were entered into during 2010. At 31 December 
2010 swaps with a notional value of $1.5bn were designated as fair value hedges and swaps with a notional value of $1.0bn related to debt 
designated as fair value through profit or loss. Designated hedges are expected to be effective and therefore the impact of ineffectiveness 
on profit is not expected to be material. The accounting treatment for fair value hedges and debt designated as fair value through profit or 
loss is disclosed in the Group Accounting Policies section from page 142.
The majority of the Group’s cash balances are held with third party fund managers with floating rates of interest being earned.
The interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments, as at 31 December 2010, 31 December 2009 and 31 December 
2008 is set out below. In the case of non-current financial liabilities, the classification includes the impact of interest rate swaps which convert 
the debt to floating rate.
2010 2009 2008
Total
$m
Fixed rate
$m
Floating rate
$m
Total
$m
Fixed rate
$m
Floating rate
$m
Total
$m
Fixed rate
$m
Floating rate
$m
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Current 125 – 125 1,926 1,790 136 993 – 993
Non-current 9,097 6,242 2,855 9,137 6,340 2,797 10,855 8,015 2,840
9,222 6,242 2,980 11,063 8,130 2,933 11,848 8,015 3,833
Financial assets
Fixed deposits 1,107 – 1,107 1,466 – 1,466 54 – 54
Cash and cash equivalents 11,068 – 11,068 9,918 – 9,918 4,286 – 4,286
12,175 – 12,175 11,384 – 11,384 4,340 – 4,340
In addition to the financial assets above, there are $7 ,829m (2009: $7 ,376m; 2008: $7 ,070m) of other current and non-current asset investments 
and other financial assets on which no interest is received. 
Foreign currency risk
The US dollar is the Group’s most significant currency. As a consequence, the Group results are presented in US dollars and exposures are 
managed against US dollars accordingly.
Translational
Approximately 58% of Group external sales in 2010 were denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, while a significant proportion 
of manufacturing and research and development costs were denominated in pounds sterling and Swedish krona. Surplus cash generated 
by business units is substantially converted to, and held centrally in, US dollars. As a result, operating profit and total cash flow in US dollars 
will be affected by movements in exchange rates.
This currency exposure is managed centrally based on forecast cash flows for the currencies of Swedish krona (SEK), pounds sterling (GBP), 
euro (EUR), Australian dollar (AUD), Canadian dollar (CAD) and Japanese yen (JPY). The impact of movements in exchange rates is mitigated 
significantly by the correlations which exist between the major currencies to which the Group is exposed and the US dollar. Monitoring of 
currency exposures and correlations is undertaken on a regular basis and hedging is subject to pre-execution approval. 
Where there is non-US dollar debt and an underlying net investment of that amount in the same currency, the Group applies net investment 
hedging. As at 31 December 2010, 5.8% of interest-bearing loans and borrowings were denominated in pounds sterling and 10.8% of 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings were denominated in euros. Exchange differences on the retranslation of debt designated as net 
investment hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective. Any ineffectiveness is taken 
to profit. Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings not designated in a hedge relationship are taken to profit.
Transactional
One hundred percent of the Group’s major transactional currency exposures on working capital balances, which typically extend for up to 
three months, are hedged, where practicable, using forward foreign exchange contracts against individual Group companies’ reporting currency. 
In addition, the Group’s external dividend, which is paid principally in pounds sterling and Swedish krona, is fully hedged from announcement 
to payment date. Foreign exchange gains and losses on forward contracts transacted for transactional hedging are taken to profit. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 171
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
23 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
The table below sets out the principal foreign exchange contracts outstanding at 31 December 2010, 31 December 2009 and 31 December 
2008 along with the underlying gross exposure as defined above. 
2010
GBP
1
 
$m
SEK
$m
EUR
$m
AUD
$m 
JPY
$m
CAD
$m
Gross exposure 732 (806) 478 117 133 33
Forward exchange contracts (38) 806 (478) (117) (133) (33)
Net exposure 694–––––
2009
Gross exposure (124) (811) 556 75 197 43
Forward exchange contracts 124 811 (556) (75) (197) (43)
Net exposure ––––––
2008
Gross exposure (676) (444) 505 57 166 49
Forward exchange contracts 690 445 (512) (52) (166) (24)
Net exposure 14 1 (7) 5 – 25
1
 The sterling hedge position was updated in early January 2011.
Sensitivity analysis 
The sensitivity analysis set out below summarises the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to hypothetical changes in 
market rates and prices. The range of variables chosen for the sensitivity analysis reflects our view of changes which are reasonably possible 
over a one-year period. Market values are the present value of future cash flows based on market rates and prices at the valuation date. 
For long-term debt, an increase in interest rates results in a decline in the fair value of debt.
The sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 100 basis point change in interest rates in all currencies from their levels at 31 December 
2010, with all other variables held constant. Based on the composition of our long-term debt portfolio as at 31 December 2010, a 1% increase 
in interest rates would result in an additional $30m in interest expense being incurred per year. The exchange rate sensitivity analysis assumes 
an instantaneous 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates from their levels at 31 December 2010, with all other variables held constant. 
The +10% case assumes a 10% strengthening of the US dollar against all other currencies and the -10% case assumes a 10% weakening 
of the US dollar.
Each incremental 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have approximately the same effect as the initial 10% detailed 
in the table below.
31 December 2010
Interest rates Exchange rates
+1% -1% +10% -10%
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of financial instruments 595 (684) 36 (36)
Impact on profit: gain/(loss) – – (133) 133
Impact on equity: gain/(loss) – – 169 (169)
31 December 2009
Interest rates Exchange rates
+1% -1% +10% -10%
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of financial instruments 602 (709) 137 (137)
Impact on profit: gain/(loss) – – (134) 134
Impact on equity: gain/(loss) – – 271 (271)
31 December 2008
Interest rates Exchange rates
+1% -1% +10% -10%
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of financial instruments 587 (706) 217 (217)
Impact on profit: gain/(loss) – – (57) 57
Impact on equity: gain/(loss) – – 274 (274)
There has been no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the above sensitivity analysis over the three-year period.
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial assets, such as cash balances (including fixed deposits and cash and cash equivalents), 
derivative instruments, trade and other receivables. The Group is also exposed in its net asset position to its own credit risk in respect of 
the 2023 debentures and 2014 bonds which are accounted for at fair value through profit and loss. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 172 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
23 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for 
the customer. The Group is exposed to customers ranging from government-backed agencies and large private wholesalers to privately owned 
pharmacies, and the underlying local economic and sovereign risks vary throughout the world. Where appropriate, the Group endeavours 
to minimise risks by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit and insurance. The Group establishes an allowance for 
impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of specific trade and other receivables where it is deemed that a receivable 
may not be recoverable. When the debt is deemed irrecoverable, the allowance account is written off against the underlying receivable. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
US 2,168 2,229 2,032
UK 530 482 459
Sweden 285 245 226
Euro zone countries 878 762 833
Other European countries 290 295 257
Japan 1,091 950 955
Other countries 1,005 819 796
6,247 5,782 5,558
In the US, sales to three wholesalers accounted for approximately 73% of US sales (2009: three wholesalers accounted for approximately 81%; 
2008: three wholesalers accounted for approximately 81%).
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Not past due 5,953 5,542 5,262
Overdue but renegotiated – –3
Past due 0-90 days 104 65 106
Past due 90-180 days 67 75 60
Past due > 180 days 123 100 127
6,247 5,782 5,558
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Movements in provisions for trade receivables
Balance at beginning of year 81 99 89
Income statement (credit)/charge (1) (20) 23
Amounts utilised, exchange and other movements 1 2 (13)
Balance at end of year 81 81 99
The allowance for impairment has been calculated based on past experience and is in relation to specific customers. Given the profile of our 
customers, including large wholesalers and government-backed agencies, no further credit risk has been identified with the trade receivables 
not past due other than those balances for which an allowance has been made.
Other financial assets
The Group may hold significant cash balances as part of its normal operations, with the amount of cash held at any point reflecting the level 
of cash flow generated by the business and the timing of the use of that cash. The majority of excess cash is centralised within the Group 
treasury entity and is subject to counterparty risk on the principal invested. This risk is mitigated through a policy of prioritising security and 
liquidity over return, and as such cash is only invested in high credit quality investments. Counterparty limits are set according to the assessed 
risk of each counterparty and exposures are monitored against these limits on a regular basis. The majority of the Group’s cash is invested 
in AAA-rated liquidity funds, US Treasury bills and short-term bank deposits.
The most significant concentration of financial credit risk at 31 December 2010 was $8,721m invested in three AAA-rated liquidity funds and 
$949m invested in US Treasury bills. The liquidity fund portfolios are managed by the related external third party fund managers to maintain 
the AAA rating. No more than 10% of fund value is invested within each individual fund. US Treasury bills bear credit exposure to the US 
government. There were no other significant concentrations of financial credit risk at the reporting date. 
All financial derivatives are transacted with commercial banks, in line with standard market practice. The Group has agreements with some 
bank counterparties whereby the parties agree to post cash collateral for the benefit of the other equivalent to the market valuation of the 
derivative positions above a predetermined threshold. The carrying value of such cash collateral held by the Group at 31 December 2010 
was $13m. 
The carrying amount of financial assets, being cash and cash equivalents, derivative assets, other investments and other receivables 
represents the maximum credit exposure. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 173
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
24 Employee costs and share option plans for employees
Employee costs
The average number of people, to the nearest hundred, employed by the Group is set out in the table below. In accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006, this includes part-time employees.
2010 2009 2008
Employees
UK 10,100 10,600 11,000
Continental Europe 20,100 21,200 23,100
The Americas 18,300 19,800 20,900
Asia, Africa & Australasia 13,200 12,300 11,100
Continuing operations 61,700 63,900 66,100
Geographical distribution described in the table above is by location of legal entity employing staff. Certain staff will spend some or all of 
their activity in a different location.
The number of people employed by the Group at the end of 2010 was 61,100 (2009: 62,700; 2008: 65,000).
The costs incurred during the year in respect of these employees were:
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Salaries 4,837 4,713 5,080
Social security costs 693 644 743
Pension costs 501
1
516 497
Other employment costs 408 560 596
6,439 6,433 6,916
1
 Pension costs excludes gains of $791m arising from changes made to benefits under certain of the Group’s post-retirement benefit plans.
Severance costs of $531m are not included above (2009: $285m; 2008: $546m).
The Directors believe that, together with the basic salary system, the Group’s employee incentive schemes provide competitive and market-
related packages to motivate employees. They should also align the interests of employees with those of shareholders, as a whole, through 
long-term share ownership in the Company. The Group’s current UK, Swedish and US schemes are described below; other arrangements 
apply elsewhere.
Bonus plans
The AstraZeneca UK Performance Bonus Plan
Employees of participating AstraZeneca UK companies are invited to participate in this bonus plan, which rewards strong individual performance. 
Bonuses in respect of performance during 2010 will be paid in cash. Bonuses in respect of 2009 and earlier years were paid partly in the 
form of Ordinary Shares in the Company (under the HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC)-approved AstraZeneca All-Employee Share Plan and 
up to a maximum annual value of £3,000) and partly in cash. A tax-efficient share retention scheme, under which employees leave their bonus 
shares in trust, forms part of the All-Employee Share Plan. The Company also offers UK employees the opportunity to buy Partnership Shares 
(Ordinary Shares) under the All-Employee Share Plan. Employees may invest up to £1,500 over a 12-month accumulation period and purchase 
Partnership Shares in the Company with the total proceeds at the end of the period. The purchase price for the shares is the lower of the 
price at the beginning or the end of the 12-month period. A tax-efficient share retention scheme is also available in respect of Partnership 
Shares. In 2010, the Company introduced a Matching Share element in respect of Partnership Shares, the first award of which will be made 
in 2011. At the Company’s AGM in 2002, shareholders approved the issue of new shares for the purposes of the All-Employee Share Plan.
The AstraZeneca Executive Annual Bonus Scheme
This scheme is a performance bonus scheme for Directors and senior employees who do not participate in the AstraZeneca UK Performance 
Bonus Plan. Annual bonuses are paid in cash and reflect both corporate and individual performance measures. The Remuneration Committee 
has discretion to reduce or withhold bonuses if business performance falls sufficiently short of expectations in any year such as to make the 
payment of bonuses inappropriate.
The AstraZeneca Deferred Bonus Plan
This plan was introduced in 2006 and is used to defer a portion of the bonus earned under the AstraZeneca Executive Annual Bonus Scheme 
into Ordinary Shares in the Company for a period of three years. The plan currently operates only in respect of Executive Directors and members 
of the SET. Awards of shares under this plan are typically made in February each year, the first award having been made in February 2006.
Sweden
In Sweden an all-employee performance bonus plan is in operation, which rewards strong individual performance. Bonuses are paid 50% 
into a fund investing in AstraZeneca equities and 50% in cash. The AstraZeneca Executive Annual Bonus Scheme, the AstraZeneca Share 
Option Plan and the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan all operate in respect of relevant AstraZeneca employees in Sweden. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 174 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
24 Employee costs and share option plans for employees continued
US
In the US, there are two all-employee short-term or annual performance bonus plans in operation to differentiate and reward strong individual 
performance. Annual bonuses are paid in cash. There is also one senior staff long-term incentive scheme, under which approximately 60 
participants may be eligible for awards granted as AstraZeneca ADSs. AstraZeneca ADSs necessary to satisfy the awards are purchased 
in the market or funded via a share trust. The AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan and the AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan operate 
in respect of relevant employees in the US.
Share plans 
The AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan
This plan was approved by shareholders in 2005 for a period of 10 years. Generally, awards can be granted at any time, but not during a close 
period of the Company. The first grant of awards was made in June 2005. The main grant of awards in 2010 under the plan was in March, 
with further smaller grants in May, August and November. Awards granted under the plan vest after three years and can be subject to the 
achievement of performance conditions. For awards to all participants in 2010, except employees of MedImmune, 50% of the award will 
vest subject to the performance of the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) compared with that of a selected peer group of other 
pharmaceutical companies, and 50% will vest subject to the achievement of a net cash flow target.
A separate performance condition applies to employees of MedImmune linked to the achievement of MedImmune business targets. 
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which 
the plan should be operated, including agreeing performance targets and which employees should be invited to participate. A fuller 
description of this plan can be found in the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan section from page 125 in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Executive Performance Share Plan
This plan was introduced in 2007 and, up to and including the awards made in 2009, was used to grant awards of performance shares 
to selected US employees under broadly the same terms as awards are made under the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan. There were 
no awards made under this plan in 2010. All awards of performance shares to US employees and employees of MedImmune in 2010 were 
made under the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan described above. The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any 
awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which the plan should be operated, including agreeing performance targets 
and which employees should be invited to participate.
The AstraZeneca Investment Plan
This plan was introduced in 2010 and approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM. The main grant of awards in 2010 under the plan was in 
May, with a further smaller grant in August. Awards granted under the plan vest after eight years and are subject to performance conditions 
measured over a period of between three and eight years. For awards granted in 2010, the performance conditions relate to the annual 
dividend paid to shareholders and dividend cover over a four-year performance period. The awards are then subject to a four-year holding 
period before they can vest. The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy 
for the way in which the plan should be operated, including agreeing performance targets and which employees should be invited to participate. 
A fuller description of this plan can be found in the AstraZeneca Investment Plan section from page 126 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan
This plan was introduced in 2010 and replaces the AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan and the MedImmune, 
Inc. 2008 Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan described below. The main grant of awards in 2010 under the plan was in March, with a further 
smaller grant in August. This plan provides for the grant of restricted stock unit (RSU) awards to selected below SET-level employees and is 
used in conjunction with the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan to provide a mix of RSUs and performance shares. Awards typically vest 
on the third anniversary of the date of grant and are contingent on continued employment with the Company. The Remuneration Committee 
has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which the plan should be operated.
The AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan
This plan was introduced in 2007 and previously provided for the grant of RSU awards to selected employees (predominantly in the US). 
This plan was used in conjunction with the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan to provide a mix of RSUs and share options. There were no awards 
granted under this plan in 2010. This plan was replaced in 2010 by the Global Restricted Stock Plan described above. The Remuneration 
Committee had responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which the plan should be operated.
The MedImmune, Inc. 2008 Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan
This plan was introduced in 2008 and previously provided for the grant of RSU awards to selected employees of MedImmune. This plan was 
used in conjunction with the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan to provide a mix of RSUs and share options. There were no awards granted 
under this plan in 2010. This plan was replaced in 2010 by the Global Restricted Stock Plan described above. The Remuneration Committee 
had responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which the plan should be operated.
The AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan
This plan was introduced in 2008 and provides for the grant of restricted share awards to key employees, excluding Executive Directors. Awards 
are made on an ad hoc basis with variable vesting dates. The plan has been used five times in 2010 to make awards to 24 employees. 
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which the 
plan should be operated. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 175
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
24 Employee costs and share option plans for employees continued
AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan
Shares
’000
WAFV
1 
pence
WAFV
1 
$
Shares awarded in March 2008 1,338 941 18.88
Shares awarded in August 2008 14 1326 24.46
Shares awarded in March 2009 1,190 1140 16.70
Shares awarded in August 2009 8 1424 23.18
Shares awarded in March 2010 2,002 1495 22.38
Shares awarded in May 2010 436 1431 21.48
Shares awarded in August 2010 139 1614 24.95
Shares awarded in November 2010 4 N/A 25.11
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Executive Performance Share Plan
Shares
’000
WAFV
1 
$
Shares awarded in March 2008 2,094 18.88
Shares awarded in August 2008 20 24.46
Shares awarded in March 2009 2,288 16.70
Shares awarded in August 2009 6 23.18
AstraZeneca Investment Plan
Shares
’000
WAFV
1 
pence
WAFV
1 
$
Shares awarded in May 2010 76 2575 38.66
Shares awarded in August 2010 15 2904 N/A
AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan
Shares
’000
WAFV
1 
pence
WAFV
1 
$
Shares awarded in March 2010 2,672 2989 44.75
Shares awarded in August 2010 8 3227 49.89
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan
Units
’000
WAFV
1 
$
Units awarded in March 2008 1,313 37.76
Units awarded in March 2009 1,283 33.39
MedImmune, Inc. 2008 Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan
Units
’000
WAFV
1 
$
Units awarded in March 2008 130 37.76
Units awarded in March 2009 177 33.39
AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan
Shares
’000
WAFV
1 
pence
WAFV
1 
$
Shares awarded in March 2008 51 1882 N/A
Shares awarded in May 2008 35 N/A 44.20
Shares awarded in August 2009 9 N/A 46.36
Shares awarded in September 2009 22 N/A 44.61
Shares awarded in February 2010 159 2954 47.70
Shares awarded in May 2010 25 2861 42.96
Shares awarded in August 2010 108 3227 49.89
Shares awarded in November 2010 27 N/A 50.21
Shares awarded in December 2010 20 N/A 48.30
1
 Weighted average fair value.
The fair values were determined using a modified version of the binomial model. This method incorporated expected dividends but no other 
features into the measurements of fair value.
The charge for share-based payments in respect of the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan, the US incentive share schemes and restricted 
stock unit award plan is $120m (2009: $81m; 2008: $53m). The plans are equity settled.
Share option plans
At 31 December 2010, there were options outstanding under the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan and the AstraZeneca 
Share Option Plan. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 176 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
24 Employee costs and share option plans for employees continued
(1) Summary of the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan
This is a share option plan for employees of participating AstraZeneca Group companies which was approved by shareholders at the Company’s 
AGM in 2000. The first grant of options occurred in August 2000 for a period of 10 years. The final grant of options under the plan was in 
August 2009. There were no grants of options under the plan in 2010 and no further grants will be made. The Remuneration Committee set 
the policy for the Company’s operation of the plan and, in accordance with the rules of the plan, conducted a review of the plan in 2004.
Eligibility
Any AstraZeneca employee could be recommended from time to time for the grant of an option. The Remuneration Committee set the 
policy for the Company’s operation of the plan including as regards which employees were eligible to participate.
Grant of options
Options were not granted during a close period. The grant of options was supervised by the Remuneration Committee. No payment was 
required for the grant of an option. Options are not transferable. Options were granted over AstraZeneca Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
Acquisition price
The price per Ordinary Share payable upon the exercise of an option is not less than an amount equal to the average of the middle-market 
closing price for an Ordinary Share or ADS of the Company on the London or New York Stock Exchange on the three consecutive dealing 
days immediately before the date of grant (or as otherwise agreed with HM Revenue & Customs). Where the option is an option to subscribe, 
the price payable upon exercise cannot be less than the nominal value of an Ordinary Share of the Company.
Exercise of options
An option will normally be exercisable between three and 10 years following its grant provided any relevant performance condition has been 
satisfied. Options may be satisfied by the issue of new Ordinary Shares or by existing Ordinary Shares purchased in the market. The Remuneration 
Committee sets the policy for the Company’s operation of the plan including as regards whether any performance target(s) will apply to the 
grant and/or exercise of each eligible employee’s option. Options normally lapse on cessation of employment. Exercise is, however, permitted 
for a limited period following cessation of employment either for reasons of injury or disability, redundancy or retirement, or at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee, and on an amalgamation, take-over or winding-up of the Company.
(2) Summary of the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan (SAYE Scheme)
The AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan was approved by shareholders in 2003 for a period of 10 years. The first grant of options 
under this plan was made in September 2003. 
Eligibility
UK-resident employees of participating AstraZeneca companies are automatically eligible to participate.
Grant of options
Invitations to apply for options may be issued within six weeks after the announcement by the Company of its results for any period and at 
other times in circumstances considered to be exceptional by the Directors. No invitations may be issued later than 10 years after the approval 
of the scheme by shareholders. Options may only be granted to employees who enter into HM Revenue & Customs-approved savings 
contracts with the savings body nominated by the Company, under which monthly savings of a fixed amount (currently not less than £5 nor 
more than £250) are made over a period of three or five years. The number of Ordinary Shares over which an option is granted will be such 
that the total amount payable on its exercise will be the proceeds on maturity of the related savings contract. No payment will be required 
for the grant of an option. Options are not transferable.
Individual participation
Monthly savings by an employee under all savings contracts linked to options granted under any Save As You Earn scheme may not exceed 
£250 or such lower amounts as may be determined by the Directors.
Acquisition price
The price per Ordinary Share payable upon the exercise of an option will not normally be less than the higher of:
a) 90% of the arithmetical average of the middle-market quotations for an Ordinary Share on the London Stock Exchange on three consecutive 
dealing days shortly before the date on which invitations to apply for options are issued (provided that no such day may fall before the 
Company last announced its results for any period) or such other dealing day or days falling within the six-week period for the issue of 
invitations, as the Directors may decide; and
b) the nominal value of an Ordinary Share (unless the option is expressed to relate only to existing Ordinary Shares).
Exercise of options
An option will normally be exercisable only for six months commencing on the third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of the related 
savings contract. Options are satisfied by the issue of new Ordinary Shares. Options normally lapse on cessation of employment. Exercise 
is, however, permitted for a limited period (irrespective of the period during which the option has been held) following cessation of employment 
in certain compassionate circumstances and/or where an option has been held for more than three years (except on dismissal for misconduct) 
and/or on an amalgamation, take-over or winding-up of the Company. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 177
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
24 Employee costs and share option plans for employees continued
(3) Summary of the Zeneca 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme (1994 Scheme)
The Zeneca 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme was introduced in 1994. The last date for the grant of options was 16 March 2000 and the 
scheme was replaced by the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan. Options granted under the 1994 Scheme are normally exercisable between 
three and 10 years following grant, provided the relevant performance condition has been satisfied. Options are satisfied by the issue of new 
Ordinary Shares. The performance condition applicable to the 1994 Scheme was that earnings per share must have grown by at least the 
increase in the UK Retail Price Index over three years plus 3% per annum. Satisfaction of this condition was tested annually by reference to 
the audited financial statements. All options granted under the 1994 Scheme have become exercisable, the performance conditions having 
been satisfied. There are no longer any options outstanding under the 1994 Scheme, the remaining outstanding options having lapsed or been 
exercised in 2010.
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan SAYE Schemes 1994 Scheme
Options
’000
WAEP
1 
pence
Options
’000
WAEP
1 
pence
Options
’000
WAEP
1 
pence
At 1 January 2008
Options outstanding 42,560 2451 2,720 2226 1,490 2364
Movements during 2008
Options granted 14,858 1887 483 2398 – –
Options exercised (2,577) 2204 (675) 2062 (99) 2620
Options forfeited (2,273) 2622 (388) 2291 (106) 2594
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year 404 499 –
At 31 December 2008
Options outstanding 52,568 2978 2,140 2304 1,285 2934
Movements during 2009
Options granted 15,246 2281 351 2563 – –
Options exercised (2,275) 2213 (286) 2258 (317) 2670
Options forfeited (3,141) 2604 (169) 2340 (51) 2688
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year 423 425 –
At 31 December 2009
Options outstanding 62,398 2601 2,036 2349 917 2734
Movements during 2010
Options granted –– 276 2907 ––
Options exercised (10,144) 2538 (455) 2216 (765) 2714
Options forfeited (3,189) 2470 (183) 2559 (152) 2714
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year – 267 –
At 31 December 2010
Options outstanding 49,065 2439 1,674 2455 – –
Range of exercise prices
1882 to
3487
2164 to
3001 –
Weighted average remaining contractual life 2,185 days 1,062 days –
Options exercisable 24,292 2799 65 2204 – –
1
 Weighted average exercise price.
The fair value of options is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following table gives the assumptions 
applied to the options granted in the respective periods shown. Expectations of early exercise are incorporated into the model.
2010 2009 2008
Average share price (pence) 3058 2651 2295
Weighted average exercise price (pence)
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan – 2281 1887
SAYE Schemes 2907 2563 2398
Expected volatility (%) 20.0 25.0 25.0
Dividend yield (%) 5.5 4.0 3.4
Risk-free interest rate (%) 2.5 3.7 4.3
Expected lives: AstraZeneca Share Option Plan (years) 6.0 6.0 6.0
Expected lives: SAYE Schemes (years) 4.2 4.2 4.0
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options) adjusted 
for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
No other features of options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
The charge for share-based payments in respect of share options is $53m (2009: $105m; 2008: $125m) which is comprised entirely of 
equity-settled transactions. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 178 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Commitments
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and 
software development costs not provided for in these accounts 259 368 178
Guarantees and contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, for which no security has been given, are not expected to result in 
any material financial loss.
Research and development collaboration payments
The Group has various ongoing collaborations including in-licensing and similar arrangements with development partners. Such collaborations 
may require the Group to make payments on achievement of stages of development, launch or revenue milestones although the Group generally 
has the right to terminate these agreements at no cost. The Group recognises research and development milestones as intangible assets 
once it is committed to payment, which is generally when the Group reaches set trigger points in the development cycle. Revenue-related 
milestones are recognised as intangible assets on product launch at a value based on the Group’s long-term revenue forecasts for the 
related product. The table below indicates potential development and revenue-related payments that the Group may be required to make 
under such collaborations.
Total
$m
Under 1 year
$m
Years 1 and 2
$m
Years 3 and 4
$m
Years 5 
and greater
$m
Future potential research and development milestone payments 3,106 115 711 646 1,634
Future potential revenue milestone payments 3,234 – 2 70 3,162
The table includes all potential payments for achievement of milestones under ongoing research and development arrangements. Revenue-
related milestone payments represent the maximum possible amount payable on achievement of specified levels of revenue as set out in 
individual contract agreements, but exclude variable payments that are based on unit sales (eg royalty-type payments) which are recognised 
as the associated sale is recognised in the comprehensive income statement. The table excludes any payments already capitalised in the 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 and excludes payments under the Merck agreements (detailed below).
The future payments we disclose represent contracted payments and, as such, are not discounted and are not risk adjusted. As detailed in 
the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page 96, the development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex and risky 
process that may fail at any stage in the development process due to a number of factors (including items such as failure to obtain regulatory 
approval, unfavourable data from key studies, adverse reactions to the product candidate or indications of other safety concerns). The timing of 
the payments is based on the Group’s current best estimate of achievement of the relevant milestone.
Arrangements with Merck
Introduction
In 1982, Astra AB set up a joint venture with Merck & Co., Inc. 
(now Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., a subsidiary of the new Merck 
& Co., Inc. that resulted from the merger with Schering-Plough) 
(Merck) for the purposes of selling, marketing and distributing 
certain Astra products in the US. In 1998, this joint venture was 
restructured (Restructuring). Under the agreements relating to the 
Restructuring (Agreements), a US limited partnership (Partnership) 
was formed, in which Merck is the limited partner and AstraZeneca 
is the general partner, and AstraZeneca obtained control of the joint 
venture’s business subject to certain limited partner and other rights 
held by Merck and its affiliates. These rights provide Merck with 
safeguards over the activities of the Partnership and place limitations 
on AstraZeneca’s commercial freedom to operate. The Agreements 
provided for:
 > A payment to Merck in the event of a business combination 
between Astra and a third party in order for Merck to relinquish 
certain claims to that third party’s products.
 > Annual contingent payments.
 > Termination arrangements which cause Merck to relinquish its 
interests in AstraZeneca’s products and activities in stages, 
some of which are mandatory and others optional.
These elements are discussed in further detail below, together with 
a summary of their accounting treatments.
Payment in the event of a business combination
On the merger of Astra and Zeneca, a one-time lump sum payment 
of $809m was triggered. As a result of this payment, Merck 
relinquished any claims it may have had to Zeneca products. 
This payment was expensed at the point of merger since it caused 
no incremental benefits over the prior years’ aggregate Astra and 
Zeneca performance to accrue to the merged AstraZeneca entity.
Annual contingent payments
AstraZeneca makes ongoing payments to Merck based on sales of 
certain of its products in the US (the ‘contingent payments’ on the 
‘agreement products’). AstraZeneca will continue to make contingent 
payments to Merck until at least 2012. Contingent payments 
(excluding those in respect of Prilosec, Nexium and the authorised 
generic version of felodipine) ceased in 2010 as AstraZeneca 
exercised the First Option (as discussed under First Option below); 
contingent payments in respect of Prilosec and Nexium will cease 
in late 2012 if AstraZeneca exercises the Second Option that year 
(as discussed under Second Option below); contingent payments 
in respect of the authorised generic version of felodipine will continue 
at least until June 2011.
The annual contingent payments on agreement products are 
expensed as incurred.
Termination arrangements
The Agreements provided for arrangements and payments under 
which, subject to the exercise of certain options, the rights and 
interests in AstraZeneca’s activities and products held by Merck 
immediately prior to the merger would be terminated, including 
details of:
 > the Advance Payment
 > the Partial Retirement
 > the True-Up
 > the Loan Note Receivable
 > the First Option
 > Second Option. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 179
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Advance Payment
The merger between Astra and Zeneca in 1999 triggered the first 
step in the termination arrangements. Merck relinquished all rights, 
including contingent payments on future sales, to potential Astra 
products with no existing or pending US patents at the time of the 
merger. As a result, AstraZeneca now has rights to such products 
and is relieved of potential obligations to Merck and restrictions in 
respect of those products (including annual contingent payments), 
affording AstraZeneca substantial freedom to exploit the products 
as it sees fit.
At the time of the merger, the Advance Payment was paid. It was 
calculated as the then net present value of $2.8bn discounted from 
2008 to the date of merger at a rate of 13% per annum and amounted 
to $967m. It was subject to a true-up in 2008 (as discussed under 
True-Up below).
Partial Retirement
In March 2008, there was a partial retirement of Merck’s limited 
partnership interest by payment to Merck of an amount calculated 
as a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 
2005 to 2007 on the relevant products, plus $750m. The payment 
was $4,271m.
Upon the Partial Retirement, Merck’s rights in respect of certain of the 
agreement products ended. The products covered by the Partial 
Retirement include Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, Rhinocort and Symbicort.
True-Up 
In 2008, in accordance with the Agreements, there was a True-Up of 
the Advance Payment. The True-Up amount was based on a multiple 
of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 in 
respect of all the agreement products with the exception of Prilosec 
and Nexium (subject to a minimum of $6.6bn), plus other defined 
amounts (totalling $912m). In accordance with the Agreements, 
the calculated amount was then reduced by the Appraised Value 
(as discussed under ‘First Option’ below), the Partial Retirement 
and the Advance Payment (at its undiscounted amount of $2.8bn). 
This True-Up amount was settled in an amount equal to $241m 
owed by Merck to AstraZeneca.
Loan Note Receivable
Included in the assets and liabilities covered by the Restructuring was 
a loan note receivable by AstraZeneca from Merck with a face value 
of $1.38bn. In 2008, at the same time as the settlement of the Partial 
Retirement and the True-Up, Merck settled the loan note receivable 
by paying AstraZeneca $1.38bn. 
If Merck had exercised the First Option in 2008, the net minimum 
payment that would have been made to Merck would have been 
$3.3bn, being the minimum combined payments of $4.7bn specified 
in the Agreements on the Partial Retirement, the True-Up and First 
Option, less the repayment of the loan note of $1.38bn. In accounting 
for the Restructuring in 1998, the loan note was included in the 
determination of the fair values of the assets and liabilities to be 
acquired. At that time, the loan note was ascribed a fair value of zero 
on acquisition and on the balance sheet, because it was estimated 
that the net minimum payment of $3.3bn equated to the fair value 
of the rights to be acquired under the Partial Retirement, True-Up 
and First Option.
First Option
In accordance with the Agreements, in 2008 a calculation was 
made of the Appraised Value, being the net present value of the 
future contingent payments in respect of all agreement products 
not covered by the Partial Retirement, other than Prilosec and 
Nexium. The Appraised Value was calculated in 2008 as $647m. 
Payment of the Appraised Value to Merck in March 2008 would 
have taken place only if Merck had exercised the First Option in 
2008. Merck did not exercise this option. Under the Agreements 
AstraZeneca could exercise the First Option in the first two months 
of 2010 for a sum equal to the 2008 Appraised Value. 
In 2010, AstraZeneca gave Merck an irrevocable notice of its intention 
to exercise the First Option. Payment of $647m to Merck was made 
on 30 April 2010. This payment resulted in AstraZeneca acquiring 
Merck’s interests in products covered by the First Option including 
Entocort, Atacand, Plendil and the authorised generic version of 
felodipine, and certain products still in development (principally 
Brilinta and lesogaberan (AZD3355)). On 30 April 2010, contingent 
payments on these products ceased with respect to periods after 
this date (except for contingent payments on the authorised generic 
version of felodipine, which will continue at least until June 2011)
and AstraZeneca obtained the ability to exploit these products 
and other opportunities in the Cardiovascular and Neuroscience 
therapy areas. As detailed in Note 9, the intangible asset relating to 
lesogaberan (AZD3355) of $128m was subsequently impaired to a 
value of nil following a decision to terminate further development of 
this compound.
Second Option
AstraZeneca may exercise a Second Option to repurchase Merck’s 
interests in Prilosec and Nexium in the US. This option is exercisable 
by AstraZeneca in 2012, or in 2017, or if combined annual sales of 
the two products fall below a minimum amount. AstraZeneca’s 
consummation of the Second Option will end the contingent 
payments in respect of Prilosec and Nexium and will effectively end 
AstraZeneca’s relationship with, and obligations to, Merck (other than 
some residual manufacturing arrangements). In September 2010, 
AstraZeneca and Merck reached an agreement with respect to 
the treatment of Vimovo under the Agreements, pursuant to which 
AstraZeneca will pay Merck certain amounts with respect to Vimovo 
only if it exercises the Second Option and as part of the exercise 
price for the Second Option.
The exercise price for the Second Option is the net present value of 
the future annual contingent payments on Nexium and Prilosec as 
determined at the time of exercise and the net present value of up 
to 5 percent of future US sales of Vimovo, with the precise amount 
dependent on the level of annual sales and the timing of the option 
exercise. The exercise price of the Second Option cannot be 
determined at this time.
Accounting treatment of termination arrangements
AstraZeneca considers that the termination arrangements described 
above represent the acquisition, in stages, of Merck’s interests in 
the Partnership and agreement products (including Merck’s rights 
to contingent payments) and depend, in part, on the exercise of the 
First and Second Options. The effects will only be reflected in the 
financial statements as these stages are reached. If and when all 
such payments are made, AstraZeneca will have unencumbered 
discretion in its operations in the US market. 
AstraZeneca anticipates that the benefits that accrue under all of 
the termination arrangements arise: 
 > Currently, from the substantial freedom over products acquired 
or discovered post-merger.
 > On occurrence of each stage of such arrangements, from 
enhanced contributions from, and substantial freedom over, 
those products that have already been launched (for example, 
Pulmicort, Symbicort, Rhinocort and Atacand), and those that 
are in development.
Economic benefits include relief from contingent payments, 
anticipated cost savings from cessation of manufacturing 
arrangements and other cost efficiencies, together with the 
strategic advantages of increased freedom to operate.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 180 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
The Advance Payment has been accounted for as an intangible 
asset and is being amortised over 20 years. This approach reflects 
the fact that, under the Agreements, AstraZeneca has acquired rights 
relieving it of potential obligations and restrictions in respect of Astra 
products with no existing or pending patents at the time of merger. 
Although these rights apply in perpetuity, the period of amortisation 
of 20 years has been chosen to reflect the typical timescale of 
development and marketing of a product. 
The net payment made in 2008, consisting of the Partial Retirement 
of $4.271bn less the True-Up of $241m and loan note receivable of 
$1.38bn, in total $2.6bn, has been capitalised as intangible assets. 
Part of the net payment made in 2008 resulted in AstraZeneca 
acquiring Merck’s interests in certain AstraZeneca products, including 
Pulmicort, Rhinocort, Symbicort and Toprol-XL. Consequently 
AstraZeneca no longer has to make contingent payments on these 
products to Merck and has obtained the ability to fully exploit these 
products and to fully exploit other opportunities in the respiratory 
therapy area that AstraZeneca was previously prevented from doing 
by Merck’s interests in these products. Intangible assets aggregating 
$994m have been recognised in respect of these acquired product 
rights and these are being amortised over various periods, giving 
rise to an annual expense of approximately $60m going forward.
The balance of the net payment made in 2008 ($1,656m) represented 
‘non-refundable deposits’ for future product rights associated with 
the First and Second Options. In 2010, $647m was recognised as an 
intangible asset as a result of payment of the Appraised Value for the 
First Option (see above). Together with the $1,656m non-refundable 
deposits recognised in 2008, the total sum of $2,303m was allocated 
as follows: $689m to contingent payment relief, $1,140m to intangible 
assets reflecting the ability to fully exploit the products in the 
cardiovascular and neuroscience therapy areas, and $474m as 
non-refundable deposits associated with the Second Option. 
The intangible assets recognised on exercise of the First Option 
give rise to an additional amortisation expense in the range of 
$20m to $50m per annum charged to cost of sales in respect of 
contingent payment relief, the precise amount dependent upon the 
launch status of the covered pipeline compounds, and an additional 
charge to SG&A of around $60m per annum. Amortisation on these 
intangible assets began when the $647m payment was made on 
30 April 2010. The remaining $474m relating to the non-refundable 
deposits will not be subject to amortisation until the Second Option 
is exercised and the related product rights are acquired. If the Second 
Option is exercised then amortisation related to the ability to exploit 
opportunities in the gastrointestinal therapy area will commence, in 
the amount of around $25m per annum (charged to SG&A), as well 
as an as yet indeterminable amount of amortisation related to relief 
from contingent payments. 
The intangible assets relating to purchased product rights and the 
intangible assets relating to non-refundable deposits are subject 
to impairment testing and would be partially or wholly impaired if 
a product is withdrawn or if activity in any of the affected therapy 
areas is significantly curtailed. Consequently, following the 
discontinuation of the development of lesogaberan (AZD3355) in 
the third quarter of 2010, an impairment of $128m was recognised. 
If it becomes probable that the Second Option will not be exercised, 
the non-refundable deposits for the product rights to be acquired 
under the Second Option will be expensed immediately.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Environmental costs and liabilities
The Group’s expenditure on environmental protection, including both 
capital and revenue items, relates to costs which are necessary for 
implementing internal systems and programmes, and meeting legal 
and regulatory requirements for processes and products.
They are an integral part of normal ongoing expenditure for carrying 
out the Group’s research, manufacturing and commercial operations 
and are not separated from overall operating and development costs. 
There are no known changes in legal, regulatory or other requirements 
resulting in material changes to the levels of expenditure for 2008, 
2009 or 2010.
In addition to expenditure for meeting current and foreseen 
environmental protection requirements, the Group incurs costs in 
investigating and cleaning up land and groundwater contamination. 
In particular, AstraZeneca has environmental liabilities at some 
currently or formerly owned, leased and third party sites.
In the US, Zeneca Inc., and/or its indemnitees, have been named as 
potentially responsible parties (PRPs) or defendants at approximately 
19 sites where Zeneca Inc. is likely to incur future environmental 
investigation, remediation, operation and maintenance costs under 
federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability 
allocation schemes (together, US Environmental Consequences). 
Similarly, Stauffer Management Company LLC (SMC), which was 
established in 1987 to own and manage certain assets of Stauffer 
Chemical Company acquired that year, and/or its indemnitees, 
have been named as PRPs or defendants at approximately 31 sites 
where SMC is likely to incur US Environmental Consequences. 
Outside the US, AstraZeneca has given indemnities to third parties 
in respect of approximately 22 sites. These environmental liabilities 
arise from legacy operations that are not part of the Group’s current 
pharmaceutical business and, at most of these sites, remediation, 
where required, is either completed or nearing completion.
AstraZeneca has made provisions for the estimated costs of future 
environmental investigation, remediation, operation and maintenance 
activity beyond normal ongoing expenditure for maintaining the 
Group’s R&D and manufacturing capacity and product ranges. 
Where a present obligation exists, it is probable that such costs will 
be incurred and they can be estimated reliably. With respect to such 
estimated future costs, there were provisions at 31 December 2010 
in the aggregate of $106m, which mainly relate to the US. These 
provisions do not include possible additional costs that are not 
currently probable. Where we are jointly liable or otherwise have cost 
sharing agreements with third parties, we reflect only our share of 
the obligation. Where the liability is insured in part or in whole by 
insurance or other arrangements for reimbursement, an asset is 
recognised to the extent that this recovery is virtually certain.
It is possible that AstraZeneca could incur future environmental 
costs beyond the extent of our current provisions. The extent of 
such possible additional costs is inherently difficult to estimate due 
to a number of factors, including: (1) the nature and extent of claims 
that may be asserted in the future; (2) whether AstraZeneca has or 
will have any legal obligation with respect to asserted or unasserted 
claims; (3) the type of remedial action, if any, that may be selected 
at sites where the remedy is presently not known; (4) the potential 
for recoveries from or allocation of liability to third parties; and 
(5) the length of time that the environmental investigation, remediation 
and liability allocation process can take. Notwithstanding and subject 
to the foregoing, it is estimated that potential additional loss for future 
environmental investigation, remediation and remedial operation  
and maintenance activity above and beyond our provisions could  
be, in aggregate, in the order of $20m to $40m, which relates solely  
to the US. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 181
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Legal proceedings
AstraZeneca is involved in various legal proceedings considered 
typical to its business, including actual or threatened litigation and/
or actual or potential government investigations relating to 
employment matters, product liability, commercial disputes, pricing, 
sales and marketing practices, infringement of intellectual property 
rights, the validity of certain patents and anti-trust laws. The more 
significant matters are discussed below.
Most of the claims involve highly complex issues. Often these issues 
are subject to substantial uncertainties and therefore the probability 
of a loss, if any, being sustained and an estimate of the amount of 
any loss is difficult to ascertain. Consequently, for a majority of these 
claims, it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the 
expected financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate resolution 
of the proceedings. In these cases, AstraZeneca discloses information 
with respect to the nature and facts of the cases.
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, 
other than those for which provision has been made, we are unable 
to make estimates of the possible loss or range of possible losses at 
this stage, other than as set forth herein. We also do not believe that 
disclosure of the amount sought by plaintiffs, if that is known, would 
be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings. This is due 
to a number of factors, including (1) the stage of the proceedings 
(in many cases trial dates have not been set) and the overall length 
and extent of pre-trial discovery; (2) the entitlement of the parties to 
an action to appeal a decision; (3) clarity as to theories of liability, 
damages and governing law; (4) uncertainties in timing of litigation; 
and (5) the possible need for further legal proceedings to establish 
the appropriate amount of damages, if any.
However, although there can be no assurance regarding the outcome 
of any of the legal proceedings referred to in this Note 25, based 
on management’s current and considered view of each situation, 
we do not currently expect them to have a material adverse effect 
on our financial position. This position could of course change over 
time, not least because of the factors referred to above.
In cases that have been settled or adjudicated, or where quantifiable 
fines and penalties have been assessed and which are not subject 
to appeal (or other similar forms of relief), or where a loss is probable 
and we are able to make a reasonable estimate of the loss, we 
indicate the loss absorbed or the amount of the provision accrued.
Where it is considered that the Group is more likely than not to prevail, 
legal costs involved in defending the claim are charged to profit as 
they are incurred.
Where it is considered that the Group has a valid contract which 
provides the right to reimbursement (from insurance or otherwise) 
of legal costs and/or all or part of any loss incurred or for which 
a provision has been established, and we consider recovery to 
be virtually certain, the best estimate of the amount expected to be 
received is recognised as an asset.
Assessments as to whether or not to recognise provisions or assets, 
and of the amounts concerned, usually involve a series of complex 
judgements about future events and can rely heavily on estimates 
and assumptions. AstraZeneca believes that the provisions recorded 
are adequate based on currently available information and that the 
insurance recoveries recorded will be received. However, given the 
inherent uncertainties involved in assessing the outcomes of these 
cases, and in estimating the amount of the potential losses and the 
associated insurance recoveries, we could in future periods incur 
judgments or insurance settlements that could have a material 
adverse effect on our results in any particular period.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Intellectual property claims include challenges to the Group’s patents 
on various products or processes and assertions of non-infringement 
of patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent 
protection on the related product. The consequences of any such 
loss could be a significant decrease in sales of the product, which 
could have a materially adverse effect on our future results. 
The lawsuits pending against companies that have filed ANDAs in 
the US, seeking to market generic forms of products sold by the 
Group prior to the expiry of the applicable patents covering these 
products, typically include allegations of non-infringement, invalidity 
and unenforceability of these patents. In the event that the Group is 
not successful in these actions or the statutory 30-month stay expires 
before a ruling is obtained, the companies involved will also have the 
ability, subject to FDA approval, to introduce generic versions of the 
product concerned.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and 
enforce, its intellectual property.
Accolate (zafirlukast)
Patent litigation – US
As previously reported, in June 2008, AstraZeneca commenced 
patent infringement litigation against Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Ltd 
and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc. (together, DRL) in the US District 
Court for the District of New Jersey for infringement of US Patent 
Nos. 5,319,097 (the ’097 patent), 5,482,963 (the ’963 patent) and 
6,143,775 (the ’775 patent). In 2009, the parties agreed to dismiss 
without prejudice all claims and counterclaims based on the ’097 
and ’775 patents. In February 2010, DRL filed a motion for summary 
judgment based on prosecution history estoppel. AstraZeneca 
applied for summary judgment in response. In November 2010, 
the US District Court for the District of New Jersey denied 
AstraZeneca’s motion and granted DRL a summary judgment that 
DRL ’s zafirlukast tablets did not infringe the ’963 patent. In December 
2010, AstraZeneca filed a Notice of Appeal to the US Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit. In January 2011, AstraZeneca and DRL 
entered into a settlement agreement under which AstraZeneca will 
dismiss its appeal and give DRL a covenant-not-to-sue respecting 
DRL ’s zafirlukast ANDA product.
Arimidex (anastrozole)
Patent litigation – Canada
In 2009, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from Mylan 
Pharmaceuticals ULC (Mylan) in respect of Canadian Patent No. 
1,337,420 (the ’420 patent) listed on the Canadian Patent Register 
for Arimidex. AstraZeneca filed a Notice of Application in federal 
court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing 
a Notice of Compliance to Mylan for its anastrozole tablets until the 
expiration of the ’420 patent. In October 2010, the hearing in this 
matter was scheduled for three days commencing on 31 May 2011.
Atacand (candesartan cilexetil)
Patent litigation – US
In November 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter from Apotex Inc. (Apotex) informing AstraZeneca that 
Apotex was seeking approval to market a generic version of Atacand 
prior to the expiration of US Patent No. 5,534,534 (the ’534 patent). 
Apotex alleged that its product did not infringe the ’534 patent. 
AstraZeneca did not file suit in response to Apotex’s letter.
Patent litigation – Canada
In April 2009, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
Sandoz Canada Inc. (Sandoz) in respect of Canadian Patent Nos. 
2,040,955 (the ’955 patent) and 2,083,305 (the ’305 patent) listed 
on the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand. Sandoz indicated it 
would await the expiry of the ’955 patent, but alleged that the ’305 
patent was not infringed and was not properly listed on the Canadian 
Patent Register. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 182 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
In May 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Notice of Application in federal 
court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from 
issuing a Notice of Compliance to Sandoz for its 4, 8 and 16mg 
candesartan cilexetil tablets until the expiration of the ’305 patent. 
In December 2009, AstraZeneca discontinued the proceeding.
In March 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Cobalt) in respect of the ’955 and 
’305 patents listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand. 
Cobalt has confirmed it will await the expiry of the ’955 patent. 
For the ’305 patent, Cobalt alleges that the patent is not infringed, 
is invalid, irrelevant and not properly listed. AstraZeneca did not 
commence an application in response.
In April 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
Pharmascience Inc. (PMS) in respect of the ’305 patent listed on 
the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand. PMS alleges that the 
formulation patent is not infringed. PMS has not addressed the 
’955 patent and must await its expiry in April 2011 before it may 
receive its marketing authorisation. AstraZeneca did not commence 
an application in response.
In May 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from  
Mylan Pharmaceuticals ULC (Mylan) in respect of the ’955 and ’305 
patents listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand. Mylan 
has confirmed it will await the expiry of the ’955 patent. Mylan 
alleged that the ’305 patent is not infringed, is improperly listed  
and is invalid. AstraZeneca did not commence an application  
in response.
In June 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
Sandoz in respect of the ’305 patent and relating to the 32mg 
strength of Atacand, not previously addressed by Sandoz. Sandoz 
alleges that the ’305 patent is not infringed and is improperly listed. 
Sandoz does not address the ’955 patent and must await its expiry 
before it may receive its marketing authorisation. AstraZeneca did 
not commence an application in response.
In August 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
Teva Canada Limited (Teva) in respect of the ’955 patent and the 
’305 patent listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand. 
AstraZeneca did not commence an application in response. In 
December 2010, AstraZeneca received another Notice of Allegation 
from Teva in respect of the ’955 and ’305 patents listed on the 
Canadian Patent Register for Atacand. Teva has confirmed it will 
await the expiry of the ’955 patent. AstraZeneca is evaluating the 
allegations.
None of Sandoz, Cobalt, PMS, Mylan or Teva may receive a marketing 
authorisation before April 2011.
Patent litigation – Brazil
In October 2010, an infringement action with a request for an 
interlocutory injunction was filed against Sandoz do Brasil Industria 
Farmaceutica Ltda (Sandoz) in the Central Court of São Paolo. 
The Court denied the request for an interlocutory injunction on 
22 October 2010. Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd. and 
AstraZeneca have filed a joint appeal. Sandoz has responded 
and a decision is expected in the first quarter of 2011.
Patent litigation – EU
In Portugal, a request was filed with the Lisbon Administrative 
Court of First Instance in December 2009 seeking a preliminary 
injunction in the administrative courts in order to suspend the effect 
of decisions taken by administrative bodies in Portugal to grant 
Sandoz Farmacêutica Limitada marketing authorisations for generic 
candesartan cilexetil. The Court denied the preliminary injunction. 
The decision has been appealed. A similar preliminary injunction 
request was filed in April 2010 with respect to PTR Pharma 
Consulting Lda as an interested party. Other similar preliminary 
injunction requests were filed in October 2010, with respect to 
Laboratórios Azevedos – Industria Farmacêutica (Laboratórios 
Azevedos), S.A. Ceamed, Servico e Consultadoria Farmacêutica 
Lda (Ceamed) and Teva Pharma – Produtos Farmacêuticos Lda, 
as interested parties regarding candesartan cilexetil and also in 
combination with hydrochlorothiazide. Corresponding main actions 
have been initiated regarding all the above mentioned matters.
In addition to the previously reported cases, a preliminary injunction 
request was filed in December 2010, with respect to Laboratórios 
Azevedos and Ceamed as interested parties, in the capacity of 
owners of the marketing authorisations, and of applicants of the 
retail prices regarding candesartan cilexetil containing generics. 
The corresponding main action was filed in the administrative courts 
also in December 2010, with the aim of declaring null, or to annul, 
the decisions taken by administrative bodies in Portugal granting 
Laboratórios Azevedos and Ceamed marketing authorisations 
for generic candesartan cilexetil, or to defer the effects of the said 
decision, and to prevent the decision being taken by administrative 
bodies regarding the retail prices of the generic products. A preliminary 
injunction request was filed in December 2010, with respect to 
Labesfal – Laboratorios Almiro, S.A. (Labesfal) as an interested 
party, in the capacity of owner of the marketing authorisations and 
of applicants of the retail prices regarding candesartan cilexetil 
and a combination of candesartan cilexetil and hydrochlorothiazide 
containing generics. The corresponding main action was filed in the 
administrative courts in December 2010, with the aim of declaring 
null, or to annul, the decisions taken by administrative bodies in 
Portugal granting Labesfal marketing authorisations for generic 
candesartan cilexetil and a combination of candesartan cilexetil 
and hydrochlorothiazide, or to defer the effects of the said decision, 
and to prevent the decision being taken by administrative bodies 
regarding the retail prices of the generic products.
Atacand HCT/Atacand Plus 
(candesartan cilexetil/hydrochlorothiazide)
Patent litigation – US
As previously reported, in 2008 and 2009, AstraZeneca and Takeda 
Pharmaceutical Company Limited (Takeda) received Paragraph IV 
Certification notice-letters from Matrix Laboratories Limited (Matrix) 
and Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz) notifying the parties that ANDAs had been 
submitted to the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions 
of Atacand HCT in 32/12.5, 32/25 and 16/12.5mg dose forms. 
Matrix is a subsidiary of Mylan, Inc.
Neither Matrix nor Sandoz challenged the two listed compound 
patents, US Patent Nos. 5,705,517 and 5,196,444, the latest of 
which expires in June 2012. As a result, neither generic filer can 
market its candesartan cilexetil/hydrochlorothiazide (HCT) 
combination product before December 2012, when the six-month 
Paediatric Exclusivity period expires. Matrix and Sandoz have 
alleged that the remaining Orange Book patents listed for Atacand 
HCT, US Patent Nos. 5,534,534, 5,721,263, 5,958,961 and 
7,538,133 are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. AstraZeneca 
and Takeda did not file a complaint for patent infringement in 
response to either notice-letter.
Patent litigation – Canada
In 2009, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from Sandoz 
Canada Inc. (Sandoz) in respect of Canadian Patent Nos. 2,040,955 
(the ’955 patent), 2,083,305 (the ’305 patent) and 2,125,251 (the ’251 
patent) listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand Plus. 
Sandoz has confirmed that it will await the expiry of the ’955 patent, 
but alleges that the ’305 patent is not infringed and is not properly 
listed on the Canadian Patent Register, and that the ’251 patent is 
not infringed, is invalid and not properly listed. In September 2009, 
AstraZeneca filed a Notice of Application in federal court seeking 
an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a Notice of 
Compliance to Sandoz for its 16/12.5mg candesartan cilexetil-HCT 
tablets until the expiration of the ’305 and ’251 patents. In January 
2010, the court scheduled a hearing in the Sandoz matter for four 
days beginning on 9 May 2011.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 183
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
In January 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals ULC (Mylan) in respect of the ’955, ’305 
and ’251 patents. On 12 January 2011, Mylan withdrew its Notice 
of Allegation and AstraZeneca discontinued its application on 
17 January 2011.
In April 2010, AstraZeneca received two Notices of Allegation from 
Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Cobalt) in respect of the ’305 and ’251 
patents listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand Plus. 
Cobalt alleges that the ’305 patent is not infringed, is invalid, and is 
irrelevant and not properly listed. Cobalt alleges that the ’251 patent 
is not infringed and is invalid. Cobalt has indicated that it is prepared 
to await its marketing approval until after the ’955 patent expires in 
April 2011. AstraZeneca commenced a proceeding in response in 
June 2010.
In April 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
Pharmascience Inc. (PMS) in respect of the ’305 patent listed on  
the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand Plus. PMS alleges that 
the ’305 patent is not infringed. AstraZeneca commenced a 
proceeding in response on 17 June 2010. On 20 December 2010, 
AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from PMS in respect of 
the ’251 patent. AstraZeneca is evaluating the allegations. PMS  
has not addressed the ’955 patent.
In September 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation 
from Teva Canada Limited (Teva) in respect of the ’305 patent listed 
on the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand Plus. Teva withdrew 
its Notice of Allegation on 17 November 2010, and in response, 
on 30 November 2010, AstraZeneca discontinued its application 
responding to Teva’s Notice of Allegation.
Crestor (rosuvastatin calcium)
Patent litigation – US
US Patent No. RE 37,314 (the ’314 patent)
As previously reported, in 2007 and 2008, AstraZeneca and 
AstraZeneca’s licensor, Shionogi Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha (Shionogi) 
(together, the Plaintiffs), filed lawsuits in the US District Court for the 
District of Delaware, against various parents or subsidiaries of eight 
generic ANDA filers for infringement of the ’314 patent, the patent 
covering rosuvastatin calcium, the active ingredient in Crestor tablets.
On 3 March 2010, Judge Joseph Farnan, in the US District Court 
for the District of Delaware, completed the trial of the consolidated 
matter. Following the trial, on 26 March 2010, the Court approved 
and signed the stipulation and consent order of the Plaintiffs and 
co-defendants, Aurobindo Pharma Ltd and Aurobindo Pharma USA 
Inc., whereby Aurobindo Pharma Ltd consented to jurisdiction and 
venue. Aurobindo Pharma USA Inc. agreed to be bound by any 
judgment against Aurobindo Pharma Ltd and the Plaintiffs agreed in 
exchange to dismiss the action against Aurobindo Pharma USA Inc.
In June 2010, the Court issued a decision finding infringement and 
rejecting the defendants’ arguments of invalidity and unenforceability 
with respect to the ’314 patent. In August 2010, the defendants filed 
Notices of Appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. 
The defendants filed their opening briefs with the appellate court in 
December 2010.
For trial, the Court retained jurisdiction over Apotex Corp., which 
participated in the trial. However, the Court transferred the 
infringement matter as it pertained to co-defendant, Apotex Inc. 
to the US District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The 
Florida Court stayed the Apotex Inc. case pending the outcome of 
the appeal to the Federal Circuit.
In May 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter from Glenmark Generics Inc., USA (formerly, Glenmark 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., USA) (Glenmark), challenging the ’314 patent. 
In June 2010, the Plaintiffs filed a patent infringement action against 
Glenmark in the US District Court for the District of Delaware. On 
15 November 2010, the Court approved the parties’ stipulation and 
proposed order requesting the Court to enter judgment in favour of 
the Plaintiffs and to stay the Glenmark action in its entirety. As part 
of the stipulation, Glenmark conceded infringement of the ’314 patent 
and agreed to be bound by the Court’s June 2010 decision. 
The parties also agree to be bound by the results of any subsequent 
appeal in the Plaintiffs’ other Crestor ANDA litigation, which found 
the ’314 patent valid and enforceable.
505(b)(2) NDA for rosuvastatin zinc tablets (the ’314 patent)
In September 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter from Watson Laboratories, Inc. informing AstraZeneca 
of the filing of its section 505(b)(2) NDA for rosuvastatin zinc tablets, 
and challenging the ’314 patent and the Crestor formulation patent 
(US Patent No. 6,316,460 (the ’460 patent)). On 26 October 2010, 
AstraZeneca and Shionogi (together, the Plaintiffs) commenced a 
patent infringement action in the US District Court for the District of 
Delaware (the Delaware Action) against Watson Pharmaceuticals, 
Inc., Watson Pharma, Inc., Watson Laboratories, Inc. and other 
related entities for infringement of the ’314 patent. On 10 November 
2010, for jurisdictional reasons, the Plaintiffs filed a duplicate 
protective lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of Nevada 
(the Nevada Action) against Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Watson 
Pharma Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. On 23 December 2010, 
pursuant to the parties’ joint stipulation in the Delaware Action 
setting forth the agreement of Watson Laboratories, Inc. to personal 
jurisdiction in the District of Delaware and other admissions, 
conditions, and agreements, the Court dismissed all of the Watson 
co-defendants without prejudice, except Watson Laboratories, Inc. 
Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Watson Pharma, Inc., Watson 
Laboratories, Inc. and other named Watson entities were 
dismissed without prejudice from the Delaware action. In  
January 2011, AstraZeneca dismissed the Nevada Action.
US Patent Nos. 6,858,618 (the ’618 patent)  
and 7,030,152 (the ’152 patent)
In April 2010, AstraZeneca commenced new patent infringement 
actions involving Crestor in the US District Court for the District of 
Delaware, based on the ’618 and ’152 patents. Later in April 2010, 
AstraZeneca amended nine complaints, adding a co-plaintiff, 
The Brighams & Women’s Hospital (BWH), AstraZeneca’s licensor 
of the ’152 patent, to the suits. In these new infringement actions, 
AstraZeneca and BWH (together, the Plaintiffs) allege that the 
defendants’ original filings or amendments of ANDAs seeking 
approval to market generic rosuvastatin calcium tablets prior to the 
expiration of these patents, infringe the ’618 and ’152 patents under 
35 USC §271(e)(2). The ’618 and ’152 patents, which AstraZeneca 
lists in the FDA’s Orange Book, relate respectively to the use of 
rosuvastatin calcium for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease 
and the treatment of heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia 
(HeFH). AstraZeneca obtained FDA approval for the use of Crestor 
tablets for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in February 
2010 and for paediatric treatment of HeFH in October 2009.  
The new infringement actions were brought against: (a) Aurobindo 
Pharma Ltd, Aurobindo Pharma USA Inc. (together, Aurobindo) (b) 
Apotex Corp., (c) Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc., Cobalt Laboratories, 
Inc. (together, Cobalt) (d) Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (e) Sandoz Inc. 
(Sandoz), (f) Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (g) Sun Pharmaceutical 
Industries Ltd., Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc., Caraco 
Pharmaceutical Laboratories Ltd. (together, Sun) and (h) Teva 
Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. These eight defendant groups were 
also defendants in the ’314 patent litigation described above. In 
addition, AstraZeneca commenced a first patent infringement 
action against Glenmark Generics Inc. USA.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 184 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
In May 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter from Torrent Pharmaceuticals Limited (Torrent 
Pharmaceuticals), challenging the ’460 patent (the formulation 
patent). In July 2010, the Plaintiffs filed a patent infringement action 
against Torrent Pharmaceuticals and Torrent Pharma Inc. (together, 
Torrent) in the US District Court for the District of Delaware, based 
on the ’618 and ’152 patents. Torrent did not challenge the ’314 
patent in its Paragraph IV notice-letter.
In July and August 2010, all of the defendants, except Sandoz, filed 
Motions to Dismiss for lack of subject matter jurisdiction and failure 
to state a claim.
In November 2010, the Court approved a stipulation and proposed 
order of the Plaintiffs and Torrent jointly requesting the Court to stay 
the Torrent action. As part of the stipulation, Torrent agrees to be 
bound by the results of the first final decision and any appeals of 
that decision, as prosecuted by the remaining defendants.
In December 2010, the Court granted the Motions to Dismiss and 
dismissed the infringement actions for lack of subject matter 
jurisdiction. The Court also ordered the Plaintiffs to show cause why 
the claims against Sandoz, the sole non-movant, should not also 
be dismissed. In 2011, the Plaintiffs filed Notices of Appeal to the 
US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In January 2011, the 
Plaintiffs and Sandoz also filed a joint response to the show cause 
order, requesting that the Sandoz action be stayed until after the 
Federal Circuit renders its decision on the appeals or, alternatively, 
dismisses it without prejudice.
Patent litigation – Canada
In 2008, AstraZeneca received Notices of Allegation from Novopharm 
Limited (now, Teva Canada Limited) (Teva) and Apotex Inc. 
(Apotex), respectively, regarding Canadian Patent Nos. 2,072,945 
(the ’945 patent) and 2,313,783 (the ’783 patent) listed on the 
Canadian Patent Register for Crestor. AstraZeneca commenced 
proceedings in response. The Canadian Federal Court conducted 
consecutive hearings on the two matters beginning on 22 March 
2010 and 29 March 2010 respectively. In July 2010, AstraZeneca 
reached comprehensive settlement agreements with each of  
Teva and Apotex to resolve litigation between them. As part of the 
agreements, Teva and Apotex may enter the Canadian market in 
April 2012, or earlier, in certain circumstances. The Canadian 
substance patent expires in July 2012.
In 2009, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from Cobalt 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cobalt) in respect of the ’945 and ’783 patents. 
In November 2010, AstraZeneca reached a comprehensive settlement 
agreement with Cobalt, resolving the litigation, and as part of the 
agreement, Cobalt may enter the Canadian market in April 2012, or 
earlier, in certain circumstances. The Canadian substance patent 
expires in July 2012.
Also in 2009, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
Sandoz Canada Inc. (Sandoz) in respect of the ’945 and ’783 patents. 
In January 2011, AstraZeneca reached a comprehensive settlement 
agreement resolving the litigation, and as part of the agreement, 
Sandoz may enter the Canadian market in April 2012, or earlier, 
in certain circumstances.
In August 2009, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
ratiopharm Inc. (ratiopharm) with respect to the ’945 and ’783 patents. 
AstraZeneca commenced an application in response. In August 
2010, AstraZeneca discontinued the application as a result of Teva’s 
acquisition of ratiopharm.
In February 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
Pharmascience Inc. (Pharmascience) in respect of the ’945 and ’783 
patents. Pharmascience alleges that the ’945 and ’783 patents are 
not infringed and are invalid. AstraZeneca commenced an application 
in response in April 2010.
In July 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Canada Inc. (Ranbaxy) regarding the 
’945 patent, the ’783 patent and Canadian Patent No. 2,315,141 
(the ’141 patent). Ranbaxy alleges certain of the claims of the ’945, 
’783 and ’141 patents are not infringed and that the patents are invalid. 
AstraZeneca commenced an application in response in August 2010.
In August 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation from 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals ULC (Mylan) regarding the ’945, ’783 and ’141 
patents. Mylan alleges certain of the claims of the ’945, ’783 and ’141 
patents are not infringed and that the patents are invalid. AstraZeneca 
commenced an application in response in September 2010.
Patent litigation – EU
In Portugal, a preliminary injunction request was filed with the 
Lisbon Administrative Court of First Instance in May 2010 seeking 
a suspension of the effect of decisions taken by administrative bodies 
in Portugal to grant Teva Pharma Lda (Teva) marketing authorisations 
for generic rosuvastatin calcium, and to prevent the approval of the 
retail price. A similar preliminary injunction request was filed with 
respect to Sandoz Farmaceutica Lda in June 2010. In October 2010, 
the Court granted the preliminary injunction request to suspend the 
effect of the decisions taken by the administrative bodies in Portugal 
to grant Teva marketing authorisation for generic rosuvastatin. The 
decision has been appealed by the administrative body, Infarmed, 
and by Teva. In November 2010, the Court granted the preliminary 
injunction request to suspend the marketing authorisations for 
generic rosuvastatin granted to Sandoz Farmaceutica Lda. The 
decision has been appealed by Infarmed. In November 2010, the Court 
granted the preliminary injunction request to suspend the marketing 
authorisations for generic rosuvastatin granted to Hexal AG. The 
decision has been appealed by Infarmed. Corresponding main actions 
have been initiated regarding all the above mentioned matters.
Patent litigation – Brazil
Torrent do Brasil (Torrent) launched its generic versions of Crestor in 
early October 2010 and AstraZeneca filed a request for a preliminary 
injunction. On 13 October 2010, the court of first instance granted the 
requested injunction and ordered Torrent to discontinue the sale and 
marketing of these generic products in Brazil and to recall products 
already on the market. Torrent appealed the decision. The effects 
of the preliminary injunction were suspended by the court of first 
instance until the decision by the Court of Appeal. The Court of 
Appeal is likely to make its decision in the first quarter of 2011.
Other US patent litigation
In October 2010, in the Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. (Teva) 
patent infringement lawsuit against AstraZeneca, with regard to 
Crestor, the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania 
granted AstraZeneca’s motion for summary judgment invalidating 
Teva’s patent based on prior inventorship. AstraZeneca thereafter filed 
a motion for attorneys’ fees, which was denied by the Court without 
prejudice pending Teva’s appeal, which it filed in November 2010.
Entocort EC (budesonide)
In 2008, AstraZeneca initiated patent infringement actions against 
Barr Laboratories, Inc. (Barr) and Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
(Mylan) for infringement of US Patent Nos. 6,423,340 (the ’340 
patent) and 5,643,602 (the ’602 patent) in the US District Court for 
the District of Delaware.
In May 2010, AstraZeneca entered into a settlement agreement with 
Barr (acquired by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. in 2009, now, 
Teva). Under the terms of the agreement, AstraZeneca has granted 
Teva a licence to enter the US market with its generic version of oral 
budesonide on 15 February 2012, subject to regulatory approval. 
Also in May 2010, AstraZeneca proceeded to trial against Mylan 
before Judge Gregory Sleet on the sole issue of infringement of the 
’602 patent. The Court has reserved judgment.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 185
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Faslodex (fulvestrant)
Patent litigation – US
In 2009, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-
letter from Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc. (Teva Parenteral), informing 
AstraZeneca that it had filed an ANDA to market a generic form of 
Faslodex before the expiration of the Orange Book listed patents 
covering Faslodex. In January 2010, AstraZeneca filed a patent 
infringement lawsuit against Teva Parenteral, Teva Pharmaceuticals 
USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd (together, Teva) 
in the US District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement 
of US Patent Nos. 6,774,122 and 7 ,456,160. The case was assigned 
to Judge Joel Pisano, sitting by designation due to judicial vacancy 
in the District of Delaware. On 24 December 2010, Teva advised 
AstraZeneca that it had requested the FDA to withdraw its ANDA 
without prejudice to refile. The Court has stayed the litigation to permit 
the parties to resolve the matter pending the FDA’s acknowledgement 
of the withdrawal.
Iressa (gefitinib)
Between 2004 and 2008, seven claims were filed against 
AstraZeneca in Japan, in the Osaka and Tokyo District Courts. 
In these claims, it is alleged that Iressa caused a fatal incidence of 
interstitial lung disease in a Japanese patient. AstraZeneca believes 
the claims are without merit and has defended all the cases. 
Decisions are expected from the Courts in the first quarter of 2011.
Losec/Prilosec (omeprazole)
Patent litigation – US
As previously reported, by 2006, AstraZeneca had initiated patent 
infringement actions in the US District Court for the Southern District 
of New York against several generic companies and their suppliers, all 
alleging infringement of AstraZeneca’s patents relating to omeprazole. 
As previously reported, following trials against numerous defendants, 
in 2007 , the District Court upheld both formulation patents covering the 
Prilosec omeprazole product and ruled that the generic omeprazole 
formulations of Impax Laboratories Inc. (Impax) (manufacturers of 
the generic product distributed in the US by Teva Pharma Ltd (Teva)) 
and Apotex Corp. and Apotex Inc. (together, Apotex Group) 
infringed AstraZeneca’s patents. The Court found that the generic 
products sold by Lek Pharmaceutical and Chemical Company d.d. 
and Lek Services USA, Inc. (together, Lek), Mylan Pharmaceuticals, 
Inc. and Mylan, Inc. (together, Mylan) and Laboratorios Esteve, S.A. 
and Esteve Quimica, S.A. (together, Esteve) did not infringe 
AstraZeneca’s patents. In 2008, the US Court of Appeals for the 
Federal Circuit upheld the rulings that Mylan and Esteve did not 
infringe. The Federal Circuit also upheld that the generic 
omeprazole formulations of Impax and Apotex Group infringed 
AstraZeneca’s patents. In January 2010, AstraZeneca settled with 
Impax and Teva for their infringing commercial sales, obtaining a 
one-time payment for past infringement. In 2010, AstraZeneca 
continued efforts to recover infringement damages and other 
remedies against Andrx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Apotex Group.
Patent litigation – Canada
AstraZeneca continues to be involved in proceedings in Canada 
involving various patents relating to omeprazole capsules and 
omeprazole magnesium tablets. Apotex Inc. launched a generic 
omeprazole capsule product in Canada in January 2004.
In 2006, AstraZeneca was served with a claim in the Federal Court 
of Canada for payment of an undetermined sum based on damages 
allegedly suffered by Apotex Inc. due to the delay from January  
2002 to January 2004 in the issuance to Apotex Inc. of a Notice of 
Compliance for its 20mg omeprazole capsule product. AstraZeneca 
believes the claim is without merit and is defending it, as well as 
continuing to vigorously pursue its already pending patent 
infringement action against Apotex Inc.
In May 2010, the Federal Court scheduled the trial for the pending 
matters to be heard concurrently commencing in March 2012.
European Commission case
In July 2010, the General Court of the European Union (the General 
Court) handed down its judgment in AstraZeneca’s appeal against 
the European Commission’s 2005 Decision fining AstraZeneca  
€60m for abuse of a dominant position regarding omeprazole.  
The General Court upheld most of the European Commission’s 
arguments but reduced the fine to €52.5m as it said that the 
European Commission’s case had not been proven in relation to 
Denmark and Norway. The fine was paid in 2005 in accordance 
with the original Decision and €7 .5m plus interest has been repaid to 
AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca was ordered to pay 90% of the European 
Commission’s costs and the European Commission was ordered 
to pay 10% of AstraZeneca’s costs. AstraZeneca has appealed  
the General Court’s judgment in relation to market definition,  
that AstraZeneca’s behaviour was abusive (even if AstraZeneca  
was dominant at the time) and the level of fine. The European 
Commission has cross appealed the General Court’s judgment 
regarding Denmark and Norway. It is possible that third parties 
could seek damages for alleged losses arising from this matter. 
Any such claims would be vigorously resisted.
Nexium (esomeprazole magnesium)
Sales and marketing practices
AstraZeneca entities have been sued in various state and federal 
courts in the US in purported representative class actions involving 
the marketing of Nexium. These actions generally allege that 
AstraZeneca’s promotion and advertising of Nexium to physicians, 
consumers and third party payers was unfair, unlawful and deceptive, 
particularly as the promotion relates to comparisons of Nexium with 
Prilosec. Some of the cases also allege that AstraZeneca’s conduct 
relating to the pricing of Nexium was unfair, unlawful and deceptive. 
The plaintiffs allege claims under various state consumer protection, 
unfair practices and false advertising laws. The plaintiffs in these cases 
seek remedies that include restitution, disgorgement of profits, 
damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, attorneys’ fees and 
costs of suit.
The first action was brought in 2004 in California State Court on 
behalf of a class of Californian consumers and third-party payers. 
Lawsuits making substantially similar allegations were later filed in 
2004 and 2005 in state courts in Arkansas, Florida, Massachusetts 
and Delaware, and in the Delaware Federal Court.
The Florida and Arkansas cases have been dismissed at the trial 
court level. Both of those dismissals were affirmed on appeal and 
no further appeal is possible. Similarly, in May 2010, the Delaware 
Federal Court dismissed the complaint for failure to state a claim 
and the plaintiffs did not appeal.
In March 2009, the California trial court granted AstraZeneca’s 
motions for summary judgment and denied plaintiffs’ motion for 
class certification. That decision was appealed. In August 2010, 
the California Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s orders denying 
class certification and granting summary judgment in favour of 
AstraZeneca in an unpublished decision. The time for further appeals 
has lapsed.
In July 2010, the Massachusetts trial court entered an order granting 
plaintiffs’ motion to certify a class of Massachusetts purchasers of 
Nexium denying AstraZeneca’s motion for summary judgment as 
to two plaintiffs, and granting AstraZeneca’s motion for summary 
judgment as to one plaintiff. AstraZeneca filed a petition for 
discretionary interlocutory review of those rulings, which was 
denied by a single justice of the Massachusetts Appeals Court in 
September 2010.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 186 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
The Delaware state case in Superior Court has been stayed since 
May 2005 in favour of the Delaware federal court case. In August 
2010, the plaintiffs filed a request to lift the stay based on the final 
resolution of the Delaware federal case and to enter a scheduling 
order setting deadlines for the plaintiffs to file an amended complaint 
and for the briefing of AstraZeneca’s expected motion to dismiss. 
The Delaware Superior Court has not yet acted on the plaintiffs’ 
request and the case remains stayed.
Patent litigation – US
In 2008, AstraZeneca entered into a settlement agreement and 
consent judgment with Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Ranbaxy 
Laboratories Limited (together, Ranbaxy) to settle the Ranbaxy 
ANDA patent litigation. Ranbaxy was the first to file a Paragraph IV 
Certification notice-letter in respect of Nexium patents listed in the 
FDA’s Orange Book. The settlement agreement allows Ranbaxy 
to commence sales of a generic version of Nexium under a licence 
from AstraZeneca on 27 May 2014.
In 2006, in response to a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from 
IVAX Pharmaceuticals Inc. stating that IVAX Corporation (together, 
IVAX Group) had submitted an ANDA for approval to market 20 
and 40mg esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, 
AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation in the US 
District Court for the District of New Jersey against IVAX Group, 
its parent, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd, and their affiliates 
(together, Teva Group). In 2008, the Court granted AstraZeneca’s 
motion to add Cipla, Ltd. as a defendant in the IVAX Group/Teva 
Group litigation.
In 2007 , AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-
letter from Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Ltd and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, 
Inc (together, DRL) stating that DRL had submitted an ANDA for 20 and 
40mg esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. In 2008, 
AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation in the US 
District Court for the District of New Jersey against DRL in response 
to DRL ’s ANDA and Paragraph IV Certifications regarding Nexium.
In 2008, AstraZeneca, IVAX Group and DRL filed declaratory 
judgment suits in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey 
for patents that were not previously included in the ongoing Nexium 
patent infringement litigations.
In January 2010, AstraZeneca entered into an agreement to settle 
the IVAX Group/Teva Group litigation. Teva Group conceded that 
all patents-at-issue in its US Nexium patent litigations are valid and 
enforceable. Teva Group also conceded that its ANDA product would 
infringe six of the Nexium patents-in-suit. AstraZeneca granted Teva 
Group a licence for its ANDA product to enter the US market, subject 
to regulatory approval, on 27 May 2014. This market entry date, and 
the settlement, are consistent with AstraZeneca’s prior settlement 
with Ranbaxy. As a result of settlement and entry of a consent 
judgment, the litigation against IVAX Group/Teva Group and Cipla, Ltd. 
has been dismissed. In January 2010, as part of the settlement 
between AstraZeneca and IVAX Group, the 2008 declaratory 
judgment actions involving IVAX Group were also dismissed.
In January 2011, AstraZeneca entered into an agreement to settle 
the DRL litigation. DRL conceded that the patents-at-issue in its US 
Nexium patent litigations are valid and enforceable with reference 
to DRL ’s US esomeprazole magnesium ANDA product. DRL also 
conceded that its ANDA product would infringe three Nexium 
patents-in-suit. AstraZeneca granted DRL a licence for its ANDA 
product to enter the US market, subject to regulatory approval, 
on 27 May 2014. This market entry date, and the settlement, are 
consistent with AstraZeneca’s settlement with Ranbaxy and the 
January settlement with the IVAX Group, Teva Pharmaceutical Ltd., 
and their affiliates. As a result of the DRL settlement and  
entry of a consent judgment, the DRL litigation was dismissed.  
As part of the settlement, DRL ’s declaratory judgment actions  
were also dismissed.
In January 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter from Sun Pharma Global FZE and its affiliates (together, 
Sun) stating that Sun had filed an ANDA and notifying of Sun’s 
challenge to patents listed in the FDA’s Orange Book in reference to 
Nexium i.v. In February 2010, AstraZeneca filed suit against Sun in 
the US District Court for the District of New Jersey. In August 2010, 
upon AstraZeneca’s motion, Magistrate Judge Bongiovanni stayed 
the Sun litigation. In December 2010, among other actions, the Court 
vacated the stay and referred the matter back to Magistrate Judge 
Bongiovanni for a scheduling conference. No trial date has been set 
in the Sun patent litigation.
In 2008, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-
letter from Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz) stating that Sandoz had submitted 
an ANDA for approval to market 20 and 40mg esomeprazole 
magnesium delayed-release capsules. In 2009, AstraZeneca 
commenced patent infringement litigation in the US District Court 
for the District of New Jersey. In July 2009, the Court stayed the 
Sandoz patent infringement litigation until after trial in the above 
referenced DRL Nexium patent infringement litigation. No trial date 
has been set in the Sandoz patent infringement litigation.
In September 2009, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV 
Certification notice-letter from Lupin Limited (Lupin) stating that 
Lupin had submitted an ANDA for approval to market 20 and 40mg 
esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules relating to 
patents listed in the FDA’s Orange Book with reference to Nexium. 
In October 2009, AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement 
litigation against Lupin in the US District Court for the District of  
New Jersey. In March 2010, the Court stayed the Lupin patent 
infringement litigation until after trial in the DRL Nexium patent 
infringement litigation. No trial date has been set in the Lupin  
patent litigation.
In December 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter from Hanmi USA Inc. (Hanmi) stating that it had submitted 
an NDA under section 505(b)(2) for FDA approval to market 20 
and 40mg esomeprazole strontium capsules. Hanmi alleges 
non-infringement or invalidity of 11 patents listed in the FDA’s Orange 
Book with reference to Nexium. AstraZeneca is evaluating Hanmi’s 
notice and certifications.
Patent litigation – Canada
AstraZeneca received several Notices of Allegation from Apotex Inc. 
(Apotex) in 2007 in respect of patents listed on the Canadian Patent 
Register for Nexium. AstraZeneca responded by commencing seven 
applications in 2008 under the Patented Medicines (Notice of 
Compliance) Regulations.
In June 2010, after a hearing, the Federal Court of Canada dismissed 
AstraZeneca’s application to prohibit the Minister of Health from 
issuing a Notice of Compliance (marketing authorisation) for generic 
esomeprazole magnesium to Apotex, and Apotex received its 
marketing authorisation in June 2010. In October 2010, AstraZeneca 
commenced a patent infringement action against Apotex alleging 
infringement of five Canadian patents related to Nexium.
As previously reported, in 2009, AstraZeneca received a Notice 
of Allegation from Mylan Pharmaceuticals ULC. AstraZeneca 
commenced an application in response in January 2010. A hearing 
has been set for 24 October 2011.
In September 2010, AstraZeneca received several Notices of 
Allegation from Pharmascience Inc. in respect of the patents listed on 
the Canadian Patent Register for Nexium. AstraZeneca commenced 
applications in response in October 2010.
In October 2010, AstraZeneca received a Notice of Allegation 
from Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Canada Inc. (Ranbaxy) in respect 
of the patents listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Nexium. 
AstraZeneca commenced a proceeding in response in 
December 2010.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 187
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Patent litigation – Brazil
AstraZeneca has filed two law suits before the Federal Courts of 
Brasilia seeking judicial declaration to confirm that all conditions 
established in the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property 
Rights Agreement have been satisfied and thereby entitling 
AstraZeneca to exclusive marketing rights for Nexium to July 2012. 
The Court rejected one suit in 2008 and the other one on 1 May 2010. 
AstraZeneca has appealed both decisions and the Federal Court 
of Appeals is expected to issue decisions on the merits by the middle 
of 2011.
Patent litigation – EU
Most major European markets (Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, 
the Netherlands, Germany, Sweden and the UK) had regulatory data 
protection for Nexium until 10 March 2010 and other markets had six 
years regulatory data protection. To date, there are generic products 
in several 6-year countries and in Germany, Sweden and the 
Netherlands among the 10-year countries.
Patent litigation – EU: 10-year countries
In July 2010, Consilient Health Limited (Consilient) was granted 
marketing approval in the UK for a generic esomeprazole product 
manufactured by Krka, d.d., Novo Mesto (Krka) in Slovenia. 
AstraZeneca initiated infringement proceedings against Consilient 
and Krka on 8 September 2010. Consilient and Krka agreed not to 
launch their generic esomeprazole product pending the outcome of 
the main infringement case. AstraZeneca has undertaken to be liable 
for losses of the defendants and third parties if the injunction is 
lifted at a later date. The trial will not be held before 3 October 2011.
In October 2010, AstraZeneca was served an invalidity case in which 
Ranbaxy (UK) Ltd claimed that the Nexium esomeprazole magnesium 
patent (EP 1020461) and the esomeprazole magnesium trihydrate 
patent (EP 0984957) are invalid in the UK. Ranbaxy (UK) Ltd further 
requested the Court to confirm that its generic esomeprazole product 
does not infringe either patent if launched in the UK. The trial of the 
non-infringement part will not be held before May 2011. The invalidity 
part has been stayed pending the non-infringement trial.
In Germany, Krka, d.d., Novo Mesto, TAD Pharma GmbH, 
Abz-Pharma GmbH, CT Arzneimittel GmbH, ratiopharm GmbH and 
Teva GmbH launched generic esomeprazole magnesium products 
during September and October 2010. In October 2010, AstraZeneca 
filed requests for preliminary injunctions to restrain said companies 
from marketing and selling these products in Germany. In November 
2010, AstraZeneca added Hexal AG and Sandoz Pharmaceuticals 
GmbH as defendants. The trial was held on 10 December 2010, 
and the court rejected the request for preliminary injunctions on 
17 December 2010. The decision has not yet been published. 
AstraZeneca has four weeks from the date of publication to 
determine whether it will appeal. In November 2010, AstraZeneca 
was served with a law suit filed by Ethypharm S.A. claiming that 
the two Nexium cloud point patents (EP 0984773 and EP 1124539) 
are invalid in Germany.
In Sweden, AstraZeneca filed a request for an interlocutory injunction 
on 26 October 2010 against Krka Sverige AB to restrain this company 
from marketing and selling its generic esomeprazole magnesium 
product in Sweden. In January 2011, AstraZeneca was served with 
a lawsuit filed by ratiopharm GmbH and ratiopharm AB claiming that 
the Nexium esomeprazole magnesium patent (EP 1020461) is invalid 
in Sweden.
In the Netherlands, Sandoz B.V. and Hexal AG (both in the Sandoz 
group) and Stada Arzneimittel AG and Centrafarm Services B.V. 
(both in the Stada group) filed lawsuits in June 2010, in accelerated 
proceedings, claiming that the Nexium esomeprazole magnesium 
patent (EP 1020461) is invalid in the Netherlands. The trials were 
held on 14 January 2011. The decision has not yet been published.
In Italy, EG s.p.a. (a company in the Stada group) filed a law suit in 
June 2010 claiming that the Nexium esomeprazole magnesium patent 
(EP 1020461) is invalid in Italy. AstraZeneca has added a counterclaim 
of infringement. An initial hearing was held on 23 November 2010.
In France, ratiopharm GmbH and Laboratoire ratiopharm S.A. filed 
a law suit against AstraZeneca on 18 August 2010 claiming that the 
Nexium esomeprazole magnesium patent (EP 1020461) is invalid in 
France. Ethypharm S.A. filed a law suit against AstraZeneca in August 
2010 claiming that the Nexium esomeprazole magnesium patent 
(EP 1020461) and the cloud point patent (EP 1124539) are invalid in 
France. The next hearing in these cases will be on 17 March 2011.
In Belgium, AstraZeneca was served in October 2010 with a 
revocation action by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd and Teva 
Pharma Belgium NV claiming that the Nexium esomeprazole 
magnesium patent (EP 1020461) is invalid in Belgium. The next 
hearing is scheduled for 23 September 2011.
Patent litigation – EU: 6-year countries
In Denmark, Sandoz A/S (Sandoz) launched its generic product 
in June 2009 and AstraZeneca filed a request for a preliminary 
injunction in the same month. In January 2010, the court granted 
AstraZeneca a preliminary injunction preventing Sandoz from 
continuing to sell the products based on an infringement of a Nexium 
esomeprazole magnesium patent (EP 1020461). Sandoz appealed 
this decision and the appeal will be heard on 22 to 25 February 2011. 
In March 2010, the court granted a preliminary injunction based on 
infringement of a Nexium process patent (EP 0773940). Sandoz 
appealed this decision and the appeal was heard on 17 to 24 
January 2011. The decision will be announced on 28 February 2011. 
In July 2010, AstraZeneca filed an application with the District Court 
of Copenhagen, seeking an interlocutory injunction to restrain Krka 
Sverige AB from selling and marketing its generic esomeprazole 
magnesium products in Denmark. The hearing took place in 
November 2010. On 10 December 2010, the court denied 
AstraZeneca’s request for a preliminary injunction. AstraZeneca 
has appealed this decision.
In Austria, Hexal Pharma GmbH and 1A Pharma GmbH (both in the 
Sandoz group) launched generic products in October 2009. Requests 
for preliminary injunctions were filed in December 2009. Preliminary 
injunctions have been granted by the Vienna Commercial Court 
against Hexal Pharma GmbH on 10 March 2010 and against 1A 
Pharma GmbH on 11 March 2010. The decisions were appealed 
by the Sandoz companies. The Higher Regional Court of Vienna 
upheld the injunction against 1A Pharma GmbH in July 2010 and 
against Hexal Pharma GmbH in September 2010. In December 
2010, the Supreme Court rejected 1A Pharma GmbH’s request for 
extraordinary appeal. In July 2010, AstraZeneca filed an application 
for a preliminary injunction to be granted against Krka Pharma GmbH 
and Krka, d.d., Novo Mesto. In October 2010, the Vienna Commercial 
Court granted the preliminary injunction against Krka Pharma GmbH. 
This decision has been appealed by Krka Pharma GmbH. The case 
is still pending against Krka, d.d., Novo Mesto. On 29 November 2010, 
a similar request for a preliminary injunction was filed with the Vienna 
Commercial Court against ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH.
In July 2008, AstraZeneca initiated a declaratory action in Finland 
requesting the District Court of Helsinki to confirm that Sandoz AS 
and Sandoz A/S would infringe a patent relating to esomeprazole if 
they were to commercialise their generic esomeprazole product in 
Finland. In September 2008, Hexal AG, Sandoz Oy Ab and Sandoz 
A/S (all in the Sandoz group) initiated an invalidity case requesting 
the Court to invalidate the same patent. These cases will be heard 
jointly and were scheduled to be heard in September 2010. The 
hearing has been postponed to a date to be determined later.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 188 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
AstraZeneca initiated similar declaratory actions in Finland at the 
District Court of Helsinki against Ranbaxy (UK) Limited in December 
2009, against Mylan AB in March 2010, against Stada Arzneimittel 
AG in April 2010 and against Teva Sweden AB on 17 January 2011, 
requesting an order that these companies would infringe a patent 
relating to esomeprazole if they were to commercialise their generic 
products in Finland.
In Portugal, AstraZeneca filed a request in August 2009 with the 
Lisbon Administrative Court of First Instance seeking a preliminary 
injunction and initiating a main action in the administrative courts. 
AstraZeneca has filed the request to seek a suspension of the 
effect of decisions taken by administrative bodies in Portugal to 
grant Sandoz Farmacêutica Limitada marketing authorisations for 
generic esomeprazole magnesium products. In October 2009, the 
Court granted AstraZeneca a preliminary injunction suspending the 
efficacy of the marketing authorisations and the price approvals for 
Sandoz Farmacêutica Limitada’s generic esomeprazole magnesium 
products. The decision was appealed by the Portuguese authorities. 
In a decision on 22 December 2010, the court upheld the preliminary 
injunction. In January 2010, Mepha AG and Mepha Investigacao 
Fabricacao Farmacêutica, Limitada filed a nullity action to revoke 
the esomeprazole magnesium patent (EP 1020461) for Nexium. 
In February 2010, AstraZeneca filed a similar request for a preliminary 
injunction regarding the marketing approval for Mepha Farmacêutica 
Limitada. The preliminary request was denied by the Court in June 
2010. AstraZeneca has appealed this decision.
During 2009, Lek Farmacevtska Druzba d.d. (a company within 
the Sandoz group), (Lek) initiated an invalidity case regarding two 
esomeprazole related patents in Slovenia. AstraZeneca filed a request 
for an interlocutory injunction in January 2010 against Lek to restrain 
this company from commercialising, manufacturing and selling 
products containing esomeprazole magnesium in Slovenia. 
The interlocutory injunction was granted in June 2010. Lek appealed 
in July 2010, and in September 2010 the Appeal Court upheld the 
injunction. In July 2010, AstraZeneca filed an application with the 
District Court of Ljublijana in Slovenia seeking an interlocutory 
injunction to restrain Krka, d.d., Novo Mesto from manufacturing and 
selling generic esomeprazole magnesium products. On 20 October 
2010, the court rejected the request for an injunction. AstraZeneca 
appealed this decision on 28 October 2010.
In Spain, AstraZeneca filed a request for a preliminary injunction in 
April 2010 against Sandoz Farmacéutica S.A., Bexal Farmacéutica 
S.A., and Acost Comercial Genericpharma, S.L. (all in the Sandoz 
group) to restrain the companies from selling their generic 
esomeprazole magnesium products in Spain. In May 2010, the 
Court of Barcelona granted AstraZeneca a preliminary injunction 
against these Sandoz companies. A hearing in court took place in 
July 2010. Six days later, the court revoked the preliminary injunction. 
AstraZeneca has appealed.
In Poland, AstraZeneca filed in May 2010 a request for an interlocutory 
injunction against Lek Farmacevtska Druzba d.d. and Sandoz GmbH 
(both in the Sandoz group) to restrain them from manufacturing, 
using and selling their generic esomeprazole magnesium product 
in Poland. In June 2010, the application was granted regarding 
commercialising the product. AstraZeneca has appealed to have the 
injunction extended to manufacturing and Lek and Sandoz appealed 
in August 2010. In November 2010, the Appeal Court denied both 
appeals and thereby confirmed the interlocutory injunction.
In Ireland, AstraZeneca initiated a main action in August 2010 against 
Krka, d.d., Novo Mesto and Pinewood Laboratories Ltd claiming that 
the sale and marketing of their generic esomeprazole magnesium 
products infringes the Nexium esomeprazole magnesium patent 
(EP 102046).
In Estonia, AstraZeneca filed a request for an interlocutory injunction 
in June 2010 against Krka, d.d., Novo Mesto (Krka) to restrain this 
company from commercialising its magnesium esomeprazole 
product in Estonia. In July 2010, the court granted the requested 
interlocutory injunction. Krka appealed. In September 2010, 
the Appeal Court rejected the appeal and upheld the injunction. 
Krka, d.d., Novo Mesto filed an appeal with the Supreme Court, 
which denied leave to appeal. In July 2010, AstraZeneca filed 
a similar request for an interlocutory injunction against Krka in 
Lithuania. In July 2010, the injunction was granted. In September 
2010, Krka appealed. Krka and Zentiva k.s. have challenged 
Nexium esomeprazole magnesium patents in courts in Estonia, 
Latvia and Lithuania. In January 2011, Zentiva k.s. waived its 
invalidity claim in Lithuania.
Patent litigation – Norway
In Norway, Hexal AG, Sandoz AS and Sandoz A/S (together, 
Sandoz) initiated an invalidity case regarding two esomeprazole 
related patents in July 2008. In December 2009, the Court of Oslo 
invalidated a formulation patent while it upheld a substance patent 
related to esomeprazole. Both parties have appealed and the case 
was heard by the Appeal Court in January 2011. In September 
2010, AstraZeneca filed a request for an interlocutory injunction 
against Krka Sverige AB to restrain the company from marketing 
and selling its generic esomeprazole magnesium product in 
Norway. In December 2010, the Court granted AstraZeneca’s 
application, thereby prohibiting Krka Sverige AB’s commercialisation 
of its generic esomeprazole product in Norway. Krka Sverige AB 
has appealed this decision.
Patent proceedings
In July 2009, the European Patent Office (EPO) published the grant 
of two patents that relate to Nexium (EP 1020461) and Nexium i.v. 
(EP 1020460). These two patents were granted on the basis of two 
divisional applications of European Patent No. 0652872 (the Parent 
Patent). The Parent Patent, a substance patent covering Nexium, was 
revoked by the EPO Board of Appeal in December 2006 following 
post-grant opposition and appeal proceedings. The claims of 
EP 1020461 are different and narrower than the Parent Patent.
The divisional applications were supported by new evidence that 
was not available at the time the EPO Board of Appeal made its 
decision to revoke the Parent Patent. The new patents are due to 
remain in force until May 2014. The claims of the esomeprazole 
magnesium divisional application are limited to preparations and 
uses thereof having a very high optical purity, namely esomeprazole 
magnesium with an optical purity of equal to or greater than 99.8% 
enantiomeric excess.
The period for filing Notices of Opposition to the grant of these patents 
expired in April 2010. Thirteen Notices of Opposition have been filed 
in relation to EP 1020461 and six Notices of Opposition in relation 
to EP 1020460. No hearing date has been set.
European Commission Investigation
On 30 November 2010, the European Commission commenced 
an investigation relating to certain alleged practices regarding 
Nexium and dawn raided several AstraZeneca sites. The European 
Commission is investigating whether AstraZeneca may have acted 
individually or jointly to delay generic entry, in alleged breach of 
Articles 101 and/or 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the 
European Union, which prohibit anti-competitive practices between 
third parties and abuse of a dominant position. Dawn raids are a 
preliminary step in investigating suspected anti-competitive 
practices. The European Commission is continuing its investigation. 
AstraZeneca remains of the view that the investigation is unfounded 
and that it has complied with all relevant competition laws. 
AstraZeneca has, in accordance with its corporate policy, co-operated 
with the European Commission’s investigation. AstraZeneca will 
continue to co-operate with the European Commission should it 
decide to take the matter further.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 189
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Dutch Competition Authority Nexium    investigation
On 30 November 2010, the Dutch Competition Authority (NMa) 
commenced an investigation relating to alleged breach of Article 24 of 
Dutch competition law and Article 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning 
of the European Union. The NMa’s investigation relates to alleged 
foreclosure of generic versions of certain proton pump inhibitors 
(PPIs). The NMa is continuing its investigation. AstraZeneca remains of 
the view that the investigation is unfounded and that it has complied 
with all relevant competition laws. AstraZeneca has, in accordance 
with its corporate policy, co-operated with the NMa’s investigation. 
AstraZeneca will continue to co-operate with the NMa should it 
decide to take the matter further.
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) inquiry
In July 2008, AstraZeneca received a Civil Investigative Demand from 
the FTC seeking information regarding the Nexium patent litigation 
settlement with Ranbaxy (UK) Limited. AstraZeneca is co-operating 
fully with the request.
Pulmicort Respules (budesonide inhalation suspension)
In 2008, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the 
District of New Jersey against Breath Ltd. (now owned by Watson 
Pharmaceuticals) (Watson) for patent infringement resulting from an 
ANDA filed by Watson seeking approval to market generic copies 
of Pulmicort Respules in the US prior to the expiration of 
AstraZeneca’s patents.
In 2009, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the US 
District Court for the District of New Jersey against Apotex Inc. and 
Apotex Corp. (together, Apotex Group) seeking declaratory 
judgments and injunctive relief following the FDA’s approval of 
Apotex Group’s ANDA for a generic version of Pulmicort Respules 
in the US prior to the expiration of AstraZeneca’s patents. In May 
2009, due to concerns about Apotex Group’s intent to market its 
generic ANDA product, AstraZeneca obtained a preliminary 
injunction barring Apotex Group from launching its generic version  
of Pulmicort Respules until further order of the Court. In November 
2010, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the District 
Court’s decision to issue a preliminary injunction. Apotex Group has 
filed a petition in the Court of Appeals for rehearing en banc.
In April 2009, AstraZeneca listed in the FDA’s Orange Book a newly 
issued US patent directed to sterile formulations of budesonide 
inhalation suspensions. AstraZeneca listed the new patent in the 
FDA’s Orange Book, referencing Pulmicort Respules. AstraZeneca 
amended its pleadings against Apotex Group and Watson alleging 
infringement of the newly issued patent. The litigation involving 
Apotex Group and Watson has been consolidated under a common 
scheduling order. In December 2010, the Court scheduled a claim 
construction hearing to commence on 9 May 2011.
In September 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter from Sandoz Inc. notifying AstraZeneca that it was 
seeking approval to market a generic version of 0.25, 0.50 and 1mg 
doses of Pulmicort Respules prior to expiration of the patents covering 
Pulmicort Respules. In November 2010, AstraZeneca commenced 
patent infringement litigation against Sandoz Inc. in the US District 
Court for the District of New Jersey.
Seroquel (quetiapine fumarate)
AstraZeneca has made provisions in the year totalling $592m in 
respect of the ongoing Seroquel product liability litigation and state 
attorney general investigations into sales and marketing practices 
in the aggregate.
Sales and marketing practices
As previously reported, AstraZeneca reached a civil settlement 
with the US Attorney’s Office (Department of Justice) and the state 
Attorneys General National Medicaid Fraud Control Unit (NMFCU) 
to resolve an investigation relating to the marketing of Seroquel, 
pursuant to which AstraZeneca paid to the United States Federal 
Government a fine of $302m plus accrued interest and to participating 
states a proportional share of up to $218m plus accrued interest. 
In September 2010, AstraZeneca entered into individual settlement 
agreements with 41 states and Washington, D.C. for an aggregate 
amount of approximately $210m.
There are also a number of additional active investigations involving 
Seroquel sales and marketing practices led by state Attorneys General 
which include investigations relating to Seroquel off-label issues and 
which purport to cover issues in addition to the respective states’ 
participation in NMFCU. AstraZeneca has reached an agreement in 
principle to settle Seroquel-related state consumer protection and 
deceptive trade practice claims under state law with 37 states and 
Washington, D.C., as part of the National Association of Attorneys 
General and has recorded a provision for the agreed amount. 
Some states may also be conducting individual investigations.
Some states are separately suing AstraZeneca. As previously 
reported, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the states of 
Arkansas, Montana, New Mexico, South Carolina, Mississippi and 
Utah have sued AstraZeneca under various state laws generally 
alleging that AstraZeneca made false and/or misleading statements 
in connection with the marketing and promotion of Seroquel. 
In December 2010, the State of Alaska also sued AstraZeneca, 
making similar allegations. In September 2010, the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania voluntarily dismissed its lawsuit, and in December 2010, 
a federal judge dismissed Utah’s suit in its entirety and gave the State 
until 2 February 2011 to amend its complaint and refile. AstraZeneca 
believes that the remaining claims, which are in various stages of 
litigation, are without merit and intends to vigorously defend them.
In May 2007, the New Jersey Ironworkers Local Union No. 68 filed 
a class action suit against AstraZeneca on behalf of all individuals 
and non-governmental entities that paid for Seroquel from January 
2000 to date. The lawsuit was filed in the federal District Court in 
New Jersey and alleged that AstraZeneca promoted Seroquel for 
off-label uses and misled class members into believing that Seroquel 
was superior to other, lower-cost alternative medicines. Two similar 
class action lawsuits were filed in June and July 2007 in the New 
Jersey and Pennsylvania federal courts. In December 2007 , the three 
lawsuits were transferred to the Middle District of Florida by the US 
Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation (MDL). In November 2008, 
the MDL Court granted AstraZeneca’s motion and dismissed these 
cases in their entirety with prejudice. The plaintiffs have appealed 
this decision. AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend the appeal, 
which was heard by the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals in February 
2010 and remains pending.
In September 2008, the Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund 
(PEBTF) served AstraZeneca with a complaint filed in the Pennsylvania 
Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County seeking economic 
damages stemming from allegedly improper marketing practices that 
caused the PEBTF to reimburse for allegedly overpriced Seroquel 
prescriptions and the medical care of PEBTF members allegedly 
injured from Seroquel use. In October 2008, AstraZeneca removed 
this lawsuit to the federal court and immediately requested that it 
be transferred to the Seroquel MDL. In July 2009, the MDL Court 
dismissed PEBTF’s complaint with prejudice. PEBTF elected to 
forego a federal appeal of that decision, and instead pursued an 
appeal in the Pennsylvania Superior Court on the dismissal of an 
earlier-filed state court action. In August 2010, PEBTF voluntarily 
dismissed its appeal to the Pennsylvania Superior Court.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 190 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Product liability
AstraZeneca, either alone or in conjunction with one or more affiliates, 
has been sued in numerous individual personal injury actions involving 
Seroquel. In most of these cases, the nature of the plaintiffs’ alleged 
injuries is not clear from the complaint and, in most cases, little or no 
factual information regarding the alleged injury has been provided 
in the complaint. However, the plaintiffs generally contend that they 
developed diabetes and/or other related injuries as a result of taking 
Seroquel and/or other atypical anti-psychotic medications.
AstraZeneca has defended Seroquel product liability litigation in 
federal courts, including a Multi-District Litigation (MDL) in the Middle 
District of Florida, as well as in multiple state courts, including 
Delaware, New York and New Jersey courts, where cases were 
consolidated in order to manage the large volume of claims pending 
in those jurisdictions.
As of 31 December 2010, AstraZeneca was aware of approximately 
3,950 Seroquel US product liability claims that have not been settled 
in principle (see below). The majority of these remaining claims are 
pending in New Jersey and New York state courts, although some 
claims are pending in a handful of other state courts and in the federal 
MDL. Some of the cases pending against AstraZeneca also include 
claims against other pharmaceutical manufacturers such as Eli Lilly & 
Company, Janssen Pharmaceutica, Inc. and/or BMS. At present, trial 
dates remain pending in multiple jurisdictions, including New Jersey 
and New York, beginning mid 2011 and continuing through 2012.
There are four additional putative Canadian class actions raising 
allegations that AstraZeneca failed to provide adequate warnings 
in connection with an alleged association between Seroquel and 
the onset of diabetes. These actions have been filed in the Canadian 
provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, Ontario and Quebec. 
The Quebec court dismissed the action, and the petitioner’s appeal 
of that decision is scheduled for hearing in April 2011. A class 
certification hearing has been set in the Ontario action for the week 
of 21 November 2011.
In September 2010, the court presiding over the Delaware Seroquel 
litigation issued an opinion dismissing three cases on the basis that 
the claims were time-barred under the statute of limitations.
The only case that has gone to trial resulted in a defence verdict 
in favour of AstraZeneca. The plaintiffs have appealed that verdict, 
and the appeal is pending before the New Jersey appellate court.
In November 2009, Judge Anne Conway, who is presiding over the 
Seroquel federal MDL, ordered the parties to mediate their claims 
with a court-appointed mediator. AstraZeneca remains committed to 
a strong defence effort, but will also continue to participate in good 
faith in the court-ordered mediation process.
As of 31 December 2010, the mediation process has resulted in 
agreements in principle on monetary terms, subject to various 
subsequent conditions, approvals and agreement on non-monetary 
terms, with the attorneys representing 24,591 claimants. The claims 
that have settled in principle include both claims that have been filed 
in the courts as well as claims that had not yet been filed. The specific 
terms of those conditional agreements in principle are by agreement, 
and at the request of the mediator, confidential at this time. Written 
settlement agreements have been finalised in connection with 
18,072 claims and payments have been made in connection with 
certain of those claims. The parties are finalising written settlement 
agreements in respect of the other claims that have been resolved 
in principle. The mediation process is ongoing with regard to other 
currently unsettled claims.
A provision has been established in respect of the Seroquel product 
liability claims regarding both current and anticipated future settlement 
costs as well as anticipated future defence costs associated with 
resolving all or substantially all remaining claims.
The amount of this provision remains subject to a number of 
significant uncertainties and is based on AstraZeneca’s best estimate 
of (1) the number of claims that are outstanding and may be subject 
to mediation, (2) the financial terms of any future agreements to settle 
claims not subject to settlement agreements in principle at the balance 
sheet date, and (3) the likely cost of defending those claims and 
finalising settlement agreements through to substantial completion. 
Each of these estimates is subject to future adjustment based on 
multiple variables, such as the number of asserted claims, the 
success of future mediations, and further developments in the 
litigation. It is therefore not possible at this time to provide any 
reasonable indication as to when remaining claims may be settled. 
Furthermore, it is possible that the actual cost of ultimately settling 
or adjudicating the Seroquel product liability claims may differ 
significantly from the total amount provided.
As of 31 December 2010, legal defence costs of approximately 
$738m have been incurred in connection with Seroquel-related 
product liability claims.
AstraZeneca has product liability insurance dating from 2003 that 
is considered to respond to the vast majority of the Seroquel-related 
product liability claims. This insurance provides cover for legal 
defence costs and potential damages amounts. The insurers that 
issued the applicable policies for 2003 have disputed coverage for 
Seroquel-related product liability claims on various grounds. In April 
2010, AstraZeneca settled its claims against several of its insurers for 
legal costs incurred defending the Seroquel-related product liability 
claims immediately in excess of AstraZeneca’s self-insured retention 
of $39m for an amount approximately equal to the receivable that 
had been recorded at 31 December 2009.
Disputes continue with insurers about the availability of coverage 
under additional insurance policies. As of 31 December 2010, legal 
costs of approximately $123m have been incurred in connection with 
Seroquel-related product liability claims which AstraZeneca believes 
to be covered by these additional insurance policies. However, 
the combined amount charged to the income statement to date in 
respect of legal costs and settlements which AstraZeneca believes 
to be covered by these additional policies, including the provisions 
taken in the third and fourth quarters of 2010, now significantly 
exceeds the total stated upper limits of these insurance policies.
While no insurance receivable can be recognised under applicable 
accounting standards at this time, AstraZeneca believes that it is 
more likely than not that further insurance recoveries will be secured 
under the additional policies, but there can be no assurance of this 
or the amount of any potential future recovery.
Patent litigation – Brazil
In January 2006, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit before the Federal 
Courts of Rio de Janeiro seeking judicial declaration extending the 
term of one of its patents from 2006 to 2012. A preliminary order was 
granted shortly thereafter. At the end of July 2010, Pró Genéricos and 
the Brazilian Patent Trademark Office (Brazilian PTO) appealed the 
preliminary order granted in favour of AstraZeneca. The judge decided 
in favour of Pró Genéricos and the Brazilian PTO. AstraZeneca 
appealed this decision. In November 2010, the Court of Appeal 
decided in favour of Pró Genéricos and the Brazilian PTO and 
revoked the prelimary order previously granted to AstraZeneca. 
The main action continues.
Patent litigation – EU
Since 2007, AstraZeneca has filed requests with the Portuguese 
courts seeking suspension of the effect of decisions taken by 
administrative bodies in Portugal to grant other companies 
marketing authorisations for generic quetiapine fumarate. Many 
preliminary injunctions and main actions are pending before the 
courts. The courts have generally agreed with AstraZeneca’s position 
and suspended the marketing authorisations in the preliminary 
injunction actions until a definitive decision on the merits in the main 
actions (or until AstraZeneca’s patent rights expire, in March 2012, if 
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 191
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
this occurs first). Only in one case did the administrative courts not 
suspend the grant of the marketing authorisation (decision of 
December 2009, confirmed in July 2010). Accordingly, the 
Portuguese administrative bodies have granted the retail price in 
respect of that product. In July and November 2010, AstraZeneca 
filed preliminary injunction proceedings with the aim of suspending 
the effect of the retail price decision. AstraZeneca has filed 
corresponding main actions.
Seroquel XR
Patent litigation – US
AstraZeneca lists two patents in the FDA’s Orange Book referencing 
Seroquel XR, US Patent No. 4,879,288 (the ’288 patent) covering 
quetiapine fumarate, the active ingredient, and US Patent No. 
5,948,437 (the ’437 patent) covering extended-release formulations, 
processes and methods in respect of quetiapine fumarate.
As previously reported, in 2008 and 2009, AstraZeneca filed patent 
infringement actions in the US District Court for the District of New 
Jersey against various entities of Handa Pharmaceuticals, LLC 
(Handa), Accord Healthcare Inc. (Accord), and Biovail Laboratories 
International SRL (Biovail) for ANDAs seeking approval to market 
generic copies of Seroquel XR tablets.
In March 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter from Anchen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Anchen) seeking 
approval to market generic versions of 150, 200, 300 and 400mg 
Seroquel XR tablets before the expiration of the ’437 patent. In its 
Certification notice-letter, Anchen claims that certain of the claims of 
the ’437 patent will not be infringed by its proposed ANDA products 
and that the ’437 patent is invalid. In April 2010, AstraZeneca filed a 
lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against 
Anchen and Anchen, Inc. alleging infringement of the ’437 patent.
In July 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter from Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (Torrent) indicating 
that it was seeking approval to market generic versions of 150, 
200, 300 and 400mg Seroquel XR tablets before the expiration of 
the ’437 patent. Torrent claims that certain of the claims of the ’437 
patent will not be infringed by its proposed ANDA products and 
that the ’437 patent is invalid. In August 2010, AstraZeneca filed a 
lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey 
against Torrent alleging infringement of the ’437 patent. In 
September 2010, AstraZeneca received another Certification 
notice-letter similar to that described above from Torrent with 
respect to the 50mg Seroquel XR tablets. In September 2010, 
AstraZeneca filed another lawsuit in the US District Court for the 
District of New Jersey against Torrent for patent infringement 
alleging infringement of the ’437 patent with respect to the  
50mg tablet.
In July 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter from Osmotica Pharmaceutical Corporation (Osmotica) 
indicating that it was seeking approval to market generic versions 
of 200, 300 and 400mg Seroquel XR tablets before the expiration 
of the ’437 patent. In its Certification notice-letter, Osmotica claims 
that certain of the claims of the ’437 patent will not be infringed 
by its proposed ANDA products and that the ’437 patent is invalid. 
In August 2010, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in the US District Court 
for the District of New Jersey against Osmotica.
In October 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification 
notice-letter from Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Mylan) indicating 
that it was seeking approval to market a generic version of 200mg 
Seroquel XR tablets before the expiration of the ’437 patent. In its 
Certification notice-letter, Mylan claims that certain of the claims of 
the ’437 patent will not be infringed by its proposed ANDA products 
and that the ’437 patent is invalid. In October 2010, AstraZeneca 
filed a patent infringement action in the US District Court for the 
District of New Jersey against Mylan and Mylan Inc.
The patent infringement actions against all seven ANDA filers 
proceed in discovery before US District Court Judge Joel Pisano.
On 22 November 2010, the Court conducted a claim construction 
hearing, and on 30 November 2010, Judge Pisano issued a decision 
interpreting claims of the ’437 patent. In December 2010, Torrent 
filed a Motion for Clarification and Reconsideration of the Court’s 
decision in response.
In December 2010, Handa and Accord reported that they have 
received tentative FDA approval of their ANDAs.
On 8 January 2011, AstraZeneca and Handa submitted a joint 
stipulation and proposed order concerning the ’288 patent staying 
litigation between the parties until and including 26 March 2012. Upon 
expiration of the stay, AstraZeneca’s infringement claims against 
Handa relating to the ’288 patent, and Handa’s related counterclaims, 
will be dismissed as moot. Under the stipulation, Handa agrees not 
to engage in the commercial sale of the extended release quetiapine 
fumarate products that are the subject of its ANDA before the 
26 March 2012 expiration of AstraZeneca’s Paediatric Exclusivity 
relating to the ’288 patent. The Court entered the consent order 
described above on 10 January 2011. The Court has set a pre-trial 
schedule and trial to begin on 3 October 2011.
Patent litigation – EU
In the UK, Teva UK Limited and Teva Pharmaceuticals Limited (Teva) 
issued revocation proceedings against AstraZeneca in December 
2010. Teva claims that the patent EP (UK) 0907364 is invalid.
In Hungary, AstraZeneca was notified in late 2010 that Teva 
Pharmaceuticals Limited and Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt (together, Teva) 
had filed a request for nullity of the Hungarian formulation patent 
for Seroquel XR with the Hungarian Patent Office. Teva claims that 
Hungarian Patent No. 225 152 should be declared null and void. 
AstraZeneca is considering its response.
Synagis (palivizumab)
In December 2008, MedImmune initiated patent litigation against 
PDL BioPharma, Inc. (PDL) in the US District Court for the Northern 
District of California. MedImmune sought a declaratory judgment that 
the Queen patents (owned by PDL) are invalid and/or not infringed 
by either Synagis and/or motavizumab, and that no further royalties 
are owed under a patent licence MedImmune and PDL signed in 1997 
(1997 Agreement). MedImmune has paid royalties on Synagis since 
1998 under the 1997 Agreement. In February 2009, MedImmune 
amended its complaint to add a separate claim asserting that 
MedImmune is entitled, under the 1997 Agreement’s ‘most favoured 
licensee’ provision, to the more favourable royalty terms that 
MedImmune contends PDL has granted to other Queen patent 
licensees. PDL has taken the position in the case that both Synagis 
and motavizumab infringe a single claim of the Queen patents, and 
on that basis, that MedImmune owes royalties for both products. 
With respect to the ‘most favoured licensee’ dispute, PDL contends 
that MedImmune’s rights under that provision have not been triggered 
by PDL ’s licensing activities with third parties. In December 2009, 
PDL purported to cancel the 1997 Agreement, an action PDL 
later explained was based on an allegation that MedImmune had 
underpaid royalties on ex-US sales of Synagis by Abbott International, 
Inc. (Abbott), and that MedImmune failed to co-operate in a royalty 
audit. After the purported termination, PDL amended its answer to 
add counterclaims for breach of contract and patent infringement. 
PDL ’s claims seek actual and exemplary damages and an injunction. 
MedImmune responded to the new claims by adding its own claims 
for damages and recoupment of past royalties. In December 2010, 
the Court heard motions for summary judgment that could resolve 
certain issues, including patent invalidity, without a trial. On 7 January 
2011, the Court granted some of those motions. The Court held 
that the single patent claim asserted by PDL as a basis for 
MedImmune’s royalty obligation is invalid, and also that MedImmune 
properly paid royalties on ex-US sales by Abbott. On 12 January 
2011, the Court held a case management conference and scheduled 
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 192 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
the remaining claims for trial on 4 March 2011 with a further hearing 
scheduled on 4 February 2011 to finalise the trial date.
As at 31 December 2010, MedImmune had provided for $38m in 
respect of accrued royalties not paid to PDL for the period from 
December 2009 to the end of 2010.
Symbicort (budesonide/formoterol)
Symbicort Maintenance and Reliever Therapy (Symbicort SMART)
In December 2008, oppositions were filed against patent  
EP 1 085 877 B1 covering the use of Symbicort for the as needed 
symptomatic relief of asthma in addition to regular maintenance 
treatment of chronic asthma. The opponents are Vectura Limited, 
ratiopharm GmbH, Generics (UK) Limited and Norton Healthcare 
Limited. A hearing date has not yet been set by the European Patent 
Office Opposition Division.
US patent term extension
In June 2008, the US Patent and Trademark Office issued a final 
determination that US Patent No. 5,674,860 was not eligible for 
patent term extension. AstraZeneca filed a request for reconsideration 
and the matter continues.
Toprol-XL (metoprolol succinate)
In the first quarter of 2006, AstraZeneca was served with 14 
complaints filed in the US District Court for the Districts of Delaware, 
Massachusetts and Florida against AstraZeneca and Aktiebolaget 
Hässle. The complaints were putative class actions filed on behalf 
of both direct purchasers and indirect purchasers that allege that 
AstraZeneca attempted to illegally maintain monopoly power in the 
US over Toprol-XL in violation of the Sherman Act through the listing 
of invalid and unenforceable patents in the FDA’s Orange Book and 
the enforcement of such patents through litigation against generic 
manufacturers seeking to market metoprolol succinate. The 
complaints seek treble damages based on alleged overcharges 
to the putative classes of plaintiffs. These 14 complaints were 
consolidated into two amended complaints in the US District Court 
for the District of Delaware, one on behalf of direct purchasers,  
and one on behalf of indirect purchasers. The lawsuits are based 
upon a 2006 ruling by the US District Court for the Eastern  
District of Missouri in the consolidated patent litigation against KV 
Pharmaceuticals Co., Andrx Pharmaceuticals, LLC and Eon Labs, 
Inc. that the AstraZeneca patents relating to Toprol-XL are invalid 
and unenforceable. In 2006, AstraZeneca filed a motion seeking  
to dismiss or, in the alternative, stay the consolidated complaint in 
both anti-trust cases. In March 2010, the court ordered the parties 
to begin discovery and in April 2010 issued an order denying 
AstraZeneca’s motions to dismiss. 
In July 2010, a non-class action anti-trust complaint was filed in 
federal court in Delaware against AstraZeneca by Walgreen Co., 
The Kroger Co., Safeway Inc., HEB Grocery Company LLP and 
Supervalu Inc. In October 2010, a similar complaint was filed in 
Delaware by CVS Pharmacy Inc., Caremark LLC, Rite Aid Corp, 
Rite Aid Headquarters Corp, JCG (PJC) USA LLC, Maxi Drug, Inc. 
(doing business as, Brooks Pharmacy) and Eckerd Corp. These 
two complaints are based on the same anti-trust allegations that 
were already alleged in the direct purchaser actions and, if upheld, 
would reduce the damages available to the plaintiffs in the direct 
purchaser actions.
Zestril (lisinopril)
In 1996, two of AstraZeneca’s predecessor companies, Zeneca 
Limited and Zeneca Pharma Inc. (as licensees), Merck & Co., Inc. 
and Merck Frosst Canada Inc. (together, Merck Group) commenced 
a patent infringement action in the Federal Court of Canada against 
Apotex Inc. (Apotex), alleging infringement of Merck Group’s lisinopril 
patent. AstraZeneca and the Merck Group were ultimately successful. 
In March 2010, AstraZeneca and the Merck Group filed Statements 
of Issues to commence the reference to quantify the damages 
related to Apotex’s infringement. The damages matter proceeds.
Other product liability litigation
Pain pump litigation
Since February 2008, AstraZeneca has been named among other 
defendants in approximately 300 lawsuits, involving approximately 
489 plaintiffs, filed in various US jurisdictions, alleging injuries caused 
by third party pain pumps. The complaints in these cases generally 
allege that the use of Marcaine, Sensorcaine, Xylocaine and/or 
Naropin, with or without epinephrine, in pain pumps that were 
implanted into patients in connection with arthroscopic surgery, 
caused chondrolysis. As of the end of 2010, AstraZeneca has been 
dismissed from all but two of these cases, each with only one plaintiff.
It was previously reported that AstraZeneca was among 20 
defendants named in a putative class action lawsuit pending in 
Federal District Court in Texas that was brought by a single plaintiff 
on behalf of ‘several hundred’ class members who received local 
anaesthetics intra-articularly for up to 72 hours or more via a pain 
pump. In April 2010, the District Court dismissed AstraZeneca from 
this lawsuit, and no appeal was taken.
AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend against this matter.
Other commercial litigation
Verus Pharmaceuticals litigation
In May 2009, Verus Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Verus) filed a lawsuit in 
the New York State Supreme Court, New York County against 
AstraZeneca and its subsidiary, Tika Läkemedel AB (Tika), alleging 
breaches of several related collaboration agreements to develop 
novel paediatric asthma treatments. The complaint purported to 
state claims for fraud, breach of contract, unjust enrichment and 
conversion. AstraZeneca and Tika removed the lawsuit to the US 
District Court for the Southern District of New York and moved to 
dismiss the complaint. In August 2010, the federal district court 
granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss in its entirety. In September 
2010, Verus filed a Notice of Appeal from that decision with the US 
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
Dr. George Pieczenik v. AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, 
AstraZeneca LP, et al
In May 2010, Dr. George Pieczenik (the Plaintiff) filed a lawsuit against 
AstraZeneca and numerous other companies in the US District Court 
for the District of New Jersey alleging that defendants’ ‘research, 
commercial and licensing activities’ infringe US Patent No. 5,866,363 
(the ’363 patent), purportedly owned by the Plaintiff. The Plaintiff 
also alleged violations of the Racketeering Institution and Corrupt 
Organization Act. In June 2010, the Court, sua sponte, dismissed 
without prejudice the Plaintiff’s suit, determining that the asserted 
claims failed to meet federal pleading requirements. In July 2010, 
the Plaintiff filed an amended complaint again claiming infringement 
of the ’363 patent as well as other legal theories. In October 2010, 
defendants filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit asserting that the 
Plaintiff had failed to state a legally cognisable cause of action. 
The Plaintiff opposed the motion in November 2010 and filed 
several unsuccessful ancillary motions, which the Plaintiff has 
improperly appealed to the Federal Circuit Court. The Court has 
not yet ruled on the motion to dismiss the amended complaint.
Other pricing litigation
Average wholesale price litigation
AstraZeneca is a defendant, along with many other pharmaceutical 
manufacturers, in several sets of cases involving allegations that, 
by causing the publication of allegedly inflated wholesale list prices, 
defendants caused entities to overpay for prescription drugs.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 193
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
The first set of cases was filed in December 2001 in the US District 
Court in Boston, Massachusetts on behalf of a putative class of 
plaintiffs and related only to the physician-administered Zoladex 
medication. Following the Massachusetts complaint, nearly identical 
class action suits were filed in two other states, which were 
consolidated with the Massachusetts action for pre-trial purposes, 
pursuant to federal Multi-District Litigation (MDL) procedures. 
As previously reported, AstraZeneca and other manufacturers were 
later sued in similar lawsuits filed by the State Attorneys General 
of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, 
Kentucky, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, Pennsylvania, Utah, 
and Wisconsin, as well as by multiple individual counties in the 
State of New York. In September and November 2010 respectively, 
AstraZeneca was separately served with two new such cases brought 
by the Attorneys General of Oklahoma and Louisiana. The Attorneys 
General lawsuits seek to recover alleged overpayments under 
Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programmes for 
substantially all of AstraZeneca’s medications. In several cases, 
the states are also suing to recover alleged overpayments by state 
residents. Several of these suits were consolidated with the 
Massachusetts action for pre-trial purposes, pursuant to federal MDL 
procedures. Private insurers and consumers filed putative state-
wide class actions in Arizona and New Jersey alleging damages 
relating to private reimbursement of prescription drugs.
In the MDL action in January 2006, the District Court certified three 
classes of plaintiffs against AstraZeneca: a nationwide class of 
consumers who made co-payments for Zoladex reimbursed under 
the Medicare Part B programme (Class 1); a Massachusetts-only 
class of third party payers, including insurance companies, union 
health and welfare benefit plans, and self-insured employers, 
who covered consumer co-payments for Zoladex (Class 2); and 
a Massachusetts-only class of third party payers and consumers 
who paid for Zoladex outside of the Medicare programme (Class 3). 
In September 2008, the MDL Court also provisionally certified 
multi-state versions of Class 2 and Class 3 relating to Zoladex. 
For all of these classes, the only AstraZeneca drug at issue is Zoladex.
As previously reported, in December 2008, the MDL Court approved 
a settlement to resolve the Class 1 claims for up to $24m to reimburse 
individual class members submitting claims, plus attorneys’ fees 
of $8.58m, with any unclaimed settlement amounts being donated 
to charitable organisations that fund cancer patient care and 
research. A portion of this settlement was paid in June 2010, 
but the administration of claims continues.
In June 2007 and November 2007 , the MDL Court issued decisions, 
after a bench trial, on liability and damages on the Massachusetts 
Classes 2 and 3. The Court found AstraZeneca liable in connection 
with the pricing of Zoladex during the period 1998 to 2003 and 
awarded double damages (with pre-judgment interest) of $5.5m for 
Class 2, and single damages (with pre-judgment interest) of $7.4m 
for Class 3, for a total of $12.9m. On 18 June 2010, AstraZeneca 
executed a settlement agreement to resolve, inclusive of pre- and 
post-judgment interest, administration fees and plaintiffs’ attorney 
fees, the Massachusetts Class 2 and Class 3 claims for a total of 
$13m. The Court granted preliminary approval of the settlement on 
12 August 2010 and a hearing regarding final approval is scheduled 
to take place on 2 February 2011.
In June 2010, AstraZeneca executed a settlement agreement to 
resolve, inclusive of pre- and post-judgment interest, administration 
fees and plaintiffs’ attorney fees, both the Zoladex claims of the 
provisionally certified multi-state class and the Zoladex claims in 
the lawsuit but not certified for class action treatment for a total of 
$90m. The Court granted preliminary approval of the settlement on 
12 August 2010. A hearing regarding final approval is scheduled to 
take place on 2 February 2011.
With regard to the above-referenced MDL class settlements, 
AstraZeneca had already taken provisions, prior to 2010, in the 
aggregate amount of approximately $130m.
Many of the multiple attorney general and state putative class action 
lawsuits pending against AstraZeneca and other manufacturers 
nationwide, which involve numerous drugs in addition to Zoladex, 
remain pending and are in various stages of discovery. Those matters 
with significant developments are noted below.
In October 2009, a Kentucky jury found AstraZeneca liable under 
the Commonwealth of Kentucky’s Consumer Protection statute and 
Medicaid Fraud statute, and awarded $14.72m in compensatory 
damages and $100 in punitive damages for drugs reimbursed by the 
Commonwealth of Kentucky Medicaid Agency and the trial court 
subsequently awarded statutory penalties of $5.4m. AstraZeneca 
filed a motion for a new trial and a motion for judgment notwithstanding 
the verdict, both of which were denied on 19 January 2011. 
AstraZeneca believes the verdict and the Court’s order are in error 
and intends to appeal.
As previously reported, the cases brought by the Attorneys General 
of Nevada, Montana, Hawaii, and Pennsylvania have been resolved 
through settlements. In the fourth quarter of 2010, AstraZeneca 
finalised agreements to settle the lawsuits brought by Arizona, Iowa, 
and the New York Counties. In September 2010, AstraZeneca also 
finalised an agreement to settle the claims of the three named 
plaintiffs in the putative New Jersey consumer class action case. All 
of these settlements, the aggregate amount of which is approximately 
$19m, have been paid in full and AstraZeneca consequently owes 
no further obligations as a result of those underlying lawsuits.
As previously reported, in 2009 AstraZeneca prevailed in the Alabama 
Attorney General lawsuit and the Arizona consumer class action.
AstraZeneca remains in litigation with 10 state attorney generals.
AstraZeneca continues to vigorously defend the lawsuits brought 
by the Attorneys General of Alaska, Idaho, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, 
Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Utah and Wisconsin, and denies 
the allegations therein.
340B Class Action litigation
In August 2005, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant, along with 
multiple other pharmaceutical manufacturers, in a putative class 
action suit filed by the County of Santa Clara on behalf of similarly 
situated California counties and cities that allegedly overpaid for drugs 
covered by federal section 340B of the drug pricing programme 
(42 USC §256b). The 340B programme entitles hospitals and clinics 
that treat a substantial portion of uninsured patients to preferential 
drug pricing for outpatient drugs.
On 28 September 2010, the US Supreme Court granted the 
defendants’ petition for certiorari from a decision of the US Court 
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The issue before the Supreme 
Court is whether covered entities under the 340B programme  
have enforceable rights to sue as third party beneficiaries of the 
Pharmaceutical Pricing Agreement that implements the statute. 
Following the grant of certiorari, the trial court stayed all proceedings 
in the matter pending a decision by the US Supreme Court.
The case was argued on 19 January 2011. A decision is expected 
by the end of June 2011.
AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend these claims.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 194 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Other anti-trust litigation and investigations
Drug importation anti-trust litigation
In August 2004, Californian retail pharmacy plaintiffs filed an action in 
the Superior Court of California alleging a conspiracy by AstraZeneca 
and approximately 15 other pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants 
to set the price of drugs sold in California at or above the Canadian 
sales price for those same drugs and otherwise restrict the 
importation of pharmaceuticals into the US. In July 2005, the Court 
overruled in part and sustained in part, without leave to amend, the 
defendants’ motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’ third amended complaint 
in these proceedings. The Court overruled the defendants’ motion 
in respect of conspiracy claims but sustained the motion in respect 
of the California Unfair Competition Law claims.
In December 2006, the Court granted the defendants’ motion for 
summary judgment determining that any alleged damages suffered 
by plaintiffs were ‘passed-on’ to their customers and the case was 
subsequently dismissed. The plaintiffs appealed that decision and the 
Court of Appeal of the State of California affirmed the lower Court’s 
decision. The plaintiffs appealed to the California Supreme Court. 
In July 2010, the California Supreme Court reversed the decisions 
by the lower courts, rejecting the ‘pass-on’ defence and remanded 
the case back to the lower court for further proceedings.
As previously reported, in September 2006, the defendants filed a 
motion for summary judgment arguing that the plaintiffs have failed 
to prove their allegations of a conspiracy and that the defendants 
are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. The Superior Court will 
hear argument on that motion on 17 February 2011. The Court has 
scheduled a trial of the matter to commence on 1 August 2011.
AstraZeneca denies the material allegations in the California action 
and is vigorously defending this matter.
US secondary wholesalers
In July 2006, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant, along with 
a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers and wholesalers, 
in a complaint filed by RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. (RxUSA) in the US 
District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The complaint 
alleges that the defendants violated federal and state anti-trust laws. 
In August 2010, the Court of Appeal for the Second Circuit affirmed 
the dismissal and the time period for RxUSA to seek review by the 
Supreme Court expired, rendering the matter concluded.
European Commission patent settlements monitoring
In January 2010, the European Commission requested copies 
of settlement agreements entered into between July 2008 and 
December 2009 from a number of companies, including AstraZeneca. 
AstraZeneca co-operated fully with the request. The European 
Commission published its First Report on Monitoring of Patent 
Settlements in July 2010. The report noted a decrease in the number 
of settlement agreements which might be problematic (pursuant to 
EU competition laws) in the relevant period, compared to the period 
covered by the European Commission’s sector inquiry into the 
pharmaceutical industry (January 2000-June 2008). In January 
2011, the European Commission requested copies of settlement 
agreements which were entered into or amended in 2010 from 
a number of companies, including AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca will 
co-operate fully with the request.
Other
For a description of other anti trust-related litigation involving 
AstraZeneca, see the subsections entitled Losec/Prilosec 
(omeprazole), Nexium (esomeprazole) and Toprol-XL (metoprolol 
succinate) in this Note 25 to the Financial Statements.
Other actual and threatened government investigations and 
related litigation
AstraZeneca is involved in various governmental investigations 
considered typical to its business. The more significant matters 
are discussed below.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
In connection with an investigation into Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
issues in the pharmaceutical industry, AstraZeneca has received 
inquiries from the US Department of Justice and the SEC regarding, 
among other things, sales practices, internal controls, certain 
distributors and interactions with healthcare providers in several 
countries. AstraZeneca is co-operating with these inquiries. 
AstraZeneca is investigating indications of inappropriate conduct in 
certain countries, including China. These investigations are ongoing, 
and it is not currently possible to predict the scope, duration or 
outcome of these matters, including the extent to which, if at all, 
they will result in any liability to AstraZeneca.
Medco qui tam litigation (Schumann)
AstraZeneca has been named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed 
in Federal Court in Philadelphia by a former Medco Health Systems 
employee, Karl Schumann, under the qui tam (whistleblower) 
provisions of the federal and certain state False Claims Acts. 
The action was initially filed in September 2003 but remained under 
seal until July 2009, at which time AstraZeneca was served with a 
copy of the amended complaint following the government’s decision 
not to intervene in the case. The lawsuit seeks to recover, inter alia, 
alleged overpayments by federal and state governments for Prilosec 
and Nexium from 1996 to 2007. These overpayments are alleged 
to be the result of improper payments intended to influence the 
formulary status of Prilosec and Nexium at Medco and its customers. 
In October 2010, the district court denied AstraZeneca’s motion to 
dismiss the amended complaint. In November 2010, AstraZeneca 
filed a separate motion to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction under the 
False Claims Act. Briefing is complete and this motion remains 
pending before the district court.
Additional government investigations into drug marketing practices
As is true for most, if not all, major prescription pharmaceutical 
companies operating in the US, AstraZeneca is currently involved 
in multiple US federal and state investigations into drug marketing 
and pricing practices. The US Attorney’s Offices for the Districts  
of Delaware, Texas and Alabama are conducting investigations 
related to sales and marketing activities potentially involving more 
than one product, including Crestor and Seroquel XR, and likely 
in response to the filing of qui tam (whistleblower) lawsuits. 
The precise parameters of these inquiries are unknown, and 
AstraZeneca is not in a position at this time to predict the scope, 
duration or outcome of these matters, including whether they will 
result in any liability to AstraZeneca.
In addition to the investigations described above, and as previously 
reported, various federal and state law enforcement offices 
have requested information relating to contracting and disease 
management programmes, a leading provider of pharmacy services 
to long-term care facilities, prior interactions with physicians in the 
State of Delaware, and nominal pricing under the Medicaid rebate 
program respectively. There have been no material developments in 
these matters.
Employment litigation
Employment – wage/hour litigation
In September 2006, Marc Brody filed a putative class action lawsuit 
against AstraZeneca on behalf of himself and a class of approximately 
844 pharmaceutical sales specialists employed by the Group 
in California during the period 19 September 2002 to the present. 
The plaintiff alleged he and the proposed class members were 
unlawfully classified as exempt employees and denied overtime 
compensation and meal breaks in violation of the California Labor 
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 195
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
Code. AstraZeneca removed this action to the US District Court for 
the Central District of California in October 2006. The plaintiff filed 
a first amended complaint in March 2007 , seeking civil penalties and 
adding claims for alleged failure to provide meal and rest periods, 
failure to pay all wages earned each pay period, failure to provide 
accurate wage statements, failure to pay wages in a timely manner 
upon termination of employment and unfair competition. AstraZeneca 
denied the allegations made by the plaintiff, asserting that the sales 
specialists are properly classified under various exemptions to the 
wage laws. The plaintiff’s lawyers are also pursuing similar claims 
in lawsuits against most of the major pharmaceutical companies. 
The US District Court for the Central District of California granted 
summary judgment in favour of AstraZeneca in the Brody lawsuit, 
dismissing all claims by the plaintiff and finding the motion for class 
certification to be moot. The plaintiff has filed a Notice of Appeal 
with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in California. Briefing in that 
appeal is currently on hold.
In separate lawsuits against AstraZeneca, the firms representing 
the Brody plaintiff filed additional state and wage-and-hour class 
actions. One case captioned Baum v. AstraZeneca, LP was filed 
under the Pennsylvania Minimum Wage Act and Wage Payment 
Collection Law in the US District Court for the Western District of 
Pennsylvania on behalf of a putative class of approximately 473 sales 
specialists working in Pennsylvania from March 2004. The Court, 
however, granted summary judgment in favour of AstraZeneca, 
dismissing all claims filed by plaintiff Baum and finding the motion 
for class certification to be moot. The plaintiff filed an appeal  
with the Third Circuit Court of Appeals, but that appeal was  
denied. On 4 October 2010, the US Supreme Court denied the 
plaintiff’s certiorari petition, which denied certiorari, preserving 
the favourable decision for AstraZeneca. The Baum lawsuit is  
now concluded.
Additionally, in June 2007, the firms representing the Brody plaintiff 
filed a nationwide collective action based on federal wage-and-hour 
law in the US District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking unpaid 
overtime compensation and liquidated damages. The lawsuit had 
a potential class size of 8,300 current and former sales specialists 
employed by the Group in the US from June 2004. The parties have 
negotiated a stipulation of dismissal of this lawsuit and the action 
was dismissed.
In November 2010, a separate group of plaintiffs’ counsel filed a new 
nationwide collective action in the US District Court for the Southern 
District of Indiana. In this case, Shatto v. AstraZeneca PLP, the 
plaintiffs allege violations of federal wage-and-hour law for non-
payment of overtime wages. AstraZeneca denies the allegations 
made by the plaintiff and intends to defend the litigation vigorously.
Bildman v. Astra USA
In March 2010, Bildman filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with 
the US Supreme Court, seeking appeal of the Massachusetts 
Supreme Judicial Court’s dismissal of his defamation claim against 
AstraZeneca. In May 2010, the US Supreme Court denied Bildman’s 
petition for a writ of certiorari, declining to review the lower court’s 
decision and preserving a favourable outcome for AstraZeneca.
Tax
Where tax exposures can be quantified, an accrual is made based 
on best estimates and management’s judgement. Details of the 
movements in relation to material tax exposures are discussed below.
Transfer pricing and other international tax contingencies
AstraZeneca faces a number of transfer pricing audits in jurisdictions 
around the world and, in some cases, is in dispute with the tax 
authorities. The issues under discussion are often complex and 
can require many years to resolve. Accruals for tax contingencies 
require management to make estimates and judgements with respect 
to the ultimate outcome of a tax audit, and actual results could vary 
from these estimates. The international tax environment presents 
increasingly challenging dynamics for the resolution of transfer pricing 
disputes. These disputes usually result in taxable profits being 
increased in one territory and correspondingly decreased in another. 
Our balance sheet positions for these matters reflect appropriate 
corresponding relief in the territories affected. Management considers 
that at present such corresponding relief will be available, but given 
the challenges in the international tax environment will keep this 
aspect under careful review. The total net accrual included in the 
Group Financial Statements to cover the worldwide exposure to 
transfer pricing audits is $2,310m, a decrease of $17m due to 
negotiated settlements offset by the impact of an additional year of 
transactions relating to contingencies for which accruals had already 
been established, revisions of estimates relating to existing audits, 
a number of new tax contingencies and exchange rate effects.
Tax accruals have been made in respect of two individually 
significant exposures:
 > The tax accrual at 31 December 2008 and 2009 included amounts 
in relation to a long running transfer pricing dispute between 
AstraZeneca and HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) covering all 
periods from 1996 onwards. In February 2010, AstraZeneca 
announced that the company had entered into an agreement with 
HMRC in the UK to settle this dispute. As a consequence of the 
settlement, AstraZeneca and HMRC have withdrawn the joint 
referral of this issue to the UK Tax Court. The agreement will result 
in AstraZeneca paying £505m to HMRC to resolve all claims made 
by HMRC in relation to this issue for the 15-year period from 1996 
to the end of 2010. The £505m settlement is payable in two 
instalments of which the first instalment of £350m ($562m) was 
paid in February 2010. A second final instalment of £155m is due 
to be paid in March 2011 and is included in ordinary tax payable 
at 31 December 2010.
 > AstraZeneca has applied for an advance pricing agreement in 
relation to intra-group transactions between the UK and the 
US which is being progressed through competent authority 
proceedings under the relevant double tax treaty.
Management continues to believe that AstraZeneca’s positions 
on all its transfer pricing audits and disputes are robust and that 
AstraZeneca is appropriately provided.
For transfer pricing audits where AstraZeneca and the tax authorities 
are in dispute, AstraZeneca estimates the potential for reasonably 
possible additional losses above and beyond the amount provided 
to be up to $565m (2009: $575m); however, management believes 
that it is unlikely that these additional losses will arise. It is possible 
that some of these contingencies may reduce in the future to the 
extent that any tax authority challenge is unsuccessful, or matters 
lapse following expiry of the relevant statutes of limitation resulting 
in a reduction in the tax charge in future periods.
Other tax contingencies
Included in the tax accrual is $1,429m relating to a number of other 
tax contingencies, an increase of $468m mainly due to the impact 
of an additional year of transactions relating to contingencies for 
which accruals had already been established and exchange rate 
effects. For these tax exposures, AstraZeneca does not expect 
material additional losses. It is, however, possible that some of 
these contingencies may reduce in the future if any tax authority 
challenge is unsuccessful or matters lapse following expiry of the 
relevant statutes of limitation resulting in a reduction in the tax 
charge in future periods.
Timing of cash flows and interest
It is not possible to estimate the timing of tax cash flows in  
relation to each outcome, however, it is anticipated that a number 
of significant disputes may be resolved over the next one to  
two years. Included in the provision is an amount of interest of 
$608m (2009: $565m). Interest is accrued as a tax expense.
25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 196 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
26 Leases
Total rentals charged to profit were as follows:
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Operating leases 212 198 206
The future minimum lease payments under operating leases that have initial or remaining terms in excess of one year at 31 December 2010 
were as follows:
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Obligations under leases comprise:
No later than one year 161 132 101
Rentals due after more than one year:
Later than five years 103 131 145
Later than one year and not later than five years 242 208 212
345 339 357
506 471 458
27 Statutory and other information
2010
$m
2009
$m
2008
$m
Fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates:
Group audit fee 2.3 2.4 3.2
Fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates for other services:
The audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 6.5 6.6 7.1
Other services pursuant to legislation 3.3 2.9 3.3
Taxation 1.1 1.0 0.9
All other services 0.1 0.7 1.7
Fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc in respect of the Group’s pension schemes:
The audit of subsidiaries’ pension schemes 0.6 0.5 0.6
13.9 14.1 16.8
Other services pursuant to legislation include fees of $2.4m (2009: $2.3m; 2008: $2.5m) in respect of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Taxation services consist of tax compliance services and, to a lesser extent, tax advice.
All other services include assurance services in relation to third party compliance with manufacturing and distribution agreements and 
advisory services supporting management in their development of competency and development frameworks for staff.
Related party transactions
The Group had no material related party transactions which might reasonably be expected to influence decisions made by the users of 
these Financial Statements.
Key management personnel compensation
Key management personnel are defined for the purpose of disclosure under IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ as the members of the 
Board and the members of the SET.
2010
$000
2009
$000
2008
$000
Short-term employee benefits 21,925 20,784 21,973
Post-employment benefits 1,793 2,080 2,290
Termination benefits – 3,639 –
Share-based payments 11,563 12,547 13,210
35,281 39,050 37,473
Total remuneration is included within employee costs (see Note 24).
Subsequent events
There were no material subsequent events. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 197
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
At 31 December 2010 Country
Percentage of voting 
share capital held Principal activity
UK
AstraZeneca UK Limited England 100 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca Treasury Limited England 100 Treasury
Continental Europe
NV AstraZeneca SA Belgium 100 Marketing
AstraZeneca Dunkerque Production SCS France 95 Manufacturing
AstraZeneca SAS France 100 Research, manufacturing, marketing
Novexel SA France 100 Research
AstraZeneca GmbH Germany 100 Development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca Holding GmbH Germany 100 Manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca SpA Italy 100 Marketing
AstraZeneca Farmaceutica Spain SA Spain 100 Marketing
AstraZeneca AB Sweden 100 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca BV The Netherlands 100 Marketing
The Americas
AstraZeneca Canada Inc. Canada 100 Research, marketing
AZ Reinsurance Limited Cayman Islands 100 Insurance and reinsurance underwriting
IPR Pharmaceuticals Inc. Puerto Rico 100 Development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca LP US 99 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP US 100 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
Zeneca Holdings Inc. US 100 Manufacturing, marketing
MedImmune, LLC US 100 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
Asia, Africa & Australasia
AstraZeneca Pty Limited Australia 100 Development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals Co., Limited China 100 Research and development, manufacturing, marketing
AstraZeneca KK Japan 80 Manufacturing, marketing
All shares are held indirectly.
The companies and other entities listed above are those whose results or financial position principally affected the figures shown in the 
Group Financial Statements. A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return 
filed with the Registrar of Companies. The country of registration or incorporation is stated alongside each company. The accounting year 
ends of subsidiaries and associates are 31 December, except for Aptium Oncology, Inc. which, owing to local conditions and to avoid 
undue delay in the preparation of the Financial Statements, is 30 November. AstraZeneca operates through 254 subsidiaries worldwide. 
Products are manufactured in 16 countries worldwide and are sold in over 100 countries. The Group Financial Statements consolidate 
the Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2010.
Principal Subsidiaries AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 198 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of 
AstraZeneca PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010 set out on 
pages 199 to 203. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and UK Accounting 
Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 136, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements and for 
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit, and express an opinion on, the Parent Company 
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 
provided on the APB’s website, frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion, the Parent Company Financial Statements:
 > Give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2010.
 > Have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice.
 > Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by 
the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 > The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006.
 > The information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where 
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
 > Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us.
 > The Parent Company Financial Statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
 > Certain disclosures of Directors’ Remuneration specified by 
law are not made.
 > We have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of 
AstraZeneca PLC for the year ended 31 December 2010. 
Jimmy Daboo
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL
27 January 2011
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 199
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
AstraZeneca PLC
At 31 December Notes
2010
$m
2009
$m 
Fixed assets
Fixed asset investments 1 25,232 25,230
Current assets
Debtors – other 1 1 
Debtors – amounts owed by Group undertakings 3,558 8,966 
3,559 8,967 
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
Non-trade creditors 2 (194) (252) 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3 – (1,790) 
(194) (2,042) 
Net current assets 3,365 6,925
Total assets less current liabilities 28,597 32,155
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 3 (283) (283)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3 (8,486) (8,582)
(8,769) (8,865)
Net assets 19,828 23,290
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 6 352 363 
Share premium account 4 2,672 2,180 
Capital redemption reserve 4 107 94 
Other reserves 4 3,020 2,922 
Profit and loss account 4 13,677 17,731 
Shareholders’ funds 5 19,828 23,290 
$m means millions of US dollars.
The Company Financial Statements on pages 199 to 203 were approved by the Board on 27 January 2011 and were signed on its behalf by
David R Brennan Simon Lowth
Director Director
Company’s registered number 2723534
Company Balance Sheet
at 31 December AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 200 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Company Accounting Policies
Basis of accounting
The Company Financial Statements are prepared under the historical 
cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain 
financial instruments as described below, in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (UK GAAP). The Group Financial Statements have been 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union and as issued by 
the IASB and are presented on pages 142 to 146.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies 
under UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently.
New accounting standards
The Company has adopted the Amendments to FRS 20 (IFRS 2) 
‘Share-based Payment – Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment 
Transactions’ during the year. The adoption had no impact on the 
net results or net assets of the Company.
The Amendments to FRS 25 (IAS 32) ‘Financial Instruments: 
Presentation Classification of Rights Issues’ has been issued but not 
yet adopted by the Company. ‘Improvements to Financial Reporting 
Standards 2010’ (November 2010) has also been issued but not yet 
adopted by the Company.
Foreign currencies
Profit and loss account items in foreign currencies are translated 
into US dollars at average rates for the relevant accounting periods. 
Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at 
the date of the Company Balance Sheet. Exchange gains and losses 
on loans and on short-term foreign currency borrowings and deposits 
are included within net interest payable. Exchange differences on all 
other transactions, except relevant foreign currency loans, are taken 
to operating profit.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes 
into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and for accounting 
purposes. Full provision is made for the effects of these differences. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is more likely than not 
that the amount will be realised in the future. These estimates require 
judgements to be made including the forecast of future taxable 
income. Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make 
judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues. Tax benefits 
are not recognised unless the tax positions will probably be sustained. 
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material 
tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against 
full recognition of that benefit on the basis of potential settlement 
through negotiation and/or litigation.
Any recorded exposure to interest on tax liabilities is provided for 
in the tax charge. All provisions are included in creditors due within 
one year.
Investments
Fixed asset investments, including investments in subsidiaries, are 
stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indications 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Share-based payments
The issuance by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries of 
a grant over the Company’s options represents additional capital 
contributions by the Company to its subsidiaries. An additional 
investment in subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in 
shareholders’ equity. The additional capital contribution is based 
on the fair value of the grant issued, allocated over the underlying 
grant’s vesting period.
Financial instruments
Loans and other receivables are held at amortised cost. Long-term 
loans payable are held at amortised cost.
Litigation
Through the normal course of business, the AstraZeneca Group is 
involved in legal disputes, the settlement of which may involve cost 
to the Company. Provision is made where an adverse outcome is 
probable and associated costs can be estimated reliably. In other 
cases, appropriate descriptions are included. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 201
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
1 Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiaries
Shares
$m
Loans
$m
Total
$m
Cost and net book value at 1 January 2010 16,367 8,863 25,230
Capital contribution 98 – 98
Exchange – (100) (100)
Amortisation –44
Cost and net book value at 31 December 2010 16,465 8,767 25,232
2 Non-trade creditors
2010
$m
2009
$m
Amounts due within one year
Short-term borrowings (unsecured) 12 12 
Other creditors 169 226
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 13 14 
194 252 
3 Loans
Repayment
dates
2010
$m
2009
$m
Amounts due within one year
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (unsecured)
Euros
4.625% Non-callable bond 2010 – 1,073
5.625% Non-callable bond 2010 – 717
– 1,790
Amounts due after more than one year
Amounts owed to subsidiaries (unsecured)
US dollars
7.2% Loan 2023 283 283
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (unsecured)
US dollars
5.4% Callable bond 2012 1,747 1,744 
5.4% Callable bond 2014 749 748 
5.9% Callable bond 2017 1,744 1,743 
6.45% Callable bond 2037 2,718 2,717 
Euros
5.125% Non-callable bond 2015 993 1,072 
Pounds sterling
5.75% Non-callable bond 2031 535 558 
8,486 8,582
2010
$m
2009
$m
Loans or instalments thereof are repayable:
After five years from balance sheet date 5,280 6,373 
From two to five years 1,742 2,492 
From one to two years 1,747 –
Within one year – 1,790 
Total unsecured 8,769 10,655 
All loans are at fixed interest rates. Accordingly the fair values of the loans will change as market rates change. However, since the loans are 
held at amortised cost, changes in interest rates and the credit rating of the Company do not have any effect on the Company’s net assets.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 202 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
4 Reserves
Share
premium
account 
$m
Capital
redemption
reserve 
$m
Other
reserves 
$m
Profit 
and loss
account 
$m
2010
Total 
$m
2009
Total 
$m
At beginning of year 2,180 94 2,922 17,731 22,927 22,981
Profit for the year – – – 2,043 2,043 2,658 
Dividends – – – (3,494) (3,494) (3,026)
Amortisation of loss on cash flow hedge – – –11 1 
Share-based payment – – 98 – 98 179 
Share repurchases – 13 – (2,604) (2,591) – 
Share premium 492––– 492 134 
At end of year 2,672 107 3,020 13,677 19,476 22,927
Distributable reserves at end of year – – 1,841 13,677 15,518 19,572 
As permitted by section 408(4) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
At 31 December 2010, $13,677m (31 December 2009: $17,731m) of the profit and loss account reserve was available for distribution. 
Included in other reserves is a special reserve of $157m, arising on the redenomination of share capital in 1999. 
Included within other reserves at 31 December 2010 is $1,179m (31 December 2009: $1,081m) in respect of cumulative share-based 
payment awards. These amounts are not available for distribution.
5 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds
2010
$m
2009
$m
At beginning of year 23,290 23,343 
Net profit for the financial year 2,043 2,658
Dividends (3,494) (3,026)
Amortisation of loss on cash flow hedge 1 1 
Share-based payment 98 179 
Issue of AstraZeneca PLC Ordinary Shares 494 135 
Repurchase of AstraZeneca PLC Ordinary Shares (2,604) – 
Net decrease in shareholders’ funds (3,462) (53) 
Shareholders’ funds at end of year 19,828 23,290 
Details of dividends paid and payable to shareholders are given in Note 21 to the Group Financial Statements on page 167.
6 Share capital
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
2010
$m
2009
$m
Issued Ordinary Shares ($0.25 each) 352 363 
Redeemable Preference Shares (£1 each – £50,000) – –
352 363
At 31 December 2010, 1,409,023,452 Ordinary Shares were in issue.
The Redeemable Preference Shares carry limited class voting rights and no dividend rights. This class of shares is capable of redemption 
at par at the option of the Company on the giving of seven days’ written notice to the registered holder of the shares.
The movements in share capital during the year can be summarised as follows:
No. of shares (million) $m
At 1 January 2010 1,451 363
Issues of shares 12 2
Repurchase of shares (54) (13)
At 31 December 2010 1,409 352
Share repurchases
During the year, the Company repurchased 53,691,507 Ordinary Shares at an average price of 3111 pence per share (2009: nil).
Share schemes
A total of 11,756,397 Ordinary Shares were issued during the year in respect of share schemes. Details of movements in the number of Ordinary 
Shares under option are shown in Note 24 to the Group Financial Statements; details of options granted to Directors are shown in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
Shares held by subsidiaries
No shares in the Company are held by subsidiaries. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Financial Statements 203
Corporate Governance Additional Information Financial Statements Overview Business Review
7 Litigation and environmental liabilities
In addition to those matters disclosed below, there are other cases where the Company is named as a party to legal proceedings. 
These are described in Note 25 to the Group Financial Statements. 
EU Commission patent settlements monitoring
In January 2010, the European Commission requested copies of settlement agreements entered into between July 2008 and December 2009 
from a number of companies, including AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca co-operated fully with the request. The European Commission published 
its First Report on Monitoring of Patent Settlements in July 2010. The report noted a decrease in the number of settlement agreements which 
might be problematic (pursuant to EU competition laws) in the relevant period, compared to the period covered by the European Commission’s 
sector inquiry into the pharmaceutical industry (January 2000-June 2008). In January 2011, the European Commission requested copies of 
settlement agreements which were entered into or amended in 2010 from a number of companies, including AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca will 
co-operate fully with the request.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
In connection with an investigation into Foreign Corrupt Practices Act issues in the pharmaceutical industry, AstraZeneca has received inquiries 
from the US Department of Justice and the SEC regarding, among other things, sales practices, internal controls, certain distributors and 
interactions with healthcare providers in several countries. AstraZeneca is co-operating with these inquiries. AstraZeneca is investigating 
indications of inappropriate conduct in certain countries, including China. These investigations are ongoing, and it is not currently possible 
to predict the scope, duration or outcome of these matters, including the extent to which, if at all, they will result in any liability to AstraZeneca.
Bildman v. Astra USA
In March 2010, Bildman filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the US Supreme Court, seeking appeal of the Massachusetts Supreme 
Judicial Court’s dismissal of his defamation claim against AstraZeneca. In May 2010, the US Supreme Court denied Bildman’s petition for 
a writ of certiorari, declining to review the lower court’s decision and preserving a favourable outcome for AstraZeneca.
EU Commission investigation
On 30 November 2010, the European Commission commenced an investigation relating to certain alleged practices regarding Nexium, and 
dawn raided several AstraZeneca sites. The European Commission is investigating whether AstraZeneca may have acted individually or jointly 
to delay generic entry, in alleged breach of Articles 101 and/or 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which prohibit 
anti-competitive practices between third parties and abuse of a dominant position. Dawn raids are a preliminary step in investigating suspected 
anti-competitive practices. The European Commission is continuing its investigation. AstraZeneca remains of the view that the investigation 
is unfounded and that it has complied with all relevant competition laws. AstraZeneca has, in accordance with its corporate policy, co-operated 
with the European Commission’s investigation. AstraZeneca will continue to co-operate with the European Commission should it decide to 
take the matter further.
Dutch Competition Authority Nexium  investigation
On 30 November 2010, the Dutch Competition Authority (NMa) commenced an investigation relating to alleged breach of Article 24 of Dutch 
competition law and Article 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The NMa’s investigation relates to alleged foreclosure of 
generic versions of certain proton pump inhibitors. The NMa is continuing its investigation. AstraZeneca remains of the view that the investigation 
is unfounded and that it has complied with all relevant competition laws. AstraZeneca has, in accordance with its corporate policy, co-operated 
with the NMa’s investigation. AstraZeneca will continue to co-operate with the NMa should it decide to take the matter further.
Other
The Company has guaranteed the external borrowing of a subsidiary in the amount of $288m.
8 Statutory and other information
The Directors were paid by another Group company in 2010 and 2009. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 204 Financial Statements
Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December
2006
$m
2007
$m
2008
$m
2009
$m
2010
$m
Revenue and profits
Revenue 26,475 29,559 31,601 32,804 33,269
Cost of sales (5,559) (6,419) (6,598) (5,775) (6,389)
Distribution costs (226) (248) (291) (298) (335)
Research and development (3,902) (5,162) (5,179) (4,409) (5,318)
Selling, general and administrative costs (9,096) (10,364) (10,913) (11,332) (10,445)
Other operating income and expense 524 728 524 553 712
Operating profit 8,216 8,094 9,144 11,543 11,494
Finance income 888 959 854 462 516
Finance expense (561) (1,070) (1,317) (1,198) (1,033)
Profit before tax 8,543 7,983 8,681 10,807 10,977
Taxation (2,480) (2,356) (2,551) (3,263) (2,896)
Profit for the period 6,063 5,627 6,130 7,544 8,081
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 931 342 (1,906) (54) 25
Total comprehensive income for the period 6,994 5,969 4,224 7,490 8,106
Profit attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 6,043 5,595 6,101 7,521 8,053
Non-controlling interests 20 32 29 23 28
Earnings per share
Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share (basic) $3.86 $3.74 $4.20 $5.19 $5.60
Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share (diluted) $3.85 $3.73 $4.20 $5.19 $5.57
Dividends $1.410 $1.750 $1.900 $2.090 $2.410
Return on revenues
Operating profit as a percentage of revenues 31.0% 27.4% 28.9% 35.2% 34.5%
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 92.7 15.6 13.5 19.9 24.0
At 31 December
2006
$m
2007
$m
2008
$m
2009
$m
2010
$m
Statement of Financial Position
Property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 11,657 29,649 29,240 29,422 28,986
Other investments 146 299 605 446 535
Deferred tax assets 1,220 1,044 1,236 1,292 1,475
Current assets 16,909 16,996 15,869 23,760 25,131
Total assets 29,932 47,988 46,950 54,920 56,127
Current liabilities (9,447) (15,218) (13,415) (17,640) (16,787)
Non-current liabilities (5,069) (17,855) (17,475) (16,459) (15,930)
Net assets 15,416 14,915 16,060 20,821 23,410
Share capital 383 364 362 363 352
Reserves attributable to equity holders 14,921 14,414 15,550 20,297 22,861
Non-controlling interests 112 137 148 161 197
Total equity and reserves 15,416 14,915 16,060 20,821 23,410
For the year ended 31 December
2006
$m
2007
$m
2008
$m
2009
$m
2010
$m
Cash flows
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from:
Operating activities 7,693 7,510 8,742 11,739 10,680
Investing activities (272) (14,887) (3,896) (2,476) (2,340)
Financing activities (5,366) 6,051 (6,362) (3,629) (7,220)
2,055 (1,326) (1,516) 5,634 1,120
For the purpose of computing the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings consist of the income from continuing ordinary activities before 
taxation of Group companies and income received from companies owned 50% or less, plus fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest on all 
indebtedness, amortisation of debt discount and expense and that portion of rental expense representative of the interest factor.
Group Financial Record Where can I  
ﬁnd out more?
This section 
contains more 
information about 
our business and 
about being an 
AstraZeneca 
shareholder
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Additional Information 205 Line Extensions
Estimated Filing
Compound Mechanism Area Under Investigation Phase US EU Japan Emerging
Cardiovascular
Kombiglyze™ XR/ Onglyza™/ 
metformin IR FDC
#
*  
DPP-4 inhibitor + metformin FDC diabetes III Launched Filed Filed
Dapagliﬂozin/metformin FDC
#
SGLT2 inhibitor + metformin FDC diabetes III H1 2012 H1 2012
Onglyza™ SAVOR
#
DPP-4 inhibitor outcomes study III 2016
Brilinta PEGASUS-TIMI ADP receptor antagonist outcomes study III 2014 2014 2014 2014
Crestor statin outcomes in subjects  
with elevated CRP
III Launched Launched TBC Filed
Axanum proton pump inhibitor + low dose 
aspirin FDC
low dose aspirin associated 
peptic ulcer
III Filed*** Filed 2014 Filed
Gastrointestinal
Nexium proton pump inhibitor peptic ulcer bleeding III Filed Launched
Nexium proton pump inhibitor GERD III Launched Launched Filed Launched
Neuroscience
Seroquel XR D
2
/5HT
2
 antagonist major depressive disorderIIILaunched**Launched** Launched
Diprivan
#
sedative and anaesthetic conscious sedation III Launched H2 2012 Launched
EMLA
#
local anaesthetic topical anaesthesia III Launched Filed Launched
Oncology 
Iressa EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor 1st line EGFR mut+ NSCLC III Launched Filed Launched
Faslodex oestrogen receptor antagonist high dose (500mg) 2nd line 
advanced breast cancer
III Launched Launched Filed Filed
Infection
FluMist/Fluenz live, attenuated, intranasal  
inﬂuenza virus vaccine
inﬂuenza III Launched Filed
Respiratory & Inﬂammation
Oxis long-acting ß
2
 agonist COPD III Launched Q3 2011
Symbicort inhaled steroid/ 
long-acting ß
2
 agonist
COPD III Launched Launched Q4 2011 Launched
Symbicort inhaled steroid/ 
long-acting ß
2
 agonist
SMART III Launched Q3 2011 Launched
# Partnered product
*  Kombiglyze™ XR in the US; Onglyza™/metformin IR FDC in the EU
** Adjunct only, monotherapy withdrawn
*** Complete Response Letter received
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 206 Development Pipeline
Development Pipeline at 27 January 2011 Phase III/Registration
Estimated Filing
Compound Mechanism Area Under Investigation Phase US EU Japan Emerging
Cardiovascular
Brilinta/Brilique ADP receptor antagonist arterial thrombosis III Filed* Launched 2013 Approved
Dapagliﬂozin
#
SGLT2 inhibitor diabetes III Filed Filed 2013 Q2 2011
Neuroscience
Vimovo
#
naproxen + esomeprazole signs and symptoms  
of OA, RA and AS
III Launched Launched Filed
TC-5214
#
neuronal nicotinic  
receptor modulator
major depressive  
disorder (adjunct)
III H2 2012 2015
Oncology  
Vandetanib (Zactima) VEGFR/EGFR tyrosine kinase  
inhibitor with RET kinase activity
medullary thyroid  
cancer
III Filed Filed Q3 2011 Q3 2011
Zibotentan endothelin A receptor antagonist castrate resistant  
prostate cancer
III H1 2012 H1 2012 H1 2012
Infection
MEDI-3250 live, attenuated, intranasal inﬂuenza 
virus vaccine (quadrivalent)
seasonal inﬂuenza III H1 2011 TBC
Zinforo
#
 (ceftaroline) extended spectrum cephalosporin 
with afﬁnity to penicillin-binding 
proteins 
pneumonia/skin  
infections
III Filed Q3 2011
Respiratory & Inﬂammation
Fostamatinib
#
spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis III 2013 2013 2013
# Partnered product
* Complete Response Letter received
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Development Pipeline 207 Phases I and II
Estimated Filing
Compound Mechanism Area Under Investigation Phase US EU Japan Emerging
Cardiovascular
AZD1656 GK activator diabetes II
AZD6714 GK activator diabetes I
AZD8329 11BHSD inhibitor diabetes/obesity I
AZD7687 diacylglycerol acyl transferase  
–1 inhibitor
diabetes/obesity I
AZD5658 GK activator diabetes/obesity I
AZD4017 11BHSD inhibitor glaucoma I
Neuroscience
AZD3480
#
alpha
4
/beta
2
 neuronal nicotinic 
receptor agonist
ADHD II
AZD6765 NMDA receptor antagonist major depressive disorder II 2016 2016
AZD2066 metabotropic glutamate receptor  
5 antagonist
chronic neuropathic pain II
AZD2066 metabotropic glutamate receptor  
5 antagonist
major depressive disorder II
NKTR-118
#
oral peripherally-acting opioid 
antagonist
opioid-induced constipation II 2013 2013
TC-5214
#
neuronal nicotinic receptor  
modulator
major depressive disorder 
(monotherapy)
II
TC-5619
#
alpha
7
 neuronal nicotinic receptor 
agonist
cognitive disorders in 
schizophrenia
II
AZD1446
#
alpha
4
/beta
2
 neuronal nicotinic 
receptor agonist  
Alzheimer’s disease/ADHD II
AZD2423 chemokine antagonist chronic neuropathic pain II
AZD3241 myeloperoxidase (MPO) inhibitor Parkinson’s disease I
AZD3043
#
GABA-A receptor modulator short acting sedative/anaesthetic I
MEDI-578 anti-NGF MAb OA pain I
AZD5213 H3AN Alzheimer’s disease/ADHD I
Oncology 
Recentin VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor NSCLC II 2016 2016
Selumetinib
#
 (AZD6244) 
(ARRY-142886)
MEK inhibitor solid tumours II 2015 2015
Olaparib PARP inhibitor serous ovarian cancer II 2015 2015 2016 2016
AZD1152 aurora kinase inhibitor haematological malignancies II
AZD8931 erbB kinase inhibitor breast cancer chemo combi/
solid tumours 
II 2015 2015
MEDI-575
#
anti PDGFR-alpha MAb solid tumours II
AZD2461 PARP inhibitor solid tumours I
AZD3514 androgen receptor downregulator prostate cancer I
AZD7762 CHK1 kinase inhibitor solid tumours I
AZD8330
#
 (ARRY-424704) MEK inhibitor solid tumours I
CAT-8015 anti-CD22 recombinant immunotoxin haematological malignancies I
MEDI-551 anti-CD19 MAb haematological malignancies I
AZD8055 TOR kinase inhibitor range of tumours I
MEDI-573
#
 anti-IGF MAb solid tumours I
AZD1480 JAK2 inhibitor myeloproliferative diseases/ 
solid tumours
I
AZD4547 FGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor solid tumours I
AZD2014 TOR kinase inhibitor solid tumours I
Selumetinib (AZD6244) 
(ARRY-142886)/MK2206
#
MEK/AKT inhibitor solid tumours I
MEDI-3617 anti-ANG-2 MAb solid tumours I
AZD5363 AKT inhibitor solid tumours I
MEDI-565 anti-CEA BiTE solid tumours I
#  Partnered product
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 208 Development Pipeline
Development Pipeline Phases I and II continued
Estimated Filing
Compound Mechanism Area Under Investigation Phase US EU Japan Emerging
Infection
AZD9773
#
anti-TNF-alpha polyclonal antibody severe sepsis II 2015 2015 2015 2015
CAZ104
#
beta lactamase inhibitor/ 
cephalosporin
serious infections II 2013 2014
Motavizumab
#
humanized MAb binding to  
RSV F protein
early and late treatment of 
RSV in paeds >1 yr
II
CXL104
#
 (CEF104) beta lactamase inhibitor/ 
cephalosporin
MRSA II 2015
MEDI-534 RSV/PIV-3 vaccine RSV/PIV prophylaxis I
MEDI-550 pandemic inﬂuenza virus vaccine pandemic inﬂuenza prophylaxis I
MEDI-559 RSV vaccine RSV prophylaxis I
AZD5847 oxazolidinone anti-bacterial inhibitor tuberculosis I
AZD9742 BTGT4 IV MRSA I
Respiratory & Inﬂammation
AZD1981 CRTh2 receptor antagonist asthma/COPD II
MEDI-528
#
anti-IL -9 MAb asthma II
CAT-354 anti-IL -13 MAb asthma II
AZD3199 iLABA asthma/COPD II
MEDI-563
#
anti-IL -5R MAb asthma II
MEDI-545
#
anti-IFN-alpha MAb SLE, myositis II
AZD8848 Toll-like receptor 7 agonist asthma II
CAM-3001
#
anti-GM-CSFR MAb rheumatoid arthritis II
AZD2423 CCR2b antagonist COPD II
AZD8683 muscarinic antagonist COPD II
AZD5423 inhaled SEGRA COPD II
AZD5069 CXCR2 COPD II
AZD9819 neutrophil elastase inhibitor COPD I
MEDI-546
#
anti-IFN-alphaR MAb scleroderma I
MEDI-551 anti-CD19 MAb scleroderma I
MEDI-570
#
anti-ICOS MAb SLE I
MEDI-557 RSV MAb – extended half-life COPD I
#  Partnered product
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Development Pipeline 209 Discontinued Projects
Compound Area Under Investigation
Cardiovascular
AZD6370 diabetes
Certriad dyslipidaemia
AZD4017 diabetes/obesity
AZD0837 thrombosis
AZD6482 thrombosis
Gastrointestinal
Lesogaberan (AZD3355) GERD
AZD1386 GERD
AZD2066 GERD
AZD2516 GERD
Infection
MEDI-560 PIV prophylaxis
Motavizumab RSV prevention
AZD7295 Hepatitis C
Neuroscience
AZD6280 anxiety
AZD8418 schizophrenia
AZD8529 schizophrenia
AZD7268 depression/anxiety
AZD2327 depression/anxiety
AZD2516 chronic neuropathic pain
Seroquel XR generalised anxiety disorder US
Comments
As disclosure of compound information is balanced by the business need to maintain conﬁdentiality, information in relation to some  
compounds listed in this section has not been disclosed at this time.
Compound Area Under Investigation
Oncology
MEDI-547 solid tumours
AZD4769 solid tumours
Faslodex 1st line advanced breast cancer
Olaparib gBRCA breast
Recentin CRC
Recentin recurrent glioblastoma
Respiratory & Inﬂammation
AZD9668 COPD
AZD6553 COPD
AZD2551 COPD
AZD5122 COPD
AZD5985 asthma/COPD
AZD8075 asthma/COPD
AZD8566 COPD
AZD1236 COPD
AZD9164 COPD
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 210 Development Pipeline
Development Pipeline At 31 December 2010, the Company had 120,304 registered holders of 1,409,023,452 Ordinary Shares. At 31 December 2010, there were 
approximately 205,000 holders of ADRs representing 6.5% of the issued share capital of the Company and 149,000 holders of shares held 
under the VPC Services Agreement representing 18.2% of the issued share capital of the Company. The ADRs, each of which is equivalent to 
one Ordinary Share, are issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank (JPMorgan).
During 2010, under AstraZeneca’s share repurchase programme, which was introduced in 1999, 53.7 million shares were repurchased and 
subsequently cancelled at a total cost of $2,604 million, representing 3.8% of the total issued share capital of the Company. The average 
price paid per share in 2010 was 3111 pence. This brings the total number of shares repurchased to date since the beginning of the 
repurchase programme in 1999, to 430.0 million Ordinary Shares (at an average price of 2717 pence per Ordinary Share) for a consideration, 
including expenses, of $20,702 million. The excess of the consideration over the nominal value was charged against the proﬁt and loss 
account reserve. Ordinary Shares issued in respect of share schemes totalled 11.8 million.
In 1999, in connection with the merger between Astra and Zeneca through which the Company was formed, the Company’s share capital 
was redenominated in US dollars. On 6 April 1999, Zeneca shares were cancelled and US dollar shares issued, credited as fully paid on the 
basis of one dollar share for each Zeneca share then held. This was achieved by a reduction of capital under section 135 of the Companies 
Act 1985. Upon the reduction of capital becoming effective, all issued and unissued Zeneca shares were cancelled and the sum arising as a 
result of the share cancellation credited to a special reserve, which was converted into US dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing on the 
record date. This US dollar reserve was then applied in paying up, at par, newly created US dollar shares.
At the same time as the US dollar shares were issued, the Company issued 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares for cash, at par. The 
Redeemable Preference Shares carry limited class voting rights, no dividend rights and are capable of redemption, at par, at the option of the 
Company on the giving of seven days’ written notice to the registered holder of the Redeemable Preference Shares.
A total of 826 million Ordinary Shares were issued to Astra shareholders who accepted the merger offer before the ﬁnal closing date, 21 May 
1999. The Company received acceptances from Astra shareholders representing 99.6% of Astra’s shares and the remaining 0.4% was 
acquired in 2000, for cash.
Since April 1999, following the merger of Astra and Zeneca, the principal markets for trading in the shares of the Company are the London 
Stock Exchange (LSE), the Stockholm Stock Exchange (SSE) and the NYSE. The table overleaf sets out, for the four quarters of 2009 and for 
the ﬁrst two quarters and last six months of 2010, the reported high and low share prices of the Company, on the following bases:
> For shares listed on the LSE the reported high and low middle market closing quotations are derived from the Daily Ofﬁcial List.
> For shares listed on the SSE the high and low closing sales prices are as stated in the Ofﬁcial List.
> For ADSs listed on the NYSE the reported high and low sales prices are as reported by Dow Jones (ADR quotations).
AstraZeneca PLC share listings and prices
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Ordinary Shares in issue – millions 
At year end 1,532 1,457 1,447 1,451 1,409
Weighted average for year 1,564 1,495 1,453 1,448 1,438
Stock market price – per Ordinary Share 
Highest (pence) 3529 2984 2888 2947 3385
Lowest (pence) 2574 2093 1748 2147 2732
At year end (pence) 2744 2164 2807 2910.5 2922
Percentage analysis of issued share capital at 31 December
By size of account  
No. of shares
2006
%
2007
%
2008
%
2009
%
2010
% 
1 – 250 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
251 – 500 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.6
501 – 1,000 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8
1,001 – 5,000 1.3 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.1
5,001 – 10,000 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
10,001 – 50,000 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.0
50,001 – 1,000,000 12.3 12.9 13.6 13.0 12.8
Over 1,000,000
1
 83.1 82.5 81.9 82.6 83.0
1
 Includes VPC and ADR holdings.
Shareholder Information
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Shareholder Information 211 Major shareholdings
At 27 January 2011, the following had disclosed an interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company in accordance with the 
requirements of rule 5.1.2 of the UK Listing Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules:
Shareholder 
Number of
shares 
Date of disclosure to 
Company
1
 
Percentage of 
issued share 
capital 
BlackRock, Inc. 100,885,181 8 December 2009 7.18 
Invesco Limited 72,776,277 6 October 2009 5.18 
Axa SA 56,991,117 3 February 2009 4.06 
Investor AB 51,587,810 3 February 2009 3.67 
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 57,675,232 5 August 2010 4.10 
1
  Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any person listed above in Ordinary Shares may have increased or decreased. No requirement to notify the Company of any increase 
or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level. The percentage level may increase (on the cancellation of shares following a 
repurchase of shares under the Company’s share repurchase programme) or decrease (on the issue of new shares under any of the Company’s share plans).
No other person held a notiﬁable interest in shares, comprising 3% or more of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
Changes in the percentage ownership held by major shareholders during the past three years are set out below. Major shareholders do not 
have different voting rights.
Percentage of issued share capital
Shareholder 27 Jan 2011 28 Jan 2010 29 Jan 2009 31 Jan 2008
BlackRock, Inc. 7.18 6.94 – – 
Invesco Limited 5.18 5.01 – – 
Axa SA 4.06 3.92 4.90 4.87 
Investor AB 3.67 3.55 4.38 4.36 
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 4.10 4.64 4.09 4.06 
Capital Research and Management Company – – 4.92 4.89 
Wellington Management Co., LLP – – 4.18 4.16 
Barclays PLC – – 4.26 4.24 
ADSs evidenced by ADRs issued by JPMorgan, as depositary, are listed on the NYSE. At 27 January 2011, the proportion of Ordinary Shares 
represented by ADSs was 6.55% of the Ordinary Shares outstanding.
Number of registered holders of Ordinary Shares at 27 January 2011:
>  In the US 771
>  Total 120,325
Number of record holders of ADRs at 27 January 2011:
>  In the US 2,211
>  Total 2,237
Ordinary LSE ADS Ordinary SSE
1
High (pence) Low (pence) High (US$) Low (US$) High (SEK) Low (SEK) 
2009 – Quarter 1 2947.0 2147.0 41.60 30.24 331.0 261.5 
– Quarter 2 2728.0 2276.0 45.01 33.40 351.0 279.5 
– Quarter 3 2878.0 2644.0 47.54 43.01 356.0 305.0
– Quarter 4 2930.0 2690.5 47.00 43.64 339.5 308.0
2010 – Quarter 1 3102.5 2732.0 50.40 43.05 363.8 310.1
– Quarter 2 3169.0 2772.0 48.74 40.91 368.0 314.0
– July 3289.0 3051.5 51.51 47.05 371.9 353.4
– August 3348.0 3216.5 53.41 49.43 382.2 365.1
– September 3385.0 3233.5 52.69 50.49 376.1 345.0
– October 3359.0 3129.5 53.50 50.43 354.7 336.7
– November 3144.0 2995.5 50.34 46.93 336.9 325.7
– December 3153.0 2922.0 49.28 45.80 336.5 309.3
1
 Principally held in bearer form.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Shareholder Information
212 Shareholder Information So far as the Company is aware, it is neither directly nor indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government.
At 27 January 2011, the total amount of the Company’s voting securities owned by Directors and ofﬁcers of the Company was:
Title of class Amount owned Percentage of class 
Ordinary Shares 390,106 0.03 
The Company does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in the control of the Company.
Related party transactions
During the period 1 January 2011 to 27 January 2011, there were no transactions, loans, or proposed transactions between the Company 
and any related parties which were material to either the Company or the related party, or which were unusual in their nature or conditions 
(see also Note 27 to the Financial Statements on page 196).
Options to purchase securities from registrant or subsidiaries
(a) At 27 January 2011, options outstanding to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were:
Number of shares Subscription price (pence) Normal expiry date
50,058,484 1882 – 3487 2011 – 2019 
The weighted average subscription price of options outstanding at 27 January 2011 was 2446 pence. All options were granted under 
Company employee share schemes.
(b) Included in paragraph (a) are options granted to Directors and ofﬁcers of the Company as follows:
Number of shares Subscription price (pence) Normal expiry date
1,928,024 1882 – 3487 2011 – 2019
(c) Included in paragraph (b) are options granted to individually named Directors. Details of these option holdings at 31 December 2010 are 
shown in the Share option plans table on page 134.
During the period 1 January 2011 to 27 January 2011, no Director exercised any options.
Dividend payments
For Ordinary Shares listed on the LSE and the SSE and ADRs listed on the NYSE, the record date for the second interim dividend for 2010, 
payable on 14 March 2011, is 4 February 2011 and the ex-dividend date is 2 February 2011.
The record date for the ﬁrst interim dividend for 2011, payable on 12 September 2011, is 5 August 2011.
Future dividends will normally be paid as follows:
First interim: Announced in July and paid in September.
Second interim: Announced in January and paid in March.
Shareview
The Company’s shareholders with internet access may visit the website, shareview.co.uk, and register their details to create a portfolio. 
Shareview is a free and secure online service from the Company’s registrars, Equiniti Limited, which gives access to shareholdings, including 
balance movements, indicative share prices and information about recent dividends.
ShareGift
The Company welcomes and values all of its shareholders, no matter how many or how few shares they own. However, shareholders who 
have only a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, either now or at some stage in the future, may wish to 
consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme. One feature of the scheme is that there 
is no gain or loss for UK capital gains tax purposes on gifts of shares through ShareGift, and it may now also be possible to obtain UK 
income tax relief on the donation. Further information about ShareGift can be found on its website, sharegift.org, or by contacting ShareGift 
on 020 7930 3737 or at 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH. ShareGift is administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 
registered charity number 1052686. More information about the UK tax position on gifts of shares to ShareGift can be obtained from HM 
Revenue & Customs on their website, hmrc.gov.uk. 
The Unclaimed Assets Register
The Company supplies unclaimed dividend data to the Unclaimed Assets Register (UAR), which provides investors who have lost track of 
shareholdings with an opportunity to search the UAR’s database of unclaimed ﬁnancial assets on payment of a small ﬁxed fee. The UAR 
donates part of the search fee to charity. The UAR can be contacted on 0870 241 1713 or at PO Box 9501, Nottingham NG80 1WD.
Results
Unaudited trading results of AstraZeneca in respect of the ﬁrst three months of 2011 will be published on 28 April 2011 and results in respect 
of the ﬁrst six months of 2011 will be published on 28 July 2011.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Shareholder Information 213 Documents on display
The Articles and other documents concerning the Company which are referred to in this Annual Report may be inspected at the Company’s 
registered ofﬁce at 2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD. 
Taxation for US residents
The following summary of the material UK and US federal income tax consequences of ownership of Ordinary Shares or ADRs held as 
capital assets by US resident shareholders is based on current UK and US federal income tax law, including the US/UK double taxation 
convention relating to income and capital gains, which entered into force on 31 March 2003 (the Convention). This summary does not 
describe all of the tax consequences that may be relevant in light of the US resident shareholder’s particular circumstances. US resident 
shareholders are urged to consult their tax advisers regarding US federal income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of 
Ordinary Shares and ADRs in their particular circumstances. This summary is also based in part on representations of JPMorgan as 
depositary for ADRs and assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement among the Company, JPMorgan and the holders from time 
to time of ADRs and any related agreements will be performed in accordance with its terms. The US Treasury has expressed concerns that 
parties to whom ADRs are released before shares are delivered to the depositary (pre-release), or intermediaries in the chain of ownership 
between holders and the issuer of the security underlying the ADRs, may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming, by US 
holders of ADRs, of foreign tax credits for US federal income tax purposes. Such actions would also be inconsistent with the claiming of the 
reduced tax rate, described below, applicable to dividends received by certain non-corporate US resident shareholders. Accordingly, the 
availability of the reduced tax rate for dividends received by certain non-corporate US resident shareholders could be affected by actions that 
may be taken by parties to whom ADRs are pre-released.
This summary assumes that we are not, and will not become, a passive foreign investment company, as discussed below.
UK and US income taxation of dividends
The UK does not currently impose a withholding tax on dividends paid by a UK company, such as the Company.
For US federal income tax purposes, distributions paid by the Company to a US resident shareholder are included in gross income as foreign 
source ordinary dividend income to the extent paid out of the Company’s current or accumulated earnings and proﬁts, calculated in 
accordance with US federal income tax principles. Because the Company does not maintain calculations of its earning and proﬁts under US 
federal income tax principles, it is expected that distributions generally will be reported to US resident shareholders as dividends. The amount 
of the dividend will be the US dollar amount received by the depositary for US resident holders of ADRs (or, in the case of Ordinary Shares, 
the US dollar value of the pounds sterling payments made, determined at the spot pound sterling/US dollar rate on the date the dividend is 
received by the US resident shareholders, regardless of whether the dividend is converted into US dollars), and it will not be eligible for the 
dividends received deduction generally available to US corporations. If the dividend is converted into US dollars on the date of receipt, US 
resident holders of Ordinary Shares or ADRs generally should not be required to recognise foreign currency gains or losses in respect of the 
dividend income. They may have foreign currency gain or loss if the amount of such dividend is not converted into US dollars on the date of 
its receipt.
Subject to applicable limitations and the discussion above regarding concerns expressed by the US Treasury, dividends received by certain 
non-corporate US resident holders of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2013 may be subject to US 
federal income tax at a maximum rate of 15%. US resident shareholders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they are 
subject to any special rules which may limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
Taxation on capital gains
Under the Convention, each contracting state may, in general, tax capital gains in accordance with the provisions of its domestic law. Under 
present UK law, individuals who are neither resident nor ordinarily resident in the UK, and companies which are not resident in the UK, will not 
be liable for UK tax on capital gains made on the disposal of their Ordinary Shares or ADRs, unless such Ordinary Shares or ADRs are held in 
connection with a trade, profession or vocation carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
A US resident shareholder will generally recognise US source capital gains or losses for US federal income tax purposes on the sale or 
exchange of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar amount realised and such holder’s US 
dollar adjusted tax basis in the Ordinary Shares or ADRs. US resident shareholders should consult their own tax advisers about the treatment 
of capital gains, which may be taxed at lower rates than ordinary income for non-corporate US resident shareholders and capital losses, the 
deductibility of which may be limited.
Passive Foreign Investment Company (PFIC) rules
We believe that we were not a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes for the year ended 31 December 2010, and do not expect to be a 
PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, since PFIC status depends on the composition of our income and assets and the market value of 
our assets (including, among others, less than 25% owned equity investments) from time to time, there can be no assurance that we will not 
be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which Ordinary Shares or ADRs were 
held, certain adverse tax consequences could apply to US resident shareholders.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 214 Shareholder Information
Shareholder Information UK inheritance tax
Under the current Double Taxation (Estates) Convention (the Estate Tax Convention) between the US and the UK, Ordinary Shares or ADRs 
held by an individual shareholder who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention in the US, and is not for the purposes of the 
Estate Tax Convention a national of the UK, will generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individual’s death or on a chargeable gift 
of the Ordinary Shares or ADRs during the individual’s lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate tax liability is paid, unless 
the Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part of the business property of a permanent establishment of the individual in the UK or, in the case of a 
shareholder who performs independent personal services, pertain to a ﬁxed base situated in the UK. Where the Ordinary Shares or ADRs 
have been placed in trust by a settlor who, at the time of settlement, was a US resident shareholder, the Ordinary Shares or ADRs will 
generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax unless the settlor, at the time of settlement, was not domiciled in the US and was a UK national. 
In the exceptional case where the Ordinary Shares or ADRs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the 
Estate Tax Convention generally provides for double taxation to be relieved by means of credit relief.
UK stamp duty reserve tax and stamp duty
A 1.5% stamp duty reserve tax is payable upon the deposit of Ordinary Shares in connection with the creation of, but not subsequent dealing 
in, ADRs. A 0.5% stamp duty is payable on all purchases of Ordinary Shares.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders
There are no governmental laws, decrees or regulations in the UK restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of 
dividends, interest or other payments to non-resident holders of Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
There are no limitations under English law or the Articles on the right of non-resident or foreign owners to be the registered holders of, or to 
exercise voting rights in relation to, Ordinary Shares or ADRs or to be registered holders of notes or debentures of Zeneca Wilmington Inc. or 
the Company.
Exchange rates
For the periods up to April 1999, Astra accounted for and reported its results in Swedish krona, whereas Zeneca accounted for and reported 
its results in pounds sterling. Consistent with AstraZeneca’s decision to publish its Financial Statements in US dollars, the ﬁnancial information 
in this document has been translated from Swedish krona and pounds sterling into US dollars at the following applicable exchange rates:
SEK/US$ US$/GBP
Average rates (proﬁt and loss account, cash ﬂow) 
1995 7.1100 1.5796 
1996 6.7000 1.5525 
1997 7.6225 1.6386 
1998 7.9384 1.6603 
1999 8.2189 1.6247 
End of year spot rates (balance sheet)
1995 6.6500 1.5500 
1996 6.8400 1.6900 
1997 7.8500 1.6600 
1998 8.0400 1.6600 
1999 8.5130 1.6185 
The following information relating to average and spot exchange rates used by AstraZeneca is provided for convenience:
SEK/US$ US$/GBP
Average rates (income statement, cash ﬂow) 
2008 6.5130 1.8728 
2009 7.6552 1.5496 
2010 6.9256 1.5852
End of year spot rates (balance sheet) 
2008 7.7740 1.4437 
2009 7.1636 1.6072 
2010 6.7511 1.5422 
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Shareholder Information 215 History and development of the Company
AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in England and Wales on 17 
June 1992 under the Companies Act 1985. It is a public limited 
company domiciled in the UK. The Company’s registered number is 
2723534 and its registered ofﬁce is at 2 Kingdom Street, London 
W2 6BD (telephone +44 (0)20 7604 8000). From February 1993 
until April 1999, the Company was called Zeneca Group PLC. On 6 
April 1999, the Company changed its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
The Company was formed when the pharmaceutical, agrochemical 
and specialty chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical Industries 
PLC were demerged in 1993. In 1999, the Company sold the 
specialty chemical business. Also in 1999, the Company merged 
with Astra of Sweden. In 2000, it demerged the agrochemical 
business and merged it with the similar agribusiness of Novartis AG 
to form a new company called Syngenta AG.
In 2007 , the Group acquired MedImmune, a biologics and vaccines 
business based in the US.
The Group owns and operates numerous R&D, production and 
marketing facilities worldwide. Its corporate headquarters are at 2 
Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD.
Articles
Objects
The Company’s objects were originally set out in its Memorandum 
of Association. By operation of law, on 1 October 2009, these 
objects were deemed to be provisions of the Articles. However, by a 
special resolution of the shareholders at the Company’s AGM held 
on 29 April 2010, those deemed objects were deleted from the 
Articles. The Company’s objects are now unrestricted.
Any amendment to the Articles requires the approval of shareholders 
by a special resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
Directors
The Board has the authority to manage the business of the 
Company, for example, through powers to allot and repurchase its 
shares, subject where required to shareholder resolutions. Subject 
to certain exceptions, Directors do not have power to vote at Board 
meetings on matters in which they have a material interest.
The quorum for meetings of the Board is a majority of the full Board, 
of whom at least four must be Non-Executive Directors. In the 
absence of a quorum, the Directors do not have power to determine 
compensation arrangements for themselves or any member of  
the Board.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow 
money. Variation of these borrowing powers would require the 
passing of a special resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
All Directors must retire from ofﬁce at the Company’s AGM each 
year and may present themselves for election or re-election. 
Directors are not prohibited, upon reaching a particular age, from 
submitting themselves for election or re-election.
Within two months of the date of their appointment, Directors are 
required to beneﬁcially own Ordinary Shares of an aggregate 
nominal amount of $125, which currently represents at least 500 
shares.
Rights, preferences and restrictions attaching to shares
As at 31 December 2010, the Company had 1,409,023,452 
Ordinary Shares and 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares in 
issue. The Ordinary Shares represent 99.99% and the Redeemable 
Preference Shares represent 0.01% of the Company’s total share 
capital (these percentages have been calculated by reference to the 
closing mid-point US$/GBP exchange rate on 31 December as 
published in the London edition of the Financial Times newspaper). 
As agreed by the shareholders at the Company’s AGM held on 29 
April 2010, the Articles were amended with immediate effect to 
remove the requirement for the Company to have an authorised 
share capital, the concept of which was abolished under the 
Companies Act 2006. Each Ordinary Share carries the right to vote 
at general meetings of the Company. The rights and restrictions 
attaching to the Redeemable Preference Shares differ from those 
attaching to Ordinary Shares as follows: 
>  The Redeemable Preference Shares carry no rights to receive 
dividends.
>  The holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have no rights to 
receive notices of, attend or vote at general meetings except in 
certain limited circumstances. They have one vote for every 
50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares held.
>  On a distribution of assets of the Company, on a winding-up or 
other return of capital (subject to certain exceptions), the holders 
of Redeemable Preference Shares have priority over the holders 
of Ordinary Shares to receive the capital paid up on those shares.
>  Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the 
Company has the right to redeem the Redeemable Preference 
Shares at any time on giving not less than seven days’ written 
notice.
There are no speciﬁc restrictions on the transfer of shares in the 
Company, which is governed by the Articles and prevailing 
legislation.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of 
shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or that 
may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Action necessary to change the rights of shareholders
In order to vary the rights attached to any class of shares, the 
consent in writing of the holders of three quarters in nominal value 
of the issued shares of that class or the sanction of an extraordinary 
resolution passed at a general meeting of such holders is required.
General meetings
AGMs and other general meetings, as from time to time may be 
required, where a special resolution is to be passed or a Director is 
to be appointed, require 21 clear days’ notice to shareholders. 
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, other general meetings require 
14 clear days’ notice.
For all general meetings, a quorum of two shareholders present in 
person or by proxy, and entitled to vote on the business transacted, 
is required unless each of the two persons present are corporate 
representatives of the same corporation; or each of the two persons 
present are proxy of the same shareholder.
Shareholders and their duly appointed proxies and corporate 
representatives are entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
Limitations on the rights to own shares
There are no limitations on the rights to own shares.
Property
Substantially all of our properties are held freehold, free of material 
encumbrances and we believe that such properties are ﬁt for their 
purpose.
Corporate Information
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 216 Corporate Information Market deﬁnitions
United States of America Other Established Markets Emerging Markets 
US Western Europe Japan Emerging Europe China Other Emerging ROW
Austria Albania*  Egypt
Belgium Canada Belarus* Emerging Asia Paciﬁc Gulf States
Denmark Bosnia-Herzegovina* Bangladesh* Israel*
Finland Other Established ROW Bulgaria* Cambodia* Latin America
France Australia Croatia* Hong Kong* Lebanon
Germany New Zealand* Czech Republic India Maghreb
Greece Estonia* Indonesia* Saudi Arabia
Holland Georgia* Laos* South Africa
Iceland* Hungary* Malaysia*
Ireland Kazakhstan* Philippines
Italy Latvia* Singapore
Luxembourg* Lithuania* South Korea
Norway Macedonia* Sri Lanka*
Portugal Poland Taiwan
Spain Romania* Thailand
Sweden Russia Vietnam*
Switzerland Serbia/Montenegro* 
UK Slovakia 
Slovenia* 
Turkey 
Ukraine* 
Rest of World means Other Established Markets and Emerging Markets. 
Established Markets means the US and Other Established Markets. 
Established ROW means Canada, Japan and Other Established ROW. 
Latin America includes Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Venezuela. 
Gulf States includes Bahrain*, Dubai*, Kuwait*, Oman*, Qatar* and UAE*. 
Maghreb means Algeria, Morocco* and Tunisia*. 
*IMS Health data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IMS Health data for these countries. 
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates.
US equivalents
Terms used in this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information US equivalent or brief description 
Accruals Accrued expenses 
Allotted Issued 
Called-up share capital Issued share capital 
Creditors Liabilities/payables 
Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses 
Earnings Net income 
Employee share schemes Employee stock beneﬁt plans 
Fixed asset investments Non-current investments 
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity 
Interest payable Interest expense 
Interest receivable Interest income 
Loans Long-term debt 
Prepayments Prepaid expenses 
Proﬁt Income 
Proﬁt and loss account Income statement/consolidated statement of income 
Reserves Retained earnings 
Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares 
Short-term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits 
Glossary
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Glossary 217 Abbott – Abbott Pharmaceuticals PR Ltd. with respect to Trilipix™ 
and/or Certriad and Abbott Laboratories, Inc. with respect to 
Crestor.
Affordable Care Act – the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
Act which was signed into law on 23 March 2010 as amended by 
the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act which was 
signed into law on 30 March 2010. 
ADR – an American Depositary Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
ADS – an American Depositary Share representing one underlying 
Ordinary Share.
AGM – an Annual General Meeting of the Company.
ANDA – an abbreviated new drug application, which is a marketing 
approval application for a generic drug submitted to the FDA.
Annual Report – this Annual Report and Form 20-F 
Information 2010.
Articles – the Articles of Association of the Company.
Astellas – Astellas Pharma, Inc.
Astra – Astra AB, being the company with whom the Company 
merged in 1999.
AstraZeneca – the Company and its subsidiaries.
Bureau Veritas – Bureau Veritas UK Limited.
BMS – Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Board – the Board of Directors of the Company.
BRIC-MT – Brazil, Russia, India, China, Mexico and Turkey.
CEO – the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the Company.
CER – constant exchange rates.
CFO – the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of the Company.
CHMP – the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, 
being a committee of the EMA.
CIS – Commonwealth of Independent States.
Code of Conduct – the Group’s Code of Conduct.
Combined Code – the UK Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in  
June 2008 that sets out standards of good practice in corporate 
governance for the UK.
Company or Parent Company – AstraZeneca PLC (formerly 
Zeneca Group PLC (Zeneca)).
Complete Response Letter – a letter issued by the FDA 
communicating its decision to a drug company that its NDA  
or biological licensing application is not approvable as submitted. 
The submitting drug company is required to respond to the 
Complete Response Letter if it wishes to pursue an approval for  
its submission.
Corporate Integrity Agreement – the agreement described 
in the US Corporate Integrity Agreement reporting section on  
page 43.
cost growth rates – percentage growth of a particular cost 
category over the comparable cost category for the previous year.
Daiichi Sankyo – Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited.
Dainippon Sumitomo – Dainippon Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals 
Co., Ltd.
Director – a director of the Company.
earnings per share (EPS) – proﬁt for the year after tax and 
minority interests, divided by the weighted average number of 
Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
EMA – the European Medicines Agency.
EU – the European Union.
FDA – the US Food and Drug Administration, which is part of the 
US Department of Health and Human Services Agency, which is 
the regulatory authority for all pharmaceuticals (including biologics 
and vaccines) and medical devices in the US.
Forest – Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited.
GAAP – Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
GDP – gross domestic product.
GIA – AstraZeneca’s group internal audit.
gross margin – the margin, as a percentage, by which sales 
exceed the cost of sales, calculated by dividing the difference 
between the two by the sales ﬁgure.
Group – AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
IAS – the International Accounting Standards.
IASB – the International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRS – the International Financial Reporting Standards or an 
International Financial Reporting Standard, as the context requires.
KPI – key performance indicator.
krona or SEK – references to the currency of Sweden.
MAA – a marketing authorisation application, which is an 
application for authorisation to place medical products on the 
market. This is a speciﬁc term used in the EU and European 
Economic Area markets.
MAb – monoclonal antibody, a biologic that is speciﬁc; that is, it 
binds to and attacks one particular antigen. 
MedImmune – MedImmune, LLC (formerly MedImmune, Inc.).
Merck – Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp (formerly Merck & Co., Inc.).
moving annual total (MAT) – a ﬁgure that represents the ﬁnancial 
value of a variable for 12 months.
NDA – a new drug application to the FDA for approval to market a 
new medicine in the US.
Nektar – Nektar Therapeutics.
NGOs – non-governmental organisations.
Novexel – Novexel S.A.
NSAID – a non-steroidal anti-inﬂammatory drug.
NYSE – the New York Stock Exchange.
operating proﬁt – sales, less cost of sales, less operating costs, 
plus operating income.
Ordinary Share – an ordinary share of $0.25 each in the share 
capital of the Company.
The following abbreviations and expressions have the following meanings when used in this Annual Report:
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Glossary
218 Glossary Orphan Drug – a drug which has been approved for use in a 
relatively low-incidence indication (an orphan indication) and has 
been rewarded with a period of market exclusivity; the period of 
exclusivity and the available orphan indications vary between 
markets.
OTC – over-the-counter.
Paediatric Exclusivity – in the US, a six-month period of 
exclusivity to market a drug which is awarded by the FDA in return 
for certain paediatric clinical studies using that drug. This six-month 
period runs from the date of relevant patent expiry. Analogous 
provisions are available in certain other territories (eg European 
SPC paediatric extensions).
Patent Term Extension – an extension of up to ﬁve years in the 
term of a US patent relating to a drug which compensates for 
delays in marketing resulting from the need to obtain FDA approval.
Phase I – the phase of clinical research where a new drug or 
treatment is tested in small groups of people (20 to 80) to check 
that the drug can achieve appropriate concentrations in the body, 
determine a safe dosage range and identify side effects. This 
phase includes healthy volunteer studies.
Phase II – the phase of clinical research which includes the 
controlled clinical activities conducted to evaluate the effectiveness 
of the drug in patients with the disease under study and to 
determine the common short-term side effects and risks 
associated with the drug. Phase II studies are typically conducted 
in a relatively small number of patients (usually no more than 
several hundred).
Phase III – the phase of clinical research which is performed to 
gather additional information about effectiveness and safety of the 
drug, often in a comparative setting, to evaluate the overall beneﬁt/
risk proﬁle of the drug. Phase III studies usually include between 
several hundred and several thousand patients.
pounds sterling, £, GBP, pence or p – references to the 
currency of the UK.
R&D – research and development.
Redeemable Preference Share – a redeemable preference 
share of £1 each in the share capital of the Company.
Regulatory Data Protection – see the Intellectual Property 
section from page 30.
Regulatory Exclusivity – any of the intellectual property rights 
arising from generation of clinical data and includes Regulatory 
Data Protection (as explained in the Intellectual Property section 
from page 30), Paediatric Exclusivity and Orphan Drug status.
Rigel – Rigel Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act – the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
SEC – the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the 
governmental agency that regulates the US securities industry/
stock market.
Seroquel – Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR unless otherwise stated.
SET – the Senior Executive Team.
SG&A costs – selling, general and administrative costs.
sNDA – a supplemental new drug application, which is an 
application made to the FDA to seek approval to market an 
additional indication for a drug already on the market.
Targacept – Targacept, Inc.
Teva – Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.
Torrent – Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd.
TSR – total shareholder return, being the total return on a share 
over a period of time, including dividends reinvested.
UK – the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
UK Corporate Governance Code – the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in 
May 2010 that sets out standards of good practice in corporate 
governance for the UK.
US – the United States of America.
US dollar, US$, USD or $ – references to the currency of the US.
WHO – the World Health Organization, the United Nations’ 
specialised agency for health.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Glossary 219 2010 performance summary 18
Accounting policies 90, 142, 200
Acquisitions 167
Annual general meeting 118, 216
Aptium Oncology, Inc. 75
Articles of association 214, 216
Astra Tech AB 75
AstraZeneca PLC ﬁnancial statements 198
AstraZeneca PLC balance sheet 199
Audit Committee 111, 112, 113
Biologics 11, 12, 42, 66, 99, 101
Board 106
Branches 117
Business background and results overview 81
Capital and reserves 166
Capitalisation 86
Cardiovascular 2, 27, 50, 52, 147, 206
Cash and cash equivalents 144, 157
Chairman’s statement 6
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review 8
Combined Code 109
Commitments and contingent liabilities 178
Company history 211, 216
Competition 12, 99
Compliance and Group Internal Audit 116
Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 141
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 140
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 138
Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 139
Corporate Responsibility See Responsible Business
Directors’ interest in shares 132
Directors’ responsibility statement 136
Dividends 6, 86, 117, 167, 213, 214
Earnings per ordinary share 4, 151
Emerging markets 10, 32, 33, 38, 71, 73, 98, 217
Employee costs and share options for employees 173
Environmental sustainability 45
Established markets 10, 32, 38, 71, 73, 217
Ethics (including stem cell research  
and animal research)
30, 33, 41, 42, 43
Executive Directors’ and Senior Executive Team’s 
remuneration and terms of employment
123
Finance income and expense 148
Financial highlights inside front cover
Financial instruments 146, 158
Financial position 2009 89
Financial position 2010 85
Financial risk management 90, 168
Form 20-F 115
Gastrointestinal 2, 27, 50, 56, 147, 206
Glossary 217
Goodwill 85, 89, 92, 143, 154
Group ﬁnancial record 204
Group ﬁnancial statements 135
Growth drivers 10
Independent auditor’s report 137, 198
Infection 2, 27, 50, 58, 147, 206
Inﬂammation see Respiratory & Inﬂammation
Intangible assets 85, 89, 92, 143, 155, 178
Intellectual property 14, 30, 97, 98
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 145, 158, 170, 201
Inventories 89, 144, 157
Key performance indicators 16, 41, 43
Leases 144, 196
Litigation 92, 98, 101, 102, 145, 178, 200, 203
Managing risk 95
Market deﬁnitions 217
Medicines 5, 20, 50
Neuroscience 2, 27, 50, 61, 147, 206
Nomination and Governance Committee 111, 112, 115
Oncology 2, 27, 50, 64, 147, 206
Operating proﬁt 4, 16, 82, 148
Operational overview 4
Other investments 144, 157, 159
Our marketplace 10
Outsourcing 14, 15, 40, 44, 101
Patents see Intellectual property
Patient safety 44
People 15, 16, 18, 36, 46, 173
Pipeline 15, 16, 18, 27, 51, 96, 206
Political donations 118
Portfolio Investment Board (PIB) 116
Post-retirement beneﬁts 93, 103, 162
Pricing 11, 16, 33
Principal risks and uncertainties 96
Product revenue information 147
Property, plant and equipment 85, 89, 144, 153
Provisions for liabilities and charges 85, 89, 161
Regulatory requirements 12
Related party transactions 213
Relations with shareholders 112
Remuneration Committee 111, 112, 115, 119, 120
Research and development 9, 12, 26, 92, 143, 148
Respiratory & Inﬂammation 2, 27, 50, 67, 206
Responsible Business 9, 15, 18, 40
Rest of World 4, 72, 217
Restructuring 4, 38, 79, 148
Results of operations 2009 87
Results of operations 2010 82
Safety, health and wellbeing 46
Sales and marketing 16, 32
Sales by therapy area 50
Science Committee 111, 112, 115
Segment information 151
Senior Executive Team (SET) 108, 116
Share capital 117, 167, 202, 211
Share repurchase 4, 6, 7, 86, 87, 117, 167, 202
Statutory and other information  196
Strategy 10
Subsidiaries 117, 197
Supply and manufacturing 34
Taxation  85, 89, 90, 93, 103, 143, 149, 195
Taxation information for shareholders 214
Trade and other payables 85, 89, 144, 161
Trade and other receivables 85, 89, 144, 157
Trade marks 98, inside back cover
Transactions with directors 131
UK corporate governance 109
UK Corporate Governance Code 109
US 10, 72, 217
US corporate governance 115
Working with others 3 
Case studies
Surviving coronary heart disease 13
Taking medicines 19
Managing asthma 23
Tackling counterfeit drugs 35
Searching for new antibiotics 39
Improving healthcare in Uganda 49
Improving healthcare in China 77
Personalising cancer treatments 104
Index
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 220 Index Trade marks
Trade marks of the AstraZeneca group of companies appear throughout this Annual Report 
in italics. AstraZeneca, the AstraZeneca logotype and the AstraZeneca symbol are all trade 
marks of the AstraZeneca group of companies. Trade marks of companies other than 
AstraZeneca appear with a ™ sign and include: Abraxane™, a trade mark of Abraxis
BioScience, LLC.; Advair Diskus™, a trade mark of Glaxo Group Limited; Celebrex™, a 
trade mark of G. D. Searle LLC; Cubicin™, a trade mark of Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; 
CytoFab™, a trade mark of Protherics Inc.; Ethyol™, a trade mark of Scherico Ltd in certain 
countries and AstraZeneca in others; Iscover™, a trade mark of Sanoﬁ-Aventis; 
Kombiglyze™, a trade mark of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; Lipitor™, a trade mark of 
Pﬁzer Ireland Pharmaceuticals; Onglyza™, a trade mark of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; 
Plavix™, a trade mark of Sanoﬁ-Aventis; Teﬂaro™, a trade mark of Forest Laboratories, Inc.; 
and Trilipix™, a trade mark of Fournier Industrie et Santé.
Designed and produced by 
Board and portrait photography by Marcus Lyon
This product is printed on Heaven 42 paper. This paper is made 
from virgin wood ﬁbre from well-managed forests independently 
certiﬁed according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council 
(FSC). The mill uses pulps that are totally chlorine free (TCF),  
and some pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free  
(ECF) process. The inks in printing this Annual Report are all 
vegetable-based.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO9001, ISO14001,  
FSC certiﬁed and CarbonNeutral® Registered ofﬁ ce and corporate 
headquarters
AstraZeneca PLC
2 Kingdom Street
London W2 6BD
UK
Tel: +44 (0)20 7604 8000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7604 8151
Investor relations
E-mail: ir@astrazeneca.com
UK: as above
Sweden: 
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
Tel: +46 (0)8 553 260 00
Fax: +46 (0)8 553 290 00
US:
Investor relations
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP
1800 Concord Pike
PO Box 15437
Wilmington
DE 19850-5437
US
Tel: +1 (302) 886 3000
Fax: +1 (302) 886 2972
Our website
This Annual Report is also available on our 
website, astrazeneca.com/annualreport2010. 
Registrar
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
UK
Tel (freephone in the UK): 
0800 389 1580
Tel (outside the UK): 
+44 (0)121 415 7033
Swedish Central Securities 
Depository
Euroclear Sweden AB
PO Box 7822
SE-103 97 Stockholm
Sweden
Tel: +46 (0)8 402 9000
US Depositary
JPMorgan Chase & Co
PO Box 64504
St Paul
MN 55164-0504
US
Tel (toll free in the US): 
800 990 1135
Tel (outside the US): 
+1 (651) 453 2128
E-mail: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com
Contact information
