 21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the 
 year ended 31 December 2011
ImPRovINg 
PERFoRmANcE
ENhANcINg
PRoDucTIvITy
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
The purpose of the annual report is to provide information to the 
shareholders of Spectris plc. The company, its directors, employees, 
agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any 
other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands 
it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly 
disclaimed. The annual report contains certain forward-looking 
statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial 
condition of the company. By their nature, these statements involve 
uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause actual 
results to differ materially from those anticipated and no reliance 
should be placed on them. The forward-looking statements reflect 
knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of 
this annual report and the company undertakes no obligation to 
update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this annual 
report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Spectris is a leading supplier of productivity-
enhancing instrumentation and controls. 
our products, applications and services help 
customers to improve product quality and 
performance, improve core manufacturing 
processes, reduce downtime and wastage and 
reduce time to market. our businesses are 
leaders in the markets they serve, providing 
solutions for customers across a wide range  
of industries.
Investment Proposition
 Spectris comprises four strategic segments which reflect the end 
user industries and applications we serve. 
 our businesses are strong players in niche markets where there are 
significant barriers to entry. 
 our products typically involve low capital expenditure but provide 
significant and rapid payback for customers. 
 our businesses serve all the major global manufacturing industries 
and we derive significant revenues in the high growth economies. 
 our product pipeline is underpinned by research and development, 
which accounts for around 7% of sales each year. 
 year-on-year sales growth, on a like-for-like basis, has averaged 
mid-single digits since 2003. This has been supplemented by 
growth from acquisitions averaging around 4% per annum. 
 our businesses have low capital requirements and are highly cash 
generative.
 our dividend policy is to make progressive payments based on 
affordability and sustainability.
 We have an experienced Board and Executive management team, 
a clear strategic direction and a proven business model.
www.spectris.com
Read more online at
6 Read more about our business model
2 Read more about our worldwide operations here Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 01
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Highlights Contents
Business Review
01 Highlights
02 Group Overview
06 Business Model
08 Marketplace
10 Acquisition Strategy
12 Strategy and Objectives
13 Key Performance Indicators
14 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
16 Chairman’s Statement
18 Chief Executive’s Review
20 Operating Review
28 Financial Review
32 Corporate Responsibility
Governance
38 Board of Directors
40 Directors’ Report
46 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
55 Auditor’s Report 
56 Consolidated Statement of Income
57  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income
58 Consolidated Statement of Changes  
in Equity
60 Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position
61 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
62 Notes to the Accounts
109 Company Balance Sheet
110 Notes to the Company’s Accounts
117 Shareholder Information
> Record sales and operating profit in all segments
> Operating margins grew by 2.4pp to 18.2%
> Strong growth in all key regions 
> Healthy cash conversion of 89%
> Important acquisitions closed during the year provide 
additional growth and resilience
> Dividend up by 20% 
Sales 
(£m)
up 23%
2011
1,106.2
2010
901.9
2009
787.3
2008
787.1
2007
659.8
Adjusted earnings per share* 
(pence)
up 43%
2011
124.1
2010
86.6
2009
45.4
2008
72.8
2007
58.1
Adjusted operating profit* 
(£m)
up 42%
2011
201.5
2010
142.1
2009
79.2
2008
118.3
2007
104.3
Dividend 
(pence)
up 20%
2011
33.6
2010
28.0
2009
24.25
2008
23.4
2007
21.0
“We are very pleased with our 
performance in 2011. The progress 
we made on all aspects of our 
strategy was fundamental to 
delivering these results. 
Whilst the current macro-economic 
outlook remains uncertain, the 
Board is confident that, as a result 
of continued investment in new 
products and applications, together 
with the growth opportunities 
and resilience which our recent 
acquisitions provide, Spectris is 
strategically well positioned for the 
year ahead.”
John O’Higgins 
Chief Executive
* Adjusted figures exclude certain non-operational items, as defined in Note 3 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 02
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Group Overview
Our customers are typically multinational, blue chip companies 
across a diverse range of end user markets.
We have sales and service offices located around the world, 
providing local delivery and service for our customers. 
Key strategic events in 2011
North America
1 Acquisition of Omega 
Engineering (Stamford, 
CT) provides new 
strategic growth platform 
for Industrial Controls 
segment.
2 Acquisition of Sixnet 
brings additional 
networking capability 
to Industrial Controls 
segment (Albany, NY). 
Europe
3 Acquisition of IRM 
Group (Liège, Belgium) 
extends capabilities in 
metals processing market 
for In-line Instrumentation 
segment.
4 State-of-the-art 
manufacturing facility 
opened for X-ray tube 
production (Eindhoven, 
The Netherlands).
1
2
7
North America
26% 
Group sales
2,321
Employees
Regional revenue up 27%*  Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 03
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
www.spectris.com
Read more online at
Europe
34% 
Group sales
3,534
Employees
Regional revenue up 17%* 
Asia
5 Additional regional 
sales office opened for 
Malvern (Zibo, central 
Shandong province, 
China).
6 New systems 
engineering centre 
opened for Servomex 
(Mumbai, India).
Rest of the world
7 Relocation of  
Spectris Brazil office  
to a new facility  
(São Paulo, Brazil).
4
6
5
3
Rest of the world
7% 
Group sales
81 
Employees
Regional revenue up 21%* 
Asia
33% 
Group sales
1,540 
Employees
Regional revenue up 26%* 
* % increase in reported sales 
compared with prior year Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 04
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Group Overview  continued
MAtERiAlS ANAl y SiS
lABoRA toR y/oFF-liNE
Provides a range of analytical instrumentation and systems for particle 
and material characterisation.
Applications
> Material characterisation
> Contamination detection
> Quality control
Industries
> Pharma/fine chemicals
> Metals/mining
> Semiconductor/electronics
> Research institutes
Operating companies
> Malvern Instruments
> PANalytical
> Particle Measuring Systems
Supplies test, measurement and analysis equipment and software for 
product design optimisation, manufacturing control and environmental 
monitoring.
Applications
> Measurement
> Data acquisition and processing
> Simulation
Industries
> Automotive
> Aerospace
> Consumer electronics
> Environmental
Operating companies
> Brüel & Kjær Sound & Vibration
> HBM
Malvern’s new Mastersizer 3000 is a much more compact benchtop 
instrument than its predecessor yet delivers greater sizing capability. 
Designed following extensive customer consultation, routine particle 
sizing has been made simpler and more automated so that all users, 
whether experienced or not, can quickly and easily make reliable 
measurements. Accessories include the novel Aero dry powder 
dispersion unit, which enables measurement of materials from 
cement to fragile pharmaceuticals. 
HBM’s new espressoDAQ series of compact, USB-based data 
acquisition modules are designed to reliably measure parameters 
such as force, pressure, temperature or voltage. Designed for “plug 
and measure“ operation, the modules are powered via the USB 
interface of a laptop and deliver instant measurement results. The 
espressoDAQ family is ideally suited for mobile use, for example by 
test engineers in the service sector.
The group comprises four business segments which reflect the applications and end user industries we serve.
Our products help customers to improve accuracy and speed of materials analysis in the laboratory and in process manufacturing applications.  
We also provide test and measuring equipment for research and development applications.
tESt AND MEASuREMENt
Group contribution
31% 
Sales*
30% 
Profit*
Group contribution
31% 
Sales*
27%
Profit*
*  Figures shown are % of reported sales  
and adjusted operating profit  Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 05
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
PRocESS/MANuFA ctuRiNG
iN-liNE iNStR uMENt AtioN iNDuStRiAl coNtRolS
Provides process analytical measurement, asset monitoring and on-line 
controls for both primary processing and the converting industries.
Applications
> Quality control
> Process technology
> Safety
Industries
> Process industries
> Pulp and paper
> Energy
> Converting
Operating companies
> Beta LaserMike
> Brüel & Kjær Vibro
> BTG Group
> Fusion UV Systems
> NDC Infrared Engineering
> Servomex
Industrial Controls supplies process measurement, monitoring and control 
instrumentation and networking products for manufacturing industries.
Applications
> Product tracking
> Machine interface
> Process control
> Industrial networking
Industries
> Manufacturing controls/networking 
> Machine building
> Distributors
Operating companies
> Microscan
> Omega Engineering
> Red Lion Controls
The new SERVOTOUGH FluegasExact 2700 from Servomex is the 
world’s first combustion gas analyser with an integrated in-line flow 
sensor and features the company’s advanced zirconia technology 
to provide accurate combustion gas measurements. Designed for 
operation in extreme environments, the FluegasExact measures 
oxygen and combustibles in flue gases to improve combustion 
efficiency and reduce emissions. It is ideal for controlling a range of 
combustion processes used in the hydrocarbon processing and power 
generation industries, including use in process heaters, utility boilers, 
incinerators and furnaces. 
Our products and applications provide precision measurement and control in challenging operating environments, ensuring process quality, 
asset uptime, safety and improved yield. We also provide automation and control products for the discrete manufacturing industries.
The Omega business, acquired at the end of September, provides a 
broad range of process measurement and control instrumentation. 
During 2011, the company introduced a new wireless sensor 
system, the wSeries transmitters. Designed for demanding industrial 
applications and harsh outdoor environments, these small devices 
communicate via a standard Wi-Fi network, measuring voltage and 
current, temperature, humidity, and barometric pressure. Charts and 
graphs can be viewed over an ethernet network or via the internet 
from any computer, tablet, or smart phone with a web browser. Using 
Omega’s own server software, the wireless sensor system can be easily 
integrated with Omega’s data acquisition and automation systems, 
as well as with third-party systems, creating a complete measurement 
solution. 
Group contribution
28%
Sales*
32% 
Profit*
Group contribution
10% 
Sales*
11% 
Profit* Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 06
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Business Model
Culture and Values
Driving Growth
Nurturing Innovation
Systems and Controls
Spectris is a leading supplier of productivity-enhancing instrumentation and controls. 
Our products, applications and services help customers across a wide range of 
industries to improve their products and processes.
We aim to achieve superior value for shareholders sustainably over the long term 
through delivering against our strategic objectives: strengthening our market positions 
through innovation, expanding our regional operations, building our presence in 
key strategic growth areas, growing our businesses (both organically and through 
acquisition), and focusing on operational excellence. 
Our group philosophy is one of autonomy, 
with our operating companies entrusted 
and empowered to run and manage their 
businesses. We believe that establishing and 
maintaining an ethical culture is critical to 
supporting our business model and ensuring 
our continued business success and growth. 
Central to our culture are our core values of 
Honesty, Empowerment, Ownership, Delivery 
and Speed, which underpin the way we 
work. These are part of our Code of Business 
Ethics, which provides a framework for how 
we do business and includes a clear policy on 
anti-bribery and corruption as well as dealings 
with customers, suppliers, colleagues, 
conflicts of interest and human rights.
 
cultuRE AND V AluES
Read more about our values in the 
Spectris Code of Business Ethics at
www.spectris.com/corporate%20
responsibility.aspx
Find out more
Use your phone’s bar code app and go directly 
to the strategy page on our website.
Did you know?
Our barcode readers are used to decode and check the print 
quality and integrity of QR codes in industrial applications. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 07
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Powerful revenue growth drivers
Our products typically involve relatively 
low capital expenditure for customers, but 
provide a significant and rapid payback. 
Customer benefits include improving 
production efficiency, reducing downtime, 
eliminating wastage, reducing time to 
market, and ensuring compliance with safety, 
environmental and quality regulations. In 
addition, after-sales service and support is an 
important part of our business and over 25% 
of our revenue is derived from consumables 
and services. 
Broad portfolio of customers and markets
We have a broad spread of markets, products 
and customers, as shown on the following 
pages. This balance of geographical spread 
and end user industries helps to limit the risks 
from any adverse changes in the political or 
economic environment and also enables us 
to manage foreign exchange rate fluctuations 
and purchasing trends better. We seek to 
grow our businesses around the world, with 
particular emphasis on industrialising markets 
such as China, India and Latin America.
Strong financial position
We maintain a strong balance sheet, which 
gives us the flexibility to pursue our strategic 
objectives. We focus on cash generation and 
our target is to deliver high cash conversion of 
operating profit in each financial year. 
Acquisitions
We seek to enhance our growth potential by 
pursuing an active but disciplined approach 
to acquisitions, both through the purchase 
of complementary companies (bolt-on 
acquisitions), and by building our presence 
in new growth areas via the acquisition 
of substantial new businesses which are 
compatible with our strategic profile (platform 
acquisitions). 
Leading industry positions
All of our businesses are leading players 
in niche markets, with strong brands and 
long-term customer relationships. Our 
experienced engineers work with customers 
to understand the business and productivity 
challenges they face. Much of our technology 
and applications know-how is proprietary 
and patent-protected, providing significant 
barriers to entry.
DRiViNG GRowth
Strong customer focus
We work closely with our customers to 
understand the challenges they face and 
develop solutions which are tailored to their 
specific requirements. We involve professional 
users in the design of new products, 
ensuring that we understand their needs 
and convert this knowledge into innovation 
in products and processes. We offer a full 
range of services for our products, including 
installation, training, technical support, 
calibration and maintenance. 
Research and development
Research and development underpins our 
business strategy and we invest around 
7% of sales each year in research and 
development in order to maintain our 
market-leading positions. Our commitment to 
constant innovation means that our products 
incorporate the very latest in technology 
and, as a consequence, we own patents, 
trademarks and intellectual property licenses. 
As part of the process of bringing new 
products to market, we involve our customers 
extensively during the development phase 
and, through beta evaluations, prior to 
product launch.
Employees
We employ a highly skilled technical 
workforce in our offices around the world. 
Our entrepreneurial culture offers a creative 
working environment with scope for 
individual responsibility and achievement 
and we are committed to providing equal 
employment opportunities, competitive 
remuneration, and training and development 
programmes. 
Product manufacturing
We focus on our core competencies of 
research and development, product design, 
and assembly and test, whilst outsourcing 
the majority of component and sub-assembly 
production to qualified suppliers. As a result, 
our businesses are capital efficient. Low cost 
sourcing initiatives by the group’s strategic 
purchasing teams help to drive down the 
costs of procurement whilst optimising quality 
and supply chain performance. 
Best practice transfer
Despite the specific industry and technology 
focus of each of the businesses, considerable 
emphasis is placed on knowledge sharing 
across the group and the transfer of best 
practice. This can be especially valuable 
when entering new end user markets or 
geographical regions.
NuRtuRiNG iNNo VAtioN
Operating structure
We are organised in a way that combines 
the benefits of a multinational group whilst 
maintaining the entrepreneurial culture of 
our operating companies. Our decentralised 
operating structure is a key differentiator and 
the focus on accountability and ownership at 
local level ensures that management teams 
can focus on their priorities and react quickly 
to changing customer and market needs. 
Each business unit has responsibility for all 
aspects of its business and for developing, 
and meeting, its business growth plans. 
Within each business segment, each 
operating company has developed its own 
brands and sales and service channels, 
tailored to its target industrial markets. 
Central to our approach is a lean group 
structure which, together with the Board, 
sets the strategy and drives and monitors 
its implementation. In addition, the centre 
provides knowledge, advice and selective 
support services such as legal, tax and 
treasury, mergers and acquisitions, emerging 
market infrastructure and best practice 
sharing among businesses. 
Control framework
The group has developed a robust internal 
control framework in keeping with our 
operating model, values and culture. This 
comprises common policies, procedures, 
principles and processes and provides the 
minimum requirement for the controls the 
businesses should have in place. The Code of 
Business Ethics provides additional guidance 
to employees on how we conduct business 
and is designed to ensure that all employees 
make decisions that are consistent with 
our values and that help us meet our many 
commitments.
Each operating company implements internal 
controls built off this central framework and 
consistent with the size and complexity of 
its business. The effectiveness of the internal 
control framework is routinely monitored 
through a combination of certification, 
self-assessment and a rolling programme 
of reviews by internal and external audit 
functions, complemented by a sound risk 
management process, as outlined on page 44. 
SyStEMS AND coNtRolS Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 08
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Marketplace
We operate in niche markets across a diverse range of industries. Our products 
typically involve relatively low expenditure for customers but provide a significant 
and rapid payback. 
We aim to build long-term relationships with our customers and work with them to 
understand their business and the productivity challenges they face. 
6 See Business Model
Examples of customer benefits achieved:
>
   Automotive manufacturer reduced noise testing times by 75% with sound analysis equipment 
>
   Mineral processing company increased throughput by 60% with in-line particle size analyser 
>
   Tissue manufacturer increased profitability by around £4 million and improved product quality 
  by changing from steel blades to high-performance creping blades
>
   Product assembly process cut from overnight to just one minute using UV curing system 
>
   Coin producer increased output by 20% using force measurement technology 
>
   Animal feed producer generated additional production worth around €600,000 per year by  
  continuous oil and moisture measurement 
>
   Liquefied natural gas plant avoided catastrophic turbine failure using remote vibration 
  monitoring to diagnose machine fault 
>
   Research institute used X-ray analysis to develop new lithium ion rechargeable batteries with 
  longer lifetimes and faster recharging capability 
Customer benefits:
 iMPRoViNG PRoDuctiVity AND EFFiciENcy
 REDuciNG tiME to MARkEt
 iMPRoViNG PRoDuct qu Ality AND 
PERFoRMANcE
 REDuciNG DowNtiME AND w AStAGE
 ENSuRiNG coMPliANcE with SAFEty , 
qu Ality AND ENViRoNMENt Al lEGiSlA tioN
 hElPiNG to BRiNG NEw PRoDuctS to 
MARkEt
www.spectris.com
Read more online at Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 09
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
2011 Sales by end user market
% total group reported sales
 1. Automotive and aerospace 12%
 2.  Metals, minerals and mining 11%
 3.  Pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals 10%
 4.  Academic research 9%
 5.  Machine building 9%
 6.  Pulp and paper 9%
 7.  Semicon, telecoms, electronics 9%
 8.  Energy and utilities 8%
 9.  Web, print and packaging 5%
10.  Environment 4%
11.  Other, incl. distribution 14%
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Spectris operates in a wide range of end user markets around the world. This balanced 
portfolio of industries and geographies, where no end user market accounts for more 
than 12% of sales, and no single customer accounts for more than 2% of sales, 
provides a degree of resilience against material adverse economic trading conditions  
in the countries in which we operate. 
The majority of our sales come from upgrades to customers’ existing production 
facilities, rather than the addition of new capacity. In addition to participating in the 
growing markets of many of our customers, we also seek to identify opportunities in 
new markets, for example nanotechnology and life sciences.
We aim to grow our businesses around the world, with particular emphasis on 
industrialising markets, and establish sales and support facilities in these regions  
so that we are able to support our global customers wherever they are based.
Under pressure to reduce costs yet develop ever 
more sophisticated vehicles, reducing development 
times, and thus time to market, is a key challenge 
for the automotive industry. The Renault Group 
in France are using Brüel & Kjær’s data acquisition 
system to analyse powertrain noise (from the engine, 
transmission, drive shaft, suspension and wheels) in 
order to meet vehicle regulations and legislation and 
also customer expectations. Brüel & Kjær’s solution 
has provided greater test efficiency and reduced the 
time spent on characterising a complete powertrain 
from five days to just one to two days. 
Case study
Brüel & Kjær helps Renault to 
reduce testing times Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Acquisition Strategy
Acquisitions are a central part of Spectris’ strategy, with all but one of the companies currently owned by 
Spectris having been acquired since the company was first floated on the London Stock Exchange in 1988. 
Over this period, our portfolio has undergone a significant evolution into today’s group of 14 specialised,  
market-leading instrumentation, controls and process technology companies operating globally in diverse 
industrial markets. 
Implementat Ion Integra tIon
r esearch
Cultural Fit
Due Diligence
Striking Deals
Objective
The objective of our acquisition strategy is to 
create shareholder value by growing and 
enhancing existing businesses through the 
purchase of complementary companies, 
referred to as bolt-on acquisitions, and by 
building our presence in new growth areas via 
the acquisition of substantial new businesses 
which are compatible with our strategic profile. 
The latter category are referred to as platform 
acquisitions. Whether we are looking at a 
bolt-on or a platform opportunity, an 
acquisition candidate must exhibit the same 
characteristics and fundamental business 
strengths that exist in our current businesses 
and which underpin our group:
 > Productivity-enhancing instrumentation  
and controls for industrial and academic 
customers based on specialised technology 
and superior application knowledge.
 > Focus on critical applications with direct 
impact on the customer’s process 
performance, energy consumption, asset 
utilisation, quality, product performance or 
other value-enhancing parameters.
 > High margins reflecting significant value 
added for the customer.
 > Emphasis on products and services whose 
cost is small within the overall cost of the 
customer’s application.
 > Proven ability to grow the market and 
capitalise on growth markets.
 > Substantial aftermarket revenues and/or 
service component.
 > Strong, entrepreneurial management able  
to capitalise on Spectris’ operating culture 
which stresses empowerment, responsibility 
and autonomy for our businesses.
In recent years, bolt-on acquisitions have been 
the most frequent type of acquisition, with four 
to five such deals typically completed each year, 
and we expect this pattern to continue. By their 
nature, platform acquisition opportunities 
which have the necessary business 
characteristics and are substantial enough to be 
a worthwhile new growth platform for Spectris 
arise infrequently, although we completed one 
such acquisition, of Omega Engineering, during 
the year. Spectris identifies potential acquisition 
opportunities from many sources and we 
regularly acquire businesses from private 
owners, other corporations and financial 
owners such as private equity and venture 
capital institutions.
Bolt-on acquisitions
Bolt-on acquisitions typically provide growth 
opportunities, bring additional technology, 
applications, routes to market or geographic 
presence to one of our companies and can take 
the form of an acquisition of an entire business, 
the purchase of a product line, the purchase of 
intellectual property, or anything in between. As 
a result, our bolt-on acquisitions vary greatly in 
size from the very small up to the purchase of 
substantial businesses valued up to £50 million 
or more. Whatever the size of the acquisition, 
Spectris’ approach is always to build upon a 
proven, successful business or a technology 
with demonstrated potential. 
Our approach to creating value from bolt-on 
acquisitions is similarly focused on recognising 
and creating opportunities arising from the 
acquired business having a complementary  
or adjacent nature to one of our existing 
businesses. Manufacturing consolidation and 
cost-cutting initiatives, while not overlooked, 
are generally of secondary importance to the 
growth aspects in any bolt-on acquisition. 
Instead, we look to integrate the acquired 
business with an existing company whilst 
retaining the strengths of both.
As an illustration of how we add value, it is 
quite common for innovative, technology-led 
Stage 2 
p ro CeSSIng
Stage 3 
Implement at Ion an D Integrat Ion
Stage 1 
re Sear ChIng opportun ItIeS Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
LDS Test and Measurement was acquired 
from SPX Corporation in December 2008 
for a consideration of $86 million (on a 
debt and cash-free basis). The company is 
a leading provider of electro-dynamic 
vibration test systems for the automotive, 
aerospace, defence, and electronics 
markets, and of data acquisition products. 
The data acquisition and instrumentation products became part of HBM, extending 
their range of testing applications and generating new sales opportunities for HBM. The 
vibration and controller products became part of Brüel & Kjær Sound & Vibration and 
the Royston, England, based company has now been integrated and renamed the 
Vibration Testing Systems business unit. The company’s products are used in the most 
demanding applications, from laboratory testing and structural analysis through to 
testing of complete systems. As a result of the acquisition, Brüel & Kjær are now able to 
offer complete vibration, acoustic and data acquisition and analysis solutions to their 
customers. Since the acquisition, a number of contracts have been secured with major 
aerospace manufacturers for complete system solutions, for example for satellite 
testing, and with automotive manufacturers where the systems are used, for example, 
to test hybrid vehicle batteries. 
Case study
LDS Test and Measurement
On 30 September 2011, we completed 
the acquisition of the Omega Engineering 
business for a total consideration of 
US$485 million (approximately £311 
million). Formerly privately owned, the 
company is headquartered in Stamford, 
Connecticut, USA, has five manufacturing 
facilities and two distribution/sales 
facilities and employs around 700 people. 
Omega is now a stand-alone business in 
the Industrial Controls segment.
Omega is a leading provider of sensors and controls for industrial testing and 
measurement applications, for controlling temperature, humidity, pressure, strain, 
force, flow, level, pH and conductivity. The company has a highly successful, 
defensible business model tailored to the needs of well-defined portions of the 
process control and industrial automation sectors. With strong, well-known brands 
(Omega and Newport), a loyal blue chip customer base, a broad intellectual property 
portfolio and high levels of repeat business, Omega has resilient revenue and earnings 
characteristics. The company is an excellent strategic and cultural fit for Spectris and a 
significant expansion of the product offering in the Industrial Controls segment and is 
expected to bring growth and margin opportunities under Spectris’ ownership.
Since the acquisition was completed, an experienced president has been appointed, 
financial reporting processes have been upgraded, efforts are underway to benefit from 
sales opportunities with other Spectris companies (Omega already sells some Spectris 
group products) and opportunities in the supply chain are being pursued. The majority 
of Omega’ s sales are to the US domestic market currently and actions have already been 
initiated to grow sales in international markets, particularly China and Europe.
Case study
Omega Engineering
industrial instrumentation companies to achieve 
success on a national or perhaps regional scale 
but run out of momentum when faced with  
the multiple challenges and investment 
requirements of becoming a global business. 
We are able to address these challenges, in 
many cases by exploiting existing infrastructure 
and sales channels within Spectris, and rapidly 
take such businesses to a new level, thus 
creating growth and value for our shareholders 
while preserving the qualities of the business 
that made it successful in the first place. There 
are many other ways in which we can benefit 
from bolt-on acquisitions but, in general,  
we create value from bolt-ons by applying  
our resources, routes to market, customer 
relationships, application knowledge, 
management expertise and global presence  
to the acquired business to achieve superior 
results.
Platform acquisitions
In addition to making regular bolt-on 
acquisitions, Spectris will occasionally identify 
an opportunity to acquire a much larger 
business which provides productivity-enhancing 
products and services to industrial customers 
and which fits the strategic profile outlined 
above. However, to qualify as a viable platform 
acquisition, there also must be a significant 
opportunity for Spectris to add value to such a 
business so we will look for potential to develop 
the business organically and to add value 
through subsequent bolt-on acquisitions. Any 
acquisition of this type is likely to be stand-
alone in nature with the business becoming a 
new company within our portfolio rather than 
being integrated into an existing company. 
Adding value to a platform acquisition can be 
achieved in a variety of ways, some of which, 
such as accelerated internationalisation and 
developing existing customer and industry 
relationships, are akin to the opportunities we 
see on bolt-ons but on a larger scale, while 
other value-creating opportunities commonly 
derive from our focus on operational excellence 
and strengthening market positions through 
innovation in keeping with our overall strategy.  Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Strategy and Objectives
Our objective is to deliver shareholder value sustainably over the long term  
by supplying productivity-enhancing solutions for our customers. 
www.spectris.com
Read more online at
Our strategy Achievements
Strengthening market 
positions through 
innovation
We invest around 7% of sales each year in research 
and development in order to maintain our market-
leading positions. We work closely with customers to 
develop solutions which are tailored to their specific 
requirements. Much of our technology is proprietary 
and protected by patents or process know-how. New 
products and applications may be developed in house, 
by acquiring bolt-on product lines or by collaboration 
and licensing agreements for proprietary technology 
in partnership with universities and other institutions.
 > Expenditure on research and development grew by 
17% to £75.8 million, or 7% of sales. 
 > Significant number of new products, applications 
and technologies introduced throughout the group. 
Amongst these is the award-winning Mastersizer 
3000 particle size analyser, featuring highly 
sophisticated optics to simplify and automate 
particle sizing, and whose compact benchtop 
design is the product of extensive customer 
research. Also the recipient of an award is the new 
BT55 series of optical brightness transmitters. These 
feature an innovative light-emitting system for 
monitoring and controlling the pulp process and 
enable papermakers to rapidly improve their 
process and significantly reduce costs. 
Increasing regional 
expansion with a focus on 
emerging markets
page 2 See Group overview
We seek to grow our businesses around the world, 
with particular emphasis on industrialising markets 
such as China, India and Latin America. We continue 
to establish sales and group support facilities in these 
regions so that we are able to support our global 
customers wherever they are based. 
 > On a like-for-like basis, sales to China grew by 27% 
and sales to Latin America grew by 28%.
 > New systems engineering centre opened in 
Mumbai, India.
 > Additional regional office opened in Zibo, central 
Shandong province, China.
Growing existing 
businesses through 
acquisition
We seek to enhance the growth potential of our 
businesses by pursuing an active but disciplined 
approach to acquisitions, focusing on businesses 
which are strong players in specific application areas 
where there are significant barriers to entry.
 > Invested £66.4 million (including cash acquired of 
£5.1 million) in three bolt-on acquisitions:
 – A small product line addition to the Materials 
Analysis segment.
 – IRM Group, a leading manufacturer of high 
technology measuring systems for the metals 
processing industry.
 – Sixnet, a leading manufacturer of flexible 
industrial Ethernet switch, automation and 
wireless solutions for the industrial market.
Building our presence 
in key strategic growth 
areas, both organically 
and through acquisition
page 11 See case study
We aim to grow our existing businesses organically  
by developing new products as well as pursuing 
opportunities for growth in new markets, such as 
nanotechnology and life sciences. Acquisitions are 
targeted at both existing and new markets. 
 > Product development programmes focused on 
building positions in our key market segments.
 > Acquisition of Omega Engineering, a leading 
provider of sensors and controls for industrial 
testing and measurement applications, adds a 
significant strategic growth platform to our 
Industrial Controls segment.
 > Aftersales, service and consumables are an important 
part of our business, representing 26% of sales.
Focusing on  
operational excellence
We continue to focus on improving all aspects of our 
business through a range of actions including: process 
efficiencies, value pricing, optimising the business mix, 
cost competitiveness, designing products for low-cost 
production, reducing inventory and improving supply 
chain management.
 > Components sourced or manufactured in lower-
cost countries increased to approx. 14% of the 
total cost of materials for goods sold.
 > Implementation of ERP system at our BTG 
operation.
 > Opening of state-of-the-art manufacturing facility 
in Eindhoven, The Netherlands, for X-ray tube 
manufacture. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Key Performance Indicators
We monitor progress against the delivery of our strategic goals via four financial  
key performance indicators. 
Sales
2011
+23%
2011
+15%
2010
+15%
2010
+12%
2009
0%
2009
-16%
2008
+19%
2008
+3%
2007
+3%
2007
+6%
Sales growth is a measure of how we are growing our 
business organically. We aim to achieve year-on-year growth 
in sales, on a like-for-like basis, which excludes the effects 
of currency translation and acquisitions or divestments.
cash conversion
total sales growth,  
continuing businesses
organic sales growth, 
continuing businesses, at 
constant currencies
2011
89%
2010
112%
2009
133%
2008
86%
2007
99%
We focus on cash generation and use cash conversion 
as a performance measure as we believe cash 
represents an effective measure of the quality of our 
earnings. Our target is to deliver high cash conversion 
of operating profit in each financial year. Cash 
conversion is defined by management as adjusted 
operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted 
operating profit. 
Return on sales
2011
18.2%
2010
15.8%
2009
10.1%
2008
15.0%
2007
15.8%
Return on sales is a measure of improving profitability in our 
business. Return on sales is defined as adjusted operating 
profit as a percentage of sales. Our intention is to achieve 
a mid-teens return on sales margin on average throughout 
the cycle. 
Earnings per share
Non-financial kPis
2011
124.1p
2011
+43%
2010
86.6p
2010
+91%
2009
45.4p
2009
-38%
2008
72.8p
2008
+25%
2007
58.1p
2007
+33%
Earnings per share is a commonly used measure of financial 
performance for shareholders. We aim to achieve growth 
in adjusted earnings per share. Adjusted earnings excludes 
certain non-operational items as defined by management in 
Note 3. Adjusted earnings per share is defined as the ratio 
of adjusted earnings for the year to the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
To measure the critical components of our Corporate 
Responsibility strategy, we have adopted the following 
key performance indicators. These are described in more 
detail in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 
32 to 37.
NB. Acquisitions are excluded in the year of acquisition
1 Work-related accidents/ill health resulting in lost time in excess of 3 days
Adjusted EPS (pence) cash conversion
2011
65.6
2011
2.7
2010
92.8
2010
5.3
Accident incident Rate
Reportable accidents
1
 per 1,000 
employees
Growth (%)
Return on sales,  
continuing businesses
Energy consumption 
Mwh per £m revenue  Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation
1. Strengthening market positions through innovation
New product development
In order to strengthen our market positions and sustain 
competitive advantage, the group invests significantly in 
research and development. The development of new 
technologies and products involves risk including:
 > The product being more expensive or taking longer to 
develop than originally planned
 > The market for the product being smaller than originally 
envisaged
 > The product failing to reach the production phase
 > Reduced profitability 
and cash flow
 > Loss of market share
 > Failure to recoup 
investment in 
innovation
 > Significant investment levels in research and 
development, maintained at around 7% of sales
 > Project management disciplines are applied in 
product development programmes
 > Working closely with customers to ensure that we 
develop solutions tailored to their specific needs
 > New product developments are based on standard 
platforms, customised through high added-value 
applications engineering
 > Extensive customer involvement during product 
development and prior to product launch (through 
beta evaluations)
Intellectual property
Our business is focused on the design and manufacture of 
technologically advanced products and applications. 
Significant investment in research and development is made 
towards this end. As a consequence, we own and protect 
patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyright information  
and intellectual property licenses.
The risk therefore exists that this intellectual property may 
be infringed by third parties or that we may inadvertently 
infringe third-party rights.
 > Reduced profitability 
and cash flow
 > Loss of market share
 > Failure to recoup 
investment in 
innovation
 > Procedures in place requiring all of our businesses to:
 – maintain a watching brief on new applications
 – undertake specific reviews prior to commencing 
new product development, acquisitions or licenses
 – register intellectual property where appropriate
 > Maintain a portfolio of intellectual property assets 
such that no single patent, trade secret or trademark 
is sufficiently important to present a material risk to 
the success of the company
2. Increasing regional expansion with a focus on emerging markets
Political and economic risks
We operate in a range of end user markets around the 
world and may be affected by political, economic or 
regulatory developments in any of these countries. Material 
adverse changes in the political and economic environments 
in the countries in which we operate have the potential to 
put at risk our ability to carry out our strategy.
Specifically, the group has reviewed its potential exposures to the 
current macro-economic uncertainty relating to the Eurozone 
economies. We believe that the broad spread of markets in 
which we operate substantially limits the risk associated with 
additional instability in any given territory. Whilst the group  
had sales into Europe of approximately £381 million in 2011 
(34% of total group sales), sales into Greece, Ireland, Italy, 
Portugal and Spain represented just 5% of total sales for the 
year (approximately £57 million). The group does not have any 
significant operations or supply chain dependencies within these 
countries. Similarly, the group does not have any significant 
liquidity or funding risk in relation to these countries.
 > Reduced profitability 
and cash flow
 > Maintaining a broad spread of markets, products 
and customers limits risks associated with any given 
territory
 > Ensure we remain structured in such a way that 
enables us to take prompt action in the event of any 
material change in the trading environment
 > Monitor market intelligence
 > Ensure we maintain a strong balance sheet and 
financial position
Laws and regulations
We operate in a large number of jurisdictions and, as a 
consequence, we are subject to numerous domestic and 
international regulations and restrictions. These include laws 
and regulations covering product safety, export controls, 
anti-bribery, competition and false accounting.
Any failure by the group or its representatives to comply with 
relevant laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal 
liabilities leading to significant fines and penalties or the 
disqualification of the group from participation in government-
related contracts for a period of time. In the event of a failure 
to comply with export control regulations, the group could also 
be exposed to restrictions being placed upon its ability to trade.
 > Reduced sales, 
profitability and cash 
flow
 > Reputational damage
 > Diversion of 
management resources 
to address any 
resulting investigation
 > Strong internal control framework, policies and 
culture
 > Formal export controls compliance procedures in 
place, including strict product classification and 
transaction screening protocols
 > Ethics training provided to all employees
 > Regular monitoring of compliance
The group has a well-established process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks which 
forms a part of the group’s system of internal controls as described in the Directors’ Report on page 44. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation
3. Growing existing businesses through acquisition
Acquisitions
A key element of our strategy is to grow the business 
portfolio through acquisition of stand-alone or bolt-on 
businesses which complement or extend the range of 
products and applications we can provide.
Integrating both the operations and personnel of acquired 
businesses can be a complex process. Potential risks 
therefore exist that the planned benefits from the 
acquisition may not be achieved as a result of problems 
encountered in integrating the acquired business, incorrect 
assumptions in the original business case, changing market 
conditions or deficiencies arising in the due diligence 
process. Further, the company could be exposed to past acts 
or omissions of the acquired business.
 > Failure to achieve the 
benefits outlined in the 
business case
 > Reduced profitability 
and cash flow
 > Unforeseen liabilities
 > Rigorous financial and legal assessment of target 
businesses
 > Strict authority levels which, subject to size, involve 
review by the Board for such transactions
 > Comprehensive representations and warranties in 
purchase agreements
 > Extensive integration planning and execution
 > Regular review against the business case for the 
acquired businesses
 > Post-acquisition control reviews
4. Building our presence in key strategic growth areas, both organically and through acquisition
Competitive activity
The nature of the marketplaces in which we operate  
means that all of our businesses are exposed to risk  
from competitor activity.
 > Loss of market share
 > Reduced profitability 
and cash flow
 > Maintain market-leading positions through 
significant investment in research and development
 > Diversified portfolio of products and markets limits 
the overall risk from any single competitor
 > Maintain ability to react quickly to changes in 
customer and market demand
 > Maintain a watching brief on new competitor activity
5. Focusing on operational excellence
Supply chain dependencies and disruption
The company is exposed to the risk that some of the 
components it sources, particularly for custom-built items  
or older components, are provided by a single supplier and 
are therefore vulnerable to interruption of supply.
The company also manufactures components, from 
proprietary technologies, at a number of locations.  
Our ability to supply products to our customers  
could be adversely impacted by a disaster or other  
disruptive event at any of these sites.
Any interruption to the company’s supplies or related 
increase in costs may result in an adverse effect on the 
business’ financial position and future performance.
 > Inability to fulfil 
customer orders 
resulting in lost sales 
and reputational 
damage
 > Increased costs reduce 
profitability
 > Loss of market share
 > Strategic sourcing teams source lower-cost 
components across a range of markets
 > Alternative sources of supply actively sought to 
reduce dependency upon single-source suppliers
 > Safety stock levels established for critical components
 > Business continuity plans and disaster prevention 
measures in place for all material manufacturing 
locations
 > Business interruption insurance
 > Strong contract review process
Fluctuations in exchange rates
Because of the global nature of our business, we have 
operations which sell and purchase goods in foreign 
currencies and whose results we record in a  
variety of different currencies. We are therefore  
exposed to any significant changes in exchange rates 
between a number of different currencies.
 > Unexpected variations 
in the company’s 
results
 > Reduced profitability 
and cash flow
 > Forward contracts cover up to 75% of forecast 
exposures up to 18 months ahead
 > Natural hedging strategy, matching invoicing and 
purchasing currencies where practical
 > Foreign currency investments hedged with 
borrowings in the same currency wherever possible
 > Regular sensitivity analyses carried out to understand 
the impact of exchange rate movements on the 
group’s reporting
All significant risks are evaluated with reference to the group’s achievement of its strategic objectives as 
outlined on page 12. The key potential risks and uncertainties facing the group’s ability to deliver its strategy, 
together with mitigating actions, are described below. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholder,
Spectris saw strong trading in 2011, with sales and 
operating profit at record levels, building on the 
momentum generated over the past few years, as 
investment in new products, acquisitions and regional 
expansion has continued to drive our business 
growth. Our acquisition initiatives also continued, 
with the addition of the Omega Engineering business 
being a particular highlight. This adds a significant 
strategic growth platform for our Industrial Controls 
segment. 
Reported sales increased by 23% to £1,106.2 million 
(2010: £901.9 million) and adjusted operating profit* 
grew by 42% to £201.5 million (2010: £142.1 
million). Acquisitions contributed 7% to sales and 
currency had a positive impact of 1%. Thus, on a 
constant currency organic (like-for-like) basis, sales 
grew by 15%. On a pro-forma basis, had each of the 
four acquisitions taken place on the first day of the 
year, sales would have been £1,218.2 million.
Operating margins increased by 2.4 percentage 
points to 18.2%. Profit before tax increased by 45% 
to £191.6 million (2010: £132.3 million) and earnings 
per share increased by 43% from 86.6 pence to 
124.1 pence. 
During the year, the group invested £372.1 million in 
acquisitions and net debt increased by £270.0 million 
to £356.2 million at the end of December 2011.  
At 31 December 2011, the group had cash of  
£41.6 million and undrawn committed facilities 
of £104.2 million. 
The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 25.4 
pence (2010: 20.9 pence), which, combined with the 
 
 
interim dividend of 8.2 pence, gives a total for the 
year of 33.6 pence (2010: 28.0 pence), an increase 
of 20%. The dividend is covered 3.7 times. This is 
consistent with our policy of making progressive 
dividend payments based upon affordability and 
sustainability. The dividend will be paid on 26 June 
2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 1 June 2012.
Corporate governance 
As a board, we are responsible to the company’s 
shareholders for delivering shareholder value 
sustainably over the long term through effective 
management and good governance. We believe 
that a robust discussion focused on the critical 
strategic issues and risks is key to achieving these 
aims and we are fortunate to have non-executive 
directors with extensive industry and international 
experience who can actively contribute to this 
debate. The Board also seeks to develop and 
maintain a good understanding of the company’s 
operations by conducting site visits to two 
locations each year in addition to inviting our 
presidents and managing directors to present at 
other meetings. We plan to recruit a further 
non-executive director during 2012. We recognise 
the benefits that diversity can bring to our business 
and this will be a key element of the selection 
process.
I am pleased to confirm that Spectris is in full 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. An evaluation of our Board in 2010 by 
external consultants confirmed the effectiveness of 
our governance processes in most dimensions, 
John Hughes
Chairman
We are very pleased with our performance in 2011. The progress 
we made on all aspects of our strategy was fundamental to 
delivering these results.
33.6p
Dividend up 20%
£1,106.2m
Sales up 23% Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
with some recommendations for expanding the 
terms of reference for Board committees. These 
have now been updated, most notably in the case 
of the audit and risk committee which now more 
formally includes a review of the group’s risk 
management processes and controls. The Board 
committees are described more fully in the 
Corporate Governance section of our annual report 
and their terms of reference are available on our 
website. In 2011, an internal assessment of the 
Board by all members confirmed support for the 
Board’s role, culture and policies. 
Outlook
We are very pleased with our performance in 2011. 
The progress we made on all aspects of our strategy 
was fundamental to delivering these results. Whilst the 
current macro-economic outlook remains uncertain, 
the Board is confident that, as a result of continued 
investment in new products and applications, together 
with the growth opportunities and resilience which 
our recent acquisitions provide, Spectris is strategically 
well positioned for the year ahead.
John Hughes
Chairman
* Unless stated otherwise, figures 
quoted for operating profit, net 
interest, profit before tax, tax, 
earnings per share and operating 
cash flow are adjusted measures –  
for explanation of adjusted figures 
and reconciliation to the statutory 
reported figures see Note 3.  Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 18
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Chief Executive’s Review
Trading in 2011 was strong across all business 
segments, regions and most end markets, resulting in 
record sales and operating profit. On a reported basis, 
sales for the year were 23% higher than in 2010. 
Acquisitions contributed 7% and currency 1%, 
resulting in constant currency organic (like-for-like) 
sales growth of 15%.
Regionally, sales in Asia Pacific in the year grew by 
17% on a like-for-like basis, with continued strength 
in China, where sales increased by 27%. North 
America grew by 14% and Europe was up by 13%. 
Aftersales, service and consumables, which are an 
important part of our business and provide a large 
degree of resilience, represented 26% of total  
group sales.
Adjusted operating margin, at 18.2%, is 2.4pp higher 
than in 2010, as a result of the growth in sales and 
continuing good cost control across our businesses, 
with gross margins increasing by 0.2pp to 58.6%.
Cash conversion was in line with our expectations, 
with 89% of operating profit converted into 
operating cash. Capital expenditure increased  
during the year, mainly due to an investment in  
The Netherlands, where we opened a new state- 
of-the-art manufacturing facility. 
Strategy
We made significant progress on our strategy during 
the year. Some of the highlights are illustrated below:
Strengthening market positions through 
innovation
We maintained our investment in research and 
development, with expenditure at £75.8 million, or 
7% of sales, and we launched a number of new 
products, technologies and applications across  
the group, which are described in more detail in  
the Operating Review which follows. Notable 
amongst these was the Mastersizer 3000 particle 
characterisation system from our Materials Analysis 
segment, launched in September. This combines the 
highest optical performance with intelligent software, 
providing greater analysis capabilities in a compact, 
sleekly-designed benchtop instrument. The system 
has been received enthusiastically by customers and 
has already won a major design award. 
Increasing regional expansion with a focus on 
emerging markets
Sales to Asia increased by 17% compared with the 
prior year on a like-for-like basis. At 33% of total 
group sales, this region is now a similar size to 
Europe. In response to the continued growth in 
demand, during the year Malvern Instruments 
opened an additional regional sales office in central 
Shandong province, China, and Beta LaserMike 
established a direct sales operation in south-east Asia. 
The acquisition of the industrial business of Sysmex in 
the fourth quarter of 2010 has provided us with a 
direct sales presence for materials analysis systems in 
Japan and improved our market position there. 
Building our presence in key strategic growth 
areas, both organically and through acquisition
The acquisition of Omega Engineering at the end of 
September 2011 represents a strategic platform for 
growth within the Industrial Controls segment, which 
now represents around 18% of total group sales on a 
pro-forma basis. Integration of the business into the 
Industrial Controls segment is proceeding well and 
results for the first three months of ownership have 
exceeded our expectations. 
John O’Higgins
Chief Executive
We maintained our investment in research and development, with 
expenditure at 7% of sales, and launched a number of new products, 
technologies and applications across the group.
27%
Increase in sales  
to China
£75.8m
Expenditure on  
R&D up 17% Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Growing existing businesses through acquisition
We made three bolt-on acquisitions during 2011. The 
acquisition of IRM in August extends our gauging 
product capabilities in the metals processing market 
and the acquisition of Sixnet in October expands our 
position in the industrial networking market. We also 
acquired key intellectual property and other assets 
relating to a line of benchtop X-ray analysers for the 
Materials Analysis segment in October. The bolt-on 
acquisitions made in 2010 have been successfully 
integrated into the business and made a good 
contribution in 2011. 
In the Test and Measurement segment, the acquisitions 
of nCode, LDS and Lochard, completed in 2008 and 
2009, have accelerated sales in the automotive, 
aerospace and environmental monitoring markets. 
Together with the efficiencies achieved following the 
integration of these businesses, this has resulted in a 
return on sales for the segment of 15.8%.
Focusing on operational excellence
Initiatives to improve operational efficiency across  
the group continued to deliver benefits. Our strategic 
sourcing teams made excellent progress in the year 
and the value of items sourced or manufactured in 
lower-cost countries, principally Asia and Eastern 
Europe, has now increased to approximately 14%  
of the total spend on materials in cost of goods  
sold (2010: 11%). We completed two significant 
investments in 2011 to improve operational 
efficiency: the first phase of a new enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) system at our BTG business, which will 
bring greater integration of all operational aspects  
of the business into a single management system, 
and a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility for our 
PANalytical business in Eindhoven, The Netherlands, 
which will bring greater efficiency to the production 
of X-ray tubes. These investments, together with 
many smaller projects across all of our operations, 
ensure that our focus on the manufacture and supply 
of critical components and products is done to the 
highest levels of quality and efficiency. 
John O’Higgins
Chief Executive Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Operating Review
Overview
Materials Analysis provides a range of analytical 
instrumentation to the metals and mining, 
pharmaceutical and fine chemicals and electronics 
industries, and also to academic and research 
institutions. Our products help customers to improve 
accuracy and speed of materials analysis in the 
laboratory and in process quality control. The 
operating companies in this segment are Malvern 
Instruments, PANalytical and Particle Measuring 
Systems.
Segment performance
The metals, minerals and mining sector, the largest 
end user market for this segment, recovered strongly 
in 2011. Large investments by mining companies in 
Australia, South Africa and Brazil all resulted in strong 
orders for our X-ray analysis equipment. We also  
saw particular interest in applications for analysing 
precious metals and rare earth elements. The strategic 
alliance established in 2010 with French company 
Sodern, a subsidiary of the EADS group, to distribute 
their neutron-based cross-belt analysers made good 
progress and 2011 saw the first orders for a number 
of these systems. These analysers are used in the 
cement, minerals and coal industries for real-time 
characterisation of raw materials and complement 
the X-ray spectrometers PANalytical supplies to these 
customers. 
We saw good growth in sales to the pharmaceutical 
sector, both for research into new drugs and in 
response to stricter regulation and quality control 
during drug manufacture. A Chinese pharmaceutical 
research customer purchased our new X-ray research 
platform, Empyrean, for analysing the active 
ingredients in tablets in order to optimise drug 
formulation. This is the first Empyrean system to be 
installed in China for this application. We saw good 
sales of our pharmaceutical facility monitoring 
systems, particularly in North America and China. 
These systems are used to monitor contamination 
within sterile environments, thus ensuring the drug  
is manufactured according to national safety 
regulations. 
Sales to the academic sector and to research 
institutions worldwide were resilient. This was helped 
by Latin America and China, where government 
emphasis on increasing academic leadership and 
development of the high technology sector resulted 
in increased funding for research laboratories. Our 
new X-ray research platform, Empyrean, launched  
in 2010, continues to be well received by customers 
and won an award for the best technology 
innovations in 2011 from R&D Magazine. In a further 
commendation, Malvern Instruments received the 
2011 Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category  
of International Trade. This is the second year in 
succession that the company has won a Queen’s 
Award (the 2010 award was in the category of 
Innovation, for the development of the Zetasizer 
Nano particle characterisation system).
Materials Analysis
Highlights
> Strong recovery in metals and mining
> Demand from pharmaceutical market driven by new drug research and 
regulatory enforcement
> Academic/R&D markets strong, helped by initiatives in emerging markets 
to invest in academic leadership
> New facility opened for X-ray tube manufacture
£60.9m
Operating profit  
up 54%
18.1%
Return on sales 
up 3.6pp
£337.5m
Sales up 24% Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Steadily increasing demand for our X-ray tubes 
resulted in projected production capacity limitations 
and in September we opened a new state-of-the-art 
manufacturing facility in Eindhoven, The Netherlands, 
for these critical components of our X-ray 
instruments. 
Segment outlook
The metals, minerals and mining sector has recovered 
from the slowdown of 2009–2010, and we expect 
investment to continue due to ongoing demand from 
emerging markets where infrastructure projects are 
driving expenditure for construction-related sectors. 
Academic research in emerging markets will continue 
to grow as these countries seek to increase the 
number and quality of academic institutions. 
Research into new drugs and stricter enforcement  
of regulations on their manufacture are likely to 
continue to drive demand for our products from the 
pharmaceutical industry. 
The Korea Electronics T echnology Institute (KETI) is a 
government body leading research into electronics 
for Korean companies such as Samsung SDI. One key 
project is to develop a new lithium ion rechargeable 
battery to provide more powerful and lighter power 
cells for devices such as mobile phones, laptops, and 
electric cars. The research involves adding different 
materials such as iron or manganese to the existing 
lithium cobalt oxide technology to improve the 
performance of the battery. KETI used PANalytical’ s 
Empyrean X-ray diffraction system to study changes in 
the size and structure of crystals inside the battery cell 
as the quantities of iron and manganese were adjusted. 
The result was a rechargeable battery with improved 
lifetime, superior charge/discharge cycling and low 
discharge losses.
Case study
PANalytical helps KETI to 
develop longer-life batteries Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 22
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Operating Review continued
Overview
Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement 
and analysis equipment and software for product 
design optimisation, manufacturing control, and 
environmental monitoring systems. Markets are 
principally the aerospace, automotive and consumer 
electronics industries. For customers in the 
automotive and aerospace industries, our products 
and applications help them to design and test new 
products whilst reducing time to market. In consumer 
electronics, our equipment and software enable 
customers to refine the performance and accuracy  
of their products. In the environmental monitoring 
market, the desire for higher standards of community 
comfort is driving increasing demand. The operating 
companies in this segment are Brüel & Kjær Sound & 
Vibration and HBM.
Segment performance
The automotive market, a key end user market for 
this segment, continued to recover. One area of 
increasing R&D focus is electric cars and we received 
an order from a major manufacturer of high 
performance electric cars for torque transducers and 
data acquisition equipment to test certain drivetrain 
components. We also received an order for our data 
acquisition system for endurance testing of tyres for 
passenger cars and light trucks for a major Korean 
tyre manufacturer. Our systems are used to measure 
the internal pressure of the tyre, the loading force 
and the speed of rotation in durability tests. Demand 
was strong for our noise analysis instrumentation for 
noise source identification both for customer comfort 
and for certifying compliance with noise emission 
regulations. We have also seen significant interest in 
our noise evaluation technologies from high speed 
train manufacturers.
Sales to the aerospace market grew strongly. In 
China, significant investments in the aerospace 
industry resulted in good demand for our data 
acquisition products and we received key orders for 
structural testing of aircraft materials and landing 
gear for a new narrow-body commercial airliner. Our 
products are also used for satellite launch simulation 
and qualification testing and at the beginning of the 
year, we received an important order from INPE, the 
National Institute for Space Research in Brazil, for 
satellite vibration and shock testing.
Consumer demand for electronic items such as smart 
phones and tablet computers, and the requirement 
for improved audio quality of these devices, has 
resulted in manufacturers increasingly adding  
in-line testing of components to end-of-line testing. 
In response, we have adapted our acoustic and 
vibration testing solutions, originally designed for 
R&D applications, for use on production lines. 
Furthermore, the increased use of voice control 
technologies in communication and entertainment 
systems has led to increased sales of our voice quality 
evaluation systems. 
Our environmental monitoring service business 
continued to grow in the traditional airport noise 
monitoring market, and we received new orders  
from airports around the world as well as renewal 
contracts for existing customers, including London’s 
Heathrow and Stansted airports. New applications  
for this business in mining and construction are also 
proving particularly successful. We signed a number 
of contracts for noise monitoring systems, including 
the Crossrail infrastructure project for a new rail link 
across London. Since much of the construction work 
will take place in highly built-up areas, with night 
work required in some instances, noise compliance is 
a critical consideration for the building contractors. 
Test and Measurement
Highlights
> Good demand from automotive market; new project wins for noise 
analysis and torque measurement
> New aerospace projects for structural testing of materials in China and 
vibration testing for satellites in Brazil 
> Successful expansion of noise monitoring services into new applications 
> Good progress in other markets, e.g. consumer electronics, power 
£54.7m
Operating profit  
up 57%
15.8%
Return on sales 
up 4.1pp
£346.9m
Sales up 17% Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
In the power sector, our solutions are finding 
increasing application in a number of areas. Growing 
demand for electrical power and new energy sources 
has necessitated expansion of the power grid and the 
replacement of ageing power infrastructure in many 
countries. We have seen steady demand for our  
test and measurement solutions from a number of 
customers for both component manufacture and 
independent testing of equipment such as circuit 
breakers, contactors and transformers. The Genesis 
HighSpeed family of high-power measurement 
products is ideally suited to applications in the power 
industry and provides enhanced test capabilities in full 
compliance with all relevant international standards. 
For example, this product is being used at the 
Kennedy Space Center in Florida to identify where 
any damage may have occurred following lightning 
strikes. Our data acquisition systems are also used  
in the wind energy market and a wind turbine 
manufacturer in China purchased our high capacity 
torque transducers for testing gearboxes, generators 
and main bearings in the design of a large off-shore 
wind turbine. We also supply noise monitoring 
equipment to measure the noise produced by wind 
turbines and their component parts to ensure that 
they meet regulation on noise levels which applies  
in many countries. 2011 saw the sale of the first 
commercial ground-based system with more than 
100 microphones for noise source identification  
of wind turbines. This technology is also used to 
optimise new designs aimed at lowering noise levels 
from the blades. 
Segment outlook
The automotive sector is showing good growth  
as new research programmes are established, 
particularly in Asia, as well as further development  
of vehicles such as hybrid and electric cars. New 
aerospace programmes provide opportunities for 
growth, and as these become more complex, our 
products will remain in demand for applications such 
as materials and structural integrity testing of aircraft 
and, increasingly, satellites. Our products are also 
increasingly being used for test and measurement 
applications in other industry sectors such as 
consumer electronics, energy and rail. Environmental 
noise monitoring continues to grow as regulation 
increases and we expect to continue to find more 
widespread industrial and construction-related 
applications for our services.
French sailor Alain Thébault wanted to build the 
fastest sailing boat in the world. But “flying” over the 
ocean with a boat demands innovative materials and 
technologies and so Alain relied on HBM’s measurement 
technology to help develop his ultra-fast trimaran, 
the Hydroptère. The main challenge was to develop 
aerodynamic hydrofoils providing sufficient lift above 
the surface of the water without causing turbulence 
and able to withstand a pressure of 45 tons. HBM’s 
instrumentation was installed on board to measure 
stability, speed, drag, vibration and oscillation, as well as 
the wear of the materials used. Alain’s speed of 51.36 
knots (95 km/h) successfully broke the absolute world 
speed record for a sail-powered vessel.
Case study
World’s fastest sailing boat 
uses HBM’s measurement 
technology Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 24
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Operating Review continued
Overview
In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical 
measurement, asset monitoring and on-line controls 
for both primary processing and the converting 
industries. Our products and applications provide 
precision measurement in challenging operating 
environments, ensuring process quality, asset uptime, 
safety, and improved yield. The operating companies 
in this segment are Beta LaserMike, Brüel & Kjær 
Vibro, BTG Group, Fusion UV Systems, NDC Infrared 
Engineering, and Servomex. 
Segment performance
The In-line Instrumentation segment, which had a 
strong recovery in 2010, returned to more normalised 
growth levels during 2011, as expected. Operating 
margins were 0.7pp lower as a result of sales of 
service, spare parts and consumables, which are a key 
feature of this segment, growing more slowly than 
sales of new products.
Growth was strong in the energy and utilities sector, 
where customers continued to focus on improving 
productivity, efficiency and safety. During the year we 
launched the NanoTrace II series of analysers. Based 
on technology acquired with the Delta-F business, 
these instruments measure oxygen at the lowest 
detection level in the industry (parts per trillion). We 
also launched the SERVOTOUGH LaserCompact, 
which uses precision laser diode technology to detect 
a wide range of gases for applications in the chemical 
industry and in petrochemical processing. In the 
power industry, there was good demand for our 
safety monitoring systems for hydroelectric power 
stations and we secured orders to install these 
systems on three large hydroelectric power stations in 
China, representing our first orders for this 
application in the region. Our condition monitoring 
systems were also selected for hydroelectric projects 
in Austria, Brazil and Turkey. Vibration monitoring 
provides early detection of a wide range of machine 
faults and enables targeted maintenance actions  
to prevent the unplanned shutdown of expensive 
machinery. Our remote monitoring systems for wind 
turbine monitoring continued to perform well and  
we secured orders from China for pilot system 
installations at two wind farms. 
In the pulp and paper industry, several European and 
North American producers of coated graphic papers 
curtailed their production rates to adjust for softer 
demand for print media following a strong recovery 
in 2010. This effect was offset by strong demand for 
our coating blades and rods in China where new 
coated paper capacity came on line. There was also 
good demand for our instruments, which are used to 
control consistency and to improve operations across 
both pulp production and paper manufacturing 
processes. In the fourth quarter, we launched  
a new series of optical brightness transmitters for 
monitoring and controlling bleaching chemicals, 
optical brightening agents and dyes. Equipped with a 
UV light source for fluorescent measurement, these 
instruments optimise chemical addition and reduce 
operating costs during the pulping process. We also 
continue to make good progress in tissue markets 
and several large tissue manufacturers are now 
employing our combined technology to improve 
process productivity and product quality. New blade 
materials in our coating blades are helping to reduce 
operating costs and increase uptime and, in a trial  
at one tissue mill, our new blades achieved a  
50% longer lifetime between changes than the 
conventional blades. 
We saw strong demand from the converting 
industries (web, film, plastics and packaging) for our 
products. Continued investment by customers  
in both separator film and coating lines for 
production of lithium ion batteries, particularly in 
China, resulted in a significant increase in orders for 
our infrared measuring systems for this market 
compared with the prior year. There was also good 
demand for our scanners for measuring plastic film 
in-line instrumentation
highlights
> Energy and utilities projects include chemical plant, hydro and wind 
power installations
> Continued success in tissue applications offsetting decline in traditional 
coated papers
> Strong demand for web, film and packaging solutions
> Investments in optical fibre and telecoms cable continue, especially in 
emerging markets
£63.8m
Operating profit  
up 9%
20.6%
Return on sales 
down 0.7pp
£308.9m
Sales up 13% Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
China’s long reliance on coal to generate its 
electricity is changing as the country plans to 
expand its hydropower capacity in a concerted 
effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. 
Brüel & Kjær Vibro’s safety monitoring systems 
are being used to monitor the generating 
units at three hydropower stations. Vibration 
monitoring provides early detection of a wide 
range of machine faults, enabling targeted 
maintenance actions to prevent the unplanned 
shutdown of expensive machinery. At the 
Xiaowan Dam, the world’s tallest double-arch 
dam and the second-largest hydroelectric 
power station in China, Brüel & Kjær Vibro’s 
monitoring systems are used on the six 700 
MW installed hydro turbine generator units.
Case study
Brüel & Kjær Vibro helps  
China to expand renewable 
energy generation 
and we launched a new system for blown film which 
has been installed at two of the world’s largest 
producers of complex packaging films. Blown film 
production has become more sophisticated as the 
industry enters new marketplaces: uniform barrier 
layer thickness is especially important in films which 
are converted into high performance packaging  
films which extend the shelf life of foods and  
medical products. Using our measurement and 
control systems to achieve thickness uniformity, 
manufacturers can reduce the variation in roll film 
thickness by 40 to 60%. Our UV curing systems had 
good success in China, with applications including 
production of metallised plastics and decorating film. 
The latter is beginning to replace conventional spray 
coating operations for decorating the plastic housings 
found on consumer electronics. With the acquisition 
of the IRM business, we have expanded our product 
line to include thickness and flatness gauging 
products for the steel and aluminium industries,  
with significant potential in China.
In the semiconductor and electronics market, 
conditions were mixed. Demand for new generation 
large screen televisions remains subdued; however, 
demand for smaller, more compact items such as 
tablet computers and smart phones is growing 
rapidly. Advances in technology, for example the use 
of polarising films to improve display and touch panel 
performance, has resulted in investment in new 
manufacturing processes and the associated UV 
curing equipment required to achieve this. In the  
wire and cable market, demand for optical fibre,  
and telecom cable in general, grew strongly as 
infrastructure investments in China and India 
continued, together with the continued deployment 
of fibre to the home in North America. Previously 
mothballed equipment at customers’ sites is being 
refurbished and upgraded to meet the increase in 
demand, resulting in good sales of our UV curing 
equipment and gauging systems.
Segment outlook
Investment activity is expected to continue in 
hydrocarbon processing worldwide as oil and gas 
producers seek further productivity and efficiency 
improvements and as emissions regulations increase 
compliance requirements. In the metals sector, the 
acquisition of IRM Group will expand our market 
position, particularly in the growing China market. 
Demand from the electronics sector, including flat 
panel displays, will be driven by smaller, portable 
devices and demand for optical fibre is expected  
to continue to grow as infrastructure projects in 
emerging markets continue. In the pulp and paper 
industry, current trends are expected to continue, 
with demand for coated papers declining, mitigated 
by growing demand for tissue products, particularly 
in emerging markets. Service and support contracts 
will continue to be an important feature of this 
segment as customers seek to ensure uninterrupted 
production capabilities.  Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 26
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Operating Review continued
Overview 
Industrial Controls supplies process measurement, 
monitoring and control instrumentation and 
networking products for manufacturing industries. 
Our products provide track, trace and control 
solutions during the manufacturing process, 
instrumentation and displays for process monitoring 
and control, data interfaces, and rugged Ethernet 
switches for a broad range of manufacturing 
industries. Sales are made both directly and indirectly 
(via distributors) to end users as well as directly to 
original equipment manufacturers, with a significant 
proportion of repeat business. The operating 
companies in this segment are Microscan, Omega 
Engineering and Red Lion Controls. 
Segment performance
The global manufacturing sector continued to grow 
strongly and we saw good demand for our industrial 
measurement, communication and control products, 
augmented by the Sixnet and Omega Engineering 
acquisitions. 
Our automation products performed well, with high 
demand for bar code readers and machine vision 
systems. Track, trace and control technologies are 
increasingly being adopted in response to the 
growing requirement, and in some cases regulation, 
for manufacturers to improve quality, safety and 
efficiency. We sold our smart cameras to customers  
in the food industry for validating packaged products 
to meet food safety standards and to customers in 
the electronics industry where they are used for 
process control efficiency during the manufacture  
of sub-assemblies for consumer electronics. In the 
pharmaceutical industry, strict regulations regarding 
product traceability resulted in sales of a number of 
our products for packaging and labelling applications. 
In June, we launched the AutoVision product family, 
comprising smart cameras and software. This suite of 
track, trace and control products has been very well 
received and we have sold a number of systems into 
applications ranging from checking the integrity of 
car airbag seat covers to reading bar codes on 
medical instruments. 
Integration of the Omega Engineering business, 
acquired at the end of September, into the Industrial 
Controls segment is progressing well. The transition 
to new ownership has proceeded smoothly  
and a number of actions to enhance productivity  
and introduce new products are under way. The 
organisation is being expanded to increase the 
company’s presence in Europe and to establish an 
operation in China. These actions are expected to 
accelerate growth in 2012 and beyond. Investments 
in systems to improve the efficiency of the operations, 
finance and administration functions are in the 
planning stage and are expected to be initiated 
during the course of the year. During 2011, Omega 
introduced a number of new products to focus on 
wireless communication. These enable users to 
monitor and control processes remotely and are 
particularly useful for retro-fitting instrumentation  
in existing process lines.
Red Lion Controls completed the acquisition of Sixnet 
in October. This has provided new product platforms, 
and in particular wireless capability, for our industrial 
automation offering and builds on the networking 
products of N-Tron acquired in 2010. Integration of 
Sixnet and N-Tron into Red Lion is proceeding on 
industrial controls
highlights
> Strategic acquisitions contribute to good growth in sales
> Integration actions delivering results, e.g. productivity improvements, and 
sales ahead of expectations
> Strong demand for track, trace and control applications for product 
traceability 
> Automation products finding new applications in process industries
£22.1m
Operating profit  
up 132%
19.6%
Return on sales 
up 3.7pp
£112.9m
Sales up 89% Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
track, and the enlarged company will be deploying a 
consolidated go-to-market strategy over the next few 
months. In its traditional business, Red Lion’s operator 
panels are finding new applications in process 
industries such as gas production and distribution 
where they are used for control on drilling rigs and 
on the compressors which move the gas through 
miles of cross-country pipeline. Red Lion’s technology 
enables customers to drive productivity improvements 
through real-time visibility of data and, in October, 
the company launched the ProducTVity Station, a 
ready-to-use solution for collecting, recording and 
displaying critical performance indicators and 
machine status messages in production facilities. 
Segment outlook
Whilst demand from the general manufacturing 
sector will depend to some extent on the global 
economy, recent acquisitions have strengthened our 
position in monitoring, control and communication in 
the industrial automation and process measurement 
markets. Omega Engineering will provide good 
opportunities for growth in emerging markets, 
particularly China and Latin America. 
Pharmaceutical manufacturers must meet 
stringent labelling requirements to ensure safety 
and prevent counterfeiting. The data on the 
label must be accurate and legible throughout 
the supply chain. US company, Modular 
Packaging Systems, designs and manufactures 
tablet counters and fillers and uses Microscan’ s 
machine vision system to detect and verify 
labels in the bottle filling line. One camera 
verifies that the date/batch code and barcode 
on each label is correct and a second camera 
checks each bottle to detect any missing labels. 
Bottles with labels that do not meet the required 
specifications and unlabelled bottles are rejected 
further down the line.
Case study
Microscan’s vision  
system helps to meet 
packaging regulations Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 28
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Financial Review
Introduction
Spectris uses adjusted figures as key performance 
measures in addition to those reported under 
adopted IFRS. Adjusted figures exclude certain 
non-operational items which management has 
defined in Note 3. Unless otherwise stated, all profit, 
earnings and operating cash flow figures referred to 
below are adjusted measures.
Operating performance
Reported sales were up 22.6% at £1,106.2 million 
(2010: £901.9 million). Favourable movements in 
foreign currency exchange rates contributed 
approximately £4.8 million (0.5%) and revenue from 
acquisitions contributed approximately £65.1 million 
(7.2%). Therefore, on an organic constant currency 
(like-for-like) basis, sales increased by 14.9% 
year-on-year.
Operating profit increased by 41.8% to £201.5 
million (2010: £142.1 million). Movements in foreign 
currency exchange rates had a positive effect of 
approximately £2.0 million (1.4%) and acquisitions 
contributed an additional £13.6 million (9.6%). The 
increase in like-for-like operating profit of £43.8 
million resulted from higher sales driving an increase 
in gross margin of £81.0 million, offset by overheads 
increasing by £37.2 million (predominantly personnel 
costs). Gross margins increased to 58.6% of sales 
(+0.2pp) and overheads reduced to 40.4% (-2.2pp), 
with the result that operating margins increased by 
2.4pp from 15.8% to 18.2%. 
The year-on-year increase in net finance costs was 
£0.1 million (from £9.8 million to £9.9 million). This  
is due to a net increase of £0.8 million in financing 
charges offset by a reduction in net pension-related 
costs of £0.7 million. The £0.8 million increase in 
financing charges is the net result of an increase in 
charges arising from higher average net debt 
mitigated by a reduction in average interest rates.
Profit before tax increased by 45% from £132.3 
million to £191.6 million. 
Statutory operating profit, after including acquisition-
related intangible asset amortisation of £21.8 million 
(2010: £12.3 million), acquisition-related costs and 
contingent consideration fair value adjustments of 
£1.8 million (2010: £1.9 million) and acquisition-
related fair value adjustments to inventory of £2.1 
million (2010: £nil), increased by 38% from £127.9 
million to £175.8 million.
Statutory profit before tax increased by 38.5% from 
£119.9 million to £166.0 million. 
Clive Watson
Group finance director
` 2011 2010 Increase
Like-for-like 
increase
Sales (£m) 1,106.2 901.9 22.6% 14.9%
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 201.5 142.1 41.8% 30.8%
Operating margin 18.2% 15.8% +2.4pp
Statutory 
Sales (£m) 1,106.2 901.9 22.6%
Operating profit (£m) 175.8 127.9 37.5%
Operating margin 15.9% 14.2% +1.7pp
Reported sales were up 22.6% at £1,106.2 million. On a like-for-like basis, 
sales increased by 14.9%. Adjusted operating profit increased by 41.8%  
to £201.5 million.
18.2%
Operating margins  
up 2.4pp
£201.5m
Operating profit  
up 42% Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
The reconciliation of statutory and adjusted measures is shown in the table below.
2011 2010
iFRS 
(Statutory) 
£m
Adjustments 
£m
Spectris 
Adjusted 
£m
IFRS 
(Statutory)
 £m
Adjustments
£m
Spectris
 Adjusted 
£m
Sales 1,106.2 – 1,106.2 901.9 – 901.9
Gross margin 648.7 – 648.7 526.8 – 526.8
Operating profit before 
acquisition-related items 201.5 – 201.5 142.1 – 142.1
Amortisation of acquisition-
related intangibles (21.8) 21.8 – (12.3) 12.3 –
Net acquisition-related costs 
and contingent consideration 
fair value adjustments (1.8) 1.8 – (1.9) 1.9 –
Acquisition-related fair value 
adjustments to inventory (2.1) 2.1 – – – –
operating profit 175.8 25.7 201.5 127.9 14.2 142.1
Profit on disposal of businesses 0.1 (0.1) – – – –
Unrealised changes in fair value 
of financial instruments (0.4) 0.4 – 1.4 (1.4) –
Net gains on retranslation of 
short-term inter-company loan 
balances 0.4 (0.4) – 0.4 (0.4) –
Net bank interest payable (9.8) – (9.8) (9.0) – (9.0)
Net IAS 19 finance income/(cost) 0.1 – 0.1 (0.5) – (0.5)
Other finance costs (0.2) – (0.2) (0.3) – (0.3)
Profit before tax 166.0 25.6 191.6 119.9 12.4 132.3
Acquisitions
The total cost of acquisitions in the year was £377.0 
million (2010: £63.0 million), including £18.6 million 
(2010: £0.8 million) for cash acquired. Included in the 
total cost of acquisitions is an amount of £4.4 million 
(2010: £4.1 million) attributable to the fair value of 
deferred and contingent consideration expected to be 
paid in future years offset by an estimated purchase 
price adjustment receivable of £7.1 million (2010: 
£nil). In addition, a further £7.9 million (2010:  
£4.5 million) was paid in respect of prior year 
acquisitions, making the net cash outflow in the year 
£369.0 million (2010: £62.6 million). An amount of 
£3.1 million (2010: £1.9 million) was spent on  
related costs (mainly professional fees), which makes 
the total acquisition-related cash outflow in 2011 
£372.1 million (2010: £64.5 million). The acquisitions 
all took place in the second half of 2011 and 
contributed £65.1 million (2010: £11.6 million)  
of incremental sales and £13.6 million (2010:  
£1.2 million) of operating profit. 
Taxation
The effective tax rate on adjusted profits was 24.8% 
(2010: 24.2%), an increase of 0.6pp, mainly due to a 
higher proportion of the profits being earned in the 
more highly taxed USA. On a statutory basis, the 
effective tax rate was 23.9% (2010: 19.8%). The 
effective tax rate continues to be below the weighted 
average statutory tax rate of 28.5% (2010: 27.6%), 
primarily as a consequence of a tax-efficient 
inter-company financing structure and research  
and development tax incentives.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share increased by 43% from 86.6p to 
124.1p, reflecting the net impact of a 45% increase 
in profit before tax slightly offset by the increase in 
the weighted average number of shares from 115.8 
million in 2010 to 116.2 million in 2011 and the 
increase in the tax rate to 24.8%.
124.1p
Earnings per share 
up 43%
£191.6m
Profit before tax  
up 45% Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 30
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Financial Review continued
Statutory basic earnings per share increased by 31% from 83.1p to 
108.7p. The difference between the two measures is shown in the table 
below. 
2011 
Pence
2010 
Pence
Statutory basic earnings per share 108.7 83.1
Amortisation of acquisition-related 
intangible assets 18.8 10.6
Acquisition-related costs and contingent 
consideration fair value adjustments 1.6 1.6
Acquisition-related adjustments to inventory 1.8 –
Profit on disposal of businesses (0.1) –
Decrease/(increase) in fair value of cross-
currency interest rate swaps 0.3 (1.2)
Net gains on retranslation of short-term 
inter-company loan balances (0.3) (0.3)
Tax effect of the above and other non-
recurring items (6.7) (7.2)
Earnings per share 124.1 86.6
The weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 
was 116.2 million (2010: 115.8 million).
Cash flow
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
operating cash flow
Operating profit 201.5 142.1
Add back: depreciation and software 
amortisation 18.0 16.5
Working capital movement (11.2) 20.1
Capital expenditure (29.2) (18.9)
Operating cash flow 179.1 159.8
Operating cash flow conversion* 89% 112%
Non-operating cash flow
Tax paid (35.1) (21.0)
Net interest paid (12.1) (10.1)
Dividends paid (33.8) (28.9)
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash (369.0) (62.6)
Acquisition-related costs (3.1) (1.9)
Disposals 0.1 –
Exercise of share options 0.5 1.9
Exchange 3.4 0.5
Total non-operating cash flow (449.1) (122.1)
Operating cash flow 179.1 159.8
Movement in net debt (270.0) 37.7
* Operating cash flow as % of operating profit
Excluding acquisitions, the year end trade working capital to sales ratio 
was 9.9% (2010: 9.8%). Including acquisitions, the year end trade 
working capital to sales ratio was 12.3%. Average like-for-like trade 
working capital, expressed as a percentage of sales, decreased to 
9.0% (2010: 9.4%), reflecting the continuing focus on working capital 
management.
Capital expenditure during the year equated to 2.6% of sales (2010: 
2.1%) and, at £29.2 million (2010: £18.9 million), was 162% of 
depreciation and software amortisation (2010: 115%). The increase in 
capital expenditure is mainly property-related long-term investments, 
primarily in The Netherlands, where we invested in a new state-of-the-
art manufacturing facility. 
Overall, net debt increased by £270.0 million (2010: decrease of £37.7 
million) from £86.2 million to £356.2 million. Interest cost, excluding 
the financing charge arising from IAS 19, was covered by operating 
profit 20 times (2010: 15.8 times). 
Financing and treasury 
The group finances its operations from both retained earnings and 
third-party borrowings, the majority of which are currently at floating 
rates of interest. 
As at 31 December 2011, the group had £501 million of committed 
facilities denominated in different currencies, consisting of £97 million 
of private placements maturing in October 2013, a five-year £48 
million term loan maturing in September 2015, a five-year £354 
million revolving credit facility maturing in August 2016 and £2 million 
from three bank loans secured on property of three of our businesses. 
The revolving credit facility was signed in August 2011 to finance the 
Omega Engineering acquisition, to refinance existing debt facilities and 
for general corporate purposes. £104 million of this facility was 
undrawn at the year end. In addition, the group had a cash balance of 
£42 million and other uncommitted facilities, mainly in the form of 
overdraft facilities at our local operations. 
At the year end, the group borrowings amounted to £398 million, 37% 
of which were at fixed interest rates (2010: 99%). The ageing profile at 
the year end showed that 1% of the year end borrowing is due to 
mature within one year (2010: 1%), 24% between one and two years 
(2010: 1%) and 75% between two and five years (2010: 98%). 
Currency
The group has both translational and transactional currency exposures. 
Translational exposures arise on the consolidation of overseas company 
results into sterling. Transactional exposures arise where the currency 
of sale or purchase invoices differs from the functional currency in 
which each company prepares its local accounts. The transactional 
exposures include situations where foreign currency denominated 
trade debtor, trade creditor and cash balances are held.
After matching currency of revenue with currency of costs wherever 
practical, forward exchange contracts are used to hedge a proportion 
(up to 75%) of the remaining forecast net transaction flows where 
there is reasonable certainty of an exposure. At 31 December 2011, 
approximately 57% of the estimated net euro, US dollar and Japanese 
yen exposures for 2012 were hedged using forward exchange 
contracts mainly against the Swiss franc, sterling, the euro and the 
Danish krone. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
The largest translational exposures are to the US dollar, euro, Danish 
krone and Swiss franc. Translational exposures are not hedged. The 
table below shows the key average exchange rates compared to 
sterling during 2011 and 2010. 
2011 
(average)
2010 
(average)
USD 1.60 1.55
EUR 1.15 1.17
JPY 128 135
To demonstrate the transaction and translation currency exposure 
faced by the group, the table below shows the differences between 
the group’s consolidated revenues and costs for each of the major 
currencies in 2011 before reflecting the effect of transactional hedges 
taken out in the year.
Revenue and cost by major currency:
USD* EUR* GBP JPY Other Total
Total sales (£m) 409 417 69 84 127 1,106
% of sales 37% 38% 6% 8% 11%
Total costs (£m)
† (312) (342) (97) (47) (116) (914)
PBT by currency (£m) 97 75 -28 37 11 192
% of PBT 51% 39% -14% 19% 5%
* Dollar/euro categories include tracking currencies
† Costs include interest of £3.8m in USD, £6.0m in EUR and £0.1m in GBP
The above table is for overall guidance only as the phasing of income 
and the movement in the monthly average exchange rates during the 
year can have a significant impact. 
Defined benefit pension schemes
The company operates a number of pension schemes throughout the 
group. The net pension liability in the balance sheet (before taking 
account of the related deferred tax asset of £4.0 million) has decreased 
to £13.1 million (2010: £14.1 million). The movement can be 
summarised as follows:
£m
Deficit in defined benefit pension schemes at 1 January 2011 (14.1)
Settlement gain in UK 0.3 
Actuarial losses (2.8) 
Contributions in excess of service cost 3.2 
Expected return on pension scheme assets net of interest 
costs on pension scheme liabilities  0.1
Exchange difference and other movements 0.2
Deficit in defined benefit pension schemes at 
31 December 2011 (13.1)
The movement in individual plan deficits is shown in the table below:
UK Germany Netherlands Switzerland Total
Deficit as at 
1 January 2011 (3.7) (7.1) (0.4) (2.9) (14.1)
Decrease/(increase) 
in deficit 2.4 0.8 – (2.2) 1.0
Deficit as at 
31 December 2011 (1.3) (6.3) (0.4) (5.1) (13.1)
The reduction in the UK deficit is mainly due to the favourable asset 
returns over the period and the deficit contributions (£2.6 million p.a.) 
paid by the company. This beneficial impact was partially offset by  
an increase in liabilities due to a lower discount rate (4.7%) as at  
31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: 5.4%). 
The group has undertaken an Enhanced Transfer Value exercise for 
certain UK deferred members with a prospective pension entitlement 
of less than £1,000 p.a. For IAS 19 valuation purposes as at  
31 December 2011, this has been treated as a settlement, resulting in 
a gain of £0.3 million credited to the statement of income (difference 
between the total IAS 19 liabilities for the members less the total 
amount paid from the plan).
The £2.2 million increase in the Swiss deficit arose mainly from an 
increase in liability due to a lower discount rate used (2011: 2.25%; 
2010: 2.75%).
Clive Watson
Group finance director Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 32
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Corporate Responsibility
Introduction
Spectris is a leading supplier of productivity-enhancing instrumentation 
and controls. We employ around 7,500 people working from over 130 
locations in more than 30 countries around the world. Our products are 
used to monitor and control research and manufacturing processes, 
enabling customers in a wide range of industries to enhance their 
productivity and thereby also reduce their environmental impact. 
We are committed to creating business growth through adding such 
value for our customers, whilst also ensuring that our own impact on 
the environment is minimised. Corporate responsibility (CR) underpins 
our business strategy, and our primary corporate value of honesty and 
integrity influences all of our dealings with our customers, employees 
and communities in which we operate. The core areas of our CR 
strategy are corporate governance, environment and climate change, 
our people, our communities, customers and suppliers.
To measure the critical components of our CR strategy, we have 
adopted the following key performance indicators:
Energy consumption
2011 2010
MWh per £m revenue 65.6 92.8
Accident incident Rate
2011 2010
Reportable accidents per 1,000 employees 2.7 5.3
Opportunities
Climate change, in particular, provides opportunities to develop new 
products which contribute to reducing our customers’ impact on the 
environment, for example by lowering energy consumption or raw 
material usage. We recently helped a major cement company to 
achieve a 20-30% reduction in CO
2
 emissions per tonne of cement  
by developing a new type of clinker with a lower carbon footprint  
(see case study on page 33). Our products are also used in the 
development of renewable energy technologies, for example the 
design and testing of new materials for wind turbine blades, solar 
panels and lithium ion batteries for electric vehicles. Our systems are 
also used for remote monitoring of wind turbines and hydroelectric 
power stations.
Independent accreditation
Spectris continues to meet the criteria for membership of the 
FTSE4Good index, the leading responsible investment benchmark. 
The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria are enhanced regularly and demand 
continued improvement in order to maintain inclusion in the index. 
The criteria are assessed on a regular basis by the independent 
research organisation EIRIS. 
stations. 
Approximately 60% of our manufacturing operations (by turnover) are 
certified to the international environmental standard ISO 14001. 
In 2011, as part of our commitment to environmental responsibility, 
we commenced participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project, an 
independent not-for-profit organisation reporting on corporate climate 
change information. We were pleased to be placed in the top third of 
all FTSE 350 companies responding.
Our environmental reporting processes have been established by 
external consultants WS Atkins.
We have commenced a programme to audit significant suppliers 
against relevant criteria stipulated in the social accountability standard 
SA8000 and to date have audited the top 50% of key suppliers in 
Asia. A number of the suppliers audited have committed to gaining 
full SA8000 certification.
Corporate governance
Details of how the company complied with the principles of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code during 2011 are described in detail in 
the Directors’ Report. 
Overall responsibility for developing corporate policies on 
environmental, social, ethical and health and safety matters, and for 
reviewing their effectiveness, lies with the Spectris Board of directors 
and, in particular, the Chief Executive. These policies are mandated 
across all business units and applied within each particular business, 
taking account of local legislation and regulation. All policies are 
reviewed periodically and any updates are communicated to the 
operating companies. Each year we require the president and finance 
director of each operating company to confirm that their business has 
complied in full with our corporate policies. Any instances of 
non-compliance must be reported. There were no material cases of 
non-compliance in 2011.
This certification forms an integral part of the company’s system of 
internal controls, and is regularly reviewed by the group’s internal 
audit function and considered annually by the company’s external 
auditors. Compliance testing is a formal part of internal audit reviews. 
Through a structured review process, the internal audit function 
undertakes visits to group locations on a rotational basis. These visits 
involve an assessment of the business’ key internal controls as well as 
compliance with the group’s policies and procedures. The results of 
internal audits and any cases of non-compliance are reported to the 
audit and risk committee.
Environment and climate change
Our core business of providing instruments and controls for the design 
and manufacturing processes of major industrial companies helps our 
customers to reduce their environmental impact in a number of ways. 
We offer our customers products and technologies to reduce energy 
consumption, make more efficient use of resources, and control 
emissions. Furthermore, a number of our products are critical to the 
development, manufacture and maintenance of renewable energy 
generation technologies, as described above. Examples of the use of 
Spectris’ products having a direct beneficial contribution to the 
environment are shown on our website. 
We also take the continuing reduction in our own environmental 
impact seriously, as set out in our environmental policy, which is  Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
published on our website. We endeavour to employ non-polluting 
technology wherever possible in our operations and take steps to 
reduce our energy consumption further. Design processes take into 
account the operational lifetime of every product and end-of-life 
removal or disposal. Consideration is also given to environment-
friendly production, packaging and shipping. 
Environmental management systems
Approximately 60% of Spectris’ manufacturing operations (by 
turnover) are certified to ISO 14001. In 2011, Brüel & Kjær’s facility at 
Royston, England (formerly the LDS Test and Measurement business, 
which was acquired in 2008), successfully achieved ISO 14001 
certification.
No significant environmental incidents were recorded in 2011 and the 
company received no environmental fines. In 2007, we reported that 
investigative studies into a small area of contaminated land at Almelo 
in The Netherlands, resulting from activities prior to ownership by 
PANalytical, had been made and a remediation programme discussed 
with the Dutch authorities. This programme has now been agreed and 
removal of the contaminated soil, followed by pumping and filtering/
cleaning of the contaminated water will commence during 2012.
Climate change
Overall, Spectris has a low climate change impact, as our products do 
not require substantial manufacturing processes at our facilities. 
Nevertheless, we take the need to manage our carbon emissions 
seriously and also acknowledge responsibility for our suppliers, 
working with them to help reduce their impact on the environment. 
Although we fall below the threshold for full participation in the UK 
CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and are only required to submit an 
information disclosure, we are working to improve our environmental 
performance and reduce our carbon emissions. With the help of 
environmental consultants WS Atkins, we undertook a sustainability 
and responsibility review in 2010 and during 2011 we put in place 
actions across the group in response to their recommendations, which 
are detailed below. 
Our sustainability objectives are designed to improve our 
environmental performance and increase the importance of health 
and safety, human rights and ethics across the group. Roger Stephens, 
company secretary, has overall responsibility for setting and 
monitoring the sustainability strategy. The managing directors and 
presidents of our business units are responsible for implementing the 
strategy at a local level.
Energy
With regard to the environment, our initial priority is to focus on 
accurate measurement and monitoring of three key parameters: 
electricity, gas and water. In order to better understand and manage 
our energy use, we have established a Key Performance Indicator 
relating to energy consumption. 
Energy consumption 
Mwh per £m revenue 
92.8 2010
65.6 2011
We estimate that the above energy consumption metric covers 100% of 
our operations. Acquisitions are excluded in the year of acquisition.
Actions to deliver progress are focused on internal initiatives, rather 
than group-wide targets, with the emphasis on businesses with the 
greatest opportunities to improve. As a result, we made good progress 
on reducing energy usage in 2011, with actions around the group 
including installing energy-saving lighting and motion sensors and more 
energy-efficient air conditioning systems at a number of sites. Fusion UV 
Systems, one of our most intensive energy-using businesses, has 
upgraded the facilities for life testing of their equipment at their North 
American headquarters to be more efficient and this has enabled them 
to reduce electricity consumption. Fusion aims to reduce energy usage 
by 30% over the next three years. At our HBM facility in Germany, 
electricity consumption has reduced despite a 15% increase in 
production. PANalytical’s new X-ray tube facility at Eindhoven, The 
Netherlands, which opened in September 2011, and which has been 
designed to modern building standards, is expected to reduce 
consumption of gas and electricity per m
2
 by 10% compared with the 
old building. At PANalytical’s Almelo site in The Netherlands, gas 
consumption in 2011 was 30% lower than in the prior year and 
Cement production is 
responsible for around 5%  
of global man-made CO
2
 
emissions. A large proportion 
of these emissions result 
from the decarbonisation  
of limestone at high 
temperatures to produce 
clinker, the basic component of cement. Having already reduced 
its carbon footprint by modernising installations, substituting 
fossil fuels with alternative fuel sources and using additives to 
produce less carbon intensive blended cements, one possible 
way for the cement industry to make significant future 
improvements is to develop completely new cement types. 
Project AETHER™ is a project being led by Lafarge, world leader 
in building materials, to develop a new class of cements which 
require much less limestone and less energy to produce than 
conventional Portland cements. The project has received funding 
from the European Community’s LIFE+ environmental 
programme. A first industrial demonstration trial to produce 
AETHER clinkers was carried out in 2011 at Lafarge’s cement 
plant in Burgundy, France, using PANalytical’s XRD and XRF 
analysers and software for quality control and analysis. This trial 
confirmed that AETHER clinkers could be produced at lower 
temperatures and using significantly less energy than 
conventional Portland cement clinker, generating 20-30% less 
CO
2
 per tonne of cement. Independent testing is now ongoing 
to assess the mechanical performance and durability of mortars 
and concretes made with AETHER cements.
PANalytical helps to reduce  
carbon footprint in cement 
production Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 34
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
electricity consumption for testing of high power instruments has also 
been reduced following changes to production processes.
Water
As Spectris products do not require substantial manufacturing 
processes, our sites are not large users of water. Nevertheless, we 
recognise the importance of managing this limited natural resource, 
particularly in certain parts of the world, and we seek accurate 
site-specific water reports for all of our largest facilities. The data 
collection exercise has already shown results in China, where evidence 
of abnormally high consumption at one of our production facilities 
enabled system modifications and a significant reduction in water 
usage. At our Fusion UV Systems’ site in North America, overall water 
usage has been reduced by 50% following installation of a chiller/
recirculation system used in bulb manufacturing. At our site in The 
Netherlands, consumption of cooling water for a specific production 
process has been reduced by 90% using closed circuit cooling.
Employees
We employ a highly skilled technical workforce of around 7,500 
people, in more than 130 locations throughout the world, and are 
committed to providing our staff with a creative working environment 
with scope for individual responsibility and achievement. 
Compensation and benefits, which are in line with other leading 
companies in the sector, are designed to reward the achievement of 
objectives. 
Our employment policy is published on our website. 
As part of our culture of respect, we believe that people with varied 
backgrounds and perspectives add creativity to the company and thus 
we encourage diversity in the workplace. We are committed to 
providing equal employment opportunities in terms of recruitment and 
employment, training and development, and promotion, regardless of 
race, colour, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, 
disability or military veteran status. 
The Board has discussed the recommendations in the Davies Report 
‘Women on Boards’. The Board recognises the benefits of all facets of 
diversity, including experience and perspective, both at Board level and 
throughout our business. Any search firm engaged in a senior 
executive or non-executive search assignment will be required to 
adhere to the principles set out in the Voluntary Code of Conduct for 
Executive Search Firms. However, the Board does not believe it would 
be helpful to establish specific employment targets relating to 
diversity. 
Spectris operates globally in more than 30 countries and is focused on 
growing its presence in industrialising economies such as China, India 
and Latin America and across a broad base of end user markets. We 
will continue to strengthen our existing group-wide inclusion policies 
to attract and retain the most talented and appropriate people, 
particularly reflecting the different markets and geographies in which 
we operate.
Our value of treating others with respect carries over to our policy 
against workplace discrimination and harassment. We strive to create 
a culture of honesty, respect and professional excellence whilst 
maintaining a healthy balance between working and personal lives, 
with initiatives such as part-time and job share opportunities providing 
family-friendly working conditions. Employee surveys are carried out in 
a number of companies to measure the views of employees on 
company issues and action plans agreed to address the issues raised. 
Initiatives such as the Savings Related Share Option Scheme, available 
to all UK employees, and grants under the group’s Performance Share 
Plan made to senior management across the group, are designed to 
encourage loyalty and performance.
A commitment to training and personal development emphasises the 
importance of retaining staff throughout the group and ensuring that 
all employees are encouraged to realise their full potential. Annual 
reviews provide feedback on performance, set objectives and identify 
training and development opportunities. Data on employee turnover is 
monitored by individual businesses and reported to the Board on an 
annual basis. Malvern and Servomex, our two principal UK businesses, 
have received the Investors in People award for their programmes of 
training, appraisal, employee development and skills recognition.
Graduate recruitment programmes and student work placements exist in 
a number of our companies, providing opportunities for young people, 
particularly scientists, to be introduced to the business environment.
Health and safety
We take health and safety seriously and strive to provide a workplace 
at all of our sites where all employees feel safe and protected from 
harm. Our policies regarding workplace health and safety are 
implemented throughout the group, with each operating company 
responsible for compliance with local legislation and regulations and 
ensuring that the highest standards of health and safety are achieved 
by its employees and by sub-contractors and suppliers. The company’s 
health and safety policy can be viewed on our website. 
Audits of health and safety policies and procedures are undertaken at 
all major locations by external assessors acting on behalf of the 
group’s insurers on an annual basis and recommendations are made 
for improving practices where appropriate. 
Any serious health and safety incidents are required to be reported by 
the managing director of the business in an accident report to the 
company secretary, who reports on such issues to the Board. All 
accidents are thoroughly investigated and appropriate corrective and 
In November, Dr E. Neil Lewis, 
Chief Technology Officer at 
Malvern Instruments, was 
awarded the prestigious Ernst 
Abbe Memorial Award of the 
New York Microscopical 
Society in recognition of his 
outstanding contributions to 
the science of microscopy, specifically for the development of 
chemical imaging microscopy. Dr. Lewis (above, right) was 
founder and president of Spectral Dimensions, Inc (SDI), the 
company Malvern Instruments acquired in 2006.  
Malvern Instruments’ scientist 
receives Award
Corporate Responsibility continued Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
preventative actions put in place. No work-related serious injuries or 
deaths have been reported in the last ten years. Nevertheless, we have 
established a formal system to monitor the health and safety situation 
throughout the group by reporting work-related accidents or ill-health 
resulting in lost time in excess of 3 days. The resulting data is shown 
below expressed as a Key Performance Indicator. 
Accident incident Rate (AiR) 
Reportable accidents
1
 per 1,000 employees
5.3 2010
2.7 2011
1
 Work-related accidents/ill health resulting in lost time in excess of 3 days
Acquisitions are excluded in the year of acquisition
Our aim is to reduce the AIR to the lowest possible level and we are 
working closely with our operating companies to achieve this. Within 
the above figure, there were five significant work-related incidents 
resulting in lost time in excess of 20 working days. These comprised 
two employees with stress-related conditions, one employee who 
suffered a fractured thumb whilst operating a machine, one employee 
who was hit by a steel cable in the workplace and one employee who 
slipped and fell in the office car park. 
Human rights 
Spectris believes in the fundamental rights of people in all parts of the 
world and is committed to adopting internationally recognised human 
rights standards wherever it operates. The company’s human rights 
policy, which is available on our website, is consistent with the 
Principles of Human Rights as set out in the International Labour 
Organization’s Core Conventions, and includes policies on non-
discrimination, harassment, pay and forced labour. 
Spectris takes its commitments to human rights seriously and our 
operating companies are required to ensure that all employees are 
aware of the policy and understand it. The Code of Business Ethics 
also contains a section on human rights and employees are required to 
ensure that all company operations adhere to these important 
standards. Pay practices are monitored to ensure they are non-
discriminatory. 
The region president is responsible for ensuring that the highest ethical 
standards are maintained in all of our Asia-based operations. Spectris 
has a number of sales offices in China and also factories which supply 
high quality weighing components and particle characterisation 
instruments. These comprise modern facilities, employ skilled workers, 
adopt employment conditions consistent with best local practice, and 
pay wages that are higher than average for the area.
HBM’s modern strain gauge 
manufacturing facility at 
Suzhou, China, is identical to its 
European counterparts with 
regard to the advanced 
equipment used, safe working 
conditions and environmental 
awareness.
Advanced Production Facilities
Spectris considers human rights as part of its due diligence process for 
acquisitions, ensuring that the core labour rights, including non-
discrimination, equal opportunities and freedom of association, of the 
company to be acquired are taken into account.
Ethics
Our group philosophy is one of autonomy, with our operating 
companies entrusted and empowered to run and manage their 
businesses. We believe that establishing and maintaining an ethical 
culture is critical to supporting our business model and ensuring our 
continued business success and growth. Since 2009, we have had a 
well-established formal Ethics Programme (the ‘Programme’) made up 
of a number of elements. 
Our Code of Business Ethics (the ‘Code’) is a central element of our 
Programme. Our core values as set out in the Code underpin the way 
we work. The Code applies to all our employees and is available in the 
15 languages relevant to our operations. It provides a framework for 
how we do business and includes a clear policy on anti-bribery and 
corruption as well as dealings with customers, suppliers, colleagues, 
conflicts of interest and human rights. A copy of our Code is available 
within the corporate responsibility section on our website. 
The Spectris Board and senior management team are fully committed 
to responsible business conduct and demonstrate visible leadership in 
this area. John O’Higgins, Chief Executive, and Roger Stephens, 
company secretary, actively drive the Programme and fully engage 
with our businesses on ethical and anti-corruption issues. The 
company secretary chaired, and the Chief Executive attended,  
the Spectris Global Ethical Leadership Conference in October 2011  
at which all of our businesses were represented. In addition, 
presentations and workshops on ethics, anti-bribery and corruption 
In September, BTG’s new 
PeakTotal2 in-line transmitter 
won the Palme d’Or for 
Innovation from ATIP , the 
French paper association, for 
its unique ability to measure 
total consistency and ash 
content. At the heart of the 
new transmitter is an innovative light-emitting system that 
measures reflectance from the slurry at very high frequency, using 
advanced signal processing. The resulting data provides highly 
accurate information about the fibre, fines, and filler content of 
the pulp, with results unaffected by pulp colour or brightness 
levels, helping paper manufacturers to reduce operating costs. 
The BTG team (L to R): Bernard Rodriguez, Didier Conjeaud, Philippe Genest,  
Gwénaël Tartarat-Bardet, and Claude Vallier.
BTG wins Palme d’Or  Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 36
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
fraud risk are delivered at our annual Presidents’ meetings. During  
the Board visit to our operations in China in June 2011, both the 
Chairman and Chief Executive devoted a significant proportion of 
presentations to local management to the importance of integrity in 
all our business dealings. The Board and senior management team’s 
commitment to the Programme was further demonstrated during the 
year by the appointment of additional senior resource at the corporate 
centre focused on embedding ethical leadership across the group and 
implementing the Programme.
The Board is given regular updates on the Programme and ethical 
issues across the group by the company secretary and the audit and 
risk committee meets at least three times a year to consider the 
effectiveness of the group’s internal controls, policies and procedures. 
The group internal audit department carries out a rolling programme 
of internal control reviews and compliance with the Code forms part 
of the focus of these. This work is supplemented by specific, periodic 
assessments of fraud risks (including bribery) in our operations.
Face-to-face training delivered by local operating company 
management is core to engaging with employees on ethical issues and 
is an integral part of raising knowledge and awareness of our Code. 
Newly-hired staff receive training as part of their induction and there 
are regular refresher courses for all employees. This is supplemented 
with annual online training. During the year, an anti-bribery module 
was successfully rolled out in 13 of our 14 operating companies. Our 
business integration processes cover ethics and anti-bribery and the 
remaining business – our recent acquisition, Omega Engineering – is in 
the process of being assimilated into the Programme. An additional 
online training module focused on conflicts of interest will be rolled 
out across all of our businesses in early 2012. Ongoing training and 
awareness is co-ordinated by ethics officers appointed within each 
operating company and our Asia and Latin America sales companies. 
The ethics officers are responsible for supporting their senior 
leadership teams in embedding high ethical standards within their 
businesses and facilitating the training and awareness process. 
Our commitment to high standards of ethical behaviour pre-dates the 
UK Bribery Act, but we are cognisant of the heightened legal risks 
arising as a result of the new legislation and increased global 
enforcement activity. As a result, an independent external risk 
assessment was carried out in March 2011 to identify risks and test 
the efficacy of the existing Programme. The review provided valuable 
feedback. In addition, the Global Leadership Conference held in 
October (the second since the Programme was launched) provided 
feedback which formed the basis of the strategy for the next iteration 
of the Programme. This, together with the results from the risk 
assessment, has resulted in a number of initiatives to be developed 
and implemented during the course of 2012. These include: continued 
focus on developing ethical leadership across our businesses through a 
series of senior management engagement days; increased emphasis 
on face-to-face training for all employees; a revised version of the 
Code and development of other supporting materials to be launched 
in the first half of 2012; and formalisation of our third-party 
management and due diligence framework. 
Spectris places the highest importance on compliance with all 
applicable export control regulations governing shipment of products 
and appropriate detailed procedures are in place in each operating 
company. Designated export control officers are responsible for the 
development of these procedures, their administration and the 
associated training of staff. Overall responsibility for the policy vests 
with Roger Stephens, company secretary. The export control officers 
are assisted in their duties by a dedicated group export control advisor, 
who led a refresher conference for all export control officers in 
September 2011. All companies are subject to periodic internal audit 
of their procedures and associated conformity, with reporting annually 
to the audit and risk committee. Our export control policy can be 
viewed on our website. 
We actively promote a speak-up culture at Spectris and employees are 
encouraged to discuss issues of concern or any suspected violations of 
the law or our Code with their managers. This is supplemented with 
an externally-facilitated telephone and internet-based multi-lingual 
hotline to enable employees and others to report concerns 
anonymously if they wish. All reports are followed up and investigated 
and reports are summarised and communicated to the audit and risk 
committee on a six-monthly basis. In the past 12 months, the hotline 
has been used on a number of occasions and the reports followed up 
by the head of internal audit to conclusion. Spectris is committed to 
protecting the career and reputation of employees who report 
wrongdoing in accordance with established procedures, so long as 
their disclosures are delivered in good faith and seek to safeguard the 
best interests of the group.
Community
Our social responsibilities extend to the communities in which we 
operate. Our companies provide charitable assistance to local causes 
and also participate in a range of activities and educational initiatives 
in support of their local communities. These include providing 
apprenticeships and work placements for students, working with local 
schools and colleges on science projects, and sponsorship of scientists 
attending key scientific conferences. 
Total donations to charities and community causes in 2011 were 
£76,541, of which £10,935 were in the UK (2010: £27,429 of which 
£8,286 in UK). This included donations to the Red Cross in response 
to the tsunami and earthquake in Japan and the East Africa crisis, and 
to other charities and local schools and colleges.
It is Spectris’ policy that donations or provision of support in kind to 
political parties or campaigns are prohibited.
Customers
Spectris sells productivity-enhancing instrumentation and services to a 
large number of customers around the world. We have developed 
close working relationships with our customers and in many instances 
involve them in the development of new products to ensure they meet 
their requirements. Surveys of customer satisfaction are conducted on 
a regular basis.
Corporate Responsibility continued Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37
Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Suppliers
Spectris has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent upon 
the company’s business. Suppliers are paid in line with contractual and 
legal obligations. 
We recognise that our strategy of outsourcing non-core 
manufacturing does not absolve us from responsibility for the 
environmental impact of our suppliers and we work to help them 
reduce their impact on the environment and ensure that their products 
meet relevant legislation. Outsourcing of products and services is only 
to quality-approved organisations which are regularly inspected and 
audited by the group’s strategic sourcing team and local management. 
Due to the high technology content of our instrumentation and 
control products, suppliers of our parts need to have leading edge 
manufacturing equipment and are subject to rigorous qualification 
processes which cover both their technological capabilities and their 
quality and regulatory conformance. 
In order to gain improved assurance from suppliers, we are auditing 
current, and screening new, significant suppliers (those providing 
bespoke parts, assemblies and systems), against relevant criteria 
stipulated in the social accountability standard SA8000. The audit 
covers areas such as human rights, working conditions, health and 
safety and environmental compliance, in addition to our ongoing 
programme of quality and technological audits. The initiative has 
commenced in Asia, where to date we have audited the top 50% of 
key suppliers (by order value). The remainder will be audited by the 
end of 2012. The audit covers all prospective suppliers of bespoke 
parts and all existing suppliers where we purchase in excess of 
$100,000/year and is carried out by Spectris internal auditors in Asia 
who have all received external training and qualifications. No 
fundamental non-conformances against our standards have been 
discovered. Where minor non-compliance areas have been found, 
corrective actions and completion dates have been agreed with the 
suppliers. Suppliers have all been very co-operative in implementing 
the necessary improvements, and a number have additionally 
committed to gaining SA8000 certification through an approved 
third-party auditing body. To date we have focused our attention on 
our lower cost manufacturing sources in Asia and we may extend this 
initiative to other regions as required. We will also be applying the 
same auditing process to our three manufacturing facilities in China 
with a target completion by end of 2012. 
Contractual arrangements
The company has no contractual or other arrangements which are 
essential to the business of the company, nor any key customers or 
major suppliers upon which it is dependent.
The readers of Automation 
World awarded Red Lion a  
‘First Team Supplier’ in the 
publication’s ‘Leadership in 
Automation 2011’ programme. 
Red Lion was honoured in three 
different categories for its 
industrial control products, as 
well as for industrial networking products from the recently-
acquired Sixnet and N-Tron businesses. 
Red Lion receives ‘First Team 
Supplier’ Award
Servomex has supported the 
annual Great Servomex Egg 
Race organised by Beacon 
Community College in 
Crowborough, England, for 
twenty years, providing the 
funding for materials, 
refreshments and prizes. In 
March, ninety enthusiastic pupils took part from different schools 
in the area. Despite its name, this is not actually an egg race, but 
a test of the children’s ingenuity and imagination. This year the 
science challenge saw the pupils given the scenario of stranded 
animals in a Kenyan nature reserve. Their task was to translate a 
nature reserve sign, make a mask to disguise themselves so the 
animals would not be scared and make a crane-like arm to lift 
food to the animals. First prize was won by students from Jarvis 
Brook school.
Servomex sponsors Great Egg Race Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 38
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Board of Directors
Nomination committee
John Hughes (chairman)
Peter Chambré
Russell King
John O’Higgins
John Warren
Remuneration committee
Russell King (chairman)
Peter Chambré
John Hughes
John Warren
Left to right: Jim Webster, John Warren, Roger Stephens, John O’Higgins, Peter Chambré, Russell King, John Hughes, Clive Watson
Audit and risk committee
John Warren (chairman)
Peter Chambré
Russell King
Senior independent director
John Warren Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39
John Hughes CBE, Chairman
John Hughes was appointed to the Board in 2007 and became non-executive Chairman in 
2008. John was previously executive vice-president and chief operating officer of defence, 
aerospace and electronic systems company Thales Group SA. He is currently non-executive 
chairman of Sepura plc and Telecity Group plc as well as a non-executive director of Vitec 
Group plc and CSG Systems International, Inc., a NASDAQ-listed company. John also serves as 
an ambassador for the Alzheimer’s Society. 
John O’Higgins, Chief Executive
John O’Higgins joined Spectris in 2006. Prior to joining Spectris, he was with Honeywell, 
latterly as president of automation and control solutions, Asia Pacific. He began his career 
with Daimler Benz in Stuttgart. John has engineering degrees from University College Dublin 
and Purdue University and an MBA from INSEAD. John is a non-executive director of Exide 
Technologies, a company listed on NASDAQ.
Clive Watson, group finance director
Clive Watson joined Spectris in 2006. He was previously at Borealis, a leading provider of 
plastics solutions, where he was chief financial officer and executive vice president for 
business support. Prior to this, he was group finance director at Thorn Lighting Group and 
before that group finance director Europe with Black & Decker. Clive is a member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and the Chartered Institute of Tax 
and holds a Bachelors degree in Commerce & Accounting from the University of Birmingham. 
He is a non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
Jim Webster, business group director
Jim Webster, a metallurgy graduate, joined Spectris in 1993. He is responsible for the 
operational supervision of a number of the group’s trading companies. He was previously 
general manager of the European Wire and Cable Division of Raychem Corporation. 
Peter Chambré, non-executive director
Peter Chambré was appointed to the Board in 2006. He is chairman of Xellia Group AS, 
OneMed AB, 7TM Pharma AS, and Cancer Research Technology Ltd, all private companies, 
and a non-executive director of BTG plc. He is also an adviser to private equity company 3i. 
Peter was formerly chief executive officer of Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc and 
prior to that was chief operating officer of Celera Genomics Group and chief executive of 
Bespak plc.
Russell King, non-executive director
Russell King was appointed to the Board in October 2010. He is a non-executive director of 
Aggreko plc and non-executive chairman of Bergteamet AB, a private equity-owned Swedish 
mining services company, and GeoProMining Ltd, a privately-owned mining company 
operating in the CIS. Previously, Russell was chief strategy officer of Anglo American PLC and 
a non-executive director of Anglo Platinum Ltd. Prior to that he spent over 20 years in senior 
roles at ICI, gaining worldwide experience in its fertiliser, petrochemical and paint businesses.
John Warren, non-executive director
John Warren was appointed to the Board in 2006. He is a non-executive director of The Rank 
Group Plc and Bovis Homes Group PLC. John was previously group finance director of WH 
Smith PLC and United Biscuits plc and a non-executive director of Arla Foods UK plc, BPP 
Holdings plc, RAC plc, Uniq plc and Rexam plc.
Roger Stephens, head of commercial and company secretary 
Roger Stephens is an economics graduate and chartered company secretary. Prior to joining 
Spectris in 1997, he held commercial roles in the power and construction sectors, specialising 
in contract negotiation, litigation and claims resolution, IP exploitation and property 
development. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 40
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Directors’ Report
The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 31 
December 2011.
Principal activities
Spectris designs, develops and markets productivity-enhancing 
instrumentation and controls. The businesses are grouped into four 
segments for management and segmental reporting purposes: 
Materials Analysis, Test and Measurement, In-line Instrumentation and 
Industrial Controls. Further details of the trading companies within 
each segment can be found in the Operating Review (pages 20 to 27). 
Developments in the group’s business activities are discussed in the 
Chairman’s Statement (page 16), the Chief Executive’s Review (page 
18) and the Business Review (pages 1 to 37).
Acquisitions
During the year the following four acquisitions were made: (i) Omega 
Engineering, which provides a broad range of process measurement 
and control instrumentation to customers in industrial and academic 
markets, selling directly to end users in these sectors via catalogue, 
telephone and internet. The business will be integrated into the 
Industrial Controls segment. (ii) Sixnet, which designs, builds and 
markets rugged remote terminal units, I/O modules, Ethernet network 
switches and wireless products for the broad industrial and process 
market. Sixnet will be integrated into Red Lion Controls in the 
Industrial Controls segment. (iii) IRM, a leading manufacturer of 
gauging instrumentation for the metals market. IRM will be integrated 
into NDC Infrared Engineering in the In-line Instrumentation segment.  
(iv) Key intellectual property and other assets relating to a line of 
benchtop X-ray analysers for the Materials Analysis segment.
The total cost of acquisitions during the year was £377.0 million, 
including £18.6 million for cash acquired. Of this, £4.4 million is 
attributable to the fair value of deferred and contingent consideration 
expected to be paid in future years offset by an estimated purchase 
price adjustment receivable of £7.1 million, resulting in a deferred 
receivable of £2.7 million.
Disposals
On 1 January 2011, the group divested a sales operation in The 
Netherlands for a profit of £0.1 million. The total consideration was 
£0.1 million net of transaction costs.
Share capital
The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 5p 
each; each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of 
the company. The authorised and issued share capital of the company, 
together with movements in the company’s issued share capital during 
the year, is shown in Note 24 on page 99. The Articles of Association 
of the company, available on the company’s website, contain 
provisions governing the ownership and transfer of shares.
At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the 
directors to make market purchases of the company’s ordinary shares 
up to a maximum number of 11,593,000 shares, representing 
approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the company, and  
to either cancel the shares or hold them as Treasury shares which may 
then be cancelled, sold for cash or transferred for the purposes of  
the company’s share plans, depending on the best interests of the 
company’s shareholders at the time. No such purchases were made 
during the year. At the close of business on 16 February 2012,  
the company had 125,005,123 ordinary shares in issue, of which 
8,630,180 were held in Treasury. During the year 439,696 shares were 
transferred out of Treasury to meet the company’s obligations under 
its share plans and no shares were cancelled out of Treasury. An 
authority to make further market purchases of the company’s ordinary 
shares, if believed appropriate, will be sought at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting although the Board has no present intention 
of so doing.
Also included in the special business of the 2012 Annual General 
Meeting are proposals to renew the directors’ authority to allot shares 
up to prescribed limits.
At 16 February 2012, interests notified to the company in accordance 
with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules comprised:
Black Rock Inc.
11,626,054 shares (9.99% material interest)
Standard Life Investments Limited 
9,449,013 shares (8.12% material interest)
F & C Asset Management plc
5,700,126 shares (4.91% material interest)
Massachusetts Financial Services Company
5,611,725 shares (4.84% material interest)
Legal & General Group Plc
4,603,565 shares (3.99% material interest)
Kames Capital
4,492,354 shares (3.86% material interest)
Takeovers directive
Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which 
implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required to 
disclose certain additional information. The disclosures not covered 
elsewhere in this Annual Report are as follows:
The company’s Articles of Association (‘Articles’) give power to the 
Board to appoint directors, but require directors to submit themselves 
for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their 
appointment and for re-election where they have been a director at 
each of the preceding two Annual General Meetings and were not 
appointed or re-appointed by the company at, or since, either such 
meeting. The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the 
shareholders and are available to view on the company’s website. As it 
is now the company’s practice for all directors to submit themselves 
for annual re-election, this is reflected in an amendment to the Articles 
that will be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting. 
The Board of directors is responsible for the management of the 
business of the company and may exercise all the powers of the 
company subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes and the 
company’s Articles. The Articles contain specific provisions and 
restrictions regarding the company’s power to borrow money. Powers 
relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in 
the Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each 
year at the Annual General Meeting.  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the group following a takeover, such as 
bank loan agreements and company share plans. None of these are 
deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the 
business of the group as a whole. In addition, there is a service 
contract between the company and one of its directors which provides 
for compensation for loss of office or employment following a change 
of control of the group (please refer to the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on page 50 for further explanation). It is also possible that 
funding arrangements for the group’s defined benefit pension 
arrangements would need to be enhanced following a change of 
control if that resulted in a weakening of the employer covenant.
Dividend
Results for the group are set out in the consolidated statement of 
income on page 56 and in the supporting notes. A final dividend of 
25.4p per ordinary share is proposed for the year to 31 December 
2011 (2010: 20.9p). With the interim dividend, this makes a total for 
the year of 33.6p (2010: 28.0p). The final dividend will be paid on  
26 June 2012 to shareholders on the register on 1 June 2012.
Research and development
Expenditure committed to research and development is focused on 
new product development, applications engineering and process 
integration. Costs are expensed as incurred, except where the 
expenditure meets certain strict criteria for capitalisation. In the  
year to 31 December 2011, amounts expensed totalled £75.8 million  
(2010: £64.6 million), and no expenditure met the criteria for  
capitalisation (2010: £nil).
Fixed assets
Whilst the market values of some properties differ from book values, 
the directors believe that the differences are not material.
Payment of suppliers
The group’s policy on payment of suppliers is to ensure that terms of 
payment accord with contractual and legal obligations. The company 
had £nil trade creditors at the year end (2010: £nil).
Directors
The directors of the company are named on pages 38 and 39. 
In accordance with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, which the company adopted early with regard to annual 
election of directors by shareholders, each director resigned at the 
2011 Annual General Meeting, put himself up for re-election and was 
re-elected. A change to the Articles, reflecting the resignation of each 
director at every Annual General Meeting and their submission for 
re-election at each such meeting, will be proposed at the 2012 Annual 
General Meeting.
The directors’ total remuneration for the year and their interests in the 
shares of the company and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2011 are 
disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 54.
In accordance with Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the 
directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity provision entered 
into between the company and its directors and officers which was  
in force at the date of approval of this report. This indemnity gives 
contractual force to the Indemnity of Officers provision contained  
in the company’s Articles.
Auditors
Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to 
authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will be proposed at 
the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at the company’s 
offices on Friday 20 April 2012 at 12.30 p.m. is contained in a 
separate letter from the Chairman accompanying this report.
Corporate Governance
UK Corporate Governance Code statement of compliance
Spectris plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the 
Code’) that is appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing 
Authority. The Code sets out principles and provisions relating to  
the good governance of companies. 
Corporate governance has been and remains the responsibility of the 
whole Board. This statement describes how the company applied the 
principles and complied with the provisions of the Code during 2011. 
The Board considers that it was throughout the year and continues to 
be in full compliance with the provisions set out in the Code.
Board composition and procedures
The Board meets formally at regular intervals throughout the year to 
consider developments in relation to the company’s strategy and 
long-term objectives and to review trading results and operational and 
business issues. In particular, it deals with those matters reserved to it 
for decision, including annual financial planning, the acquisition and 
disposal of businesses, major capital expenditure, the appointment 
and, where necessary, removal of directors and Board and senior 
management succession. Additional meetings are convened as 
required to consider specific topics requiring immediate decision. 
Usually, at least two meetings each year are held at operating 
locations and encompass a detailed review of the relevant business. 
Through these meetings, the induction process on appointment and 
the access given to the company’s operations and its staff, all directors 
gain the knowledge of the company required for them to discharge 
their duties. Operational decisions are delegated by the Board to 
senior management at trading company level, over which the 
executive directors exercise supervision. All directors receive detailed 
progress reports one week prior to each Board meeting.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive directors 
and three non-executive directors. The Board considers its non-
executive directors (Peter Chambré, Russell King and John Warren) to 
be independent, in that none of them are or have ever been holders 
of an executive office with the company. The positions of Chairman, 
Chief Executive and senior independent director, are held by separate 
individuals and, in accordance with the Code, the Board has adopted 
written profiles for the first two of these. The non-executive directors 
have all had senior experience in other organisations and offer 
independent judgement on Board matters. The Chairman’s other 
significant UK listed company interests are as non-executive chairman 
of Sepura plc and Telecity Group plc and non-executive director of 
Vitec Group plc and CSG International, Inc; the latter company being 
quoted on NASDAQ. Mr Hughes is also chairman of privately-held 
business Just Eat and Aircom International. The Board believes that the 
Chairman’s obligations to the company are unaffected by these 
directorships. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 42
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
There are procedures for individual Board members to receive 
induction and training as appropriate and to solicit independent 
professional advice at the group’s expense where specific expertise is 
required in the course of exercising their duties. The Chairman reviews 
and agrees with each director their training and development needs 
annually. All directors have access to the company secretary, who is 
responsible for ensuring compliance with appropriate statutes and 
regulations.
The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Board committees, 
notably the finance, nomination, remuneration, and audit and risk 
committees. The terms of reference of these committees are published 
on the company’s website and the following additional documents are 
available to shareholders on application to the company secretary:
•	 schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board;
•	 responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the 
non-executive directors;
Board appointments and performance evaluation
The nomination committee consists of the Chairman, Chief Executive 
and all non-executive directors. It is chaired by the Chairman, save in 
the event of discussions relating to his succession when the senior 
independent director takes the chair.
Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of a new 
director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to present for 
Board consideration suitably qualified candidate(s). In making such 
recommendations, the committee evaluates the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience on the Board and develops a description of 
the role and required capabilities. Due regard is given to the benefits 
of diversity on the Board and consideration is given to the time 
commitment expected for the Chairman and non-executive director 
positions. The Board uses external search firms to identify potential 
non-executive directors and they conduct the process systematically, 
utilising the evaluation of the committee and against a set of skills and 
competences developed from the strategic needs of the business 
today and in coming years, whilst also taking into account the present 
strengths and any perceived gaps in the knowledge of the Board. 
Candidates are then identified for interview. The committee also 
makes recommendations to the Board regarding the re-election and/or 
re-appointment of any director. Similar selection processes apply for 
the appointment of a chairman.
•	 relations with shareholders;
•	 performance evaluation; and
•	 procedure for taking independent professional advice.
The Board has adopted the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators’ Guidance Note of September 2009 on Board Meeting 
Etiquette. 
Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation 
where he has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, 
or may conflict, with the company’s interests. During the year, in 
accordance with the powers and duties of directors laid down in  
the company’s Articles, directors were asked to declare any such 
conflict or potential conflict of interest to the Board for the Board’s 
authorisation of a matter which otherwise may have given rise to a 
conflict of interest. No such conflicts have been declared.
Recommendations are also made to the Board concerning succession 
plans for both executive and non-executive directors and, in particular, 
for the key roles of Chairman and Chief Executive. The committee also 
recommends to the Board suitable candidates for the position of 
senior independent director. 
The nomination committee meets as the need arises. Its terms of 
reference can be found on the company’s website.
The operation of the Board and its committees is reviewed by the 
Board as a whole annually. The executive directors’ and company 
secretary’s performances are appraised annually against objectives 
established for the prior year. The contributions of the Chairman  
and non-executive directors are reviewed annually by the senior 
independent director and the Chairman, respectively, prior to their 
being proposed to shareholders for re-election. Additionally, the 
Chairman holds periodic meetings with the non-executive directors 
only and, led by the senior independent director, the non-executives 
have the opportunity to meet at least annually without the Chairman 
present. In considering the Chairman’s performance, his other public 
company interests were specifically addressed and found to be of 
benefit to the Board, in that he brings experiences and insights gained 
from these interests which assist the Board in its deliberations.
Directors’ Report continued
Board and committee meeting attendance 2011
Board
Remuneration 
committee
Audit and 
risk committee
Nomination 
committee
Total meetings during year 15 5 3 3
J L M Hughes (Chairman) 15 5 N/A 3
J A Warren (senior independent director) 15 5 3 3
P A Chambré 15 5 3 3
R J King 15 5 3 3
J E O’Higgins (Chief Executive) 15 N/A N/A 3
C G Watson 15 N/A N/A N/A
J C Webster 14 N/A N/A N/A Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43
An externally-facilitated evaluation of the operation and performance 
of the Board and its committees was conducted in 2010. An internal 
process followed during 2011. This included submissions from all 
Board members in response to a structured questionnaire focused 
upon the more significant areas identified during the prior year’s 
external process, notably strategy, Board structure and organisation, 
succession planning and risk management. A summary of the 
submissions received, including comparative data from the 2010 
process, was considered at the November Board meeting, with a 
number of areas for further debate and action recorded.
Diversity
The Board has considered the Davies Report ‘Women on Boards’ and 
the associated consultation by the Financial Reporting Council on 
whether to make further changes to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, requiring boards to establish a gender diversity policy. Whilst 
the Board is opposed to numerical targets or quotas to address the 
representation of specific groups, it recognises the strategic and 
business benefits of having a balanced board. Due regard is therefore 
given to the benefits of diversity as part of the Board’s normal 
refreshment process, with appointments made from candidates with 
the appropriate mix of skills, knowledge and experience, regardless of 
gender or otherwise. The recruitment of an additional non-executive 
director is currently in process and the executive search firm engaged 
has signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search 
Firms. It is therefore expected that a suitably diverse range of 
candidates will be presented to the Nomination Committee. 
As part of our culture of respect, we believe that people with varied 
backgrounds and perspectives add creativity to our company and thus 
we encourage diversity in the workplace. The Board recognises the 
benefits of all facets of diversity, including experience and perspective, 
both at Board level and throughout our business. Spectris operates 
globally in more than 30 countries and is focused on growing its 
presence in industrialising economies such as China, India and Latin 
America and across a broad base of end user markets. We will 
continue to strengthen our existing group-wide inclusion policies to 
attract and retain the most talented and appropriate people reflecting 
the different markets and geographies in which we operate.
Shareholder relations
Spectris conducts regular dialogue with institutional shareholders  
and divulges such information as is permitted within the guidelines  
of the Listing Rules. The content of presentations made after results 
announcements may be accessed by individual investors on the 
group’s website, www.spectris.com.
All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General 
Meeting, where the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the chairmen 
of the audit and risk and remuneration committees are available  
to answer questions. The results of proxy votes are declared at the 
Annual General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on 
a show of hands. These are then published on the group’s website. 
The Board is kept informed of the views of major shareholders 
through periodic reports from the Chief Executive and the company’s 
joint brokers J P Morgan Cazenove and RBS Hoare Govett. The 
Chairman and non-executive directors have the opportunity to  
attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
Shareholders representing in excess of 2.5% of the company’s issued 
share capital receive a standing invitation to meet the Chairman, the 
senior independent director or new non-executive directors. Such 
meetings would supplement if necessary, but not replace, the regular 
meetings with the Chief Executive and group finance director.
Audit and risk committee
The audit and risk committee comprises the non-executive directors 
and is chaired by John Warren, who has recent and relevant financial 
experience as the former group finance director of both United 
Biscuits plc and WH Smith PLC. Mr Warren is also the current 
chairman of the audit committees of Bovis Homes Group PLC and The 
Rank Group Plc. The committee meets at least three times each year 
to consider the effectiveness of the group’s internal controls, policies 
and procedures, the process of internal audit and the conduct and 
outcome of the external audit. Its meetings are normally attended  
by the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the group finance director,  
the company secretary and the external and internal auditors. All 
executive directors attend the year end audit committee meeting and 
processes requiring the disclosure of relevant information by individual 
directors to the auditor have been adopted. The committee confers 
annually with both the head of internal audit and the external auditors 
without the attendance of executive directors. Additionally, both the 
external audit partner and the head of internal audit have the right  
of direct access to the audit and risk committee chairman. The 
committee’s terms of reference can be found on the company’s 
website.
The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the 
Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and  
then for approving the external auditor’s remuneration, terms of 
engagement and scope of work.
The committee has also adopted procedures governing and restricting 
the appointment of the external auditor for non-audit services. The 
following services are precluded:
•	 book-keeping or other services related to the accounting records or 
financial statements of Spectris plc;
•	 financial information systems design and implementation;
•	 appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution in 
kind reports;
•	 actuarial services;
•	 internal audit outsourcing services;
•	 management functions or human resources;
•	 broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking 
services; and
•	 legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
A cumulative annual cap of £200,000 is established for all other 
non-audit services (save for acquisition due diligence and taxation 
services) above which all engagements are subject to prior approval by 
the audit and risk committee. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 44
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
The head of internal audit is employed by the group to perform 
internal control reviews across the group according to a work 
programme agreed by the committee. The head of internal audit is 
assisted in this by five further internal auditors. The nature and scope 
of the group’s internal control review resources is reviewed by the 
audit and risk committee annually. The audit and risk committee 
receives reports twice a year on the results of internal control reviews.
The committee has considered the risk of the withdrawal of their 
auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, from the market in their risk evaluation and 
planning and has concluded that the risk is small. In the event that the 
company’s auditor did exit the market, a replacement appointment 
would be made from audit firms of equivalent standing. KPMG Audit 
Plc were appointed as the company’s auditors on 12 May 1998, but 
the nominated audit partner has changed twice subsequently and will 
change again prior to the 2012 audit. The position of auditor to the 
company is kept under regular review, but KPMG Audit Plc’s in-depth 
understanding of the company’s operations is considered by the 
committee to be of benefit to both the company and its shareholders.
There are no contractual obligations that act to restrict the 
committee’s choice of auditor. 
Internal controls 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the group’s system of internal 
controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. However, such a system  
is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to meet 
business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Consistent with the guidance provided for directors on internal control 
by the Financial Reporting Council (‘Internal Control: Revised Guidance 
for Directors on the Combined Code’), the Board confirms that there is 
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing assessed 
significant risks faced by the group, that this has been in place for the 
year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report 
and accounts, that this process has been reviewed by the Board during 
the year and that the group accords with the guidance. The Board 
affirms the importance it attaches to the continuous review and 
application of the guidance, the regular and systematic assessment  
of the risks facing the group and the value of embedding risk 
management and internal control systems within its business processes. 
The group has an internal audit function which reviews the design and 
effectiveness of internal controls across the group’s operations, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls.
The processes which the Board and the audit and risk committee have 
applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the group’s system of internal 
controls are summarised below:
•	 an established process is in place whereby each business unit 
regularly assesses, evaluates and reports risks of group significance. 
Each business unit is required to document the management and 
mitigating actions in place and proposed;
•	 regular review of the status of risks and corresponding mitigating 
actions to ensure that risk management is embedded in day-to-day 
management processes and decision-making as well as in the 
annual strategic planning cycle;
•	 the effectiveness of risk management and mitigating actions is 
reviewed regularly by the executive directors and twice yearly by 
the audit and risk committee;
•	 additionally, the executive directors consider those risks to the 
group’s strategic objectives which are not addressed within the 
business units and develop appropriate approaches to managing 
and mitigating these risks;
•	 annual financial plans for each business unit, significant capital 
investments or contractual commitments and major acquisitions or 
divestments are all subject to review and approval by the Board;
•	 a Group Accounting and Policies Manual sets out the minimum 
standards and procedures to be applied in relation to those risk 
areas which are regarded as significant in a group context;
•	 a process of self-assessment of compliance with the Manual and 
reporting thereon has been established, providing for a 
documented trail of accountability from business unit presidents 
and finance directors to the audit and risk committee. The 
necessary actions are taken by the audit and risk committee to 
remedy any failings or weaknesses identified by its review of the 
internal control system; and
•	 the executive directors report to the Board on changes in the 
business and external environment which present significant risks. 
The group finance director provides the Board with monthly 
financial information which includes key performance indicators 
and information on the group’s operating segments. Regular 
reports on significant legal, ethics and compliance issues and 
insurance matters are received from the company secretary.
Going concern
Having reviewed the group’s plans and available financial facilities,  
the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis  
in preparing the group’s accounts.
Business Review
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, 
as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, and which 
should be treated as forming part of this report by reference, is 
included in the following sections of the annual report:
•	 Chairman’s statement on pages 16 and 17.
•	 Chief Executive’s review on pages 18 and 19.
•	 Group overview on pages 2 to 5.
•	 Operating review on pages 20 to 27, which includes a review of 
the external environment.
•	 Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 14 to 15.
•	 Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on pages 
20 to 27.
•	 Financial review on pages 28 to 31.
•	 Corporate responsibility on pages 32 to 37, which includes the 
company’s policy on treatment of its employees. 
Directors’ Report continued Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the annual 
report and the financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the 
group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that  
law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)  
as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare 
the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). 
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the group and 
parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: 
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
•	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
•	 for the group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU; 
•	 for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
company financial statements; and
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the group and parent company 
will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting  
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group  
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that 
law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  
the corporate and financial information included on the company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and 
each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a 
director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the 
annual report 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•	 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view  
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
•	 the information that is cross-referred from the Business Review 
section of the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the position of 
the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Roger Stephens
Secretary
17 February 2012 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 46
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Letter from Russell King
Chairman of the remuneration committee
Dear Shareholder,
As the chairman of the remuneration committee, I am pleased to present to you the 2011 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report of Spectris plc. 
Remuneration strategy
Your committee is acutely aware of increasing public scrutiny of executive pay and concern regarding 
unmerited payments. At Spectris, the close linkage of reward to the performance of the company has  
always been a guiding principle underlying our executive remuneration. The balance of remuneration for the 
executive directors is, therefore, such that a very significant part of their overall reward is conditional upon the 
attainment of demanding growth-related performance conditions over both the short and long term. 
The key elements of the executive directors’ remuneration arrangements thus are:
•	 base salary and total package including benefits set at or modestly below the median of comparable UK 
quoted companies, subject to adjustment up or down to reflect the experience and performance of 
individual directors;
•	 on-target and maximum annual bonus of, respectively, 50% and 100% of salary, only payable on 
achievement of stretching profit before tax and individual objectives;
•	 annual awards under the company’s performance share plan of up to 125% of salary, with vesting after  
three years based half upon total shareholder return (‘TSR’) relative to the FTSE 250 index and half upon 
real growth in adjusted earnings per share (‘EPS’); and
•	 long-term investment in the continuing growth of the company, with any annual bonus achieved in excess 
of 60% and any performance share plan vesting having to be retained in Spectris shares until a minimum 
two times base salary shareholding is achieved.
The anticipated reward mix for the Chief Executive, group finance director and business group director is 
shown in the chart below. This assumes Performance Share Plan awards with a value on grant equal to 125% 
of the director’s basic salary leading to an expected vesting of 55% of the award (68.75% of basic salary) and 
an annual bonus on-plan expectation of 50% of salary.
2011 remuneration
The excellent financial performance of the company in 2011, with adjusted profit before tax (‘PBT’) rising by 
45% to record levels, enabled the top end of the profitability target range established for the annual bonus to 
be surpassed. 
The company has also enjoyed good absolute and relative growth over the three years 2009 to 2011, with 
adjusted EPS increasing by 70%, the share price by 140% and the annual dividend by 44% over the period. 
Consequently, the performance share plan awards maturing on 25 February 2012 are expected to show 
vesting at the upper end of both the EPS and TSR ranges.
Russell King
Chairman of the  
remuneration committee
■ Base pay 41%
■ Pension 10%
■ Annual bonus 21%
■ Performance Share Plan 28% Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47
Whilst only a snapshot in time, at the end of 2011 the performance share plan grants maturing in 2013  
were on track for full vesting on both the EPS (173% growth over the two years 2010 and 2011) and TSR 
(performance above upper quintile) performance conditions. The grants made in April 2011 are at a very early 
point in their three-year performance period, but with 43% growth in EPS during 2011 and TSR at above 
median to the end of 2011, they are so far on track to achieve some level of vesting.
The aggregate pre-tax pay achieved by each executive director in 2011 was as follows:
Base salary
Pension
contributions
 + in lieu 
supplements
Benefits 
in kind + 
expenses
2011 
Bonus 
outcome
Share 
award 
exercises
2011 
total 
£’000
2010 
Total 
£’000
J E O’Higgins 500 125 19 500 337 1,481 1,104
C G Watson 310 78 19 310 509 1,226 726
J C Webster 268 67 19 268 451 1,073 841
Future reviews
As we have previously advised, it is your committee’s practice only to undertake detailed reviews of executive 
compensation every two years, or more, rather than annually. The next such review will be effective 1 January 
2013. The committee had decided that a basic salary increase of 2.5% (5% for Mr Watson) should be 
awarded to the executive directors at 1 January 2012. However, in light of the current uncertain macro-
economic environment, the executive directors have requested that implementation of this increase should be 
deferred until such time as the outlook becomes clearer. 
The next compensation review for the Chairman will take place on 1 January 2013 and the fees for the 
non-executive directors will also be reviewed by the Board at that time. 
Your committee has become aware that the current maximum level of annual award under the performance 
share plan has, at 125% of salary, fallen materially behind market norms. The operation of the plan will be 
reviewed during the coming year with the intention of submitting proposals to shareholders at the 2013 
Annual General Meeting. 
I hope that you will support the advisory vote on the 2011 Directors’ Remuneration Report which will be put 
to the Annual General Meeting.
Yours faithfully
Russell King
Chairman of the remuneration committee
17 February 2012 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 48
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
The directors present their remuneration report for the year ended  
31 December 2011.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is responsible for recommending to the 
Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the 
Chief Executive, the executive directors and the company secretary. 
The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter reserved to 
the Chairman and executive directors.
Within the terms of the agreed policy, the committee determines:
•	 the total individual remuneration packages including, where 
appropriate, bonuses and share-based incentives;
•	 the targets for any performance-related incentives;
•	 the scope of any pension arrangements;
•	 contractual terms of engagement and any payments to be made 
on termination;
•	 any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the 
company; and
•	 the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the Chairman 
and Chief Executive.
The committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration 
for business unit presidents or managing directors and the head of 
corporate development. 
The remuneration committee comprises Russell King (chairman), Peter 
Chambré, John Hughes and John Warren; being the Chairman (who 
was independent on appointment) and the non-executive directors (all 
of whom are independent). No member of the committee is a serving 
executive at another listed company. The Chief Executive may be in 
attendance by invitation and the committee takes into consideration 
his recommendations regarding the remuneration of his executive 
colleagues. The Chief Executive is not involved in discussions 
concerning his own remuneration. 
FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP was appointed in August 2011  
to advise the committee on various aspects of the Chairman’s and 
executive directors’ remuneration. Hewitt New Bridge Street separately 
provide services to the company in compiling IFRS 2 reporting on  
the company’s share plans and total shareholder return (‘TSR’) 
performance calculations in relation to the company’s Performance 
Share Plan. FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP was paid £14,660 in 
respect of services undertaken in 2011 (2010: £nil). Hewitt New 
Bridge Street was paid £51,817 in respect of services undertaken  
in 2011 (2010: £30,534). Both FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP  
and Hewitt New Bridge Street are members of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and adhere to its Code of Conduct.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee can be found 
on the company’s website and are available on request.
Remuneration policy
The Board, in considering the recommendations of the remuneration 
committee, complied throughout the year with the provisions of  
the UK Corporate Governance Code (including the principles for 
performance-related remuneration set out in Section D). The policy 
objective is to ensure that the high calibre individuals required at 
board level are fairly and competitively remunerated and incentivised 
in a manner consistent with the group’s strategic objectives and 
compatible with its risk policies and internal control systems.
Clawback provisions were introduced from January 2011 to  
enable variable remuneration to be reclaimed under exceptional 
circumstances. Such provisions relate to bonus payments and to 
awards made under the company’s Performance Share Plan, were 
there to be any miscalculation of entitlement, misstatement of 
accounts, or incidence of fraud. 
The remuneration committee also regularly reviews the balance 
between fixed and variable pay. 
Salaries and fees
Base salaries and fees are established by reference to surveys of the 
terms offered by comparable UK quoted companies. The starting point 
for comparative surveys is the scope of the position and associated 
performance of the Chairman, each executive director and the 
company secretary. Excluding his own position and performance,  
the Chief Executive is responsible for the definition of the scope of 
positions and assessment of the performance of each executive 
director, for consideration and approval by the remuneration 
committee. Salaries for the executive directors are set at competitive 
levels, typically based around the market median, although the 
remuneration committee reserves the flexibility to respond to 
individual circumstances which may cause salaries to be set at a level 
higher or lower than market median. Due account is also taken of pay 
conditions elsewhere in the company.
The committee had decided that a basic salary increase of 2.5% (5% 
for Mr Watson) should be awarded to the executive directors at  
1 January 2012. However, in light of the current uncertain macro-
economic environment, the executive directors have requested that 
implementation of this increase should be deferred until such time as 
the outlook becomes clearer.
A biennial compensation review for the Chairman is undertaken on  
a similar basis as that for the executive directors and is next due at  
1 January 2013. Fees for the non-executive directors will also next be 
reviewed by the Board at that date. Neither the Chairman nor the 
non-executive directors participate in the company’s incentive or 
benefit programmes.
Bonuses
To align remuneration with shareholders’ interests, a proportion of 
executive directors’ potential total remuneration is related to annual 
corporate performance. Bonuses of up to 100% of base salary are 
achievable upon the attainment of demanding profit before tax (75% 
potential) and personal (25% potential) targets set in relation to 
carefully considered business plans. Bonus payments commence only 
at a level which shows an acceptable financial result in the context of 
economic circumstances and market expectations, with an ‘on-plan’ 
performance yielding a payment of half the maximum potential. 
Targets for maximum outturn are set at highly stretching, albeit 
attainable, levels. Bonuses achieved in respect of 2011 performance, 
based on the targets set at the start of the financial year, were as 
follows (as a percentage of salary at 31 December 2011):
J E O’Higgins 100%
C G Watson 100%
J C Webster 100% Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49
Within the above bonus payments for Mr O’Higgins, Mr Watson and 
Mr Webster, 75% related to the profitability target (as the stretch level 
of performance was achieved) and 25% related to achievement of 
personal targets.
The bonus arrangements for 2012 will operate in a similar manner to 
those set out above in respect of 2011.
The remuneration committee keeps under review the company’s 
share-based incentive arrangements and takes advice on market 
practice. The committee is of the view that offering the opportunity to 
be awarded and then retain shares in the company is an important 
part of motivating and rewarding senior management by enabling 
them to participate in the future growth in value of the company. The 
Spectris Performance Share Plan (the ‘Plan’), is intended to support 
this objective and to facilitate the retention of key employees over the 
longer term. 
Under the Plan, annual awards of shares are made which may vest at 
the end of a three-year period subject to continued employment, the 
satisfaction of challenging performance conditions and justification of 
vesting in the context of the overall financial performance of the 
company. The maximum award of performance shares that can be 
made to a participant in any financial year is limited, under the rules of 
the Plan approved in 2006, to shares with a market value equal to 
125% of the participant’s salary. The committee’s current policy is to 
determine awards to executive directors by reference to a base award 
over shares worth 125% of salary, which may be flexed downwards 
from year to year depending on corporate and personal performance. 
The committee has kept the Plan under review and is conscious that an 
award of 125% of salary has fallen materially below market norms and 
hence the operation of the Plan will be reviewed during 2012, with the 
intention of submitting proposals to shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Awards to executive directors are currently structured so that half of 
the award is subject to an earnings per share (‘EPS’) target and half 
subject to a total shareholder return (‘TSR’) target. Each condition 
operates over a fixed three-year period with no opportunity for 
retesting. These performance criteria are summarised in the tables 
below. 
company EPS 
performance
% of award that vests 
(expressed as a percentage 
of one-half of the 
total number of shares 
subject to an award)
Consumer Prices Index (‘CPI’) + 
12% compound per annum 
(‘c.p.a.’)
100%
Between CPI + 5% and 12% 
c.p.a.
Pro-rata straight line between 
25% and 100%
CPI + 5% c.p.a. 25%
Less than CPI + 5% c.p.a. 0%
company tSR 
performance relative to 
the FtSE 250 (excluding  
investment trusts)
% of award that vests 
(expressed as a percentage 
of one-half of the 
total number of shares 
subject to an award)
Upper quintile or above 100%
Between upper quintile and 
median
Pro-rata straight line between 
25% and 100%
Median 25%
Below median 0%
The TSR condition is also subject to the underpin that the committee 
must satisfy itself that the company’s TSR growth is reflective of its 
underlying financial performance.
The above criteria will continue to apply to Plan awards made in 2012.
For awards in excess of 100% of salary, the committee stipulates, in 
accordance with undertakings provided on approval of the Plan, that 
the percentage of an award that will vest for threshold performance 
will be limited to 25% of a participant’s base salary rather than 25% 
of the number of shares subject to an award, with pro-rata straight 
line vesting from this lower point up to 100% of the award. 
The committee considers the above performance conditions to be an 
appropriate means of aligning the interests of participants with those 
of longer-term shareholders. The TSR performance condition is 
measured independently by Hewitt New Bridge Street and the EPS 
condition is verified by the company’s auditors. 
It is the intention of the committee that all future share-based 
incentives granted to executive directors should be made solely under 
the Plan. Executive directors may, however, continue also to participate 
in grants made under the Spectris Savings Related Share Option 
Scheme which is applicable to all UK employees.
Share retention
Each executive director is, subject to personal circumstances, required 
to build a retained shareholding in Spectris plc greater than two times 
base salary in value within a five-year period from appointment. 
Executive directors are required to apply the post-tax benefit of any 
vested Plan awards or any bonus payments exceeding 60% of base 
salary to the acquisition of shares until this level of shareholding is 
achieved. The executive directors all currently have holdings in excess 
of this requirement.
Benefits
Mr O’Higgins and Mr Watson have defined contribution pension 
arrangements to which the company currently contributes at a  
rate of £50,000 p.a. In light of the government’s decision to reduce 
the pension lifetime allowance to £1.5 million in 2012 and the 
introduction of a maximum pension contribution allowance of 
£50,000 p.a. from April 2011, the executive directors are entitled,  
at their option, to a taxable salary supplement in lieu of pension 
contributions otherwise payable by the company. Mr O’Higgins and 
Mr Watson receive such salary supplements, to 25% of their base 
salaries in excess of the £50,000 p.a. contributed by the company to  Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 50
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
their pension arrangements. Mr Webster currently has no pension 
arrangements contributed to by the company and therefore receives 
25% of his base salary as a salary supplement in lieu of pension 
contributions. 
Company car and health insurance benefits are also made available to 
executive directors, subject to income tax. 
Contractual terms
All executive directors have rolling contracts subject to 12 months’ 
notice of termination by either party, or to summary notice in the 
event by the director of serious breach of obligations, dishonesty, 
serious misconduct or other conduct bringing the company into 
disrepute. 
Mr O’Higgins’ and Mr Watson’s contracts of employment also contain 
an option, at the sole discretion of the Board, for the contract to be 
terminated by way of payments in lieu of notice equivalent to 1.4 times 
monthly basic salary (which was reduced, in 2011, from the previous 
level of 1.65 times to exclude any element of compensation for loss of 
bonus). In such circumstances, the director also becomes subject to a 
contractual best endeavours obligation to seek alternative employment 
and full mitigation reflective of any earnings from a new position 
applies so as to reduce the payments otherwise due from the company 
during the notice period. Additionally, bonus entitlements are calculated 
to the date of termination only. The phased payment provision, subject 
to reduction as explained above, applies in lieu of all remuneration and 
benefits otherwise payable during the notice period and in full and final 
settlement of all employment-related claims. The 0.4 uplift on monthly 
salary accounts for the 25% employer pension contribution; company 
car, insurance and fuel benefits; mobile telephone provision; life, 
disability and medical expenses insurances and settlement of any 
statutory employment claims that may arise from termination. No other 
payments would be made, including any payment for forward bonus 
expectation. Whether the Board elects to apply this payment in lieu 
option would depend on the circumstances underlying termination and 
the best interests of shareholders at the time.
Mr Webster’s contract, concluded in 1998, does not contain this 
option, but does provide for a predetermined compensation payment 
in lieu of notice (equivalent to total notice period remuneration – 
salary, bonus and benefits) in the event of termination by the 
employer within 12 months of a change in control of the group. 
Termination payments in other circumstances would be a matter for 
negotiation and remain, at the discretion of the committee, subject to 
mitigation and/or reduction for accelerated payment. 
The committee is aware of the best practice expectations set out in 
the 2008 ABI/NAPF joint statement on executive contracts and 
severance and has noted the update to the NAPF policy that was 
published in January 2009.  This guidance, and any future revisions, 
will be taken into account before agreeing any future service 
contracts. The committee is committed to continuous review of its 
policies in the best interests of shareholders. 
No compensation payments on termination of employment were 
made during the year.
External appointments
Executive directors may retain any payments received in respect of 
external non-executive appointments. Such appointments are limited 
to one per director at any time and are subject to the approval of the 
Board. Mr O’Higgins is a non-executive director of NASDAQ-listed 
Exide Technologies and was paid a fee of $76,000 during 2011.  
Mr Watson is a non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 
and was paid a fee of £52,000 during 2011. No other external 
directorships are held by the executive directors.
Remuneration below board level
Remuneration for presidents of the group’s trading companies is set  
at competitive levels to reflect the size, complexity and geographic 
locations of these businesses. Base salaries fall within a range between 
£132,000 and £318,000. Additionally, the group’s presidents 
participate in share awards under the Spectris Performance Share  
Plan (typically over 60% of base salary) and in profit-related bonus 
arrangements linked to base salary and payable against their business 
annual operating profit after exchange, plus or minus a financing 
charge/credit arising from changes in working capital over the year. 
On plan performance delivers a c. 30% of base salary bonus with the 
upper limit of the payment range delivering 50% of base salary.
Internal relativity
The committee is sensitive to the need to set directors’ remuneration 
having regard to pay and conditions in the group as a whole and  
is satisfied that the approach taken by the company is fair and 
reasonable in light of current market practice and the best interests  
of shareholders.
Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors’ fees are reviewed biennially and agreed  
by the Chairman and executive directors with reference to market 
practice. The base fee is supplemented by allowances for chairmanship 
of the audit and risk and remuneration committees and the pension 
scheme trustee board. There is no participation in bonus, share option, 
or pension arrangements and no participation in the Spectris 
Performance Share Plan. All non-executive directors’ conditions of 
appointment provide for a six-month period of notice and are 
renewable at each Annual General Meeting, subject to review prior to 
proposal for re-election. There is a presumption that appointments will 
not continue beyond nine years in office, at which time non-executive 
directors cease to be regarded as independent under the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51
Total shareholder return
The following graph indicates the value by the end of 2011 of £100 invested in Spectris plc 5p ordinary shares on 31 December 2006 compared 
with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 index (excluding investment trusts) over the same period. The graph was selected as the most 
appropriate comparison measure because the company is a constituent member of the FTSE 250 index and the members of the FTSE 250 (excluding 
Investment Trusts) form the comparator group for the purposes of the TSR performance test under the Spectris Performance Share Plan. 
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
31 December 2006
Value (£)
31 December 2007 31 December 2008 31 December 2009 31 December 2010 31 December 2011
120
Spectris plc
FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts)
Service contracts 
The following table sets out a summary of the directors’ service contracts or terms of appointment. Executive directors’ service contracts provide, 
subject to statutory rights, for automatic termination on the director reaching the age of 65. 
Date of contract Expiry date Notice period
Length of service at 
17 February 2012
Executive directors
J E O’Higgins 1.1.06 3.2.29 12 months 6 years 1 month
C G Watson 1.10.06 4.2.23 12 months 5 years 4 months
J C Webster 27.3.98 21.6.15 12 months 18 years 4 months
Non-executive directors
P A Chambré 1.8.06 renewable at each AGM 6 months 5 years 6 months
J L M Hughes 1.6.07 renewable at each AGM 6 months 4 years 8 months
R J King 12.10.10 renewable at each AGM 6 months 1 year 4 months
J A Warren 7.3.06 renewable at each AGM 6 months 5 years 11 months
Mr Webster’s contract provides for a predetermined compensation payment in lieu of notice (equivalent to total notice period remuneration – 
salary, bonus and benefits) in the event of termination by the employer within 12 months of a change in control of the group. 
Mr O’Higgins’ and Mr Watson’s contracts contain an optional provision, subject to a duty of mitigation, for phased monthly payments equivalent 
to 1.4 times monthly salary in lieu of all remuneration and benefits otherwise payable during the notice period and full and final settlement of all 
employment-related claims. 
The graph above shows the value, at 31 December 2011, of £100 invested in Spectris plc 
on 31 December 2006 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index 
(excluding Investment Trusts) over the same period. Source: Thomson Reuters Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 52
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ remuneration and interests
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following sections a) to e).
a) Emoluments of directors excluding pension contributions (£’000)
Salary and/
or fees Bonus
Pension salary 
supplement
Benefits 
in kind
Taxable 
expenses
2011 
total
2010 
Total
Executive directors
J E O’Higgins 500 500 56 14 5 1,075 853
C G Watson 310 310 21 14 5 660 564
J C Webster 268 268 61 19 – 616 504
Non-executive directors
P A Chambré 42 – – – – 42 39
J L M Hughes 165 – – – – 165 140
R J King 50 – – – – 50 9
J A Warren 67 – – – – 67 61
A J Reading – – – – – – 19
1,402 1,078 138 47 10 2,675 2,189
Benefits in kind include company cars, private fuel and medical expenses insurance. Taxable expenses relate to allowances paid in lieu of company 
cars and private fuel.
For Mr King and Mr Warren, their base fee of £42,000 p.a. is increased by an additional fee of £8,000 p.a. for their chairmanship of, respectively, 
the remuneration and audit and risk committees. Additionally, Mr Warren receives a fee of £16,500 p.a. for his chairmanship of Spectris Pension 
Trustees Limited.
b) Directors’ pensions 
Company contributions to defined contribution plans:
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
J E O’Higgins 69 107
C G Watson 57 70
J C Webster 6 64
Total 132 241
c) Directors’ total remuneration
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Aggregate emoluments 2,675 2,189
Company pension contributions to defined contribution schemes 132 241
Gains made on exercise of share-based incentives 1,297 508
4,104 2,938
d) Directors’ interests in options to purchase ordinary shares under the Spectris Savings Related Share Option Scheme (‘SAYE’)
Date 
granted
Options 
held 
1 Jan 11
Granted
 during the
 year
Exercise 
price (p)
Exercised
 during the
 year
Share price
 at date of
 exercise (p) 
Lapsed
 during the
 year
Options 
held 
31 Dec 11
Date
 exercisable
Expiry 
date
J E o’higgins
SAYE Oct 2009 1,255 723 1,255 Dec 2012 Jun 2013
total 1,255 1,255
  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 53
e) Directors’ share awards under the Spectris Performance Share Plan
Number 
of shares 
subject to 
award at 
1 Jan 11
Date 
granted
Exercise 
price 
(p)
Granted 
during 
the year
 
Addition 
of 
reinvested
 dividends*
Exercised 
during 
the year
Market 
price at 
exercise 
(p)
Lapsed 
during 
the year
Number 
of shares 
subject to 
award at 
31 Dec 11 
Market 
value 
of each 
share at 
date of 
award 
 (p)
Date 
exercisable 
Expiry 
date
J E o’higgins
53,400 Feb 2008 5 6,616 (28,000) 1210.20 (3,017) 28,999 786.5 Feb 2011 Feb 2018
96,600 Feb 2009 5 96,600 434.5 Feb 2012 Feb 2019
65,400 Mar 2010 5 65,400 818.5 Mar 2013 Mar 2020
Apr 2011 5 44,600 44,600 1401 Apr 2014 Apr 2021
215,400 235,599
c G w atson
34,900 Feb 2008 5 3,581 (36,509) 1400.50 (1,972) 0 786.5 Feb 2011 Feb 2018
63,200 Feb 2009 5 63,200 434.5 Feb 2012 Feb 2019
42,800 Mar 2010 5 42,800 818.5 Mar 2013 Mar 2020
Apr 2011 5 27,600 27,600 1401 Apr 2014 Apr 2021
140,900 133,600
J c w ebster
31,700 Feb 2008 5 3,253 (33,161) 1363.6385 (1,792) 0 786.5 Feb 2011 Feb 2018
57,500 Feb 2009 5 57,500 434.5 Feb 2012 Feb 2019
38,900 Mar 2010 5 38,900 818.5 Mar 2013 Mar 2020
Apr 2011 5 23,900 23,900 1401 Apr 2014 Apr 2021
128,100 120,300
total 484,400 96,100 13,450 (97,670) (6,781) 489,499
* Under the terms of the Performance Share Plan, notional dividends of the company are applied over award shares during the performance 
period and exercise period to date of exercise, thus increasing the number of award shares granted. These additional award shares are subject 
to application of the performance criteria attaching to the award. 
The above awards were made as conditional rights to acquire shares (structured as nominal cost options) and the number of shares awarded was 
based on the mid-market closing price of the company’s shares on the business day prior to the date of grant. In respect of the 2011 award, for 
each of Mr O’Higgins, Mr Watson and Mr Webster, the value of the award was equivalent to 125% of their base salaries at the date of grant. 
Following satisfaction, in whole or part, of the performance criteria attaching to the awards (as summarised on page 49), the directors may call 
for the release to them of the vested shares during the above-shown exercise periods. 
The awards granted to Mr O’Higgins, Mr Watson and Mr Webster in 2008 of 53,400, 34,900 and 31,700 award shares, respectively, became 
exercisable and were exercised by Mr O’Higgins, in part, and by Mr Watson and Mr Webster, in full, during the year. The awards had two 
performance conditions attaching to them. The TSR target was met in full (50% of the award) and the EPS target was met to 44.35% of the 
award. In determining the level of vesting against the TSR target, the committee took into account the company’s underlying financial 
performance. The awards were satisfied from the company’s treasury shares.
The Spectris Performance Share Plan operates within the dilution limits laid down by the Association of British Insurers. 3.4% of the 5% limit has 
been utilised. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 54
21119.04   07/03/12   Proof 8
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Mr O’Higgins retained 28,000 shares arising from the part exercise of his 2008 award on 25 October 2011. The gain on exercise was £337,456.
Mr Watson retained 19,500 shares arising from the exercise of his 2008 award on 10 March 2011 and sold 17,009 shares. The gain on exercise 
was £509,483.
Mr Webster sold all 33,161 shares arising from the exercise of his 2008 award on 21 March 2011. The gain on exercise was £450,538.
The aggregate gains on exercise for all directors under the company’s share plans were thus £1,297,477 (2010: £508,456).
f) Directors’ interests
The following directors or their families had beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the company:
Shareholdings
2011 
31 Dec 
(or date of 
resignation)
 2011 
1 Jan 
(or date of 
appointment)
J L M Hughes 8,000 8,000
J E O’Higgins 131,319 103,319
P A Chambré 5,451 5,344
R J King 3,000 3,000
J A Warren 3,000 3,000
C G Watson 52,982 32,745
J C Webster 118,310 118,310
There were no changes to the above interests between the year end and the date of this report. 
No director had during the year or at the end of the year any material interest in any contract of significance to the group’s business.
At 31 December 2011 the middle market closing share price on the London Stock Exchange was 1289p. The highest share price in the year was 
1679p and the lowest was 1039p.
g) Loans to directors
During the year there were no outstanding loans to any director. 
By order of the Board
Russell King 
Chairman of the committee
17 February 2012
Company No. 02025003 Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 55
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Spectris plc
We have audited the financial statements of Spectris plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the consolidated statement of 
income, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of 
financial position, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the parent company balance sheet and the related notes. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company 
financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
company and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 45, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2011 and 
of the group’s profit for the year then ended;
•	 the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
•	 the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
•	 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	 the directors’ statement, set out on page 44, in relation to going concern;
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 41 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
IK Bone (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
17 February 2012 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 56
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Consolidated Statement of Income 
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 1,106.2 901.9 
Cost of sales (457.5) (375.1)
Gross profit 648.7 526.8 
Indirect production and engineering expenses (88.0) (75.4)
Sales and marketing expenses (238.9) (206.0)
Administrative expenses (146.0) (117.5)
Operating profit before acquisition-related items 201.5 142.1 
Net acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments (1.8) (1.9)
Acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory (2.1) –
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets (21.8) (12.3)
Operating profit 3, 6 175.8 127.9 
Profit on disposal of businesses 26 0.1 –
Financial income 9 7.2 8.2 
Finance costs 9 (17.1) (16.2)
Profit before tax 166.0 119.9 
Taxation - UK 10 (2.6) (5.5)
Taxation - Overseas 10 (37.1) (18.2)
Profit after tax for the year from continuing operations 
attributable to owners of the company 126.3 96.2 
Basic earnings per share 12 108.7p 83.1p
Diluted earnings per share 12 106.9p 81.6p
Interim dividends paid and final dividends proposed for the year (per share) 11 33.60p 28.00p
Dividends paid during the year (per share) 11 29.10p 24.95p
Spectris uses adjusted figures as key performance measures in addition to those reported under adopted IFRS. Reconciliations showing how the 
adjusted performance measures are derived from those reported under adopted IFRS are set out in Note 3. Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 57
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the company 126.3 96.2
Other comprehensive income:
Net (loss)/gain on effective portion of changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts (3.8) 0.7
Foreign exchange movements on translation of overseas operations (5.5) 1.3
Net gain on changes in fair value of effective portion of hedges 
of net investment in overseas operations 2.0 2.2
Actuarial (loss)/gain arising on pension schemes, net of foreign exchange 8 (2.6) 2.1
Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income 10 1.1 0.1
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the company 117.5 102.6 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Share 
capital
£m
Share
 premium
£m
Retained
 earnings
£m
Translation
 reserve
£m
Hedging
 reserve
£m
Merger
 reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption
 reserve
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2011 6.2 231.4 197.5 75.3 (0.2) 3.1 0.3 513.6
Profit for the year – – 126.3 – – – – 126.3
Other comprehensive income:
Net loss on effective portion of changes 
in fair value of forward exchange 
contracts, net of tax – – – – (3.4) – – (3.4)
Foreign exchange movements on 
translation of overseas operations – – – (5.5) – – – (5.5)
Net gain on changes in fair value of 
effective portion of hedges of net 
investment in overseas operations,  
net of tax – – – 2.0 – – – 2.0
Actuarial loss arising on pension 
schemes, net of exchange and tax – – (1.9) – – – – (1.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 124.4 (3.5) (3.4) – – 117.5
Distributions to and transactions with 
owners:
Equity dividends paid – – (33.8) – – – – (33.8)
Share-based payments, net of tax – – 6.4 – – – – 6.4
Share options exercised from own 
shares (treasury) purchased – – 0.5 – – – – 0.5
Balance at 31 December 2011 6.2 231.4 295.0 71.8 (3.6) 3.1 0.3 604.2 Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 59
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Share 
capital
£m
Share
 premium
£m
Retained
 earnings
£m
Translation
 reserve
£m
Hedging
 reserve
£m
Merger
 reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption
 reserve
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2010 6.2 231.4 119.5 70.9 (0.5) 3.1 0.3 430.9
Profit for the year  –  – 96.2  –  –  –  – 96.2
Other comprehensive income:
Net gain on effective portion of 
changes in fair value of forward 
exchange contracts, net of tax  –  –  –  – 0.3  –  – 0.3
Foreign exchange movements on 
translation of overseas operations  –  –  – 1.3  –  –  – 1.3
Net gain on changes in fair value of 
effective portion of hedges of net 
investment in overseas operations,  
net of tax  –  –  – 3.1  –  –  – 3.1
Actuarial gain arising on pension 
schemes, net of exchange and tax  –  – 1.7  –  –  –  – 1.7
Total comprehensive income for the year  –  – 97.9 4.4 0.3  –  – 102.6
Distributions to and transactions with 
owners:
Equity dividends paid  –  – (28.9)  –  –  –  – (28.9)
Share-based payments, net of tax  –  – 7.1  –  –  –  – 7.1
Share options exercised from own 
shares (treasury) purchased  –  – 1.9  –  –  –  – 1.9
Balance at 31 December 2010 6.2 231.4 197.5 75.3 (0.2) 3.1 0.3 513.6 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 60
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
As at 31 December 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets:
Goodwill 13 544.5 355.1 
Other intangible assets 14 205.9 97.4 
750.4 452.5
Property, plant and equipment 15 152.7 110.5 
Equity-accounted investments 0.6 0.5 
Deferred tax assets 23 20.6 18.4 
 924.3 581.9
Current assets
Inventories 16 171.8 121.0 
Taxation recoverable 4.3 8.5 
Trade and other receivables 17 220.8 194.8 
Derivative financial instruments 20 0.1 2.3 
Cash and cash equivalents 18 41.6 64.7 
438.6 391.3 
Total assets 1,362.9 973.2 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 19 (2.7) (1.7)
Derivative financial instruments 20 (1.7) –
Trade and other payables 21 (227.6) (212.1)
Current tax liabilities (40.3) (36.7)
Provisions 22 (31.9) (23.4)
(304.2) (273.9)
Net current assets 134.4 117.4 
Non-current liabilities
Medium- and long-term borrowings 19 (383.9) (135.5)
Derivative financial instruments 20 (12.8) (14.9)
Other payables 21 (11.2) (17.3)
Retirement benefit obligations 8 (13.1) (14.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 23 (33.5) (3.9)
(454.5) (185.7)
Total liabilities (758.7) (459.6)
Net assets 604.2 513.6 
Equity 
Issued share capital 24 6.2 6.2 
Share premium 231.4 231.4 
Retained earnings 295.0 197.5 
Translation reserve 71.8 75.3 
Hedging reserve (3.6) (0.2)
Merger reserve 3.1 3.1 
Capital redemption reserve 0.3 0.3 
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 604.2 513.6 
Total equity and liabilities 1,362.9 973.2
The financial statements on pages 56 to 108 were approved by the Board of directors on 17 February 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Clive Watson 
Director Company Registration No. 02025003 Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 61
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit after tax 126.3 96.2 
Adjustments for:
Tax 10 39.7 23.7 
Profit on disposal of businesses 26 (0.1) –
Finance costs 9 17.1 16.2 
Financial income 9 (7.2) (8.2)
Depreciation 15 14.9 14.4 
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 24.9 14.4 
Acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory 2.1 –
Contingent consideration fair value adjustments 28 (1.3) –
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 6 (0.4) (0.1)
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 7 6.4 6.6 
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions 222.4 163.2 
Increase in trade and other receivables (7.3) (18.5)
Increase in inventories (24.3) (15.1)
Increase in trade and other payables 9.6 56.6 
Increase/(decrease) in provisions and employee benefits 4.0 (10.8)
Corporation tax paid (35.1) (21.0)
Net cash from operating activities 169.3 154.4 
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and software (29.2) (18.9)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.8 1.4 
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 28 (369.0) (62.6)
Proceeds from disposal of businesses 0.1 –
Interest received 0.7 1.0 
Net cash flows used in investing activities (396.6) (79.1)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (12.8) (11.1)
Dividends paid 11 (33.8) (28.9)
Proceeds from exercise of share options (treasury shares) 0.5 1.9 
Proceeds from borrowings 295.0 46.8 
Repayment of borrowings (45.8) (52.8)
Net cash flows generated/(used) in financing activities 203.1 (44.1)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (24.2) 31.2 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 63.3 33.7 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.4 (1.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18 40.5 63.3 
Reconciliation of changes in cash and cash equivalents to movements in net debt Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (24.2) 31.2 
Proceeds from borrowings (295.0) (46.8)
Repayment of borrowings 45.8 52.8
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 3.4 0.5
Movement in net debt (270.0) 37.7 
Net debt at start of year 19 (86.2) (123.9)
Net debt at end of year 19 (356.2) (86.2) Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 62
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Notes to the Accounts 
1. Accounting policies
General information
Spectris plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom, whose shares are publicly traded on the London 
Stock Exchange. 
These financial statements are presented in millions of pounds sterling rounded to the nearest one decimal place. Foreign operations are included 
in accordance with the policies set out below. 
Statement of compliance and basis of preparation
The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRS). The company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; these are presented on pages 109 to 116. 
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The group’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Business 
Review on pages 1 to 27. The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the 
Financial Review on pages 28 to 31. In addition, Note 2 to the financial statements includes the group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to credit 
risk and liquidity risk.
Having reviewed the group’s plans and available financial facilities, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources 
to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
group’s accounts. There are no key sensitivities identified in relation to this conclusion.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The key judgements made in respect 
of the appropriateness of the group accounting policies relate to: 
•	 the timing of revenue recognition where the group has some responsibility for installation activity; 
•	 the classification of financial instruments in relation to hedge accounting; 
•	 the classification of retirement benefit arrangements between defined benefit and defined contribution schemes; 
•	 the point at which development activity meets the cost capitalisation threshold. 
The directors do not consider the practical application of any of these judgements to involve significant subjectivity or uncertainty.
The estimates and associated assumptions used are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and various other factors that 
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods 
if the revision affects both current and future periods. Estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements are recognised in the following areas: 
•	 business combinations in relation to the determination of the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities (Note 28); 
•	 goodwill in relation to the assumptions underpinning impairment testing (Note 13); 
•	 retirement benefit schemes in relation to the assumptions used to value plan assets and liabilities (Note 8); 
•	 provisions and contingent liabilities in relation to determining the quantum and timing of management’s best estimate of outflows  
(Notes 22 and 29).
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently by group entities to all periods presented in these financial statements. 
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
There are a number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 
2011. None of these have been adopted early in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are anticipated to have any 
impact on the results or statement of financial position reported in these consolidated financial statements. None of these new standards, 
amendments to standards and interpretations not yet effective are anticipated to materially change the group’s published accounting policies. Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 63
1. Accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the results of the company and all of its subsidiary undertakings and associates (equity-accounted 
investments).
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the group. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that 
control commences until the date that control ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant 
influence is presumed to exist when the group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity. Associates are accounted for 
using the equity method of accounting and are recognised initially at cost.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into 
sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at 
average exchange rates. Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate translation reserve within the 
statement of changes in equity.
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date with any exchange differences 
arising on retranslation being recognised in the statement of income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical 
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Derivative financial instruments may be purchased to hedge the group’s exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates. The accounting policies 
applied in these circumstances are described under the heading “Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting” below.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-
bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the statement of 
income over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operating and 
financing activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, it does not hold or use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative 
purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are presented as current or non-current based on their contracted maturity dates.
Cash flow hedge accounting
Derivative financial instruments may be transacted to hedge the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or of highly probable 
forecast transactions, caused by changes in exchange rates.
Derivative financial instruments are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Where a derivative financial instrument is designated in a cash 
flow hedge relationship with a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss arising is recognised in the hedging 
reserve via the statement of comprehensive income. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the statement of income. When the 
forecast transaction subsequently occurs and results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability that impacts on the statement of income, 
the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and presented within the statement of income. When the forecast 
transaction subsequently occurs and results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is 
removed from the hedging reserve and included within the initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is either sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover; 
or the group revokes the designation; or the hedging instrument no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
If a derivative financial instrument is not formally designated in a cash flow hedge relationship, any change in fair value is recognised in the 
statement of income. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 64
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
1. Accounting policies continued
Net investment hedge accounting
The group uses US dollar and euro-denominated borrowings and derivative financial instruments as a hedge against the translation exposure 
on the group’s net investment in overseas companies. Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such 
companies caused by changes in exchange rates, the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income. The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in exchange rates is recognised in the statement of income.
The group takes advantage of cross-currency swaps for some of its US dollar-denominated private placement borrowings. The swaps have the 
effect of converting fixed rate US dollar borrowings into “synthetic” fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. The value of the element of the 
swap that locks interest payments at a fixed euro interest rate changes as US dollar variable interest rates, euro variable interest rates and foreign 
currency exchange rates change. Under IAS 39’s rules, such changes in value are considered to be ineffective as a net investment hedge and 
accordingly they are recognised in the statement of income.
Business combinations and goodwill
The group applies IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’ for transactions arising after 1 January 2010. This changed the group’s definition 
of the cost of business combinations and the treatment of contingent consideration. The subsequent accounting for contingent consideration 
depends on whether this was initially recognised as equity or as a liability and whether the event is considered a measurement period adjustment. 
Transaction costs on a business combination are expensed as incurred.
For transactions relating to acquisitions before 1 January 2010, subsequent adjustments to contingent consideration are made against goodwill, 
and the transaction costs on a business combination are included in the cost of acquisition and thus capitalised.   
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase 
consideration for the interests in subsidiary undertakings over the net fair value to the group of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities acquired. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost which represents the 
amount recorded previously under UK GAAP . Prior to 1 January 1998, goodwill was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. From  
1 January 2004, goodwill is allocated on acquisition to cash-generating units that are anticipated to benefit from the combination, and is no 
longer amortised but is tested annually for impairment. Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit to which the goodwill relates. This estimate of recoverable amount is determined at each balance sheet date. The group’s identified cash-
generating units are smaller than reportable segments. 
The estimate of recoverable amount requires significant assumptions to be made and is based on a number of factors such as the near-term 
business outlook for the cash-generating unit, including both its operating profit and operating cash flow performance. Where the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-
generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in 
the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured on 
the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Segmental reporting
An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the group that is engaged in business activities from which it may earn revenues and 
incur expenses, and whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker to make decisions about resources to 
be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
Reportable segments are operating segments that either meet the thresholds and conditions set out in IFRS 8 or are considered by the Board to 
be appropriately designated as reportable segments.
Segment results are the results reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker and represent adjusted operating profits (for definitions, see 
Note 3) and include an allocation of head office expenses. Segment results exclude tax and financing items.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables. Segment 
liabilities comprise trade and other payables, provisions and other payables. Unallocated items represent corporate and deferred taxation 
balances, defined benefit scheme liabilities and all components of net debt.
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 65
1. Accounting policies continued
Intangible assets 
The cost of acquiring software (including associated implementation costs where applicable) that is not specific to an item of property, plant and 
equipment is classified as an intangible asset. 
Self-funded research and development costs are charged to the statement of income in the year in which they are incurred unless development 
expenditure meets certain strict criteria for capitalisation. These criteria include demonstration of the technical feasibility and intent of completing 
a new intangible asset that will be available for sale and that the asset will generate probable future economic benefits. From the point where 
expenditure meets the criteria, development costs are capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives. The directors consider that, due 
to the nature of projects undertaken, the proportion of development costs incurred that meets the criteria for capitalisation is immaterial.
Other intangible assets that are separately acquired by the group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits, otherwise it is expensed as incurred.
Intangible assets arising from a business combination are recognised at fair value.
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administrative expenses in the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the estimated 
useful lives of intangible assets determined on an asset-by-asset basis. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Software — 3 to 5 years 
Patents and contractual rights — up to 10 years, dependent upon the nature of the underlying contractual right
Technology — up to 10 years, dependent upon the nature of the underlying technology acquired
Trade names — up to 20 years
Customer-related — 3 to 10 years, dependent upon the underlying contractual arrangements and specific circumstances such as customer 
retention experience
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost (which from 1 January 2009 includes capitalised borrowing costs where appropriate) less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The group recognises in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment the additions 
that are appropriate to capitalise and the subsequent costs of replacing the parts of such items when there are future economic benefits that will 
flow to the group and its cost can be measured reliably. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset cost. 
All other costs are recognised in the statement of income as an expense as they are incurred.
Depreciation is recognised in the statement of income on a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less the estimated residual value (which is 
reviewed annually), of property, plant and equipment over its estimated useful life. The depreciation charge is revised where useful lives are 
different from previously estimated, or where technically obsolete assets are required to be written down. Where parts of an item of plant and 
equipment have separate lives, they are accounted for and depreciated as separate items. Land is not depreciated. Estimated useful lives are as 
follows:
Freehold and long leasehold property — 20 to 40 years 
Short leasehold property — over the period of the lease 
Plant and equipment — 3 to 20 years 
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
The carrying amount of the group’s assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If 
any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from 
other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Any intangible asset with an 
indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. The group currently 
has no such assets.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 66
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
1. Accounting policies continued
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount 
with the impairment loss recognised as an operating expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, 
but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at their fair value and are subsequently reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. Discounting is applied where it is expected to have a material impact.
Inventories 
Inventories and work in progress are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Inventory acquired as part of business combinations 
is valued at fair value less cost to sell. Cost represents direct costs incurred and, where appropriate, production or conversion costs and other 
costs to bring the inventory to its existing location and condition. In the case of manufacturing inventory and work in progress, cost includes an 
appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity. Inventory is accounted for on a first-in, first-out basis or, in some 
cases, a weighted average basis is used if deemed more appropriate for the business. Provision is made to write down slow-moving and obsolete 
items to net realisable value, based on an assessment of technological and market developments and on an analysis of historic and projected 
usage with regard to quantities on hand. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of 
the group’s cash management are included as a component of cash equivalents for the purposes of the statement of cash flows.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value.
Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. In respect of warranties, a provision is recognised when 
the underlying products or services are sold. Provisions are recognised at an amount equal to the best estimate of the expenditure required to 
settle the group’s liability. Obligations arising from restructuring plans are recognised when detailed formal plans have been established and when 
there is a valid expectation that such a plan will be carried out.
Post-retirement benefits
The group operates pension schemes providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The assets of the schemes are held separately from 
those of the group. The group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating 
the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to 
determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields at the 
balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the group’s obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the year in 
which they arise in the statement of comprehensive income. 
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense 
in the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. To the extent that the benefits 
vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the statement of income. Similarly, any cost or income relating to the curtailment or 
settlement of a pension scheme is recognised as a cost or income immediately in the statement of income.
For defined contribution schemes, the assets are held separately from those of the group in independently administered funds. Payments to 
defined contribution schemes are charged to the statement of income as they fall due. 
In certain countries, the group participates in industry-wide defined benefit-type pension arrangements. In such circumstances, it is not possible 
to determine the amount of any surplus or deficit attributable to the group and the pension costs are accounted for as if the arrangements were 
defined contribution schemes. These are not material to the group and accordingly no additional disclosures are provided.
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 67
1. Accounting policies continued
Other long-term employee benefits
The group’s net obligation in respect of long-term employee benefits other than pension plans is the amount of future benefit that employees 
have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value 
of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate 
bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the group’s obligations.
Share-based payments
The fair value of equity-settled employee share option grants is calculated at the grant date. The resulting cost is charged to the statement of 
income over the vesting period of the plans. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options that vest, except 
where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Revenues
Revenues comprise sales to outside customers after discounts and excluding value added tax and similar sales taxes. 
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the statement of income when the significant risk and rewards of ownership of the goods 
have been transferred to the customer, which is typically on delivery. For contracts that involve a significant element of installation or testing of 
equipment, revenue is recognised at the point of customer acceptance. Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the statement of income 
in proportion to the measurement of the stage of completion of services rendered as at the balance sheet date. This is assessed by reference to 
the amount of time incurred in proportion to the total expected time to be taken to deliver the service.
Occasionally, the initial contract covers both the supply of goods and ongoing support, servicing and maintenance. For such contracts revenue is 
allocated across the components in line with their relative value and each element is accounted for as described above.
The group has an immaterial amount of activity accounted for under IAS 11, Construction Contracts, and accordingly the applicable disclosures 
for these types of contracts are not provided.
Interest payable and receivable
Interest payable comprises the interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest method. Interest receivable is recognised in 
the statement of income as it accrues.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises both current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the statement of income except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case tax is recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income or statement of changes in equity, respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that  
it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of intra-group dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the  
related dividend. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 68
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
2. Financial risk management
The group’s multinational operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks. In the course of its business, the group is exposed 
to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, and credit risk. Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the group is 
managed. Financial risk management policies are set by the Board of directors. These policies are implemented by a central treasury department 
that has formal procedures to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, and liquidity risk, including, where appropriate, the use of 
derivative financial instruments. The group has clearly defined authority and approval limits. 
In accordance with its treasury policy, the group does not hold or use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Such 
instruments are only used to manage the risks arising from operating or financial assets or liabilities or highly probable future transactions. The 
quantitative analysis of financial risk is included in Note 20.
(a) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk arises both where sale or purchase transactions are undertaken in currencies other than the respective functional currencies 
of group companies (transactional exposures) and where the results of overseas companies are consolidated into the group’s reporting currency 
of £ sterling (translational exposures). The group has operations around the world which record their results in a variety of different local 
functional currencies. In countries where the group does not have operations, it invariably has some customers or suppliers that transact in a 
foreign currency. The group is therefore exposed to the changes in foreign currency exchange rates between a number of different currencies but 
the group’s primary exposures relate to the US dollar, euro, Danish krone, Swiss franc and Japanese yen. Where appropriate, the group manages 
its foreign currency exposures using derivative financial instruments. 
The group manages its transactional exposures to foreign currency risks through the use of forward exchange contracts. Forward exchange 
contracts are typically used to hedge highly probable transactions which can be forecast to occur from anything between 1 and 18 months into 
the future.  
The group’s translational exposures to foreign currency risks can relate both to the statement of income and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.  
The group’s policy is not to hedge the translational exposure that arises on consolidation of the statement of income of overseas subsidiaries.  
The group finances overseas company investments partly through the use of foreign currency borrowings in order to provide a natural hedge  
of foreign currency risk arising on translation of the group’s foreign currency subsidiaries. The quantitative analysis of foreign currency risk is  
included in Note 20. 
(b) Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk comprises both the interest rate price risk that results from borrowing at fixed rates of interest and also the interest cash flow risk 
that results from borrowing at variable rates. Where appropriate, interest rate swaps are used to manage the group’s interest rate profile. 
As at 31 December 2011 the majority of the group’s borrowings attract floating rates of interest linked to LIBOR and therefore the group’s 
principal interest rate risk is a cash flow risk. Quantitative analysis of interest rate risk is included in Note 20.
(c) Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk represents the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The group’s approach to 
managing this risk is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal 
and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the group’s reputation. The group manages this risk through 
the use of regularly updated cash flow and covenant compliance forecasts and a liquidity headroom analysis which is used to determine funding 
requirements. Adequate committed lines of funding are maintained from high quality investment grade lenders. The facilities committed to the 
group as at 31 December 2011 are set out in Note 19.
(d) Credit risk 
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations. The group is exposed to credit risk on financial assets such as cash 
balances, derivative financial instruments, trade and other receivables.
The group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are net of appropriate 
allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the group’s management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current 
economic environment. Trade receivables are subject to credit limits and control and approval procedures in the operating companies. Due to 
its large geographic base and number of customers, the group is not exposed to material concentrations of credit risk on its trade receivables. 
Quantitative analysis of credit risk to receivables is included in Note 17.
Credit risk associated with cash balances and derivative financial instruments is managed centrally by transacting with an existing relationship 
bank with strong investment grade rating. Accordingly, the group’s associated credit risk is limited. The group has no significant concentration of 
credit risk. 
The group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial 
instruments, in the group balance sheet (see Note 20). 
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 69
2. Financial risk management continued
Capital management 
The Board considers equity shareholders’ funds together with committed debt facilities as capital for the purposes of funding the group’s 
operations. Total managed capital at 31 December is:
 
2011
£m
2010
 £m
Equity shareholders’ funds (page 60) 604.2 513.6
Committed debt facilities 500.9 229.5
1,105.1 743.1
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognised as a 
deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Board of directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders and the level of dividends to 
ordinary shareholders. 
The Board encourages employees to hold shares in the company. This is carried out through a Save As You Earn option scheme in the UK, as well 
as Performance Share Plans. Full details of these schemes are given in the Share-based payments note (Note 25) of these accounts. 
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings, the advantages and 
security afforded by a sound capital position and the benefits of an implied investment grade credit rating.
In line with this objective, the group financed its 2011 acquisitions from existing cash and a new US$550 million five-year revolving credit facility. 
The main financial covenants in the company’s debt facilities are the ratio of net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation and the ratio of finance charges to adjusted earnings before interest, tax and amortisation. At 31 December 2011 the company 
had, and is expected to continue to have, significant headroom under these financial covenant ratios.
From time to time the group purchases its own shares in the market; the timing of these purchases depends on market prices. Buy and sell 
decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board. 
There were no changes to the group’s approach to capital management during the year. 
Neither the company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
3. Adjusted performance measures 
Spectris uses adjusted figures as key performance measures in addition to those reported under adopted IFRS. Adjusted figures exclude certain 
non-operational items which management has defined as amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets, acquisition-
related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments, acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory, profits or losses on 
termination or disposal of businesses, unrealised changes in the fair value of financial instruments, gains or losses on retranslation of short-term 
inter-company loan balances, related tax effects and other tax items which do not form part of the underlying tax rate (see Note 10). 
Management has modified the definition of the adjusted performance measures to include acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory 
carried at fair value less cost to sell, to provide an adjusted profit measure that will include results from acquired businesses on a consistent basis 
over time to assist comparison of performance. This adjustment was not material in the past.
The adjusted performance measures are derived from the reported figures under adopted IFRS as follows:
Adjusted operating profit
Note
2011
£m
2010 
£m
Operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 175.8 127.9
Net acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments 28 1.8 1.9 
Acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory 28 2.1 –
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 14 21.8 12.3 
Adjusted operating profit 201.5 142.1
   Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 70
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
3. Adjusted performance measures continued 
Adjusted operating profit by segment – 2011
Note 
Materials 
Analysis 
£m
Test and
 Measurement
 £m
In-line
Instrumentation
 £m
Industrial 
Controls 
£m
2011 
Total 
£m
Operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 56.0 48.5 60.3 11.0 175.8 
Net acquisition-related costs and contingent 
consideration fair value adjustments – 0.3 (0.9) 2.4 1.8 
Acquisition-related fair value adjustments to 
inventory – – 0.2 1.9 2.1 
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible 
assets 4.9 5.9 4.2 6.8 21.8 
Adjusted operating profit: segment result under 
adopted IFRS 4 60.9 54.7 63.8 22.1 201.5 
Adjusted operating profit by segment – 2010
Note 
Materials 
Analysis 
£m
Test and
 Measurement
 £m
In-line
Instrumentation
 £m
Industrial 
Controls 
£m
2010 
Total 
£m
Operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 34.7 28.3 57.1 7.8 127.9 
Net acquisition-related costs and contingent 
consideration fair value adjustments 1.2 0.2 0.3 0.2 1.9
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible 
assets 3.6 6.3 0.9 1.5 12.3 
Adjusted operating profit: segment result under 
adopted IFRS 4 39.5 34.8 58.3 9.5 142.1
Return on sales by segment – 2011
Materials 
Analysis 
Test and
 Measurement
In-line
Instrumentation
Industrial 
Controls 
2011
Total 
Using operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 16.6% 14.0% 19.5% 9.7% 15.9%
Using adjusted operating profit 18.1% 15.8% 20.6% 19.6% 18.2%
Return on sales by segment – 2010
Materials 
Analysis 
Test and
 Measurement
In-line
Instrumentation
Industrial 
Controls 
2010 
Total 
Using operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 12.8% 9.5% 20.9% 13.0% 14.2%
Using adjusted operating profit 14.5% 11.7% 21.3% 15.9% 15.8%
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 71
3. Adjusted performance measures continued 
Reconciliation to adjusted profit before tax and adjusted operating profit 
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit before tax as reported under adopted IFRS 166.0 119.9 
Add/(deduct):
Net acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments 28 1.8 1.9 
Acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory 28 2.1 –
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 14 21.8 12.3 
Net gains on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 9 (0.4) (0.4)
Profit on disposal of businesses 26 (0.1) –
Decrease/(increase) in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 20 0.4 (1.4)
Adjusted profit before tax 191.6 132.3 
Adjusted net finance costs (see below) 9.9 9.8 
Adjusted operating profit 201.5 142.1 
Adjusted net finance costs
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Net interest costs as reported under adopted IFRS 9 (9.9) (8.0)
Decrease/(increase) in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 20 0.4 (1.4)
Net gains on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 9 (0.4) (0.4)
Adjusted net finance costs (9.9) (9.8)
Adjusted operating cash flow
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Net cash from operating activities under adopted IFRS 169.3 154.4 
Acquisition-related costs paid 28 3.1 1.9 
Corporation tax paid 35.1 21.0 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and software (29.2) (18.9)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.8 1.4
Adjusted operating cash flow 179.1 159.8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 72
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
3. Adjusted performance measures continued 
Adjusted earnings per share
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit after tax as reported under adopted IFRS 126.3 96.2 
Adjusted for:
Net acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments 28 1.8 1.9 
Acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory 28 2.1 –
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 14 21.8 12.3 
Profit on disposal of businesses 26 (0.1) –
Decrease/(increase) in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 20 0.4 (1.4)
Net gains on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 9 (0.4) (0.4)
Tax effect of the above and other non-recurring items 10 (7.8) (8.3)
Adjusted earnings 144.1 100.3
Weighted average number of shares outstanding (millions) 12 116.2 115.8
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 124.1 86.6
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
Note 2011 2010
Adjusted earnings (as above) (£m) 144.1 100.3
Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding (millions) 12 118.1 117.9
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence) 122.0 85.1
Basic and diluted earnings per share in accordance with IAS 33 are disclosed in Note 12.
Analysis of net debt for management purposes
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Bank overdrafts 1.1 1.4
Bank loans – secured 1.9 2.2
Bank loans – unsecured 298.3 48.3
Unsecured loan notes 85.3 85.3
Cross-currency interest rate swaps – currency portion 20 11.2 13.7
Total borrowings 397.8 150.9
Cash balances 18 (41.6) (64.7)
Net debt 356.2 86.2
4. Operating segments 
The group has four reportable segments, as described below, which are the group’s strategic business units. These units offer different 
applications, assist companies at various stages of the production cycle and are focused towards specific industries. These segments reflect the 
internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (considered to be the Board) on a regular basis. The following summary 
describes the operations in each of the group’s reportable segments.
•	 Materials Analysis provides a range of analytical instrumentation to the metals and mining, pharmaceutical and fine chemicals, and 
electronics industries, and also to academic and research institutions.
•	 Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement and analysis equipment and software for product design optimisation, manufacturing 
control and environmental monitoring systems.
•	 In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical measurement, asset monitoring and on-line controls for both primary processing and the 
converting industries.
•	 Industrial Controls supplies process measurement, monitoring and control instrumentation and networking products for manufacturing industries.
Further details of the nature of these segments and the products and services they provide are contained in the Business Review on pages  
4 to 27.
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 73
4. Operating segments continued 
Information about reportable segments 
Segment revenue Inter-segment revenue External customer revenue Reportable segment profit
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Materials Analysis 337.5 271.7 – (0.1) 337.5 271.6 60.9 39.5 
Test and Measurement 347.3 298.2 (0.4) (0.8) 346.9 297.4 54.7 34.8 
In-line Instrumentation 309.2 273.7 (0.3) (0.6) 308.9 273.1 63.8 58.3 
Industrial Controls 113.3 60.5 (0.4) (0.7) 112.9 59.8 22.1 9.5 
Eliminate inter-segment sales (1.1) (2.2) 1.1 2.2 – – – –
Total continuing operations 1,106.2 901.9 – – 1,106.2 901.9 201.5 142.1 
Net acquisition-related costs and 
contingent consideration fair value 
adjustments (1.8) (1.9)
Acquisition-related fair value 
adjustments to inventory (2.1) –
Amortisation of acquisition-related 
intangibles (21.8) (12.3)
Operating profit 175.8 127.9 
Profit on disposal of businesses* 0.1 –
Financial income* 7.2 8.2 
Finance costs* (17.1) (16.2)
Profit before tax 166.0 119.9 
Tax* (39.7) (23.7)
Profit after tax 126.3 96.2 
Reportable segment profit is consistent with that presented to the Chief Operating Decision Maker. Inter-segment pricing is on an arm’s length 
basis. Segments are presented on the basis of actual inter-segment charges made. 
* Not allocated to reportable segments in reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker
Carrying amount of segment assets Carrying amount of segment liabilities
†
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Materials Analysis 346.6 256.2 (107.6) (104.6)
Test and Measurement 433.2 346.9 (94.4) (93.9)
In-line Instrumentation 291.8 224.3 (50.1) (46.6)
Industrial Controls 224.7 51.9 (18.6) (7.7)
Total segment assets and liabilities 1,296.3 879.3 (270.7) (252.8)
Cash and borrowings* 41.6 64.7 (386.6) (137.2)
Derivative financial instruments* 0.1 2.3 (14.5) (14.9)
Net pension liability*  – – (13.1) (14.1)
Taxation* 24.9 26.9 (73.8) (40.6)
Consolidated total assets and liabilities 1,362.9 973.2 (758.7) (459.6)
* Not allocated to reportable segments in reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.  
†
 Segment liabilities are presented here on a voluntary basis. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 74
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
4. Operating segments continued 
Additions to non-current assets Depreciation and amortisation Impairment charges
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Materials Analysis 18.7 22.8 10.3 7.4  – – 
Test and Measurement 9.9 13.0 13.1 14.1  – – 
In-line Instrumentation 12.4 24.2 8.4 5.3  – – 
Industrial Controls 345.8 28.8 8.0 2.0  – – 
386.8 88.8 39.8 28.8  – – 
Geographical segments
The group’s operating segments are each located in several geographical locations and sell on to external customers in all parts of the world. No 
individual country amounts to more than 3% of turnover, other than those noted below.
The following is an analysis of revenue by geographical destination.
Materials 
Analysis 
£m
Test and
 Measurement
 £m
In-line
Instrumentation
 £m
Industrial 
Controls 
£m
2011 
Total 
£m
UK 11.8 13.1 8.4 3.3 36.6
Germany 20.0 65.7 28.1 7.7 121.5
France 14.1 20.2 9.3 1.8 45.4
Rest of Europe* 56.2 62.5 52.3 6.0 177.0
USA 60.6 52.7 76.2 68.1 257.6
Rest of North America 11.7 4.7 7.9 6.8 31.1
Japan 28.5 29.1 29.6 0.7 87.9
China 46.9 43.9 50.0 8.5 149.3
South Korea 13.6 12.9 6.1 2.7 35.3
Rest of Asia Pacific 40.8 21.9 20.8 5.5 89.0
Rest of the world 33.3 20.2 20.2 1.8 75.5
337.5 346.9 308.9 112.9 1,106.2 
Materials 
Analysis 
£m
Test and
 Measurement
 £m
In-line
Instrumentation
 £m
Industrial 
Controls 
£m
2010 
Total 
£m
UK 10.5 11.3 7.6 2.0 31.4 
Germany 19.0 54.7 26.0 4.8 104.5 
France 11.7 18.1 7.8 1.3 38.9 
Rest of Europe* 43.8 56.2 46.9 3.5 150.4 
USA 55.5 49.5 63.0 34.9 202.9 
Rest of North America 8.7 4.9 8.0 2.8 24.4 
Japan 19.2 23.5 30.1 0.4 73.2 
China 33.0 32.4 41.5 4.3 111.2 
South Korea 10.9 11.2 5.1 1.7 28.9
Rest of Asia Pacific 32.3 19.3 18.7 3.3 73.6
Rest of the world 27.0 16.3 18.4 0.8 62.5
271.6 297.4 273.1 59.8 901.9
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 75
4. Operating segments continued 
The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of non-current segment assets, analysed by the geographical area in which the assets are 
located.
Non-current assets
2011
£m
2010
£m
UK 80.1 75.6
Germany 27.5 29.3
France 0.2 0.4
Rest of Europe* 281.6 260.4
USA 450.6 124.9
Rest of North America 5.9 6.3
Japan 4.1 4.2
China 10.1 13.1
South Korea 0.2 0.2
Rest of Asia Pacific 41.6 43.4
Rest of the world 1.8 5.7
903.7 563.5
* Principally in Denmark and Switzerland
5. Revenue 
An analysis of the group’s revenue is as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Sale of goods 963.6 778.3 
Services rendered 142.6 123.6 
Revenue 1,106.2 901.9
No individual customer accounted for more than 2% of external revenue in either 2011 or 2010. 
Spectris does not have the necessary information readily available to disclose the revenue from external customers for each product and service, 
or each group of similar products and services, and the cost to develop this would be excessive.
6. Operating profit 
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging: 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Net foreign exchange losses 0.3 0.3 
Research and development expenditure 75.8 64.6 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14.9 14.4 
Amortisation of intangible assets 24.9 14.4 
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.4) (0.1)
Research and development expenditure now includes costs that relate to specific customer contracts. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 76
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
6. Operating profit continued 
Auditor’s remuneration
2011
£m
2010
£m
Fees payable to the company’s auditor for audit of the group’s annual accounts* 0.6 0.4
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– the audit of the company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.1 1.0
– tax services 0.4 0.5
– corporate finance related
†
0.6 –
2.7 1.9
* Increase relates to additional work performed over significant acquisitions in the year
†
 Services related to acquisitions
7. Employee costs 
Employee costs, including directors’ remuneration, comprise:
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Wages and salaries 295.6 261.0 
Social security costs 50.4 43.0 
Defined benefit pension plans: current service cost 8 0.9 0.7 
Defined benefit pension plans: past service credit 8 – (2.9)
Defined benefit pension plans: settlements 8 (0.3) –
Defined contribution pension plans 8 10.4 9.0 
Equity-settled share-based payment expense 6.4 6.6
Cash-settled share-based payment expense 0.9 0.7
364.3 318.1
Where it is not possible to incentivise managers of the group’s operating companies with equity-settled options, they are issued with cash-settled 
options. The charge for these awards is adjusted to reflect the expected and actual levels of options that vest and the fair value is based on either 
the share price at date of exercise or the share price at the reporting date if sooner. The impact has progressively become more significant and 
as such these options are now separately disclosed. The statement of cash flows reflects this change as a movement in other payables, and the 
comparative has been amended accordingly. 
Directors’ remuneration
2011
£m
2010
£m
Short-term benefits 2.7 2.2
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2
Equity-settled share-based payment expense 1.0 1.1
3.8 3.5
Further details of directors’ remuneration and share options are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 54.
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 77
7. Employee costs continued
Average number of employees
2011
Number
2010
Number
Production and engineering 3,270 2,904
Sales and marketing 2,534 2,296
Administrative 643 581
6,447 5,781
8. Retirement benefit schemes
Spectris plc operates funded defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans for the group’s qualifying employees in the UK. In addition, 
11 overseas subsidiaries (2010: 12 overseas subsidiaries) in three overseas countries provide defined benefit plans. Other UK and overseas 
subsidiaries have their own defined contribution plans invested in independent funds.
Defined contribution plans
The total cost of the defined contribution plans for the year ended 31 December 2011 was £10.4m (2010: £9.0m). There were no outstanding or 
prepaid contributions to these plans as at 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
Defined benefit plans
The last full actuarial valuations were carried out as at the following dates:
Plan name
Date of last full actuarial valuation
German:
Brüel & Kjær GmbH* 31 December 2011
Brüel & Kjær Vibro GmbH 31 December 2011
BTG Instruments GmbH (formerly BTG Mütek GmbH) 31 December 2011
Spectris Germany GmbH (formerly Spectris GmbH Sensoren und Systeme) 31 December 2011
Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik GmbH* 31 December 2011
PANalytical GmbH 31 December 2011
Dutch:
HBM Netherlands BV 31 December 2009
Brüel & Kjær BV 31 December 2009
Brüel & Kjær Vibro AS, Dutch branch (formerly Brüel & Kjær Vibro BV) 31 December 2009
Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik GmbH, Dutch branch* 31 December 2009
Swiss:
BTG Eclépens SA 31 December 2011
UK:
Spectris Pension Plan 31 December 2008
* The previous LDS Test and Measurement plans have been included into other Dutch and German plans
The valuations were updated to 31 December 2011 for IAS 19 purposes by qualified independent actuaries.
A valuation is underway in relation to the Spectris Pension Plan (UK). Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 78
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
8. Retirement benefit schemes continued
The total company contributions made to the defined benefit plans during the year ended 31 December 2011 were £4.1m (2010: £5.6m). 
Contributions for 2012 are expected to be as follows:
Plan name 
Expected 2012 contributions 
£m
German:
Spectris Germany GmbH 0.1
Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik GmbH 0.4
Swiss:
BTG Eclépens SA 0.9
UK:
Spectris Pension Plan 2.6
Total 4.0
The above contribution rates are subject to review at future valuations and periodic certifications of the Schedule of Contributions. 
The Spectris Pension Plan (UK) was closed to future accural of benefits with effect from 31 December 2009.
The major assumptions used by the actuary to value the liabilities of the defined benefit plans were:
UK plans
2011
% p.a.
2010
% p.a.
Discount rate 4.70 5.40
Salary increases 4.50 4.90
Pension increases in payment:
RPI max 5% (LPI)* 2.90 3.20
RPI max 3% 2.40 2.60
RPI max 2.5% 2.10 2.30
RPI min 3%, max 5% 3.60 3.70
CPI max 5% 2.10 2.70
Pension increases in deferment:
RPI 3.00 3.40
CPI 2.10 2.70
Inflation assumption:
RPI 3.00 3.40
CPI 2.10 2.70
*LPI is Limited Price Indexation
Mortality rate assumptions:
Pensioner life expectancy assumed in the 31 December 2011 valuation is based on the following table:
Current and future pensioners PxA00 tables with medium cohort projections and a +1 year age rating and 
a 1% p.a. underpin to future improvements
Samples of the age which pensioners are assumed to live to are as follows:
Males Females
Pensioner aged 65 in 2011 86.7 89.0
Pensioner aged 65 in 2021 87.6 90.0
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 79
8. Retirement benefit schemes continued
German plans
2011
% p.a.
2010
% p.a.
Discount rate 4.70 4.80
Salary increases 3.00 3.00
Pension increases in payment 2.00 2.00
Inflation assumption 2.00 2.00
Mortality rate assumptions:
Pensioner life expectancy assumed in the 31 December 2011 valuation is based on the following table:
Current pensioners and future pensioners Dr K Heubeck pension tables 2005 G
Samples of the age which pensioners are assumed to live to are as follows:
Males Females
Pensioner aged 60 in 2011 83.5 87.6
Pensioner aged 60 in 2021 84.8 88.9
Dutch plans
2011
% p.a.
2010
% p.a.
Discount rate 5.20 5.20
Salary increases 3.00 3.00
Inflation assumption 2.00 2.00
Mortality rate assumptions:
Pensioner life expectancy assumed in the 31 December 2011 valuation is based on the following table:
Current pensioners and future pensioners Prognosetafel 2005-2050 tables
Sample ages to which pensioners are expected to live are not available (but this table covers improving life expectancies and is a general standard 
in the Netherlands). These details will be provided when the next actuarial assessment of this pension scheme is made at 31 December 2012.
Swiss plans
2011
% p.a.
2010
% p.a.
Discount rate 2.25 2.75
Salary increases 1.00 1.00
Inflation assumption 1.00 1.00
Mortality rate assumptions:
Pensioner life expectancy assumed in the 31 December 2011 valuation is based on the following table:
Current pensioners and future pensioners BVG 2010 P12
Samples of the age which pensioners are assumed to live to are as follows:
Males Females
Pensioner aged 60 in 2011 84.7 87.0
Pensioner aged 60 in 2021 85.6 87.9 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 80
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
8. Retirement benefit schemes continued
Amounts recognised in the statement of income
UK plans Overseas plans Total
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current service cost – – 0.9 0.7 0.9 0.7
Interest cost 5.1 5.3 0.9 0.7 6.0 6.0
Expected return on scheme assets (5.6) (5.3) (0.5) (0.2) (6.1) (5.5)
Settlement gain (UK) (0.3) –  – –  (0.3) –
Past service credit – (2.9)  – – – (2.9)
 (0.8) (2.9) 1.3 1.2 0.5 (1.7)
On materiality grounds, the current service cost is recognised solely in administrative expenses in the statement of income. The interest cost and 
expected return on scheme assets are recognised in finance costs and financial income, respectively, in the statement of income. Actuarial losses 
or gains are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
During the year, insurance premiums for death-in-service benefits were paid amounting to £0.3m (2010: £0.2m).
The total return on scheme assets in the year (and reimbursed rights) was £12.3m (2010: £10.2m).
In July 2010, the UK government announced that CPI should be used as the basis for statutory minimum pension increases instead of RPI. The 
impact on benefits of this change for the UK plan was a credit to the statement of income in 2010 of £2.9m, within administrative expenses.
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
UK plans Overseas plans Total
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in 
the current year (1.0) 3.2 (1.8) (0.8) (2.8) 2.4
Exchange gains/(losses) in the current 
year – – 0.2 (0.1) 0.2 (0.1)
Loss on inclusion of Dutch plan – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Total (losses)/gains recognised in the 
current year (1.0) 3.2 (1.6) (1.1) (2.6) 2.1
Cumulative actuarial losses since 
1 January 2004 (35.1) (34.1) (5.7) (4.1) (40.8) (38.2)
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet
UK plans Overseas plans Total
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Present value of defined benefit 
obligations (104.3) (96.9) (28.5) (26.0) (132.8) (122.9)
Fair value of scheme assets 103.0 93.2 16.7 15.6 119.7 108.8
Net deficit in schemes (1.3) (3.7) (11.8) (10.4) (13.1) (14.1)
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 81
8. Retirement benefit schemes continued
Reconciliation of movement in net deficit
UK plans Overseas plans Total
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 January (3.7) (14.3) (10.4) (9.2) (14.1) (23.5)
Expected return on plan assets 5.6 5.3 0.5 0.2 6.1 5.5
Contributions from sponsoring 
company 2.6 4.5 1.5 1.1 4.1 5.6
Current service cost – – (0.9) (0.7) (0.9) (0.7)
Interest cost (5.1) (5.3) (0.9) (0.7) (6.0) (6.0)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (1.0) 3.2 (1.8) (0.8) (2.8) 2.4
Settlement gain (UK) 0.3 – – – 0.3 –
Exchange difference – – 0.2 (0.1) 0.2 (0.1)
Past service credit – 2.9 – – – 2.9
Inclusion of three additional Dutch 
plans – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 31 December (1.3) (3.7) (11.8) (10.4) (13.1) (14.1)
Analysis of movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation
UK plans Overseas plans Total
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 January 96.9 96.4 26.0 20.9 122.9 117.3
Current service cost – – 0.9 0.7 0.9 0.7
Interest cost 5.1 5.3 0.9 0.7 6.0 6.0
Actuarial losses 7.0 1.6 2.0 0.7 9.0 2.3
Settlement gain (UK) (0.3) – – – (0.3) –
Exchange difference – – (0.3) 1.6 (0.3) 1.6
Contributions from scheme 
members – – 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.7
Benefits paid (4.4) (3.5) (1.8) (1.1) (6.2) (4.6)
Past service credit – (2.9) – – – (2.9)
Settlement of Swiss plan – – – 1.2 – 1.2
Inclusion of three additional Dutch 
plans – – – 0.6 – 0.6
At 31 December 104.3 96.9 28.5 26.0 132.8 122.9
Analysis of defined benefit obligation
UK plans Overseas plans Total
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Present value of unfunded 
defined benefit obligation – – 5.9 6.8 5.9 6.8
Present value of funded defined 
benefit obligation 104.3 96.9 22.6 19.2 126.9 116.1 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 82
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
8. Retirement benefit schemes continued
Reconciliation of movement in fair value of plan assets
UK plans Overseas plans Total
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 January 93.2 82.1 15.6 11.7 108.8 93.8
Expected return on plan assets 5.6 5.3 0.5 0.2 6.1 5.5
Actuarial gains/(losses) 6.0 4.8 0.2 (0.1) 6.2 4.7
Exchange difference – – (0.1) 1.5 (0.1) 1.5
Contributions from sponsoring 
company 2.6 4.5 1.5 1.1 4.1 5.6
Contributions from scheme 
members – – 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.7
Benefits paid (4.4) (3.5) (1.8) (1.1) (6.2) (4.6)
Settlement of Swiss plan – – – 1.2 – 1.2
Inclusion of three additional 
Dutch plans – – – 0.4 – 0.4
At 31 December 103.0 93.2 16.7 15.6 119.7 108.8
Analysis of the scheme assets and expected rate of return
Expected return Fair value of assets
UK plans
2011
%
2010
%
2011
£m
2010
£m
Equity instruments 7.5 7.3 32.1 29.0
Debt instruments 5.3 5.5 67.3 66.2
Other assets 3.0 4.0 3.6 (2.0)
5.9 6.1 103.0 93.2
Expected return Fair value of assets
German plans
2011
%
2010
%
2011
£m
2010
£m
Insurance policies 4.7 4.8 1.3 1.2
Expected return Fair value of assets
Dutch plans
2011
%
2010
%
2011
£m
2010
£m
Insurance policies 4.7 5.2 1.2 1.3
 
Expected return Fair value of assets
Swiss plans
2011
%
2010
%
2011
£m
2010
£m
Insurance policies 2.5 3.0 14.2 13.1
The overall expected return on assets is calculated as the weighted average of the expected return on each individual asset class. The expected 
return on equity instruments is the sum of inflation, dividend yield and economic growth, less investment expenses. The return on debt 
instruments is based on the current market yield on bonds. The expected return on other assets reflects market conditions for interest rate swaps.
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 83
8. Retirement benefit schemes continued
History of experience adjustments
2011
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
2007*
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (132.8) (122.9) (117.3) (98.5) (93.7)
Fair value of scheme assets 119.7 108.8 93.8 90.0 82.6
Deficit in the scheme (13.1) (14.1) (23.5) (8.5) (11.1)
Experience adjustment on scheme liabilities: 
Amount (£m) (1.2) (2.3) (23.0) 10.0 4.8
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) (0.9) (1.9) (19.6) 10.2 5.1
Experience adjustment on scheme assets: 
Amount (£m) 6.2 4.7 3.3 (8.0) 1.1
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 5.2 4.3 3.5 (9.0) 1.3
* The history of experience for 2007 excludes the German and Dutch LDS Test and Measurement plans as they were new acquisitions in 2008.  
It also excludes the Swiss plan that had not previously been treated as a defined benefit arrangement.
9. Finance costs and financial income
Financial income
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Interest receivable 0.7 0.9 
Increase in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 20 – 1.4 
Net gains on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 0.4 0.4
Expected return on pension scheme assets 6.1 5.5 
7.2 8.2
Finance costs
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Interest payable on loans and overdrafts 10.5 9.9 
Decrease in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 20 0.4 –
Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 6.0 6.0 
Other finance costs 0.2 0.3
17.1 16.2
Net interest costs of £9.8m (2010: £9.0m) for the purposes of the calculation of interest cover comprise bank interest receivable of £0.7m  
(2010: £0.9m), and interest payable on loans and overdrafts of £10.5m (2010: £9.9m). Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 84
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
10. Taxation
2011 2010
UK
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
Overseas 
£m
Total
£m
Current tax charge 6.3 41.9 48.2 4.8 24.5 29.3
Adjustments in respect of current tax 
of prior years (0.4) (1.5) (1.9) (0.6) (6.8) (7.4)
Deferred tax – origination and 
reversal of temporary differences (3.3) (3.3) (6.6) 1.3 0.5 1.8
2.6 37.1 39.7 5.5 18.2 23.7
The standard rate of corporation tax for the year, based on the weighted average of tax rates applied to the group’s profits, is 28.5% (2010: 
27.6%). The tax charge for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit before taxation 166.0 119.9
Corporation tax at standard rate of 28.5% (2010: 27.6%) 47.3 33.1
Non-taxable income and gains (3.8) (2.8)
Non-deductible expenditure 1.8 1.7
Movements on unrecognised deferred tax assets 0.5 0.3
Research and development tax incentives (3.4) (2.1)
Other current year tax items (0.3) (0.4)
Change in tax rates (0.1) (0.1)
Adjustments relating to prior year acquisitions and disposals – (4.3)
Other adjustments to prior year current and deferred tax charges (2.3) (1.7)
Total taxation 39.7 23.7
Factors that may affect the future tax charge 
The group’s tax charge in future years is likely to be affected by the proportion of profits arising, and the effective tax rates, in the various 
territories in which the group operates.
Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income
2011
£m
2010
£m
Tax on net (loss)/gain on effective portion of changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts (0.4) 0.4
Tax on changes in fair value of effective portion of hedges of net investment in overseas operations – (0.9)
Tax on actuarial (loss)/gain arising on pension schemes, net of foreign exchange (0.7) 0.4
Aggregate current and deferred tax credit relating to items that are charged directly to the statement of 
comprehensive income (1.1) (0.1)
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85
10. Taxation continued
The following tax charges relate to items of income and expense that are excluded from the group’s adjusted performance measures.
Tax on items of income and expense that are excluded from the group’s adjusted profit before tax
2011
£m
2010
£m
Tax (credit)/charge on unrealised change in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps (0.1) 0.4
Tax credit on amortisation of intangible assets (6.5) (4.0)
Tax credit on acquisition-related costs (0.4) (0.1)
Tax credit on acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory  (0.8) –
Tax credit on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances – (0.3)
Tax credit relating to prior year acquisitions and disposals – (4.3)
Total tax credit (7.8) (8.3)
The effective adjusted tax rate for the year was 24.8% (2010: 24.2%) as set out in the reconciliation below.
Reconciliation of total tax charge on adopted IFRS basis to adjusted tax charge
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Total tax charge on adopted IFRS basis 39.7 23.7
Tax credit on items of income and expense that are excluded from the group’s adjusted profit 
before tax 7.8 8.3
Adjusted tax charge 47.5 32.0
Adjusted profit before tax 3 191.6 132.3
11. Dividends
Amounts recognised and paid as distributions to owners of the company in the year
2011
£m
2010
£m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 20.9p (2009: 17.85p) per share 24.3 20.7
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 8.2p (2010: 7.1p) per share 9.5 8.2
33.8 28.9
Amounts arising in respect of the year 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 8.2p (2010: 7.1p) per share 9.5 8.2
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 25.4p (2010: 20.9p) per share 29.6 24.2
39.1 32.4
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these 
financial statements. 
12. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (excluding treasury shares).
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year but adjusted for the effects of dilutive options. The key features of share option contracts 
are described in Note 25. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 86
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
12. Earnings per share continued
Basic earnings per share
2011 2010
Profit after tax (£m) 126.3 96.2
Weighted average number of shares outstanding (millions) 116.2 115.8
Basic earnings per share (pence) 108.7 83.1
Diluted earnings per share
2011 2010
Profit after tax (£m) 126.3 96.2
Basic weighted average number of shares outstanding (millions) 116.2 115.8
Weighted average number of dilutive 5p ordinary shares under option (millions) 2.6 2.2
Weighted average number of 5p ordinary shares that would have been issued at average market value from 
proceeds of dilutive share options (millions) (0.7) (0.1)
Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding (millions) 118.1 117.9
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 106.9 81.6
13. Goodwill 
Cost Note £m
At 1 January 2010 363.5
Recognised on acquisitions 28 24.3
Adjustments to contingent consideration for transactions under IFRS 3 (2004) 28 8.3
Exchange differences (3.7)
At 31 December 2010 392.4
Recognised on acquisitions 28 195.8
Adjustments to contingent consideration for transactions under IFRS 3 (2004) 28 (1.0)
Exchange differences (6.5)
At 31 December 2011 580.7
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2010 38.7
Exchange differences (1.4)
At 31 December 2010 37.3
Exchange differences (1.1)
At 31 December 2011 36.2
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2011 544.5
At 31 December 2010 355.1
At 1 January 2010 324.8
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 87
13. Goodwill continued
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, goodwill is allocated to the group’s cash-generating units which are 
represented by the group’s trading businesses. The most significant elements of the group’s total consolidated goodwill of £544.5m at  
31 December 2011 are allocated to PANalytical: £95.0m (2010: £97.7m), BTG: £53.6m (2010: £54.7m), HBM: £66.9m (2010: £72.3m), Brüel & 
Kjær Sound & Vibration: £73.2m (2010: £68.9m) and Omega Engineering: £174.7m (2010: n/a). Except for Omega Engineering, the acquired 
entities are quickly integrated into existing group companies with the result that it is not appropriate to consider their individual performance 
when determining cash-generating units and performing goodwill impairment testing. Each cash-generating unit is assessed for impairment 
annually and whenever there is a specific indication of impairment. Omega Engineering is a stand-alone entity which is operating separately 
within the Industrial Controls segment. As such, it is being treated as a cash-generating unit for goodwill impairment testing. For all cash-
generating units, there were no indications of impairment in 2011.
As part of the annual impairment test review, the carrying value of goodwill (for all businesses excluding Omega Engineering) has been assessed with 
reference to value in use to perpetuity, reflecting the projected cash flows of each cash-generating unit based on actual operating results, the most 
recent budget for the next financial year, and strategic review projections for 2013 and 2014. For Omega Engineering the carrying value of goodwill 
has been assessed by reference to the acquisition business plan that assumed a sales growth in line with that anticipated for the rest of the Spectris 
group, margins consistent with recent history, certain synergies in procurement and sales channels and reduced working capital. 
The key assumptions on which the value in use calculations are based (for all businesses excluding Omega Engineering) relate to business 
performance over the next three years, long-term growth rates beyond 2014 and the discount rates applied. There are no individually significant 
business level cash flow assumptions in respect of any business that materially impact the impairment testing. The key judgements are the level 
of revenue and operating margins anticipated and the proportion of operating profit converted to cash in each year. Growth rates for the period 
beyond 2014 are assumed to be 2.5% (2010: 2.5%), which is considered to be at or below long-term market trends for each business. The cash 
flow projections have been discounted using entity-specific pre-tax discount rates between 13% and 18% (2010: 12% and 17%). These rates 
have been determined by taking the size of business and specific geographic and industry risk factors into account. No impairment charge has 
been required to be recognised in either 2011 or 2010.
The directors do not consider that there are any reasonable possible sensitivities for these businesses that could arise in the next 12 months 
that could result in an impairment charge arising. For illustration, the directors have continued to consider the following specific individual 
sensitivities: 
•	 a 2% increase in the pre-tax discount rate applied to each business would result in an impairment of £nil (2010: £nil); 
•	 if the long-term growth rate assumption was reduced to 1% no impairment would arise (2010: £nil); and 
•	 if the cash flow projections of all businesses were reduced by 25% for the next two years no impairment would arise (2010: £nil).
The directors consider that operating results in 2011 confirm that none of the group’s brought forward trading businesses have suffered 
permanent diminutions in value as a result of recent difficult economic conditions.
Reflecting the fact that it represents 32% of total goodwill, the directors consider the goodwill related to the Omega Engineering business to 
be individually significant and accordingly have provided additional commentary for this business. The lowest level of headroom on goodwill 
impairment testing among the cash-generating units at 31 December 2011 is in respect of the Omega Engineering business, reflecting the 
proximity of the acquisition date to the year end. However, having regard to trading activity post acquisition and the conservative assumptions 
built into the acquisition business case, the directors do not believe there is a significant risk of material impairment of goodwill arising in the next 
12 months. The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flows is 16% with a long-term growth rate assumption of 2.5% per annum and a long-
term conversion of operating profit to cash of 90%. Reflecting the highly dispersed customer base, wide range of industries served and extensive 
product list, no other individual assumptions have been identified that are material to this assessment. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 88
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
14. Other intangible assets 
Cost
Patents
and
contractual
rights
£m
Trade 
names
£m
Technology
£m
Customer-related 
intangibles
£m
Software
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 12.6 – 41.1 35.1 28.1 116.9 
Additions  – – –  – 1.9 1.9
Recognised on acquisitions  4.1 – 12.1 20.3 0.1 36.6 
Disposals  – – –  – (0.5) (0.5)
Exchange differences 0.3 – 2.0 1.5 (0.2) 3.6 
At 31 December 2010 17.0 – 55.2 56.9 29.4 158.5 
Additions – – – – 2.7 2.7 
Transfers from property, plant and equipment – – – – 2.5 2.5 
Recognised on acquisitions (Note 28) 3.2 63.3 43.7 19.2 0.2 129.6 
Disposals – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Exchange differences 0.2 0.3 – 0.3 (0.3) 0.5
At 31 December 2011 20.4 63.6 98.9 76.4 34.2 293.5 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2010 9.5  – 6.7 9.3 21.1 46.6
Disposals  – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Charge for the year 1.5  – 5.0 5.8 2.1 14.4
Exchange differences 0.2  – – 0.6 (0.4) 0.4
At 31 December 2010 11.2  – 11.7 15.7 22.5 61.1 
Disposals – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Charge for the year 1.2 0.8 9.1 10.7 3.1 24.9
Transfers from property, plant and equipment – – – – 1.9 1.9
Exchange differences – – 0.1 0.3 (0.4) –
At 31 December 2011 12.4 0.8 20.9 26.7 26.8 87.6
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2011 8.0 62.8 78.0 49.7 7.4 205.9
At 31 December 2010 5.8  – 43.5 41.2 6.9 97.4 
At 1 January 2010 3.1  – 34.4 25.8 7.0 70.3
Of the total amortisation charge of £24.9m (2010: £14.4m), the amount attributable to the amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 
was £21.8m (2010: £12.3m).
The transfers from property, plant and equipment to software in 2010 relate to identifiable software assets.
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 89
15. Property, plant and equipment
Cost
Freehold property
£m
Leasehold property
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 95.9 10.1 136.1 242.1 
Additions 4.6 1.2 11.5 17.3
Recognised on acquisitions  –  – 0.4 0.4
Disposals (1.9) (0.4) (7.3) (9.6)
Transfers from/(to) plant and equipment 0.3  – (0.3)  –
Exchange differences (0.9) 0.5 1.8 1.4
At 31 December 2010 98.0 11.4 142.2 251.6 
Additions 9.8 0.8 15.9 26.5
Recognised on acquisitions (Note 28) 25.4 0.1 7.7 33.2
Disposals (0.2) (0.4) (6.7) (7.3)
Transfers to other intangible assets – – (2.5) (2.5)
Exchange differences (1.9) 0.1 (1.5) (3.3)
At 31 December 2011 131.1 12.0 155.1 298.2
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2010 30.6 6.7 97.2 134.5 
Charge for the year 2.6 0.9 10.9 14.4 
Disposals (1.8) (0.4) (6.5) (8.7)
Exchange differences (0.5) 0.3 1.1 0.9 
At 31 December 2010 30.9 7.5 102.7 141.1 
Charge for the year 2.9 1.3 10.7 14.9
Disposals (0.1) (0.4) (6.4) (6.9)
Transfers to other intangible assets – – (1.9) (1.9)
Exchange differences (0.8) 0.1 (1.0) (1.7)
At 31 December 2011 32.9 8.5 104.1 145.5
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2011 98.2 3.5 51.0 152.7
At 31 December 2010 67.1 3.9 39.5 110.5 
At 1 January 2010 65.3 3.4 38.9 107.6
The amount recognised in the carrying amount of items of plant and equipment in the course of its construction was £3.9m (2010: £1.0m). 
No borrowing costs met the required criteria for capitalisation during the year (2010: £nil).
The group has pledged land and buildings having a carrying amount of approximately £1.9m (2010: £2.2m) to secure bank loans granted to  
the group. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 90
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
16. Inventories 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Raw materials 67.2 46.5 
Work in progress 29.4 23.6 
Finished goods 75.2 50.9
171.8 121.0 
In the ordinary course of business, the group makes provision for slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory as appropriate. 
Inventory is stated after charging impairments of £1.6m (2010: £4.0m) and crediting reversals of previous impairments of £1.7m (2010: £2.5m). 
Impairments and reversals of impairments are included within operating profit.
The calculation of the group’s inventory provision requires the use of various estimates and assumptions in relation to the impact of technology 
and market changes on future demand for on-hand inventory across a very large number of individual product lines. Reversals of previous 
inventory provisions arise when these estimates prove pessimistic and actual product demand is higher than assumed. This normally occurs when 
the product lifecycle is longer than anticipated. There are no individually significant provision reversals. The directors do not consider there to be 
significant levels of estimation risk in the determination of inventory provisions with regard to the total value of inventory. 
Inventory carried at fair value less cost to sell is £19.2m (2010: £0.2m) due to the acquisitions as described in Note 28.
In 2011, raw materials and changes in finished goods and work in progress recognised within cost of sales amounted to £301.4m (2010: £243.2m).
17. Trade and other receivables 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade receivables 191.4 168.8 
Prepayments and accrued income 12.3 10.4 
Other receivables 17.1 15.6 
220.8 194.8
Included within prepayments and accrued income and other receivables above are amounts receivable in more than one year of £6.3m (2010: £5.3m). 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing. Standard credit terms provided to customers differ according to business and country, and are typically 
between 30 and 60 days. Trade receivables and other receivables are stated after net impairments recognised and utilised during the year of £4.5m 
(2010: £3.3m) and reversals of impairments of £2.2m (2010: £1.4m). Impairments and reversals of impairments are included within operating profit.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December by geographic region was:
2011
£m
2010
£m
UK 7.7 6.2
Germany 19.1 17.5
France 10.9 10.3
Rest of Europe 37.8 36.5
USA 47.2 37.6
Rest of North America 7.6 5.8
Japan 17.1 15.6
China 12.9 10.6
South Korea 4.9 4.9
Rest of Asia Pacific 14.2 13.7
Rest of the world 12.0 10.1
191.4 168.8
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 91
17. Trade and other receivables continued 
Impairment losses 
The ageing of trade receivables and related impairment provisions at 31 December was:
2011 2010
Gross
£m
Impairment
£m
Gross
£m
Impairment
£m
Not past due 141.3 0.6 128.3 0.3
One month past due 35.0 0.2 27.6 0.1
Two months past due 10.4 0.1 8.1 0.3
Three months past due 5.2 0.2 3.6 0.2
Over three months past due 9.7 9.1 9.0 6.9
201.6 10.2 176.6 7.8
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Balance at 1 January 7.8 5.8
Impairment loss recognised 5.4 4.3
Impairment loss utilised (0.9) (1.0)
Impairment loss released (2.2) (1.4)
Exchange differences 0.1 0.1
Balance at 31 December 10.2 7.8
An impairment has been recorded against the trade receivables that the group believes may not be recoverable. In the case of trade receivables 
that are past due, management makes an assessment of the risk of non-collection, taking into account factors such as any disputes, or other 
factors delaying payment, and the risk of bankruptcy or other failure of the customer to meet their obligations. For trade receivables that are not 
past due, taking into account good historic collection experience, management records an impairment charge only where there is a specific risk 
of non-collection. All trade receivables past due for more than 120 days have been fully provided in line with the group’s credit risk policy. There 
is no material unprovided risk in relation to EU countries. 
The fair value of trade and other receivables approximates to book value due to the short-term maturities associated with these items. There is no 
impairment risk identified with regards to prepayments and accrued income or other receivables where no amounts are past due.
18. Cash and cash equivalents
Analysis of balances of cash and cash equivalents 
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cash balances 41.6 64.7
Bank overdrafts 19 (1.1) (1.4)
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 40.5 63.3
The group’s exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities is disclosed in Note 20. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 92
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
19. Borrowings 
Current
Effective 
interest rate
Earlier of
 repricing date
 or maturity date
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Bank loans – secured see below see below 1.6 0.3
Bank overdrafts on demand 1.1 1.4
2.7 1.7
Non-current
Effective 
interest rate
Earlier of
 repricing date
 or maturity date
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Bank loans – secured see below see below 0.3 1.9
Bank loans – unsecured 1.78% 14 Aug 2016 249.7 –
Bank loans unsecured – $75.6m 3.12% 10 Sep 2015 48.6 48.3
Unsecured loan notes – 2003 $100m 6.08% 15 Oct 2013 64.4 63.9
Unsecured loan notes – 2003 €25m 5.56% 15 Oct 2013 20.9 21.4
Total unsecured borrowings 383.6 133.6
Total non-current borrowings 383.9 135.5
At 31 December 2011, the group had available £104.2m (2010: £80.0m) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all 
conditions precedent had been met.
Secured bank loans 
Bank loans are secured by fixed charges over property at three of the group’s subsidiaries. Of these, £1.4m is denominated in Chinese renminbi 
and is repayable by instalments until December 2012 with a fixed interest rate of 7.5%, £0.4m is denominated in US dollars and is repayable by 
instalments until December 2014 with a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus a small margin, and £0.1m is denominated in euros and is repayable 
by instalments until December 2012 with a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus a small margin.
Unsecured loan notes
The interest rates on the unsecured loan notes are those contracted on the underlying borrowings before taking into account any cross-currency 
interest rate swaps, and remain fixed until redemption. On issue of the US$100m loan notes in October 2003, the group entered into a cross-
currency interest rate swap which has the effect of converting this US dollar borrowing into fixed interest euro-denominated debt. The combined 
effect of the borrowing and swap arrangement results in euro debt of €90.5m with a fixed interest rate of 5.64%. This interest rate remains fixed 
until redemption. 
Under adopted IFRS, where cross-currency interest rate swaps are used, the value of the underlying US dollar borrowing is presented in this 
borrowings note and the value of the related cross-currency interest rate swaps is presented separately within derivative financial instruments in 
Note 20. For management purposes, the value attributed to the portion of the swap arrangements that converts US dollar borrowings into euro 
borrowings is viewed as part of the group’s net debt, as analysed below.
Analysis of net debt 
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Bank overdrafts 1.1 1.4
Bank loans – secured 1.9 2.2
Bank loans – unsecured 298.3 48.3
Unsecured loan notes 85.3 85.3
Cross-currency interest rate swaps – currency portion 20 11.2 13.7
Total borrowings 397.8 150.9
Cash balances 18 (41.6) (64.7)
Net debt 356.2 86.2
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 93
20. Financial instruments
Fair value and carrying amount of financial instruments
2011 2010
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair
value
£m
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 208.5 208.5 184.4 184.4
Trade and other payables excluding deferred income (215.2) (215.2) (209.0) (209.0)
Cash and cash equivalents 41.6 41.6 64.7 64.7
Floating rate borrowings (250.6) (250.6) (1.8) (1.8)
Fixed rate borrowings (136.0) (143.7) (135.4) (145.0)
Forward exchange contracts (1.6) (1.6) 2.3 2.3
Cross-currency interest rate swaps (12.8) (12.8) (14.9) (14.9)
(366.1) (373.8) (109.7) (119.3)
The fair value of floating rate borrowings approximates to the carrying value because interest rates are at floating rates where payments are reset 
to market rates at intervals of less than one year.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments is estimated by discounting the future contracted cash flow, using 
appropriate yield curves, to the net present values.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts outstanding as at 31 December 2011 is a net liability of £1.6m (2010: asset of £2.3m), of which  
£1.7m has been debited to the hedging reserve (2010: £1.9m credit) and £0.1m credited to the statement of income (2010: £0.4m credit). These 
contracts mature over periods not exceeding 15 months. A summary of the movements in the hedging reserve during the year is presented 
below. There was no ineffectiveness arising with regards to cash flow hedges in either 2011 or 2010.
Analysis of movements in hedging reserve
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 January (0.2) (0.5)
Amounts removed from statement of changes in equity and included in statement of income during the year (2.5) (0.6)
Amounts recognised in statement of changes in equity during the year (0.9) 0.9
At 31 December (3.6) (0.2)
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using discounted cash flow techniques based on readily available market data and 
represents a Level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 7.
The amount included in the statement of income is split between revenue and administrative expenses depending on the nature of the hedged item.
The following table shows the contractual forward exchange contracts hedging designated transactional exposures. These contracts mature in 
the next 15 months, therefore, the cash flows and resulting effect on profit and loss are expected to occur within the next 15 months. 
Forward exchange contracts at 31 December 
2011 2010
Foreign currency sale amount (£m) 110.2 93.7
Percentage of total:
US dollar 34% 24%
Euro 37% 41%
Japanese yen 27% 30%
Other 2% 5% Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 94
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
20. Financial instruments continued
Cross-currency interest rate swaps
The value of the group’s cross-currency interest rate swaps can effectively be split into two components: a portion that is attributable to 
converting a 100m US dollar-denominated borrowing liability into a euro-denominated borrowing liability (the currency portion) – the value of 
this portion changes as currency exchange rates change – and a portion that is attributable to converting fixed rate US dollar interest payments 
into fixed rate euro interest payments (the interest portion) – the value of this portion of the swap changes as US dollar variable interest rates, 
euro variable interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates change.
Under adopted IFRS, the underlying US dollar borrowings are required to be presented separately in the balance sheet from the cross-currency 
interest rate swaps. In addition, the fair value of the cross-currency interest rate swaps is required to be recognised in full on the balance sheet.
The table below shows the movements in the total value of the cross-currency interest rate swaps during the year and also how it is attributed to 
its currency and interest portions.
Fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps
Currency 
portion
£m
Interest 
portion
£m
Total 
value
£m
As at 1 January 2010 (18.5) (2.6) (21.1)
Change in fair value recognised in statement of comprehensive income 4.8  – 4.8
Change in fair value recognised in statement of income  – 1.4 1.4
As at 31 December 2010 (13.7) (1.2) (14.9)
Change in fair value recognised in statement of comprehensive income 2.5 – 2.5
Change in fair value recognised in statement of income – (0.4) (0.4)
As at 31 December 2011 (11.2) (1.6) (12.8)
Together with the group’s €25m borrowing, this combination of the underlying US dollar borrowings and cross-currency interest rate swap has 
been designated as a net investment hedge of the group’s net investment in its European businesses. However, the interest portion of the swap 
is ineffective in this hedging relationship. Accordingly, the change in value of the currency portion of the swap is recognised together with the 
change in value of the underlying US dollar borrowings in the statement of comprehensive income, and the change in value of the interest 
portion of the swap is recognised in the statement of income within financing costs. The group’s US$75.6m borrowings have been designated as 
a net investment hedge of the group’s net investment in its US businesses.
The fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps is determined using discounted cash flow techniques based on readily available market data 
and represents a Level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 7. The principal borrowing amounts match exactly with the related 
unsecured loan note borrowings as described in Note 19. 
The table below shows the maturity profile of the gross cash flows related to financial liabilities.
Maturity of financial liabilities
2011
Bank loans and
 overdrafts
£m
Secured 
bank loans
£m
Unsecured 
loans 
£m
Cross-currency 
swap 
£m
Total 
£m
Due within one year 1.1 1.6 12.0 0.4 15.1
Due between one and two years – 0.2 97.5 11.6 109.3
Due between two and five years – 0.1 321.0 – 321.1
1.1 1.9 430.5 12.0 445.5
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 95
20. Financial instruments continued
Maturity of financial liabilities
2010
Bank loans and 
overdrafts
£m
Secured 
bank loans
£m
Unsecured 
loans
£m
Cross-currency 
swap
£m
Total
£m
Due within one year 1.4 0.3 6.6 0.5 8.8
Due between one and two years – 1.7 6.6 0.5 8.8
Due between two and five years – 0.3 143.1 14.2 157.6
1.4 2.3 156.3 15.2 175.2
Trade and other payables (Note 21) are substantially due within one year.
It is not expected that the cash flows described above could occur significantly earlier or at substantially different amounts.
Interest rate exposure of financial assets and liabilities by currency
Financial assets Financial liabilities 2011
Fixed 
rate
£m
Floating 
rate
£m
Non-interest
 bearing
£m
Total
£m
Fixed 
rate
£m
Floating 
rate
£m
Total
£m
Net financial 
assets/
(liabilities)
£m
Sterling – – 0.8 0.8 – – – 0.8
Euro – 10.9 3.2 14.1 (96.6) – (96.6) (82.5)
US dollar – 10.4 1.9 12.3 (48.6) (250.6) (299.2) (286.9)
Japanese yen – 0.2 0.2 0.4 – – – 0.4
Other 0.8 6.8 6.4 14.0 (2.0) – (2.0) 12.0
0.8 28.3 12.5 41.6 (147.2) (250.6) (397.8) (356.2)
Interest rate exposure of financial assets and liabilities by currency
Financial assets Financial liabilities 2010
Fixed 
rate
£m
Floating 
rate
£m
Non-interest
 bearing
£m
Total
£m
Fixed 
rate
£m
Floating 
rate
£m
Total
£m
Net 
financial 
assets/
(liabilities)
£m
Sterling – 38.8 0.2 39.0  –  –  – 39.0
Euro 0.3 5.2 2.7 8.2 (99.1) – (99.1) (90.9)
US dollar 0.4 3.8 0.2 4.4 (48.3) (1.3) (49.6) (45.2)
Japanese yen – 0.7 – 0.7  – (0.1) (0.1) 0.6
Other 2.6 6.0 3.8 12.4 (1.7) (0.4) (2.1) 10.3
3.3 54.5 6.9 64.7 (149.1) (1.8) (150.9) (86.2)
The above exposures are net of the cross-currency interest rate swap. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 96
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
20. Financial instruments continued
Sensitivity analysis 
At 31 December 2011 it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates would decrease the group’s profit before 
tax by approximately £2.2m (2010: increase of £0.5m).
Based on foreign exchange translational exposures for the year ended 31 December 2011 it is estimated that a ten percentage point weakening 
in the value of the US dollar against £ sterling would have decreased the group’s profit before tax by approximately £4.5m (2010: £2.2m), a 
ten percentage point weakening in the value of the euro/Danish krone against £ sterling would have decreased the group’s profit before tax 
by approximately £6.2m (2010: £2.9m) and a ten percentage point weakening in the value of the Swiss franc against £ sterling would have 
decreased the group’s profit before tax by approximately £2.2m (2010: £2.2m). In addition, a ten percentage point weakening in the value of the 
US dollar against £ sterling would have decreased the group’s net assets by approximately £48.8m and a ten percentage point weakening in the 
value of the euro against £ sterling would have decreased the group’s net assets by approximately £54.0m; exposures to other currencies are not 
considered to have a material impact on net assets.
21. Trade and other payables
Current 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade payables 91.9 84.7
Accruals 94.2 85.2
Deferred income 23.6 20.4
Other non-trade payables 17.9 21.8
227.6 212.1
Non-current
Other non-trade payables 11.2 17.3
The fair value of trade and other payables approximates to book value due to the short-term maturities associated with these items. 
The effect of discounting on non-current amounts is not material.
22. Provisions 
Reorganisation
£m
Product 
warranty
£m
Legal,
contractual 
and other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 1.4 8.4 13.6 23.4 
Additional provision in the year 2.1 5.9 7.2 15.2 
Acquired on acquisition – 0.4 0.5 0.9 
Utilised during the year (0.8) (3.7) (1.4) (5.9)
Released during the year (0.7) (0.4) (0.6) (1.7)
At 31 December 2011 2.0 10.6 19.3 31.9 
Provisions are all presented as current liabilities.
Provisions are discounted to reflect the time value of money where the effect is significant, generally only where it is anticipated that a liability 
will crystallise in more than one year.
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 97
22. Provisions continued
Reorganisation 
Reorganisation provisions relate to committed restructuring plans in place within the business and represent the directors’ best estimate of the 
cost to complete the restructuring. Costs are expected to be incurred within one year and there is little judgement in determining the amount.
Product warranty 
Product warranty provisions reflect commitments made to customers on the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business and included within 
the group’s standard terms and conditions. Warranty commitments typically apply for a 12-month period, with the occasional extension up to 36 
months. These extended warranties are not significant. The provision represents the directors’ best estimate of the group’s liability based on past 
experience and, barring significant unforeseen events, there is little judgement involved in determining the amount. 
Legal, contractual and other 
Legal, contractual and other comprises mainly amounts reserved against open legal and contractual disputes. The company has on occasion 
been required to take legal or other actions to protect its intellectual property rights, to enforce commercial contracts or otherwise and similarly 
to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties. Provisions are made for the expected costs associated with such matters, based 
on past experience of similar items and other known factors, taking into account professional advice received, and represent management’s best 
estimate of the likely outcome. The timing of utilisation of these provisions is frequently uncertain, reflecting the complexity of issues and the 
outcome of various court proceedings and negotiations. Contractual and other provisions represent the directors’ best estimate of the cost of 
settling future obligations although there is a higher degree of judgement involved. Unless specific evidence exists to the contrary, these reserves 
are shown as current.  
However, no provision is made for proceedings which have been or might be brought by other parties against group companies unless 
management, taking into account professional advice received, assesses that it is more likely than not that such proceedings may be successful. 
Contingent liabilities associated with such proceedings have been identified, but the directors are of the opinion that any associated claims that 
might be brought can be resisted successfully, and therefore the possibility of any material outflow in settlement in excess of amounts provided is 
assessed as remote.
23. Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the current corporate tax rate in the relevant local 
jurisdiction.
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below. 
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 January (14.5) (22.4)
Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.1
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 34.9 5.7
Deferred tax on changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts recognised in statement of comprehensive 
income (0.7) 0.4
Deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes recognised in statement of comprehensive income (0.8) 0.4
Deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in equity 0.3 (0.5)
Charged to statement of income in the year (see Note 10) (6.6) 1.8
At 31 December 12.9 (14.5)
Comprising:
Deferred tax liabilities 33.5 3.9 
Deferred tax assets (20.6) (18.4)
12.9 (14.5) Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 98
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
23. Deferred tax continued
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where 
there is a legally enforceable right of offset and they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
Net deferred tax (assets)/liabilities
Accelerated tax 
depreciation
£m
Accruals 
and 
provisions
£m
Tax 
losses
£m
Unrealised 
profit on 
inter-
company
 transactions
£m
Pension 
schemes
£m
Goodwill 
and 
intangible 
assets
£m
Other
£m
2011
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 (2.4) (14.3) (2.6) (6.3) (3.5) 13.3 1.3 (14.5)
Exchange adjustments – 0.3 – – – – – 0.3
Acquisition of subsidiary 
undertakings – – – – – 34.9 – 34.9
Deferred tax on changes in 
fair value of forward exchange 
contracts recognised in statement 
of comprehensive income – – – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Deferred tax on actuarial loss 
on pension schemes recognised 
in statement of comprehensive 
income – – – – (0.8) – – (0.8)
Deferred tax on share-based 
payments recognised in equity – – – – – – 0.3 0.3
Charged/(credited) to statement 
of income 4.2 (10.7) 1.6 (1.3) 0.3 0.3 (1.0) (6.6)
At 31 December 2011 1.8 (24.7) (1.0) (7.6) (4.0) 48.5 (0.1) 12.9
Net deferred tax (assets)/liabilities
Accelerated tax 
depreciation
£m
Accruals 
and 
provisions
£m
Tax 
losses
£m
Unrealised 
profit on 
inter-
company 
transactions
£m
Pension 
schemes
£m
Goodwill 
and 
intangible 
assets
£m
Other
£m
2010
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 (1.2) (10.6) (3.8) (3.6) (5.2) 5.4 (3.4) (22.4)
Exchange adjustments – 0.1 – – – – – 0.1
Acquisition of subsidiary 
undertakings – – – – – 5.7 – 5.7
Deferred tax on changes in 
fair value of forward exchange 
contracts recognised in statement 
of comprehensive income – – – – – – 0.4 0.4
Deferred tax on actuarial gain 
on pension schemes recognised 
in statement of comprehensive 
income – – – – 0.4 – – 0.4
Deferred tax on share-based 
payments recognised in equity – – – – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Charged/(credited) to statement 
of income (1.2) (3.8) 1.2 (2.7) 1.3 2.2 4.8 1.8
At 31 December 2010 (2.4) (14.3) (2.6) (6.3) (3.5) 13.3 1.3 (14.5)
Notes to the Accounts continued Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 99
23. Deferred tax continued
Unrecognised temporary differences
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on the following temporary differences due to the degree of uncertainty over both the amount and 
utilisation of the underlying tax losses and deductions in certain jurisdictions. There is no expiry date associated with losses.
2011
£m
2010
£m
Tax losses 23.1 29.0
Other temporary differences 9.0 9.6
32.1 38.6
The UK corporation tax rate was reduced to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011 and a further reduction to 25% will take effect from 1 April 
2012, being substantively enacted on 5 July 2011. These rate reductions have had no material impact on the financial statements as at  
31 December 2011. 
A further phased reduction in the UK tax rate to 23% is planned but has not yet been substantively enacted. No account will be taken of the 
expected further rate reduction until substantive enactment of these changes. However, for indicative purposes only, had the UK main corporate 
tax rate been reduced to 23% the net impact on recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2011 would not have been 
material.
It is likely that the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption such that no UK tax would be due 
upon remitting these earnings to the UK. However, £34.9m (2010: £22.5m) of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a 
result of the dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. These tax liabilities are not 
expected to exceed £1.8m (2010: £1.2m), of which only £0.3m has been provided as the group is able to control the timing of the dividends. It is 
not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future.
24. Share capital and reserves 
2011 2010
Number of 
shares 
millions
 
£m
Number of 
shares 
millions
 
£m
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 5p each 210.0 10.5 210.0 10.5
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 125.0 6.2 125.0 6.2
At 31 December 125.0 6.2 125.0 6.2
The group has one class of ordinary voting shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Other reserves 
Movements in reserves are set out in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. The retained earnings reserve also includes own shares 
purchased by the company and treated as treasury shares (see Note 27). The nature and purpose of other reserves forming part of equity are as 
follows:
Translation reserve 
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
subsidiaries, including gains or losses arising on net investment hedges.
Hedging reserve 
This reserve records the cumulative net change in the fair value of forward exchange contracts where they are designated as effective cash flow 
hedge relationships. 
Merger reserve 
This reserve arose on the acquisition of Servomex Limited in 1999, a purchase satisfied substantially by the issue of share capital and therefore 
eligible for merger relief under the provisions of section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Capital redemption reserve 
This reserve records the historical repurchase of the group’s own shares. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 100
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
25. Share-based payments
Under the Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme, equity shares are issued following a vesting period of three years. Options may be exercised 
during a six-month period following the vesting date, and exercise prices are determined according to the mid-market closing share price 
prevailing on the day before the date of grant. There are no performance criteria associated with options granted under the Save As You Earn 
Share Option Scheme.
The Executive Share Option Scheme and the Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme were set up in order to provide executives and selected 
employees with options to purchase ordinary shares in the company. Under the Executive Share Option Scheme, exercise prices are determined 
according to the mid-market closing share price prevailing on the day before the date of grant. Share options granted under the Executive Share 
Option Scheme are also subject to performance criteria, being the fulfilment of earnings growth targets. Options vest after a period of three 
years, and have a maximum term of ten years. 
Under the Performance Share Plan (unapproved share options as defined by HMRC), the exercise price is the nominal cost of the company’s shares. 
Awards to Spectris plc executives and senior managers are subject to performance criteria; 50% of the award being based on fulfilment of an 
adjusted earnings growth target (EPS) and 50% subject to a total shareholder return target (TSR). Awards made to executives and senior managers 
of the group’s operating companies in 2008 and 2009 have performance criteria subject to EPS in respect of 50% of the award and operating 
company profit targets in respect of 50% of the award. For awards made in 2010 and 2011, the performance criteria are EPS in respect of 33.33% 
of the award and operating company profit targets in respect of 66.67% of the award. Operating company manager awards are entirely subject to 
operating company profit targets. Awards vest after a period of three years and must be exercised during the seven-year period following vesting.
During 2011, Performance Share Plan options were granted that were approved share options as defined by HMRC. The performance criteria and 
vesting conditions are consistent with the unapproved options granted described above.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year 
SAYE – Year of grant
2011 2010
Exercise price
£
Exercise 
year
Number
thousands
Number
thousands
2007 8.37 2011 – 7
2008 7.66 2012 8 35
2009 7.23 2013 49 51
2010 10.19 2014 18 19
2011 13.81 2015 33 –
108 112
Executive Share Option Scheme – Year of grant
2011 2010
Exercise price
£
Exercise 
period
Number
thousands
Number
thousands
2001 3.58–4.99 2004–2011 – 60
2004 4.06–4.62 2007–2014 5 7
2005 5.89 2008–2015 5 5
10 72
Performance Share Plan (unapproved) – Year of grant
2011 2010
Exercise price
£
Exercise 
period
Number
thousands
Number
thousands
2007 0.05 2010–2017 10 23
2008 0.05 2011–2018 198 709
2009 0.05 2012–2019 1,348 1,391
2010 0.05 2013–2020 897 943
2011 0.05 2014–2021 657 –
3,110 3,066
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 101
25. Share-based payments continued
Performance Share Plan (approved) – Year of grant
2011 2010
Exercise price
£
Exercise 
period
Number
thousands
Number
thousands
2011 11.30 2014-2021 7 –
Movements in the year
SAYE
2011 2010
Number 
thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
Number
 thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
At 1 January 112 7.95 0.9 133 7.52 1.0
Granted 33 13.81 0.5 19 10.19 0.2
Exercised (33) 7.77 (0.3) (32) 7.66 (0.2)
Lapsed (4) 8.58 – (8) 7.12 (0.1)
At 31 December 108 9.77 1.1 112 7.95 0.9
Exercisable at 31 December 8 7.66 0.06 7 8.37 0.03
Executive Share Option Scheme
2011 2010
Number 
thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
Number
 thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
At 1 January 72 3.92 0.28 396 5.17 2.1
Exercised (61) 3.75 (0.23) (299) 5.49 (1.7)
Lapsed (1) 3.75 – (25) 5.04 (0.1)
At 31 December 10 4.98 0.05 72 3.92 0.3
Exercisable at 31 December 10 4.98 0.05 72 3.92 0.3
Performance Share Plan (unapproved)
2011 2010
Number 
thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
Number
 thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
At 1 January 3,066 0.05 0.15 2,694 0.05 0.14
Shares granted 657  0.05  0.03 972 0.05 0.05
Addition of reinvested dividends 55  0.05  – 17 0.05  –
Exercised (346) 0.05 (0.02) (89) 0.05 (0.01)
Lapsed (322) 0.05 (0.01) (528) 0.05 (0.03)
At 31 December 3,110 0.05 0.15 3,066 0.05 0.15
Exercisable at 31 December 208 0.05 0.01 23 0.05  – Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 102
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
25. Share-based payments continued
Share-based payment expense 
Share options are valued using a stochastic option pricing model, with support from an independent remuneration consultant. The TSR 
performance condition was included in the calculation of fair value under the Performance Share Plan. For options granted in 2011 and 2010, 
the fair value of options granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
SAYE
Performance Share Plan
(unapproved)
2011 2010 2011 2010
Weighted average share price (pence) 1039 1075 1391 815
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 1381 1019 5 5
Expected volatility 42.1% 41.2% 41.0% 41.6%
Expected life 3.25 yrs 3.25 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs
Risk-free rate 0.9% 1.1% 1.8% 3.1%
Expected dividends (expressed as a yield) 2.8% 2.3% 0%–2.3% 0%–1.9%
Fair value per option (pence) 157 264 – –
Weighted average fair values at date of grant (pence): 
Equity-settled (TSR condition) 925 564
Equity-settled (profit condition) 1392 810
Equity-settled (EPS condition) 1382 810
Cash-settled (profit condition) 1337 779
Cash-settled (EPS condition) 1337 779
Weighted average fair values at 31 December (pence):
Cash-settled (profit condition) 1219 1253
Cash-settled (EPS condition) 1219 1253
The assumptions used for the Performance Share Plan (approved) are as follows: grant date share price 1039p, grant date exercise price 1130p, 
expected volatility 42%, risk-free rate 0.8%, and expected dividends (expressed as a yield) 2.8%. The fair values at the date of grant were 183p, 
224p and 224p for the TSR, profit and EPS conditions, respectively. 
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the expected term. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The 
risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. 
The group recognised a total charge of £7.3m (2010: £7.3m) in the statement of income, of which £6.4m (2010: £6.6m) related to equity-settled 
share-based payment transactions. 
26. Disposal of business
On 1 January 2011, the group divested a sales operation in The Netherlands for a profit of £0.1m. The total consideration was £0.1m net of 
transaction costs. 
The group did not divest any businesses during 2010. 
27. Treasury shares
At 31 December 2011, the group held 8,634,064 treasury shares (2010: 9,073,760); 439,696 of these shares were issued to satisfy options 
exercised by employees which were granted under the group’s share schemes (2010: 419,815). No shares were repurchased by the group during 
the year (2010: nil) and no shares were cancelled during the year (2010: nil).
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 103
28. Acquisitions 
On 10 August 2011, the group acquired 100% of the share capital of IRM Group, a company based in Belgium, which extends the group’s 
capabilities in measuring systems for the metals industry, for a consideration of £10.9m (£6.7m net of cash acquired). The excess of the fair value  
of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired is represented by the following intangible assets: customer-related (mainly  
the benefits arising from the installed product base), technology, contractual rights and goodwill of £1.7m, £1.0m, £0.1m and £3.1m, respectively. 
The goodwill arising is considered to represent the value of the acquired workforce and related know-how, and the ability to exploit Spectris’ 
know-how to further develop IRM’s product offering and to expand IRM’s routes to market. This business has been integrated into the In-line 
Instrumentation segment.
On 30 September 2011, the group acquired 100% of the share capital of Omega Engineering, a company based in the USA, which broadens 
Spectris’ range of process measurement and control instrumentation to customers in the industrial and academic markets, for a total 
consideration of £310.6m (£297.1m net of cash acquired), including £3.0m deferred consideration and an expected working capital adjustment 
receivable from the seller of £7.1m. The excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired is 
represented by the following intangible assets: customer-related (order backlog), contractual rights (including supplier contracts and marketing-
related), trade names (Omega and related brands), technology and goodwill of £0.6m, £3.0m, £63.3m, £28.7m and £174.1m, respectively. The 
company sells a wide range of products to a large customer base of principally engineers across a broad group of industries. The customer base 
has been developed through focused marketing and excellence in order fulfilment which has created a high degree of brand awareness and 
customer loyalty. It is this brand loyalty (together with the product base), rather than long-term customer supply agreements, that represents 
the source of customer orders. Accordingly, the principal intangible assets identified are the Omega and related trade names which have strong 
profile and recognition, particularly in North America. The goodwill arising is considered to represent the value of the acquired workforce and 
related know-how, and the benefits that will accrue as the company exploits Spectris’ global presence and knowledge of international markets to 
expand Omega’s routes to market outside of North America. This business has been integrated into the Industrial Controls segment.
On 5 October 2011, the group acquired 100% of the share capital of Sixnet, a company based in the USA, which extends the group’s capabilities 
in industrial networking products, for a total consideration of £47.4m (£46.5m net of cash acquired), including £0.4m deferred consideration. 
The excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired is represented by the following intangible 
assets: customer-related (order book and customer relationships), technology, other intangibles and goodwill of £16.9m, £6.4m, £0.1m and 
£18.6m, respectively. The goodwill arising is considered to represent the value of the acquired workforce and related know-how, and the ability 
to use Spectris’ sales and distribution channels to expand Sixnet’s routes to markets (both geographic and industry) where it currently makes 
limited sales. This business has been integrated into the Industrial Controls segment.
On 20 October 2011, the group acquired certain of the trade and assets of a company based in Finland which extends the group’s capabilities 
in critical detector technology, for a total consideration of £8.1m, including £1.0m contingent on the future performance of the business. 
No goodwill arose on the acquisition with the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired 
represented by technology-based intangibles of £7.6m. This business has been integrated into the Materials Analysis segment.
The assets and liabilities acquired as a result of the above transactions, together with the aggregate purchase consideration, are summarised 
below. The revenue and operating profit contribution from the acquisitions in the year to the group’s results for the year were £36.3m and  
£7.5m, respectively. Group revenue and operating profit would have been £1,218.2m and £189.4m (adjusted operating profit: £226.8m), 
respectively, had each of these acquisitions taken place on the first day of the year.
On acquisitions prior to 1 January 2010, the deferred and contingent consideration has been revised to reflect the increased earn-out payments 
amounting to £0.7m that were not accrued at 31 December 2010 and the decreased earn out payments amounting to £3.0m that were accrued 
at 31 December 2010 but are now not required with a corresponding decrease to goodwill of £1.7m. The balance of £1.3m would have created 
a credit balance in goodwill and has thus been credited to the statement of income in line with IFRS 3 (2004). The group also paid £7.2m in 
respect of prior years’ acquisitions, which had been accrued as deferred or contingent consideration at 31 December 2010.
Acquisition-related costs of £3.1m have been recognised in the statement of income under IFRS 3 (Revised) and included within administrative 
expenses.
Acquisition-related costs and the credit arising on the reduction in deferred and contingent consideration have been excluded from the adjusted 
operating profit (see Note 3). Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 104
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
28. Acquisitions continued 
The following fair value tables are provisional, reflecting the timing of the acquisitions, and are expected to be finalised within 12 months of the 
acquisition date.
Net assets acquired under 2011 acquisitions 
2011 
Book value 
£m
Adjustments 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Intangible fixed assets 0.2 129.4 129.6
Tangible fixed assets 14.0 19.2 33.2
Deferred tax asset 1.8 (1.6) 0.2
Inventories 30.5 (1.6) 28.9
Trade and other receivables 20.3 (0.2) 20.1
Trade and other payables (12.4) (1.1) (13.5)
Provisions (1.2) 0.4 (0.8)
Deferred tax liabilities – (35.1) (35.1)
Cash 18.6 – 18.6
Net assets acquired 71.8 109.4 181.2
Goodwill 195.8
Total consideration in respect of 2011 acquisitions 377.0
Analysis of cash outflow in consolidated cash flow statement
Total consideration in respect of 2011 acquisitions 377.0
Adjustment for cash acquired on 2011 acquisitions (18.6)
Deferred and contingent consideration on 2011 acquisitions to be paid in future years (4.4)
Working capital adjustment receivable in future years 7.1
Cash paid in 2011 in respect of 2011 acquisitions 361.1
Prior year acquisitions
Purchase price adjustment re prior year acquisition* 0.7
Deferred and contingent consideration in relation to prior years’ acquisitions: 
– accrued at 31 December 2010 7.2
Cash paid in 2011 in respect of prior years’ acquisitions 7.9
Net cash outflow relating to acquisitions 369.0
* An additional purchase price of £0.7m in relation to prior period acquisitions has been paid during the year based on updated expectations
Due to their contractual due dates, the fair value of receivables acquired (shown above) approximates the gross contractual amounts receivable. 
The amount of gross contractual receivables not expected to be recovered is immaterial. 
There are no material contingent liabilities recognised in accordance with paragraph 23 of IFRS 3 (Revised).                
£39.0m of the goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year is expected to be amortised and deductible for tax purposes.
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 105
28. Acquisitions continued 
Net assets acquired for significant 2011 acquisitions 
2011 
Net assets acquired for Omega Engineering
Book value 
£m
Adjustments 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Intangible fixed assets – 95.6 95.6
Tangible fixed assets 11.4 18.9 30.3
Deferred tax asset 1.3 (1.1) 0.2
Inventories 24.9 (1.7) 23.2
Trade and other receivables 14.4 (0.1) 14.3
Trade and other payables (6.6) (0.5) (7.1)
Provisions – (0.5) (0.5)
Deferred tax liabilities – (33.0) (33.0)
Cash 13.5 – 13.5
Net assets acquired 58.9 77.6 136.5
Goodwill 174.1
Total consideration 310.6
Adjustment for cash acquired (13.5)
Net consideration 297.1
The fair values of the intangible and tangible assets have been determined on the following basis: 
•	 Intangible assets – an independent valuation 
•	 Tangible assets – by management based on current market prices
2011
Net assets acquired for Sixnet
Book value 
£m
Adjustments 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Intangible fixed assets 0.2 23.4 23.6
Tangible fixed assets 1.5 (0.1) 1.4
Deferred tax asset 0.5 (0.5) –
Inventories 3.1 0.1 3.2
Trade and other receivables 4.2 (0.1) 4.1
Trade and other payables (3.5) – (3.5)
Provisions (0.1) – (0.1)
Deferred tax liabilities – (0.8) (0.8)
Cash 0.9 – 0.9
Net assets acquired 6.8 22.0 28.8
Goodwill 18.6
Total consideration 47.4
Adjustment for cash acquired (0.9)
Net consideration 46.5 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 106
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
28. Acquisitions continued 
The following table presents the information related to 2010 acquisitions, reflected in the comparative figures.
Net assets acquired under 2010 acquisitions
2010
Book value 
£m
Adjustments 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Intangible fixed assets 0.1 36.5 36.6
Tangible fixed assets 0.5 (0.1) 0.4
Inventories 4.1 (0.2) 3.9
Trade and other receivables 4.5 – 4.5
Trade and other payables (1.7) – (1.7)
Provisions (0.1) – (0.1)
Deferred tax liabilities – (5.7) (5.7)
Cash 0.8 – 0.8
Net assets acquired 8.2 30.5 38.7
Goodwill 24.3
Total consideration in respect of 2010 acquisitions 63.0
Analysis of cash outflow in consolidated cash flow statement
Total consideration in respect of 2010 acquisitions 63.0
Adjustment for cash acquired on 2010 acquisitions (0.8)
Deferred and contingent consideration on 2010 acquisitions to be paid in future years (4.1)
Cash paid in 2010 in respect of 2010 acquisitions 58.1
Prior year acquisitions
Purchase price adjustment re prior year acquisition* 8.3
Deferred and contingent consideration in relation to prior year acquisitions:
– accrued at 31 December 2009 4.5
– accrued during 2010 but not paid at 31 December 2010* (8.3)
Cash paid in 2010 in respect of prior year acquisitions 4.5
Net cash outflow relating to acquisitions 62.6
* An additional purchase price of £8.3m in relation to prior year acquisitions was accrued (but not paid) during 2010 based on updated 
expectations of the amounts to be paid under contingent consideration arrangements
 
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 107
28. Acquisitions continued 
Net assets acquired for significant 2010 acquisitions 
2010 
Net assets acquired for N-Tron
Book value 
£m
Adjustments 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Intangible fixed assets 0.1 13.6 13.7
Tangible fixed assets 0.1 – 0.1
Inventories 1.5 0.3 1.8
Trade and other receivables 1.8 – 1.8
Trade and other payables (1.2) – (1.2)
Net assets acquired 2.3 13.9 16.2
Goodwill 16.7
Total consideration 32.9
Adjustment for cash acquired –
Net consideration 32.9
29. Contingent liabilities
Royal Bank of Scotland 
Spectris plc and its UK subsidiaries are party to a cross guarantee arrangement to support trade finance facilities provided by the bank. They are 
also party to a cross guarantee arrangement that allows individual subsidiaries to borrow from the bank on overdraft within the overall borrowing 
limit agreed with the bank. Spectris plc has provided a parent company guarantee to support trade finance facilities provided by the bank to its 
subsidiaries in various countries outside of the UK and USA. Spectris plc has also provided a parent company guarantee to support overdraft and 
intra-day facilities provided by the bank to its subsidiaries who participate in the cross-border euro zero balance pooling arrangement. An amount 
of £15.3m (2010: £11.2m) was outstanding at 31 December 2011.
JP Morgan Chase NA 
Spectris plc has provided a parent company guarantee to JP Morgan Chase NA to support trade finance facilities provided by the bank to its 
subsidiaries in the USA. An amount of £0.9m (2010: £1.4m) was outstanding at 31 December 2011.
Other banks 
Group companies have, in the normal course of business, provided bonds and guarantees through local banking arrangements amounting to  
£9.0m (2010: £8.5m).
Legal 
Refer to Note 22 ‘Provisions’.
30. Operating lease arrangements  
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases
2011 2010
Property
£m
Other
£m
Property
£m
Other
£m
Not later than one year 9.6  3.4 5.9 2.9 
Later than one year and not later than five years 26.4  6.2 14.3 5.4 
Later than five years 5.6 – 5.3 –
 41.6  9.6 25.5 8.3 
Group companies are party to a number of operating leases, mainly for plant and machinery, including motor vehicles and property rentals. The 
arrangements do not impose any significant restrictions on the group.
During the year £10.8m (2010: £10.6m) was recognised in the statement of income in respect of operating lease rental payments.   Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 108
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
31. Capital commitments
At 31 December 2011, the group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and software 
amounting to £3.1m (2010: £2.0m) which have not been provided for.  
32. Related party transactions
Details of directors’ remuneration (being the key management personnel) are summarised in Note 7 and shown in detail in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 52. There were no other related party transactions requiring disclosure.
33. Subsidiary undertakings
The following are the group’s principal subsidiary undertakings. They operate mainly in the countries of incorporation. All the subsidiaries are 
involved in the manufacture and sale of materials analysis systems, test and measurement equipment, in-line instrumentation and industrial 
controls.
Spectris plc holds 100% of the ordinary share capital of all the subsidiaries either directly or indirectly through intermediate holding companies.
Country of 
incorporation
Brüel & Kjær VTS Limited (formerly LDS Test and Measurement Limited) UK
Malvern Instruments Limited UK
Servomex Group Limited UK
Brüel & Kjær EMS Pty Ltd (formerly Lochard Limited) Australia
Spectris China Limited China
Brüel & Kjær Sound & Vibration Measurement A/S Denmark
Brüel & Kjær Vibro A/S Denmark
Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik GmbH Germany
Spectris Company Limited Japan
BTG Eclépens SA Switzerland
PANalytical BV The Netherlands
Beta LaserMike Inc USA
Fusion UV Systems Inc USA
Microscan Systems Inc USA
NDC Infrared Engineering Inc USA
Omega Engineering Inc USA
Particle Measuring Systems Inc USA
Red Lion Controls Inc USA
Sixnet Holdings LLC USA
Notes to the Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 109
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets 36 1.1 1.6
Tangible fixed assets 37 2.1 0.2
Fixed asset investments 38 251.4 247.1
254.6 248.9
Current assets
Debtors 39 498.9 398.2
Cash at bank 5.3 35.1
504.2 433.3
Creditors: due within one year
Other creditors 40 (130.7) (179.0)
(130.7) (179.0)
Net current assets 373.5 254.3
Debtors: due after more than one year
Debtors 41 307.3 170.6
Total assets less current liabilities 935.4 673.8
Creditors: due after more than one year
Medium- and long-term borrowings 42 (429.4) (168.7)
Derivative financial instruments 43 (12.8) (15.0)
(442.2) (183.7)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 44 (2.7) (2.7)
Net assets 490.5 487.4
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 45 6.2 6.2
Share premium account 46 231.4 231.4
Merger reserve 46 3.1 3.1
Capital redemption reserve 46 0.3 0.3
Special reserve 46 34.1 34.1
Profit and loss account 46 215.4 212.3
Equity shareholders’ funds 490.5 487.4
The financial statements on pages 109 to 116 were approved by the Board of directors on 17 February 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Clive Watson 
Director Company Registration No. 02025003
Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2011  Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 110
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
34. Accounting policies
The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. As permitted by that Act, the separate 
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom. In accordance with the 
exemption provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The company has taken the exemption available in respect of the requirements of FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Basis of accounting
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis, except that derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value as described below.
Derivative financial instruments
The company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge the group’s exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from 
operating and financing activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, it does not hold or use derivative financial instruments for trading or 
speculative purposes.
Cross-currency interest rate swaps
The company takes advantage of cross-currency interest rate swaps for some of its US dollar-denominated private placement borrowings. The 
swaps have the effect of converting fixed rate US dollar borrowings into fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. 
The underlying US dollar borrowings are required to be presented separately in the balance sheet from the cross-currency interest rate swaps. In 
addition, the fair value of the cross-currency interest rate swap is required to be recognised in full on the balance sheet. All changes in value are 
recognised in the profit and loss account.
Financial guarantees
Where the company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date with any exchange differences 
arising on retranslation being recognised in the profit and loss account. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation
Tangible fixed assets are stated at historic cost. 
Depreciation is calculated to write off the difference between the cost or valuation of fixed assets and their residual value over their estimated 
useful lives on a straight-line basis. Land is not depreciated. Estimated useful lives are as follows:
Freehold property — 20 to 40 years 
Leasehold improvements — over the period of the lease 
Office equipment — 3 to 5 years
Intangible fixed assets and amortisation
Intangible fixed assets purchased by the company are capitalised at their cost. 
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administrative expenses in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the estimated 
useful lives of intangible assets. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Software — 3 to 5 years
Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at their amortised cost, reduced by appropriate 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Notes to the Company’s Accounts  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 111
34. Accounting policies continued
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance 
sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Leasing
Annual payments under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis.
Post-retirement benefits
The company participates in group operated defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. The assets of the schemes are held 
separately from those of the company in independently administered funds. The company is unable to identify its share of the group defined 
benefit scheme’s underlying assets and liabilities and therefore accounts for it as a defined contribution scheme. The amounts charged against 
profits represent contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
Share-based payments
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the 
options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service 
and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number 
of awards that do meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date. For share-based payment awards with 
non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions and there is no true-up for 
differences between expected and actual outcomes.
Where the company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the cost of investment 
in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s financial statements with the 
corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. In cases where a subsidiary is recharged for the share-based payment expense, no such 
increase in investment is recognised.
Cash flow statement
The company has not presented a separate cash flow statement in accordance with the exemption provided by FRS 1 (Revised), as its cash flows 
are included within the cash flows of the group, as set out elsewhere in this Annual Report. 
35. Employee costs and other information
Employee costs, including directors’ remuneration 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Wages and salaries 6.1 4.7
Social security costs 2.0 1.8
Defined benefit pension plans 1.6 3.5
Defined contribution pension plans 0.3 0.4
Share-based payment expense 1.7 1.9
11.7 12.3
2011
Number
2010
Number
Average number of employees 33 29
Directors’ remuneration 
Further details of directors’ remuneration and share options are given in Note 7 to the group’s consolidated financial statements and in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 54.
Auditor’s fees 
Details regarding the remuneration of the company’s auditor are included in Note 6 to the group’s consolidated financial statements under “Fees 
payable to the company’s auditor for the audit of the group’s annual accounts”. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 112
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
36. Intangible fixed assets
Cost
Software 
costs
£m
At 1 January 2011 2.8
Additions 0.1
At 31 December 2011 2.9
Amortisation
At 1 January 2011 1.2
Charge for the year 0.6
At 31 December 2011 1.8
Net book value
At 31 December 2011 1.1
At 31 December 2010 1.6
37. Tangible fixed assets
Cost
Freehold
property
£m
Leasehold 
improvements
£m
Office
equipment
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 – 0.5 0.6 1.1
Additions 1.9 – – 1.9
At 31 December 2011 1.9 0.5 0.6 3.0
Depreciation
At 1 January 2011 – 0.4 0.5 0.9
At 31 December 2011 – 0.4 0.5 0.9
Net book value
At 31 December 2011 1.9 0.1 0.1 2.1
At 31 December 2010 – 0.1 0.1 0.2
The company purchased a freehold property during in the year for use as the group’s headquarters. The building is currently undergoing 
refurbishment, therefore no depreciation has been charged for the year.
Notes to the Company’s Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 113
38. Fixed asset investments 
Cost
Investments
 in subsidiary
 undertakings
£m
At 1 January 2011 316.7
Additions 38.2
Disposals (33.9)
At 31 December 2011 321.0
Provision for impairment
At 1 January 2011 69.6
At 31 December 2011 69.6
Net book value
At 31 December 2011 251.4
At 1 January 2011 247.1
During the year, Spectris Group Holdings Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary, bought back 33,874,203 ordinary shares of £1 each (pursuant to 
and in accordance with the provisions of section 694(2) of the Companies Act 2006) at par value. On the same date, Spectris Group Holdings 
Limited issued 40,140,931 redeemable ordinary shares of €1 each for a consideration of £33.9m, included in the additions above.
Further details regarding the investments in subsidiaries are given in Note 33 to the group’s consolidated financial statements.
39. Debtors
Amounts falling due within one year 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Amounts owed by group undertakings 493.1 394.4
Other debtors 0.3 0.5
Prepayments and accrued income 2.6 0.7
Corporation tax 1.2 1.0
Deferred tax asset 1.5 1.6
Derivative financial instrument 0.2 –
498.9 398.2
Derivative financial instrument assets represent the value of forward exchange contracts at the year end. Further details regarding the company’s 
forward exchange contracts are set out in Note 20 of the group’s consolidated financial statements.
40. Creditors: due within one year
2011
£m
2010
£m
Amounts owed to group undertakings 122.2 172.9
Other taxation and social security – 0.2
Accruals and deferred income 8.5 5.9
130.7 179.0
Further details regarding the company’s borrowings are set out in Note 19 of the group’s consolidated financial statements. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 114
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
41. Debtors: due after more than one year
2011
£m
2010
£m
Medium- and long-term debtors:
Amounts owed by group undertakings 307.3 170.6
42. Creditors: due after more than one year
2011
£m
2010
£m
Medium- and long-term borrowings:
Amounts owed to group undertakings 45.9 35.1
Unsecured bank loans 298.3 48.3
Unsecured loan notes 85.2 85.3
429.4 168.7
Further details regarding the company’s borrowings are set out in Note 19 of the group’s consolidated financial statements.
43. Derivative financial instruments
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cross-currency interest rate swaps 12.8 14.9
Forward exchange contracts – 0.1
12.8 15.0
Further details regarding the company’s cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts are set out in Note 20 of the group’s 
consolidated financial statements.
44. Provisions for liabilities and charges
£m
At 1 January 2011 2.7
Utilised during the year (0.1)
Charged during the year 0.1
At 31 December 2011 2.7
Provisions represent the directors’ best estimate of settling various potential claims against the company arising in the ordinary course of business.
Notes to the Company’s Accounts continued  Business Review Governance Financial Statements
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 115
45. Share capital  
2011 2010
Number of
 shares 
million £m
Number of
 shares 
million £m
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 5p each 210.0 10.5 210.0 10.5
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 125.0 6.2 125.0 6.2
At 31 December 125.0 6.2 125.0 6.2
No ordinary shares were issued upon exercise under share option schemes (2010: nil).
Share options have been granted to subscribe for ordinary shares of Spectris plc. Full details of share options currently in issue, including those 
issued during the year, together with information regarding the basis of calculation of the share-based payment expense, is contained in Note 25 
to the group’s consolidated financial statements.
The company recognised total expenses of £1.7m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2011 (2010: £1.9m). In addition, 
the company recognised a charge of £4.7m (2010: £4.7m) related to equity-settled share-based transactions for certain employees of other 
group companies.
46. Reserves
Share
premium
account
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Special
reserve
£m
Profit and 
loss
account
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 231.4 3.1 0.3 34.1 212.3 481.2
Profit for the year – – – – 30.0 30.0
Equity dividends paid – – – – (33.8) (33.8)
Share-based payments – – – – 6.4 6.4
Share options exercised from own 
shares (treasury) purchased – – – – 0.5 0.5
At 31 December 2011 231.4 3.1 0.3 34.1 215.4 484.3
The purpose of the merger reserve and capital redemption reserve is detailed in Note 24 of the group’s consolidated financial statements.  
The special reserve was created historically following the cancellation of an amount of share premium for the purpose of writing off goodwill. 
The special reserve is not distributable. Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 116
21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
47. Reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders’ funds
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit for the year 30.0 47.7
Equity dividends paid in the year (33.8) (28.9)
Share-based payments 6.4 6.6
Share options exercised from own shares (treasury) purchased 0.5 1.9
Net increase in equity shareholders’ funds 3.1 27.3
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 487.4 460.1
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 490.5 487.4
48. Pensions
The company operates the Spectris Pension Plan, a UK defined benefit pension plan that is closed to new members. Further details of the 
Spectris Pension Plan are contained in Note 8 to the group’s consolidated financial statements. The company is unable to identify its share of the 
Plan’s underlying assets and liabilities and therefore accounts for the Plan as a defined contribution scheme. In accordance with the Schedule of 
Contributions in place for the Spectris Pension Plan for the financial year ending 31 December 2011, employer contributions were £1.6m per 
annum. The actuary certified in 2010 that this level of contribution was adequate for the purposes of securing the statutory funding objective. 
No additional contribution was made during the year (2010: £1.9m) towards the Spectris Pension Plan. Contributions paid in the year to the 
Spectris Pension Plan were £1.6m (2010: £3.5m) and the amounts outstanding at the year end were £0.1m (2010: £0.1m). Contributions paid in 
the year to defined contribution plans were £0.3m (2010: £0.4m). The company has undertaken an Enhanced Transfer Value exercise for certain 
UK deferred members with a prospective pension entitlement of less than £1,000 per annum. The total estimated cost for this exercise for the 
year ended 31 December 2011 is expected to be £0.5m.
49. Related party disclosures
The company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose related party transactions between 
the company and wholly-owned subsidiaries.
There are no material transactions with directors and other related parties of the company except those relating to remuneration and share 
dealing disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, enclosed within this Annual Report.
50. Commitments
Annual commitments for operating leases expiring
Land and buildings
2011
£m
2010
£m
Between one and two years 0.2 –
Between two and five years – 0.2
At the balance sheet date the company had capital commitments of £1.2m in respect of the refurbishment of freehold property for which 
provision has not been made (2010: £nil).
51. Contingent liabilities
There are no contingent liabilities as at the year end. The cross guarantee arrangements to support trade finance facilities are stated in Note 29 of 
the group’s consolidated financial statements.
 
Notes to the Company’s Accounts continued  21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Shareholder Information
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting and Interim  
management statement 20 April 2012
Record date for 2011 final dividend 1 June 2012 
2011 final dividend payable 26 June 2012 
2012 Interim results 27 July 2012 
Interim management statement 19 October 2012 
2012 Preliminary results February 2013  
Company secretary
R J Stephens, FCIS
Registered office
Spectris plc
Station Road
Egham
Surrey
TW20 9NP
England
Tel: +44 (0)1784 470470
Email: info@spectris.com
Company registered in England, No. 2025003
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
Solicitors
Macfarlanes LLP
Brokers
Jefferies Hoare Govett 
J P Morgan Cazenove
Financial PR advisers
FTI Consulting
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
The registrars provide a range of shareholder services on-line at
www.shareview.co.uk
Share price information
The company’s ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock
Exchange. The latest share price is available via the company’s
website at www.spectris.com
E-mail news service
To receive details of press releases and other announcements
as they are issued, register with the e-mail alert service on the
company’s website at www.spectris.com
Photography
Board photography by Ross Vincent
Hydroptère image on front cover and page 23 by Guilain Grenier
Xiaowan Hydroelectric power station on page 25 by Chen Haining/
Xinhua Press/Corbis
‘Spectris’ is a trademark of Spectris plc and is protected by registration  
in the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions. Other product names 
referred to in this annual report are registered or unregistered 
trademarks or registered names of Spectris plc or its subsidiary 
companies and are similarly protected.
This report is printed on Revive 50 White Silk, a 
recycled paper containing 50% recycled waste and 
50% virgin fibre which is manufactured at a mill 
certified to the ISO 14001 environmental standard. 
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an 
elemental chlorine free process.
© Spectris plc March 2012 
Designed and printed by Jones and Palmer
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 117 21119.04   06/03/12   Proof 7
Spectris plc
Station Road
Egham
Surrey
TW20 9NP
England
T: +44 (0)1784 470470
F: +44 (0)1784 470848
info@spectris.com
www.spectris.com
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
