 Spectris plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
RMANCE REDUCING
DOWNTIME ENHAN 
CING PRODUCTIVIT 
Y IMPROVING PERFO 
RMANCE REDUCING   
DOWNTIME ENHAN 
C I N G  P R O D U CT I V I TY 
IMPROVING PERFO 
RMANCE REDUCING DOWNTIME ENH 
ANCING PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVING P 
ERFORMANCE REDUCING DOWNTIME 
ENHANCING PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVIN 
G PERFORMANCE REDUCING DOWNTI 
ME ENHANCING PRODUCTIVITY IMPR 
OVING PERFORMANCE ENHANCING P 
RODUCTIVITY IMPROVING PERFORMA
PERFORMANCE REDUCING DOWNT 
IME ENHANCING PRODUCTIVITY IM 
PROVING PERFORMANCE REDUCIN 
G DOWNTIME ENHANCING PRODUC 
TIVITY IMPROVING PERFORMANCE 
REDUCING DOWNTIME ENHANCING 
PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVING PERFOR 
MANCE REDUCING DOWNTIME ENH 
ANCING PRODUCTI 
VITY IMPROVING P 
ERFORMANCE ENH 
ANCING PRODUCT 
IVITY IMPROVING P 
ERFORMANCE RED 
UCING DOWNTIME Contents
Highlights
Highlights 01
Business Review
Group Overview 02
Business Model 04
Strategy  06
Key Performance Indicators 07
Principal Risks 08
Chairman’s Statement 10
Chief Executive’s Review 12
Operating Review 14
Financial Review 24
Corporate Social Responsibility 29
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors 34
Directors’ Report 36
Directors’ Remuneration Report 42
Financial Statements 
Auditor’s Report  51
Consolidated Statement of Income 52
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income 53
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 54
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 55
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 56
Notes to the Accounts 57
Company Balance Sheet 94
Notes to the Company’s Accounts 95
Shareholder Information 101
Spectris is a leading supplier of productivity-enhancing 
instrumentation and controls. Our products, applications 
and services help customers to improve product quality 
and performance, improve core manufacturing processes, 
reduce downtime and wastage and reduce time to 
market. Our businesses are leaders in the markets they 
serve, providing solutions for customers across a wide 
range of industries.
The purpose of the annual report is to provide information to 
the shareholders of Spectris plc. The company, its directors, 
employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume 
responsibility to any other person to whom this document 
is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such 
responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. The annual 
report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect 
to the operations, performance and financial condition of the 
company. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties 
since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to 
differ materially from those anticipated and no reliance should 
be placed on them. The forward-looking statements reflect 
knowledge and information available at the date of preparation 
of this annual report and the company undertakes no obligation 
to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this 
annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
The front cover of this report is printed on coated paper 
and the type in the graphic has an ultraviolet (UV) 
radiation cured varnish. Paper coating control and  
UV curing are key applications of our BTG and Fusion  
UV Systems businesses, respectively. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
642.6
659.8
787.1 787.3
901.9
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
83.2
104.3
118.3
79.2
142.1
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
43.7
58.1
72.8
45.4
86.6
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
17.5
21.0
23.4
24.25
28.0
01 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Highlights
 Much faster recovery in performance achieved than after previous 
downturns 
 Strong sales and profits growth in all business segments, particularly 
in emerging markets 
 Acquisitions strengthen Materials Analysis, In-line Instrumentation 
and Industrial Controls
 Robust conversion of operating profit to cash at 112%
 Net debt down by £38 million to £86 million; 0.5X EBITDA
 Dividend up by 15%
Revenue £m  
(continuing businesses)
Adjusted operating profit £m 
(continuing businesses)
Adjusted earnings per share (p)
Dividend (p)
2010 2009 Change
Change at 
CER**
Organic 
change at 
CER***
Key operational indicators £m
Revenue 901.9 787.3 +14.6% +13.1% +11.6%
Adjusted operating profit* 142.1 79.2 +79% +77% +75%
Adjusted profit before tax* 132.3 68.2 +94%
Adjusted earnings per share* 86.6p 45.4p +91%
Adjusted return on sales* 15.8% 10.1% +5.7pp
Cash conversion 112% 133% -21pp
Dividend 28.0p 24.25p +15%
Statutory
Operating profit 127.9 68.5 +87%
Profit before tax 119.9 54.2 +121%
Basic earnings per share  83.1p 36.9p +125%
* Adjusted figures exclude certain non-operational items, as defined in Note 3, but include restructuring and 
post-acquisition integration costs of £0.8m (2009: £14.0m)
** Constant exchange rates 
*** At constant exchange rates excluding acquisitions Europe
36%
Latin 
America
3%
China 
12%
Asia 
(excluding China)
20%
North 
America
25%
02 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Group Overview
Our customers are multinational, blue-chip companies in a 
diverse range of end-user markets around the world.
2010 Sales by destination
Other rest of world: 4%
Figures shown are % of  
total reported group sales
Spectris is a leading supplier of productivity- 
enhancing instrumentation and controls.
Our products, applications and services help customers to 
improve product quality and performance, improve core 
manufacturing processes, reduce downtime and wastage  
and reduce time to market, providing solutions across a  
wide range of industries. 03 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
03 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Laboratory/off-line
Our products help customers to improve accuracy and speed of materials 
analysis in the laboratory and in process manufacturing applications.  
We also provide test and measuring equipment for research and 
development applications.
Materials Analysis
Provides a wide range of 
analytical instrumentation and 
systems for particle and material 
characterisation.
Applications
Material characterisation >
Contamination detection >
Quality control >
Industries
Pharma/life sciences  >
Metals/mining >
Semiconductor/electronics >
Research institutes >
In-line Instrumentation
Provides process analytical 
measurement, asset monitoring 
and on-line controls for both 
primary processing and the 
converting industries.
Applications
Quality control >
Process technology >
Safety >
Industries
Process industries  >
Pulp and paper >
Energy >
Converting >
Test and Measurement
Supplies test, measurement and 
analysis equipment and software 
for product design optimisation, 
manufacturing control and 
environmental monitoring.
Applications
Measurement >
Data acquisition and processing >
Simulation >
Industries
Automotive >
Aerospace  >
Electronics >
Environmental >
Industrial Controls
Supplies automation and 
control products for the discrete 
manufacturing industries.
Applications
Product tracking >
Machine interface >
Industrial networking >
Industries
General manufacturing  >
Machine building >
Distributors >
Process/manufacturing
Our products and applications provide precision measurement and control 
in challenging operating environments, ensuring process quality, asset 
uptime, safety and improved yield. We also provide automation and 
control products for the discrete manufacturing industries.
Group contribution Group contribution Group contribution Group contribution
30%
Sales
*
28%
Profit
**
33%
Sales
*
24%
Profit
**
30%
Sales
*
4 1%
Profit
**
7%
Sales
*
7%
Profit
**
Operating companies
Malvern Instruments >
PANalytical >
Particle Measuring Systems >
Operating companies
Brüel & Kjær Sound & Vibration >
HBM >
Operating companies
Beta LaserMike >
Brüel & Kjær Vibro >
BTG Group >
Fusion UV Systems >
NDC Infrared Engineering >
Servomex >
Operating companies
Microscan >
Red Lion Controls >
*  Reported sales 
** Adjusted operating profit 
The group comprises four business segments which reflect  
the applications and end-user industries we serve.
Our businesses are leaders in the markets they serve with strong brands  
and market-leading products.  04 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Business Model
Best practice  
transfer
Organisational 
structure
Product  
manufacturing
Operating  
model
Acquisitions
Control 
framework
Strong  
customer focus
Organisational structure
Our group comprises four business segments which reflect the end-user industries 
and applications we serve, as shown on page 3. Each segment contains a number 
of operating companies, with dedicated management teams having a high degree 
of responsibility and accountability, and operating within a framework of group 
management and control. 
Operating model
Central to this approach is a limited group structure which, together with the Board, sets 
the strategy and drives and monitors its implementation. In addition, the centre provides 
knowledge, advice and selective support services such as legal, tax and treasury, mergers 
and acquisitions, emerging market infrastructure and best practice sharing among 
businesses. 
Control framework
The group has developed a robust internal control framework in keeping with our 
operating model, values and culture. This comprises common policies, procedures, 
principles and processes and provides the minimum requirement for the controls the 
businesses should have in place. 
Powerful revenue 
drivers
In order to execute our strategy successfully, 
we are organised in a way that combines the benefits 
of a multinational group whilst maintaining the 
entrepreneurial culture of our operating companies. 05 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Building off this central model, each operating company is required to implement its 
own system of internal controls, consistent with the size and complexity of its business. 
The effectiveness of the internal control framework is routinely monitored through a 
combination of certification, self-assessment and a rolling programme of reviews by 
internal and external audit functions, complemented by a sound risk management 
process, as outlined on page 40. 
Strong customer focus 
Within each business segment, each operating company has developed its own brands 
and sales and service channels, tailored to its target industrial markets. The key benefit 
of this results-driven structure is that management teams have local ownership and can 
focus on their priorities and react quickly to changing customer and market needs. 
All of our businesses are strong players in niche markets where there are significant 
barriers to entry. We aim to build long-term relationships with our customers and our 
experienced engineers work with customers to understand the business and productivity 
challenges they face, and offer solutions, based on standard product platforms. In 
addition, much of our technology and applications know-how is proprietary and  
patent-protected. 
Powerful revenue drivers
Our products typically involve relatively low capital expenditure for customers, but 
provide a significant and rapid payback. Customer benefits include improving production 
efficiency, reducing downtime, eliminating wastage, reducing time to market, and 
ensuring compliance with safety and quality regulations. In addition, after-sales service 
and support is an important part of our business and over 25% of our revenue is derived 
from consumables and services. 
Acquisitions
We seek to enhance the growth potential of our businesses by pursuing an active but 
disciplined approach to acquisitions. Stand-alone acquisitions must share our business 
characteristics and have the management strength to operate as autonomous units within 
the Spectris group. Bolt-on acquisitions are merged with one of our existing businesses to 
create a stronger and more broadly-based growth platform.
Product manufacturing
We focus on our core competencies of research and development, product design, and 
assembly and test, whilst outsourcing the majority of component and sub-assembly 
production to qualified suppliers. As a result, our businesses are capital efficient. Low cost 
sourcing initiatives by the group’s strategic purchasing teams continue to drive down the 
costs of procurement whilst optimising quality and supply chain performance. 
Best practice transfer
Despite the specific industry and technology focus of each of the businesses, considerable 
emphasis is placed on knowledge sharing across the group and the transfer of best 
practice. This can be especially valuable when entering new end-user markets or 
geographical regions, and was of real benefit to many companies when moving into 
China and, more recently, Latin America.
Values
Our values define who we are  
and how we do business, both  
as individuals and as a company. 
Honesty
Acting with absolute integrity in all  
that we do.
Empowerment
Creating an environment of autonomy  
in our operating companies where  
people are expected to take the  
initiative and to succeed.
Ownership
Taking personal ownership of the 
responsibility of our roles.
Delivery
Performing to the highest standards 
against the commitments we make  
both internally and, especially, externally 
to our customers.
Speed
Ensuring that our business decisions are 
made and actions executed with a sense 
of urgency. 06 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Strategy and Objectives
Strengthening market positions through innovation 
We invest around 7% of sales each year in R&D in order to 
maintain our market-leading positions. We work closely with 
customers to develop solutions which are tailored to their 
specific requirements. Much of our technology is proprietary 
and protected by patents or process know-how. New products 
and applications may be developed in house, by acquiring bolt-
on product lines or by collaboration and licensing agreements 
for proprietary technology in partnership with universities and 
other institutions.
Achievements: 
Expenditure on research and development grew by 7%   >
to £62.4 million, or 7% of sales 
Significant number of new products, applications and  >
technologies introduced throughout the group. These 
included Empyrean, the world’s first 3D detection system 
on a diffractometer, and Morphologi G3ID, adding chemical 
identification to the existing size and shape analysis for the  
first time
Increasing regional expansion with a focus on  
emerging markets
We seek to grow our businesses around the world, with 
particular emphasis on industrialising markets such as China, 
India and Latin America. We continue to establish sales and 
group support facilities in these regions so that we are able to 
support our global customers wherever they are based. 
 
Achievements:
On a constant currency basis, sales to China grew by 24% and  >
sales to Latin America grew by 11%
Acquisition of Omec provides further opportunities to extend  >
our product range in the Materials Analysis segment in China
Increase of 25% in sales, marketing and support staff in  >
existing businesses in China; increase of 46% including 
acquisitions. We now have a total of around 1,000 employees 
in China
New business centres opened in Brazil and India  >
Growing existing businesses through acquisition
We seek to enhance the growth potential of our businesses 
by pursuing an active but disciplined approach to acquisitions, 
focusing on businesses which are strong players in specific 
application areas where there are significant barriers to entry.
Achievements:
Invested a total of £63.0 million in five acquisitions: >
Reologica, a Swedish rheometer specialist –
Omec, a Chinese company specialising in particle  –
characterisation
Industrial particle characterisation business of Sysmex,   –
a Japanese company
N-Tron, a US-based supplier of rugged industrial  –
networking components
Delta F, a US-based supplier of specialist gas analysers –
Focusing on operational excellence
We continue to focus on improving all aspects of our business 
through a range of actions including: process efficiencies, value 
pricing, optimising the business mix, cost competitiveness, 
designing products for low-cost production, reducing inventory 
and improving supply chain management. 
Achievements:
Components sourced or manufactured in lower-cost countries  >
increased to approximately 11% of total cost of goods sold
Lean manufacturing programmes drive tangible productivity  >
improvements and cost reductions
Inventory management processes reduced number of days of  >
inventory on hand from 85 days to 71 days 
Building our presence in key strategic growth areas,  
both organically and through acquisition
We aim to grow our existing businesses organically by 
developing new products as well as pursuing opportunities 
for growth in new markets, such as nanotechnology and life 
sciences. Acquisitions are targeted at both existing and new 
markets. 
Achievements:
Product development programmes focused on building  >
positions in our key market segments
Acquisitions made strengthen our positions in the key markets  >
of pharmaceuticals and life sciences, industrial controls and 
industrial gas analysis 
Aftersales, service and consumables are an important part of  >
our business, representing 29% of sales
Our strategy
Our objective is to deliver shareholder value 
over the long term by supplying productivity-enhancing 
solutions for our customers. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
 +7%
+3%
+19%
0%
+15%
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
43.7p
58.1p
72.8p
45.4p
86.6p
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
12.9%
15.8%
15.0%
10.1%
15.8%
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
107%
99%
86%
133%
112%
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
 +8%
+6%
+3%
-16%
+12%
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
 +21%
+33%
+25%
-38%
+91%
 
07 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Key Performance Indicators
Sales 
Sales growth is a measure of how we are growing our 
business organically. We aim to achieve year-on-year 
growth in sales, on a like-for-like basis, which excludes 
the effects of currency translation and acquisitions or 
divestments.
Earnings per share 
Earnings per share is a commonly used measure 
of financial performance for shareholders. We aim 
to achieve growth in adjusted earnings per share. 
Adjusted earnings exclude certain non-operational 
items as defined by management in Note 3. Adjusted 
earnings per share is defined as the ratio of adjusted 
net profit for the year to the weighted average  
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Non-financial KPIs are described on pages 29 to 33.
Return on sales 
Return on sales is a measure of improving profitability 
in our business. Return on sales is defined as adjusted 
operating profit as a percentage of sales. Our intention 
is to achieve a mid-teens return on sales margin on 
average throughout the cycle. 
Cash conversion 
We focus on cash generation and use cash conversion 
as a performance measure as we believe cash 
represents an effective measure of the quality of our 
earnings. Our target is to deliver high cash conversion 
of operating profit in each financial year. Cash 
conversion is defined as operating cash flow as a 
percentage of adjusted operating profit. 
Organic sales growth, continuing 
businesses, at constant currencies
Growth
Total sales growth, continuing
businesses
Adjusted EPS
Return on sales, continuing  
businesses
Cash conversion
We monitor progress against the delivery of our 
strategic goals via four key performance indicators.  08 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Strengthening market positions  
through innovation
New product development
Risk description
In order to strengthen our market positions and sustain competitive 
advantage, the group invests significantly in research and development. 
The development of new technologies and products involves risk 
including:
The product being more expensive or taking longer to develop than  >
originally planned
The market for the product being smaller than originally envisaged >
The product failing to reach the production phase  >
Potential impact
Reduced profitability and cash flow >
Loss of market share  >
Failure to recoup investment in innovation >
Mitigation
Significant investment levels in R&D, maintained at around 7% of sales >
Project management disciplines are applied in product development  >
programmes
Working closely with customers to ensure that we develop solutions  >
tailored to their specific needs
New product developments are based on standard platforms,  >
customised through high added-value applications engineering
Extensive customer involvement during product development and prior  >
to product launch (through beta evaluations)
Intellectual property
Risk description
Our business is focused on the design and manufacture of technologically 
advanced products and applications. Significant investment in R&D 
is made towards this end. As a consequence, we own and protect 
patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyright information and intellectual 
property licenses.
The risk therefore exists that this intellectual property may be infringed by 
third parties or that we may inadvertently infringe third-party rights. 
Potential impact
Reduced profitability and cash flow >
Loss of market share  >
Failure to recoup investment in innovation >
Mitigation
Procedures in place requiring all of our businesses to: >
maintain a watching brief on new applications –
undertake specific reviews prior to commencing new product  –
development, acquisitions or licenses
Maintain a portfolio of intellectual property assets such that no single  >
patent, trade secret or trademark is sufficiently important to present a 
material risk to the success of the company
Increasing regional expansion with a focus  
on emerging markets
Political and economic risks 
Risk description
We operate in a range of end-user markets around the world and may 
be affected by political, economic or regulatory developments in any of 
these countries. Material adverse changes in the political and economic 
environments in the countries in which we operate have the potential to 
put at risk our ability to carry out our strategy.
Potential impact
Reduced profitability and cash flow >
Mitigation
Maintaining a broad spread of markets, products and customers limits  >
risks associated with any given territory
Ensure we remain structured in such a way that enables us to take  >
prompt action in the event of any material change in the trading 
environment
Monitor market intelligence >
Ensure we maintain a strong balance sheet and financial position  >
Laws and regulations
Risk description
We operate in a large number of jurisdictions and, as a consequence, 
we are subject to numerous domestic and international regulations and 
restrictions. These include laws and regulations covering product safety, 
export controls, anti-bribery, competition and false accounting.
Any failure by the group or its representatives to comply with relevant 
laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal liabilities leading to 
significant fines and penalties or the disqualification of the group from 
participation in government-related contracts for a period of time. In  
the event of a failure to comply with export control regulations, the group 
could also be exposed to restrictions being placed upon its ability to trade. 
Potential impact
Reduced sales, profitability and cash flow >
Reputational damage >
Diversion of management resource to address any resulting  >
investigation
Mitigation
Strong internal control framework, policies and culture >
Formal export controls compliance procedures in place, including strict  >
product classification and transaction screening protocols 
Ethics training provided to all employees >
Regular monitoring of compliance >
The group has a well-established risk process for  
identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks
which is a part of the group’s system of internal controls as 
described in the Directors’ Report on page 40. 09 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
All such risks are evaluated with reference to the group’s achievement of 
its strategic objectives as outlined on page 6. The key potential risks and 
uncertainties facing the group’s ability to deliver its strategy, together with 
mitigating actions, are described below.
Growing existing businesses through acquisition 
Acquisitions
Risk description
A key element of our strategy is to grow the business portfolio through 
acquisition of stand-alone or bolt-on businesses which complement or 
extend the range of products and applications we can provide. 
Integrating both the operations and personnel of acquired businesses 
can be a complex process. Potential risks therefore exist that the planned 
benefits from the acquisition may not be achieved as a result of problems 
encountered in integrating the acquired business, incorrect assumptions 
in the original business case, changing market conditions or deficiencies 
arising in the due diligence process. Further, the company could be 
exposed to past acts or omissions of the acquired business.
Potential impact
Failure to achieve the benefits outlined in the business case >
Reduced profitability and cash flow >
Unforeseen liabilities >
Mitigation
Rigorous financial and legal assessment of target businesses >
Strict authority levels which, subject to size, involve review by the  >
Board for such transactions 
Comprehensive representations and warranties in purchase agreements >
Extensive integration planning and execution >
Regular review against the business case for the acquired businesses >
Post-acquisition controls reviews >
Building our presence in key strategic growth 
areas, both organically and through acquisition
Competitive activity
Risk description
The nature of the marketplaces in which we operate means that all of our 
businesses are exposed to risk from competitor activity.
Potential impact
Loss of market share >
Reduced profitability and cash flow >
Mitigation
Maintain market-leading positions through significant investment in  >
research and development
Diversified portfolio of products and markets limits the overall risk from  >
any single competitor
Maintain ability to react quickly to changes in customer and market  >
demand 
Maintain a watching brief on new competitor activity >
Revenue visibility and seasonal fluctuations
Risk description
Our operations are characterised by short lead times and seasonal fluctuations 
in sales, with some businesses exhibiting a greater trend towards sales in the 
second half of the year. The limited forward visibility makes determining the 
impact of longer-term purchasing trends more difficult. 
Potential impact
Reduced visibility of business performance >
Reduced profitability and cash flow >
Mitigation
Even out the first half/second half sales and profit split  >
Careful monitoring of quote activity, orders and shipments in the final  >
few months of the year
Focusing on operational excellence
Supply chain dependencies and disruption 
Risk description
The company is exposed to the risk that some of the components it 
sources, particularly for custom-built items or older components, are 
provided by a single supplier and are therefore vulnerable to interruption 
of supply.
The company also manufactures components, from proprietary 
technologies, at a number of locations. Our ability to supply products 
to our customers could be adversely impacted by a disaster or other 
disruptive event at any of these sites. 
Any interruption to the company’s supplies or related increase in costs 
may result in an adverse effect on the business’ financial position and 
future performance.
Potential impact
Inability to fulfil customer orders resulting in lost sales and reputational  >
damage
Increased costs reduce profitability >
Loss of market share >
Mitigation
Strategic sourcing teams source lower-cost components across a range  >
of markets
Alternative sources of supply actively sought to reduce dependency  >
upon single-source suppliers
Safety stock levels established for critical components >
Business continuity plans and disaster prevention measures in place for  >
all material manufacturing locations
Business interruption insurance >
Strong contract review process >
Fluctuations in exchange rates
Risk description
Because of the global nature of our business, we have operations which 
sell and purchase goods in foreign currencies and whose results we 
record in a variety of different currencies. We are therefore exposed to 
any significant changes in exchange rates between a number of different 
currencies.
Potential impact
Un > expected variations in the company’s results
Red > uced profitability and cash flow
Mitigation
Forward contracts cover up to 75% of forecast exposures up to 18  >
months ahead
Natural hedging strategy, matching invoicing and purchasing  >
currencies where practical
Foreign currency investments hedged with borrowings in the same  >
currency wherever possible
Regular sensitivity analyses carried out to understand the impact of  >
exchange rate movements on the group’s reporting 10 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Chairman’s Statement
John Hughes
Chairman
14.6%
Increase in reported revenue
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report that Spectris achieved a record performance in 2010, in terms 
of both revenue and adjusted operating profit for the year. Throughout the downturn, 
we maintained the focus on our strategic objectives. As a result, our acquisition activity, 
continued expenditure on research and development, strength in emerging markets and 
good cost control have enabled us to benefit more quickly from the improvement in the 
economy than following previous downturns.
Improving customer demand led to revenue for the year increasing by 14.6% to 
£901.9 million (2009: £787.3 million) and adjusted operating profit* increasing by  
79% to £142.1 million (2009: £79.2 million). 
On a reported basis, revenue growth was 14.6%, with acquisitions contributing 1.5% 
and currency also contributing 1.5%. On a constant currency organic (like-for-like) 
basis, growth was therefore 11.6%. Operating margins were 15.8%, an increase of 
5.7 percentage points compared with the prior year.
The growth in operating profit was due to a combination of increased volume, an 
expansion in gross margins, and cost benefits resulting from restructuring and integration 
activities we had implemented the previous year. 
Profit before tax increased by 94% to £132.3 million (2009: £68.2 million) and earnings 
per share increased by 91% from 45.4 pence to 86.6 pence. The effective tax rate was 
24.2% (2009: 23.2%). 
Cash conversion was robust, with 112% of operating profit converted into operating 
cash, largely due to a reduction in working capital of approximately £20 million. Net debt 
decreased by £37.7 million from £123.9 million to £86.2 million, 0.5X EBITDA. Net interest 
costs were £9.8 million. At 31 December 2010, the group had cash of £64.7 million and 
undrawn committed facilities of £80 million. This strong financial position gives us the 
flexibility to continue to pursue our strategic objectives.
The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 20.9 pence, which, combined with 
the interim dividend of 7.1 pence, gives a total for the year of 28.0 pence (2009: 
24.25 pence), an increase of 15%. The dividend is covered 3.1 times. This is consistent 
with our policy of making progressive dividend payments based upon affordability and 
sustainability. The dividend will be paid on 24 June 2011 to shareholders on the register at 
the close of business on 3 June 2011.
We are very pleased with the group’s  
performance in 2010, with trading exceeding our 
expectations across all four business segments.
28.0p
Dividend up 15% 11 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Board changes
Having served for six years as a non-executive director, Anthony Reading retired at the 
conclusion of the AGM in May 2010. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him 
for his contribution to the group and his chairmanship of the remuneration committee. 
I would also like to welcome Russell King, who joined the Board as a non-executive 
director on 20 October 2010 and assumes the role of chairman of the remuneration 
committee. Russell was previously chief strategy officer of Anglo American PLC and is a 
non-executive director of Aggreko plc. 
Outlook
Spectris recovered quickly from the economic downturn and made excellent progress in 
2010, with trading exceeding our expectations across all four business segments. Looking 
ahead, we expect a return to more normal sales growth during 2011 and we will continue 
to pursue our strategy of investing in new products and applications, seeking acquisition 
opportunities and expanding our market positions and regional presence. As a result,  
the Board believes Spectris is well positioned for further progress in 2011.
John Hughes
Chairman
*  Unless stated otherwise, figures quoted for operating profit, net interest, profit before tax, tax and earnings 
per share are adjusted measures – for explanation of adjusted figures and reconciliation to the statutory 
reported figures see Note 3.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1. Automotive and aerospace 12%
2. Pulp and paper 11%
3. Semicon, telecoms, electronics 10%
4. Academic research 9%
5. Pharma, life sciences 9%
6. Metals, minerals and mining 9%
7. Machine building 9%
8. Energy and utilities 7%
9. Environment 5%
10. Other, incl. distribution 19%
2010 sales by end-user market
% total group reported sales 12 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s Review   
John O’Higgins
Chief Executive
£62.4m
Expenditure on R&D up 7%
26%
Increase in sales to Asia Pacific
Growth returned during 2010 and all business segments saw higher sales than in 2009. 
Overall, sales growth was strongest in the In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Controls 
segments as the general economic recovery resulted in production levels and customer 
expenditure returning to more usual rates. The Test and Measurement segment saw a 
strong recovery in the second half of the year, as the number of automotive customer 
projects increased, and the Materials Analysis segment also grew strongly in the  
second half.
Strategy
We made significant progress on all elements of our strategy during the year, as set  
out below.
Strengthening market positions through innovation
Expenditure on research and development grew by 7% to £62.4 million (7% of sales). 
Following the sustained investment during the downturn of 2009, we launched a range 
of new products, technologies and applications during the year across the group. One of 
the most exciting of these was Empyrean, our new X-ray diffraction platform for materials 
research. Empyrean is unique in its ability to measure all sample types, from powders to 
thin films, nanomaterials and 3D objects, on a single instrument. We also launched a new 
version of the Morphologi automated image analysis system, the G3ID, developed as 
part of our collaboration with Kaiser Optical Systems. This product, which adds chemical 
identification to the existing size and shape analysis in one system for the first time, 
enables customers in the pharmaceutical industry to distinguish between materials  
that appear identical in traditional particle sizing systems and has been well received 
in the industry.
Increasing regional expansion with a focus on emerging markets
Asia Pacific continued to see strong growth, with group sales up by 26% on a reported 
basis. This remains our second-largest regional market, and is now just 4pp behind 
Europe, compared with 12pp in 2009. Two of the acquisitions made in the year are 
based in Asia and, together with N-Tron and Delta F, increase our presence in the 
region. We have also increased the number of staff employed in sales, marketing and 
support functions in our existing businesses in China by 25% (increase of 46% including 
acquisitions), bringing the total number of people employed in China to around 1,000. 
We continued to invest in infrastructure and service channels globally, opening new 
customer business centres in São Paulo, Brazil, and Mumbai, India. 
Growing existing businesses through acquisition
During the year, we made five bolt-on acquisitions for a total consideration of 
£63.0 million. The total annualised pro-forma revenues of the businesses acquired would 
have been approximately £36 million. In April, we acquired the assets of Reologica 
Instruments AB, a Swedish company specialising in the design and manufacture of 
rheometers. In July, we acquired Zhuhai Omec Instruments Co Ltd, a Chinese company 
specialising in particle characterisation, which has extended our product range in the 
Materials Analysis segment. In October, we acquired the industrial business of Sysmex, 
a Japanese company. This has increased our product offering in the industrial particle 
characterisation area and enables us to provide technical and applications support 
from laboratories and offices in Kobe and Tokyo. These three acquisitions form part of 
the Materials Analysis segment. In October, we acquired the business of N-Tron Corp, 
a leading US-based manufacturer of rugged industrial networking components. This 
business has been incorporated into the Industrial Controls segment. Finally, in November, 
we acquired Delta F Corporation, a manufacturer of process analyser technologies 
based in the US. Delta F’s products and technologies complement our range of process 
We will continue to pursue our strategy of investing 
in new products and applications, seeking acquisition 
opportunities and expanding our market positions and 
regional presence. 13 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
gas analysis solutions, further extending our measurement capabilities in the In-line 
Instrumentation segment. 
 
Focusing on operational excellence
We continued to focus on improving operational efficiency with a number of on-going 
initiatives during the year. Despite the general increases in material costs as the global 
economy recovered, our China-based strategic sourcing team, together with operating 
company purchasing managers, continued to accelerate the pace of sourcing from 
lower-cost countries, and we now have a well-established supply chain of partners in 
China, south-east Asia and eastern Europe. The value of items sourced or manufactured 
in lower-cost countries now accounts for approximately 11% of our total cost of goods 
sold. It is also worth noting that we have limited exposure to energy and commodity 
input prices. Lean manufacturing programmes have been introduced across the group. 
An example is at NDC Infrared Engineering’s facility in the USA, as described in the case 
study below.
Building our presence in key strategic growth areas, both organically and 
through acquisition
The acquisitions we have made during the year have improved our positions in key 
strategic markets. In addition, we are placing increasing focus on the more resilient areas 
of our business, for example customer support, service and consumables, which now 
represent 29% of sales. We continue to look for suitable acquisition opportunities to build 
our strategic business segments.
John O’Higgins
Chief Executive
Focusing on operational 
excellence
At NDC Infrared Engineering, lean 
manufacturing initiatives have been 
introduced including outsourcing, 
supply chain realignment and extensive 
use of organisational techniques such as 
5S and visual management. These focus 
the company on critical value-added 
processes and tangible productivity 
improvements. Supply chain initiatives 
include realignment with suppliers 
whose business models and processes 
more closely fit with NDC’s in order 
to establish a global supply chain 
that provides NDC with a sustainable 
competitive advantage. 14 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Operating Review
Highlights
Strong growth in pharmaceuticals  >
and life sciences
Some softening in academic R&D >
H2 recovery in metals and mining >
3 bolt-on acquisitions >
Overview
Materials Analysis provides a wide range of analytical instrumentation to the metals and 
mining, pharmaceutical and life sciences, and electronics industries, and to academic 
and research institutions. Our products help customers to improve accuracy and speed 
of materials analysis in the laboratory and in process manufacturing applications. The 
operating companies in this segment are Malvern Instruments, PANalytical and Particle 
Measuring Systems.
Segment performance
Sales in Materials Analysis, at £271.6 million, increased by 9% compared with the prior 
year (up 8% at constant currencies, including 3% from acquisitions). Operating profit 
increased by 24% to £39.5 million. Operating margins improved from 12.9% to 14.5%, 
as a result of volume, pricing and mix, including a favourable shift towards aftersales 
services, which grew by 15% and now represent 31% of sales.
Activity in the metals, minerals and mining sector, the largest end-user market for this 
segment, was slow in the first half of the year but improved in the second half. A number 
of orders for laboratory automation projects were secured, particularly in Latin America 
and Europe. These included an order from a major steel producer in the UK for a fully 
automated system for iron and steel analysis. Continued investment in infrastructure 
projects, particularly in China and the Middle East, provided good demand for our 
equipment, and we received a large number of orders for our X-ray analysis systems from 
the cement industry in China and, in the Middle East, for our rheometers to control the 
quality of asphalt production. 
Demand from the pharmaceutical industry grew by over 40% in 2010. New regulations 
in China have led to the enforcement of stricter safety standards covering the production 
of food and pharmaceutical products, with standards equivalent to the FDA regulations 
in North America. As a result, we made a number of important sales to customers who 
need to comply with these regulations and the State Food & Drug Administration in 
China also purchased our particle characterisation instruments to assist in standards 
enforcement. We also launched a new facility monitoring system which detects both 
molecular and microbial contamination, combining the MicroSafe microbial detection 
and monitoring products acquired in 2009 with our existing particulate measurement 
products, and secured a major US manufacturer as the first customer.
Sales to the academic sector and to research institutions were very good in 2009, helped 
by government stimulus packages in a number of regions. Although some of these 
government-funded research programmes in the developed economies ended during 
2010, the market overall remained resilient, with Germany benefiting from sustained 
investment in the university/R&D sector and sales to emerging markets continuing 
to increase. Our new Empyrean X-ray system, launched in the first quarter, has also 
proved attractive to the academic and research market, enabling customers to carry out 
experiments that were not previously possible. We have long-standing relationships with 
many of our customers in this market and our equipment is used extensively in their 
laboratories, with new systems adding to the research capabilities they can provide. 
The electronics industry experienced a strong recovery in 2010 as a result of large 
investments in semiconductor manufacturing capacity, driven by growth in PCs, flat 
panel TVs, LEDs and smart phones, and we sold a number of products to manufacturers 
£271.6m
Sales up 9%
£39.5m
Operating profit up 24%
Materials Analysis 15 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
for upgrading their facilities. In July, we launched the UltraChem 40 particle counter for 
the semiconductor industry. This instrument uses proprietary digital imaging technology 
to detect ultra-small particles and is the most sensitive particle counter in the industry. 
Increasing demand for the high-brightness LEDs used for display backlighting in devices 
such as computers, televisions and in-car lighting also provided good demand from Korea 
and China for our high resolution X-ray diffraction instruments. These are the systems 
of choice for process control by the majority of manufacturers and suppliers of gallium 
nitride, the key material used in these devices. 
Segment outlook
The outlook for metals, minerals and mining is good, with further recovery expected  
in mining and steel as commodity prices rise. Some softness is expected to remain  
in academic segments; however, this will be mitigated by continued investment in 
emerging markets and an increase in industrial R&D as the global economy grows.  
The semiconductor market is forecast to remain strong in 2011 and we expect to see 
more investment in process monitoring in the pharmaceutical industry, particularly  
in China. The acquisitions made in this segment will further strengthen our Asia  
presence in 2011.
Increasing regional expansion 
with a focus on emerging 
markets
Spectris’ office in São Paulo, Brazil, 
provides sales and support for a number 
of our operating companies in Latin 
America, enabling them to provide 
a direct response to the increasing 
number of customers in this region. 
Customers include the University of São 
Paulo, where PANalytical’s applications 
laboratory is used for research and 
support applications, primarily in the 
materials and industrial segments. 
Samples for analysis are received from 
government institutions and industrial 
companies as well as from students 
with their own research projects. 16 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Operating Review continued
Test and Measurement
Highlights
Automotive customers reinstate  >
development budgets
Strong profit contribution >
Good demand from aerospace >
Good growth regionally,   >
especially Asia
£297.4m
Sales up 11%
£34.8m
Operating profit up from £1.4m
Overview
Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement and analysis equipment and software 
for product design optimisation, manufacturing control and environmental monitoring 
systems. Markets are principally the aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics 
industries. For customers in the automotive and aerospace industries, our products and 
applications help them to design and test new products whilst reducing time to market. 
In consumer electronics, our equipment and software enable customers to refine the 
performance and accuracy of their products. In the environmental monitoring market, 
the desire for higher standards of community comfort is driving increasing demand. 
The operating companies in this segment are Brüel & Kjær Sound & Vibration and HBM.
Segment performance
Sales in Test and Measurement increased by 1 1% (organic increase of 1 1% at constant 
currencies) to £297 .4 million. Operating profit increased to £34.8 million (2009: £1.4 million). 
The margin effect of the increase in sales was boosted by a year-on-year reduction in 
overhead costs. This reflects an increase in restructuring benefits and a reduction in 
restructuring charges, combined with good cost control throughout the segment. Operating 
margins were 11.7% compared with 0.5% in the prior year. Of this increase, 2.6 percentage 
points (pp) came from an increase in gross margins, 3.1pp from a reduction in restructuring 
costs and 5.5pp from operating leverage as the benefits of the restructuring were realised.
The automotive market, a key end-user market for this segment, experienced a dramatic 
slowdown in 2009 and, although not returning to the high levels of 2008, saw a major 
improvement in 2010 as customers began to reinstate budgets. 
The world of data acquisition and analysis is changing rapidly as our customers are under 
growing competitive pressure to launch products with reduced development times and 
which meet increasingly stringent environmental and legislative compliance, and we 
are developing new products to help them to meet these requirements. In September, 
we signed an exclusive partnership agreement with MIRA, the Motor Industry Research 
Association in the UK, to jointly provide engineering services to Chinese automotive 
customers. MIRA is a world leader in advanced engineering, research and product 
testing, with facilities located around the world, and its work includes the development of 
ground-breaking low carbon vehicle technologies. In return, MIRA has made significant 
investment in our equipment, including a noise vibration harshness (NVH) simulator, for 
use in these services. The NVH simulators saw good demand from vehicle manufacturers 
and a major Japanese manufacturer invested in a number of our solutions for vehicle 
development including an NVH simulator, transducers, in-vehicle measurement and 
analysis systems, and array systems for wind tunnel testing.
In February, Scuderia Ferrari took delivery of a data acquisition system and software for 
test bench balancing for their Formula One engines. Engine balancing leads to superior 
performance and increased safety and reliability and has taken on a new importance since 
the introduction of new rules limiting the number of engines per driver per season. 
The growth of consumer electronics products such as smart phones, MP3 players and 
tablet computers also benefited this segment. In order to achieve the very high product 
quality the market demands, manufacturers have increased production testing standards 
for operational and environmental performance. Our ability to offer complete solutions 
for both acoustics and vibration has led to new opportunities in the quality assurance 
testing of smart phones and we secured orders for our microphones and conditioning 
amplifiers from a number of manufacturers.  17 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
During the year, sales of our products to the aerospace industry increased, particularly 
for satellite testing. In October, Spain’s National Institute for Aerospace Technology 
successfully achieved noise certification of the Airbus A330 Multi Role Transport Tanker 
using our data acquisition system. This aircraft can operate in civil airports, for example 
during international human aid operations. We also sold equipment for structural testing 
of new aircraft in China and Japan, and our recently-launched optical strain gauges are 
proving successful for stress analysis of the composite materials used in aircraft design. 
In the environmental noise market, there was good demand for our noise monitoring 
services and we secured orders from a number of airports around the world. Our flight 
tracking service is also proving successful, assisting in the management of aircraft noise 
and safety at airports worldwide.
Our recently-launched urban and industrial noise monitoring application is aimed at 
installations which are required to report compliance with noise regulations, such as 
mines, ports, industrial premises, power stations, wind farms and large construction 
projects. This system negates the need for in-house expertise by outsourcing compliance 
via our managed service and is generating significant interest with industrial plant 
managers who are faced with noise management issues in their local communities.
Segment outlook
The automotive, aerospace and consumer electronics segments all recovered well in 2010 
and are expected to continue to provide good opportunities for growth. The market 
for urban and airport noise monitoring is expected to continue to grow as regulation of 
environmental noise levels increases. 
Building our presence in key 
strategic growth areas
In the automotive industry, a key  
end-user market for Test and 
Measurement, Ferrari have selected 
our PULSE LAN-XI data acquisition 
system for testing engine vibration 
in their Formula One cars. With the 
engines running at up to 20,000 rpm, 
vibration is a critical issue. Balancing 
the crankshaft to reduce engine 
vibration leads to superior performance 
and increased safety and reliability. A 
second PULSE system, together with 
a mannequin with built-in ear and 
mouth simulators, is used to test the 
radio communication link between the 
racing driver and the engineers at the 
pit. With the driver exposed to noise 
equivalent to a jet engine taking off, 
miniature loudspeakers are built into 
special silicone earplugs that protect his 
hearing whilst allowing him to listen to 
messages from his team.  18 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Operating Review continued
Highlights
Good growth and record profitability >
Pulp and paper strong >
Strong growth in converting   >
and plastics
Acquisition of Delta F Corporation >
£273. 1m
Sales up 20%
£58.3m
Operating profit up 41%
In-line Instrumentation
Overview
In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical measurement, asset monitoring  
and on-line controls for both primary processing and the converting industries. Our 
products and applications provide precision measurement in challenging operating 
environments, ensuring process quality, asset uptime, safety, and improved yield.  
The operating companies in this segment are Beta LaserMike, Brüel & Kjær Vibro,  
BTG Group, Fusion UV Systems, NDC Infrared Engineering, and Servomex. 
Segment performance
Sales in In-line Instrumentation increased by 20% (increase of 17% at constant currencies 
and organic) to £273.1 million. Operating profit increased by 41% to £58.3 million and 
operating margins increased to a record 21.3%, up 3.1pp from last year. This was partly 
due to gross margin increases and partly to operating leverage. Sales of service, spare 
parts and consumables are a key feature of this segment and represent 43% of revenues.
The In-line Instrumentation segment saw good growth in all major regions and markets 
and strong profitability. The pulp and paper industry, the largest end-user market for this 
segment, performed well as paper mills placed increased emphasis on cost reduction 
in response to higher energy and fibre costs and we saw strong demand for both our 
instruments and creping blades. Our high performance blades are particularly successful 
in tissue production where they provide enhanced product properties such as tissue 
bulk and softness whilst improving tissue uniformity compared with traditional steel 
blades. This results in more efficient tissue converting and less wastage. Demand for 
our instruments was also good, particularly in China, where new paper mill expansion 
projects are under way, and orders were also received from a number of mills in Latin 
America. Our new optical consistency transmitters are performing well. These units can 
accurately measure consistency over a wide range of pulp types and generate savings in 
fibre, fillers, chemical consumption and lost production. We received an order for a new 
newsprint machine in the UK, which will be the first paper machine in the world to be 
entirely fitted out with optical transmitters. 
Sales in the energy, refining and industrial gas markets continued to recover in all regions, 
with excellent growth in China, Middle East, India and Latin America. New business 
centres were opened in Brazil and India, providing sales and service for customers in 
these regions. In November, we acquired Delta F Corporation, a specialist manufacturer 
of process analyser technologies. The acquisition further enhances our ability to deliver a 
complete range and choice of process gas analysis technologies and systems to industry 
worldwide. Demand for condition monitoring systems was also strong from the energy 
sector and in October we introduced the VDAU-6000 condition monitor, a product 
providing cost-effective condition monitoring and analysis as a bolt-on to existing safety 
systems or for balance of plant applications. The hydro-electric power market continued 
to show strong signs of growth, particularly in eastern Europe and also in Latin America, 
where we were nominated as an approved vendor for the supply of safety and condition 
monitoring equipment for two hydropower plant projects in Brazil. We also had a record 
year for remote monitoring orders for wind power applications and we entered into a 
frame agreement with Arise Windpower, a leading player in the Swedish wind power 
market, for the supply of condition monitoring solutions for wind turbine applications.
In the converting industry, sales to the wire and cable market of our non-eccentricity 
gauge, launched in the first half, greatly exceeded our expectations and our non-contact 
length and speed measurement gauge also saw good success with original equipment 
manufacturers in Europe. These products provide more accurate control of the production 
process and improve product quality whilst reducing material consumption.  19 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
In the fibre optic market, we continued to see the adoption of our non-contact 
measurement systems among the leading optical manufacturers, particularly in China, to 
improve product quality and increase production yields. Our FiberMike systems, which 
include diameter gauges and flaw detectors, are used to monitor each stage of the draw 
tower process. 
We made good progress in high technology markets such as coating lines and separator 
film lines for the production of lithium ion batteries. Most of the increase in battery 
production is in Asia, followed by North America.
The investment in new technologies to improve the image quality of displays and new 
products such as 3DTV, as previously mentioned in the Materials Analysis segment, was 
also beneficial for the In-line Instrumentation segment and we sold a number of systems 
for UV curing of back light units and brightness-enhancing films for flat panel displays 
in Japan, Korea and Taiwan. The adoption of UV in industrial markets also continues 
to expand, with China one of the fastest-growing markets for the curing of industrial 
coatings and the use of UV curing technology. 
Segment outlook
Conditions have recovered in this segment’s end markets, driven by customer investments 
in upgrades to facilities and a demand for greater production efficiencies. We have 
increased our focus on service and support and we anticipate that this will continue to 
provide a resilient revenue base.
Growing existing businesses  
through acquisition
In November, we acquired Delta F 
Corporation, a leading manufacturer of 
specialist gas analysers, based in Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA. Delta F develops, 
manufactures and distributes a range 
of trace oxygen and moisture analysers, 
primarily for use in the semiconductor 
and electronics industries. This bolt-on 
acquisition increases our offering in the  
In-line Instrumentation segment, with  
Delta F’s products, technologies and 
expertise complementing those of 
Servomex, enabling the company to 
deliver a complete range of process 
gas analysis systems to customers 
worldwide. 20 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Operating Review continued
Highlights
General manufacturing and  >
electronics sectors return to growth
Good growth in all major regions >
N-Tron acquisition gives foothold in  >
industrial networking applications
£59.8m
Sales up 34%
£9.5m
Operating profit up 119%
Industrial Controls
Overview
Industrial Controls supplies automation and control products for the discrete 
manufacturing industries. Our products provide identification and tracking solutions 
during the manufacturing process, displays for process monitoring and control, and data 
interfaces for a broad range of manufacturing industries. Sales are made indirectly to 
end users via distributors as well as directly to original equipment manufacturers, with a 
significant proportion of repeat business. The operating companies in this segment are 
Microscan and Red Lion Controls. 
Segment performance
Sales in Industrial Controls increased by 34% to £59.8 million (increase of 32% at 
constant currencies, including 8% from acquisitions). Operating profit increased by  
119% to £9.5 million. Operating margins were 15.9% compared with 9.9% in 2009.  
The expansion in operating margins was largely due to the increased volume and the 
benefits of the restructuring and integration actions taken in 2009.
The electronics and general manufacturing sectors returned to growth in 2010. 
Activity in the industrial controls and machine building markets continued to increase, 
particularly with original equipment manufacturers, and we secured a number of orders 
for private labelling of our networking products. Our Data Station product continued 
to find new applications, and traditional interface products also continued to benefit 
from the recovery in the global manufacturing sector. In October, we acquired the 
business of N-Tron Corp, a leading manufacturer of rugged ethernet switches – the 
products used to connect multiple ethernet devices to each other and to build network 
infrastructure – and associated components for the industrial, infrastructure and power 
generation markets.
In the pharmaceutical market, demand was strong for our laser scanners in China, where 
they are used in systems which validate compliance to the new regulations regarding 
manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical products. All products covered by the 
scheme are now required to have an e-tracking bar code affixed to the packaging so that 
they can be traced. In October, we introduced a new inspection and verification solution 
for pharmaceutical packaging. The VS-1 track and trace machine vision system features 
a smart camera, integrated lighting and powerful machine vision tools to read barcodes, 
verify text and inspect labels for misalignment. 
Segment outlook
2010 saw a recovery in demand from the general manufacturing sector, which we 
expect to continue, with good opportunities in China. We anticipate that our portfolio 
of track, trace and control solutions will continue to find opportunities across a number 
of industrial controls sectors. The segment has been strengthened by the acquisition of 
N-Tron, and we expect to see growth from increased demand for industrial networking 
components.  21 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Building our presence in key 
strategic growth areas
In October, we acquired N-Tron, a 
leading US manufacturer of rugged 
industrial networking components. 
N-Tron supplies ethernet switches and 
associated components to the industrial, 
infrastructure and power generation 
markets. Over the past few years wind 
turbine manufacturers have embraced 
the use of ethernet to monitor and 
control wind farms worldwide and  
use N-Tron’s switches to optimise  
their operation.  22 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Operating Review continued
Strengthening market positions through innovation
BioLaz real-time microbial  
monitor
VDAU-6000 condition  
monitoring system 
K-OR optical strain gauge 
The BioLaz real-time microbial monitor 
provides rapid detection of airborne 
biological organisms in controlled 
environments. This compact device can fit 
in restricted spaces and provides immediate 
notification when biological particles 
are present and real-time verification 
of biological activity levels during filling 
operations. This results in faster batch 
releases, improving productivity in 
sterile manufacturing processes in the 
pharmaceutical and biotech industries.
This state-of-the-art system provides a 
cost-effective alternative to rack-based 
condition monitoring systems for rotating 
machinery. The VDAU-6000 can monitor 
auxiliary machines or act as an extension 
to existing safety systems for monitoring all 
types of machines, including critical turbo 
machinery. Its powerful, user-friendly scalar 
condition monitoring functionality enables 
narrow band measurements for monitoring 
specific frequencies, such as running 
speed, blade pass and bearing defect.  
The values are easy to monitor and trend, 
providing reliable early fault detection.
Although this strain gauge rosette is the 
smallest in the world, it is designed for 
withstanding extreme loads, even in adverse 
ambient conditions and potentially explosive 
environments. Optical devices require no 
electrical signal and are easy to install, 
opening up new opportunities for use in 
experimental stress analysis. This gauge 
measures strain in three directions, from 
which the two-dimensional mechanical 
stress state is calculated. Typical applications 
include materials testing, for example on the 
rotor blades of wind turbines. 23 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Empyrean X-ray diffraction 
platform
VS-1 Track and Trace machine 
vision inspection system 
Noise Sentinel noise  
monitoring system 
This urban and industrial noise monitoring 
application is aimed at installations which 
are required to report compliance with 
noise regulations, such as mines, ports, 
industrial premises, power stations, wind 
farms and large construction projects. 
The system negates the need for in-house 
expertise by outsourcing compliance 
via our managed service. This provides 
alerts when compliance with the relevant 
noise restrictions is exceeded, delivers the 
information necessary to investigate and 
compiles regular reports demonstrating 
compliance.
Empyrean is our new X-ray diffraction 
platform for materials research. Featuring 
PIXcel
3D
, the world’s first 3D detection 
system on a diffractometer, Empyrean 
is unique in its ability to measure all 
sample types, from powders to thin films, 
nanomaterials and 3D objects, on a single 
instrument. The system enables analysis 
of the widest range of properties of any 
existing or novel materials with a minimum 
of sample preparation time, speeding up 
research and development processes.
Pharmaceutical companies are increasingly 
required to meet strict regulations on 
the manufacture and distribution of their 
products. The VS-1 system provides a 
complete solution for pharmaceutical 
packaging inspection. Featuring a smart 
camera, integrated lighting and powerful 
machine vision tools, it is designed to read 
barcodes, verify text and inspect labels 
for misalignment. 24 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial Review
Clive Watson
Group finance director
£142.1m
Operating profit up 79%
Reported sales were up 14.6% at £901.9 million.  
On an organic constant currency basis,  
sales increased by 11.6%.
Spectris uses adjusted figures as key performance measures in addition to those reported 
under adopted IFRS. Adjusted figures exclude certain non-operational items which 
management has defined as amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible 
assets, acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments, profits or 
losses on termination or disposal of businesses, unrealised changes in the fair value of financial 
instruments, gains or losses on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances, 
related tax effects and other tax items which do not form part of the underlying tax rate (see 
Note 3). As noted in the 2009 annual report, the definition has been modified for 2010 to 
include the income statement effects arising from the adoption of IFRS 3 (Revised).
Operating performance
2010 2009 Increase
Sales (£m) 901.9 787.3 14.6%
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 142.1 79.2 79.4%
Operating margin 15.8% 10.1% +5.7pp
Statutory 
Sales (£m) 901.9 787.3 14.6%
Operating profit (£m) 127.9 68.5 86.7%
Operating margin 14.2% 8.7% +5.5pp
Reported sales were up 14.6% at £901.9 million (2009: £787.3 million). Favourable 
movements in foreign currency exchange rates contributed approximately £11.9 million 
(1.5%) and revenue from acquisitions contributed £11.6 million (1.5%). Therefore, on an 
organic constant currency basis, sales increased by 11.6% year-on-year.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 79% to £142.1 million (2009: £79.2 million). 
Movements in foreign currency exchange rates had a positive effect of approximately 
£2.0 million and acquisitions contributed an additional £1.2 million. On a like-for-like basis, 
therefore, operating profit increased by £59.7 million. Of this, £73.1 million is due to an 
increase in gross margin from the higher sales, offset by like-for-like overheads increasing 
by £13.4 million. The increase in net overheads is inclusive of the year-on-year increase in 
restructuring benefits of £12.3 million and the year-on-year decrease in restructuring and 
post-acquisition integration charges of £13.2 million. Underlying overheads therefore grew 
by £38.9 million, of which approximately £27 million relates to the reinstatement of costs 
which were temporarily cut or frozen in 2009 (mainly salary-related and certain discretionary 
costs), and the balance of £11.9 million relates to the increase in variable overhead costs 
arising from increased sales activity and normal cost inflation. Operating margins increased 
from 10.1% to 15.8%. 
The year-on-year decrease in net finance costs was £1.2 million (from £11.0 million 
to £9.8 million). This includes £0.7 million from refinancing the $75 million US private 
placement (which matured in September 2010) with a five-year term loan facility carrying 
an interest rate of 3.12%, 5.1 percentage points lower than the US private placement note 
it replaced. The balance of the year-on-year reduction in net finance costs (£0.5 million) 
arises from a reduction in average net debt, offset by an increase in the effective average 
interest rate caused by holding large cash balances at a lower interest rate. 
Profit before tax increased by 94% from £68.2 million to £132.3 million. 
Statutory operating profit, after including acquisition-related intangible asset amortisation 
of £12.3 million (2009: £10.7 million) and acquisition-related costs and contingent 
consideration fair value adjustments of £1.9 million (2009: £nil, due to the adoption of IFRS 
3 (Revised) from 1 January 2010), increased by 87% from £68.5 million to £127.9 million.
15.8%
Operating margins up 5.7pp 25 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Statutory profit before tax increased by 121% from £54.2 million to £119.9 million.
The reconciliation of statutory and adjusted measures is shown in the table below.
2010  
IFRS 
(Statutory) 
£m
2010 
Adjustments 
£m
2010 
Spectris 
adjusted 
£m
2009  
IFRS 
(Statutory) 
£m
2009 
Adjustments 
£m
2009 
Spectris 
adjusted 
£m
Sales 901.9 – 901.9 787.3 – 787.3
Gross margin 526.8 – 526.8 445.3 – 445.3
Operating profit 
before amortisation 
of acquisition-
related intangibles 
and acquisition-
related costs 142.1 – 142.1 79.2 – 79.2
Amortisation of 
acquisition-related 
intangibles (12.3) 12.3 – (10.7) 10.7 –
Acquisition-
related costs 
and contingent 
consideration fair 
value adjustments (1.9) 1.9 – – – –
Operating profit 127.9 14.2 142.1 68.5 10.7 79.2
Profit on disposal of 
businesses – – – 0.1 (0.1) –
Unrealised 
changes in fair 
value of financial 
instruments 1.4 (1.4) – (3.5) 3.5 –
Net gains on 
retranslation of 
short-term inter-
company loan 
balances 0.4 (0.4) – 0.1 (0.1) –
Net bank interest 
payable (9.0) – (9.0) (10.7) – (10.7)
IAS 19 finance cost (0.5) – (0.5) (0.3) – (0.3)
Other finance cost (0.3) – (0.3) – – –
Profit before tax 119.9 12.4 132.3 54.2 14.0 68.2
Acquisitions
The total cost of acquisitions in the year was £63.0 million, including £0.8 million for cash 
acquired. Of this, £4.1 million is attributable to the fair value of deferred and contingent 
consideration expected to be paid in future years. In addition, a further £4.5 million was paid 
in respect of prior year acquisitions, making the net cash outflow in the year £62.6 million. An 
amount of £1.9 million was spent on incidental costs (mainly professional fees), which makes 
the total acquisition-related cash flow in 2010 £64.5 million. The acquisitions mainly took 
place in the fourth quarter of 2010 and contributed £1 1.6 million of incremental sales and  
£1.2 million of operating profit. 
Taxation
The effective tax rate on adjusted profits was 24.2% (2009: 23.2%), an increase of 1pp, 
mainly due to a higher proportion of the profits being earned in the more highly taxed 
USA. On a statutory basis, the effective tax rate was 19.8% (2009: 21.4%). The effective 
tax rate continues to be below the weighted average statutory tax rate of 27.6% (2009: 
25.1%), primarily as a consequence of a tax-efficient inter-company financing structure 
and research and development tax incentives.
86.6p
Earnings per share up 91%
£ 132.3m
Profit before tax up 94% 26 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial Review continued
Earnings per share
Earnings per share increased by 91% from 45.4p to 86.6p, reflecting the net impact of a 
94% increase in profit before tax slightly offset by the increase in the weighted average 
number of shares from 115.4 million in 2009 to 115.8 million in 2010, due to company 
share option exercises satisfied from treasury shares and an increased tax rate.
Statutory basic earnings per share increased by 125% from 36.9p to 83.1p. The difference 
between the two measures is shown in the table below. 
2010 
Pence
2009 
Pence
Statutory basic earnings per share 83.1 36.9
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 10.6 9.3
Acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value 
adjustments 1.6 –
Profit on disposal of businesses – (0.1)
(Increase)/decrease in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps (1.2) 3.0
Net gains on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances (0.3) (0.1)
Tax effect of the above and other exceptional items (7.2) (3.6)
Earnings per share 86.6 45.4
Cash flow
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Operating cash flow
Operating profit 142.1 79.2
Add back: depreciation and software amortisation 16.5 16.7
Trade working capital movement 19.4 35.3
Non-operating provisions and other 0.7 (11.5)
Net cash flow from operating activities before capital expenditure 178.7 119.7
Capital expenditure (18.9) (14.2)
Operating cash flow 159.8 105.5
Cash conversion* 112% 133%
Non-operating cash flow
Tax paid (21.0) (16.7)
Interest paid (10.1) (10.8)
Dividends paid (28.9) (27.0)
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (62.6) (28.7)
Acquisition-related costs (1.9) –
Disposals – 0.1
Exercise of share options 1.9 0.4
Exchange 0.5 15.4
Total non-operating cash flow (122.1) (67.3)
Operating cash flow 159.8 105.5
Movement in net debt 37.7 38.2
* Operating cash flow as a percentage of operating profit
Operating cash flow was £159.8 million (2009: £105.5 million), a cash conversion rate of 
112% (2009: 133%). A major contributory factor to this result was a reduction in working 
capital during the year of approximately £20 million. 
Average working capital and year-end working capital expressed as a percentage of sales 
decreased to 9.4% (2009: 14.3%) and 9.8% (2009: 12.4%), respectively. This reflects 
the continuing effort by management to keep working capital to a minimum, despite the 
increased value of sales. Capital expenditure during the year equated to 2.1% of sales 
(2009: 1.8%) and, at £18.9 million (2009: £14.2 million), was 115% of depreciation and 
software amortisation (2009: 85%). 
Overall, net debt decreased by £37.7 million (2009: decrease of £38.2 million) from 
11 2%
Cash conversion rate
£86.2m
Net debt at year end down by £37.7m 27 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
£123.9 million to £86.2 million. Net debt was 0.5X EBITDA. Interest cost, excluding 
the financing charge arising from IAS 19, was covered by operating profit 15.8 times 
(2009: 7.4 times). 
Financing and treasury 
The group finances its operations from both retained earnings and third-party borrowings, the 
majority of which are currently at fixed rates of interest. 
As at 31 December 2010, the group had £229 million of committed facilities denominated 
in different currencies, consisting of £99 million of private placements maturing in October 
2013, £80 million of revolving credit facilities maturing between October 201 1 and September 
2012, a five-year £48 million term loan maturing in September 2015 and £2 million from three 
bank loans secured on property of three of our businesses. The revolving credit facilities were 
undrawn at the year end. In addition, the group had a cash balance of £64.7 million and other 
uncommitted facilities, mainly in the form of overdraft facilities at our local operations. 
At the year end, the group’s borrowings amounted to £150.9 million, 99% of which were 
at fixed interest rates (2009: 94%). The ageing profile at the year end showed that 1% of 
the year end borrowing is due to mature within one year (2009: 31%) and 99% is due to 
mature in between one and five years (2009: 69%). 
Currency
The group has both translational and transactional currency exposures. Translational exposures 
arise on the consolidation of overseas company results into sterling. Transactional exposures arise 
where the currency of sale or purchase invoices differs from the functional currency in which 
each company prepares its local accounts. The transactional exposures include situations where 
foreign currency denominated trade debtor, trade creditor and cash balances are held.
After matching currency of revenue with currency of costs wherever practical, forward 
exchange contracts are used to hedge a proportion (up to 75%) of the remaining forecast net 
transaction flows where there is reasonable certainty of an exposure. At 31 December 2010, 
approximately 61% of the estimated net euro, US dollar and Japanese yen exposures for 201 1 
were hedged using forward exchange contracts mainly against the Swiss franc, sterling, the 
euro and the Danish krone.
The largest translational exposures are to the US dollar, euro, Danish krone and Swiss franc. 
Translational exposures are not hedged. The table below shows the key average exchange 
rates compared to sterling during 2010 and 2009. 
2010 
(average)
2009 
(average)
USD 1.55 1.57
EUR 1.17 1.12
JPY 135 146
To demonstrate the transaction and translation currency exposure faced by the group, 
the table below shows the differences between the group’s consolidated revenues and 
costs for each of the major currencies in 2010 before reflecting the effect of transactional 
hedges taken out in the year.
Revenue and cost by major currency:
USD* EUR* GBP JPY Other Total
Total sales (£m) 317 354 65 68 98 902
% of sales 35% 39% 7% 8% 11%
Total costs (£m)** (241) (315) (79) (35) (100) (770)
PBT by currency (£m) 76 39 –14 33 –2 132
% of PBT 57% 30% –11% 25% –1% 
*   Dollar/euro categories include tracking currencies
**  Costs include interest of £3.3 million in USD, £6.3 million in EUR and £0.2 million in GBP
£229m
Committed facilities
£64.7m
Cash balance 28 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial Review continued
The previous table is for overall guidance only as the phasing of income and the movement 
in the monthly average exchange rates during the year can have a significant impact.
Defined benefit pension schemes
The company operates a number of pension schemes throughout the group. The net 
pension liability in the balance sheet (before taking account of the related deferred tax 
asset of £3.5 million) has decreased to £14.1 million (2009: £23.5 million). The movement 
can be summarised as follows:
£m
Deficit in defined benefit pension schemes at 1 January 2010 (23.5)
Gain as a consequence of the UK change in inflation previously indexed  
to RPI, now CPI 2.9 
Actuarial gains 2.4 
Contributions in excess of service cost 4.9 
Interest costs on pension scheme liabilities net of expected return on 
pension scheme assets (0.5)
Exchange difference and other movements (0.3)
Deficit in defined benefit pension schemes at 31 December 2010 (14.1)
 
The movement in individual plan deficits is shown in the table below:
UK Germany Netherlands Switzerland Total
Deficit as at 1 January 2010 (14.3) (7.0) (0.3) (1.9) (23.5)
Decrease/(increase) in deficit 10.6 (0.1) (0.1) (1.0) 9.4
Deficit as at 31 December 2010 (3.7) (7.1) (0.4) (2.9) (14.1)
The reduction in the UK deficit is mainly as a consequence of the increase in investment 
returns arising from a recovery in equity values supplemented by the continuing 
deficit recovery contributions made to the plan. These contributions were increased to 
£2.6 million in 2010 (formerly £2.0 million p.a.) and augmented by a special funding 
contribution of £1.9 million made during the year, putting the group on track to eliminate 
the UK deficit by the end of 2012. It should be noted that actions taken in earlier years 
have contained the pension deficit and reduced risk: the UK plan was closed to new 
members in 1996 and closed to future accruals in 2009. In addition, the UK plan is largely 
protected from interest rate and inflation rate volatility due to swaps held by the plan 
but remains exposed to equity volatility, corporate default and mortality experience. 
A programme to reduce equity volatility commenced in 2008 by transitioning towards 
long-term corporate bond holdings matched to pensioner and deferred pensioner 
liabilities. At 31 December 2010, 70% of the UK plan’s assets (excluding swaps) were held 
in corporate bonds with the remainder in equity investments. In July, the UK government 
announced that CPI should be used as the basis for statutory minimum pension increases. 
The impact of the change to CPI (from RPI) for the UK plan, where the pension rules 
mandate inflation according to the deemed statutory index, was a credit to the income 
statement of £2.9 million within administrative expenses. 
The £1.0 million increase in the Swiss deficit arose largely from a combination of adverse 
exchange rate movements and lower than expected asset returns.
Clive Watson
Group finance director 29 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Spectris is committed to creating business growth through 
adding value for our customers whilst also ensuring that  
our own impact on the environment is minimised.
Introduction
Spectris is a leading supplier of productivity-enhancing instrumentation and controls.
Our 6,000 employees operate from 134 offices in 29 countries around the world. 
Our products are used to monitor and control research and manufacturing processes, 
enhancing productivity and reducing environmental impact for customers in a wide range 
of industries. 
We are committed to creating business growth through adding such value for our 
customers whilst also ensuring that our own impact on the environment is minimised and 
that we adhere to high standards of corporate social responsibility generally.
Spectris continues to meet the criteria for membership of the FTSE4Good index, the 
leading responsible investment benchmark. The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria are 
enhanced regularly and demand continued improvement in order to maintain inclusion 
in the index. The criteria are assessed on a regular basis by the independent research 
organisation EIRIS.
Corporate governance
Details of how the company complied with the principles of the Combined Code 
during 2010 and will henceforth comply with the new Corporate Governance Code are 
described in detail in the Directors’ Report. 
Overall responsibility for developing corporate policies on environmental, social, ethical 
and health and safety matters, and for reviewing their effectiveness, lies with the Spectris 
Board of Directors. These policies are mandated across all business units and applied 
within each particular business, taking account of local legislation and regulation. All 
policies are reviewed periodically and any updates are communicated to the operating 
companies. Each year we require the president and finance director of each operating 
company to confirm that their business has complied in full with our corporate policies. 
Any instances of non-compliance must be reported. There were no material cases of  
non-compliance in 2010.
This certification forms an integral part of the company’s system of internal controls, and 
is regularly reviewed by the group’s internal audit function and considered annually by the 
company’s external auditors. Compliance testing is a formal part of internal audit reviews. 
Through a structured review process, the internal audit function undertakes visits to 
group locations on a rotational basis. These visits involve an assessment of the business’ 
key internal controls as well as compliance with the group’s policies and procedures. The 
results of internal audits and any cases of non-compliance are reported to the  
audit committee.
Environment and climate change
Our core business of providing instruments and controls for the design and manufacturing 
processes of major industrial companies helps our customers to reduce their environmental 
impact in a number of ways. We offer our customers products and technologies to 
reduce energy consumption, make more efficient use of resources, and control emissions. 
Furthermore, a number of our products are critical to the development, manufacture 
and maintenance of renewable energy generation technologies such as wind turbine 
generators and solar panels. Examples of the use of Spectris’ products having a direct 
beneficial contribution to the environment are shown on our website. 
FTSE4GOOD
Index member 30 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
We also take the continuing reduction in our own environmental impact seriously, 
endeavouring to employ non-polluting technology wherever possible in our operations 
and taking steps to reduce our energy consumption further. Design processes take into 
account the operational lifetime of every product and end-of-life removal or disposal. 
Consideration is also given to environment-friendly production, packaging and shipping. 
Our environmental policy is published on our website. Approximately half of Spectris’ 
manufacturing operations (by turnover) are certified to ISO14001. 
No significant environmental incidents were recorded in 2010 and the company received 
no environmental fines. 
Overall, Spectris has a low climate change impact, as our products do not require 
substantial manufacturing processes at our facilities (see below for details of supplier 
impacts). Although we fall below the threshold for full participation in the UK CRC 
Energy Efficiency Scheme and are only required to submit an information disclosure, 
we recognise the importance of managing our impact on the environment and are 
working to improve our environmental performance further and reduce our carbon 
emissions. To this end, we employed environmental consultants WS Atkins to undertake 
a sustainability and responsibility review during 2010 and are in the process of acting on 
their recommendations, as detailed below. 
We take seriously the need to manage our carbon emissions and in 2010 WS Atkins 
helped develop a reporting tool to collect data on electricity, gas and fuel oil consumption 
across our global operations, which will enable us to monitor and better manage our 
energy use. To support this initiative, we have established a new Key Performance 
Indicator for energy consumption to provide a baseline against which future performance 
can be measured (see chart). Using the data we have gathered, we have commenced a 
programme to evaluate the potential for improvement around the group and will develop 
appropriate action plans for delivery.
We will participate in the 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project as a further part of our 
commitment to monitoring and managing our environmental impacts. We are also 
reviewing the impact of water usage across our businesses and plan to assess the 
feasibility of collecting data on waste management throughout the group. 
Employees
We employ a highly skilled technical workforce, averaging around 6,000 people in 2010, 
in 134 offices throughout the world and are committed to providing our people with a 
creative working environment with scope for individual responsibility and achievement. 
Compensation and benefits, which are in line with other leading companies in the sector, 
are designed to reward the achievement of objectives. 
Our employment policy is published on our website. 
As part of our culture of respect, we believe that people with varied backgrounds and 
perspectives add creativity to the company and thus we encourage diversity in the 
workplace. We are committed to providing equal employment opportunities in terms 
of recruitment and employment, training and development, and promotion, regardless 
of race, colour, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability or military 
veteran status. Our value of treating others with respect carries over to our policy against 
workplace discrimination and harassment. We strive to create a culture of honesty, 
respect and professional excellence whilst maintaining a healthy balance between 
working and personal lives, with initiatives such as part-time and job share opportunities 
providing family-friendly working conditions. Employee surveys are carried out in a 
number of companies to measure the views of employees on company issues and action 
plans agreed to address the issues raised. Initiatives such as the Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme, available to all UK employees, and grants under the group’s Performance 
Share Plan made to senior management across the group, are designed to encourage 
loyalty and performance.
Corporate Social Responsibility continued
92.8
Key Performance Indicator
2010 energy consumption  
MWh per £m revenue
We estimate that the above energy consumption 
metric covers 100% of our operations.
Our policies
are published on our website  
at www.spectris.com 31 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
A commitment to training and personal development emphasises the importance of 
retaining staff throughout the group and ensuring that all employees are encouraged 
to realise their full potential. Annual reviews provide feedback on performance, set 
objectives and identify training and development opportunities. Data on employee 
turnover is monitored by individual businesses and reported to the Board on an 
annual basis. Malvern and Servomex, our two principal UK businesses, have received 
the Investors in People award for their programmes of training, appraisal, employee 
development and skills recognition.
Graduate recruitment programmes and student work placements exist in a number 
of companies, providing opportunities for young people, particularly scientists, to be 
introduced to the business environment.
Health and safety
We take health and safety seriously and strive to provide a workplace at all of our sites 
where all employees feel safe and protected from harm. Our policies regarding workplace 
health and safety are implemented throughout the group, with each operating company 
responsible for compliance with local legislation and regulations and ensuring that the 
highest standards of health and safety are achieved by its employees and by sub-contractors 
and suppliers. The company’s health and safety policy can be viewed on our website. 
Audits of health and safety policies and procedures are undertaken at all major locations 
by external assessors acting on behalf of the group’s insurers on an annual basis and 
recommendations are made for improving practices where appropriate. 
Any serious health and safety incidents are required to be reported by the managing 
director of the business in an accident report to the company secretary, who reports 
on such issues to the Board. All accidents are thoroughly investigated and appropriate 
corrective and preventative actions put in place. No work-related serious injuries or deaths 
have been reported in the last ten years. Nevertheless, in 2010 we established a formal 
reporting system which enables us to monitor and measure work-related accidents or ill 
health resulting in lost time in excess of three days, which in the UK are reportable to the 
Health and Safety Executive (‘HSE‘) under the RIDDOR regulations. The resulting data is 
shown opposite, expressed as a Key Performance Indicator, as recognised by the HSE, and 
records the health and safety situation throughout the group. 
We will work with our operating companies to reduce the AIR to the lowest possible level. 
Within the reported figure, significant work-related incidents resulting in lost time in excess 
of 20 working days included two stress-related cases, two cases of repetitive strain injury 
and several cases involving injuries to limbs sustained as a result of falls in the workplace. 
Human rights 
Spectris believes in the fundamental rights of people in all parts of the world and is committed 
to adopting internationally recognised human rights standards wherever it operates. The 
company’s human rights policy, which is available on our website, is consistent with the 
Principles of Human Rights as set out in the International Labour Organization’s Core 
Conventions, and includes policies on non-discrimination, harassment, pay and forced labour. 
Spectris takes its commitments to human rights seriously and our operating companies 
are required to ensure that all employees are aware of the policy and understand it. 
The Code of Business Ethics also contains a section on human rights and employees are 
required to ensure that all company operations adhere to these important standards.  
Pay practices are monitored to ensure they are non-discriminatory. 
The region president is responsible for ensuring that the highest ethical standards are 
maintained in all of our Asia-based operations. We have a number of sales offices in 
China and also factories supplying high quality weighing components and particle 
characterisation instruments. These comprise modern facilities, employ skilled workers, 
adopt employment conditions consistent with best local practice, and pay wages that are 
higher than average for the area.
5.3
Key Performance Indicator
2010 Accident Incident Rate (AIR)
Reportable accidents* per 1,000 employees
* Work-related accidents/ill health resulting in  
lost time in excess of three days.
Investors in People
Malvern, Servomex 32 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Corporate Social Responsibility continued
Spectris considers human rights as part of its due diligence process for acquisitions, 
ensuring that the core labour rights, including non-discrimination, equal opportunities 
and freedom of association, of the company to be acquired are taken into account.
Ethics
Our core values – honesty, empowerment, ownership, delivery and speed – underpin 
the way we work and are set out in our Code of Business Ethics (the ‘Code’), which is 
available on our website. The Code applies to all employees of Spectris and is available in 
all 15 languages relevant to our operations. It provides a clear framework for how we do 
business and includes policies on anti-bribery and corruption, dealings with customers, 
suppliers and colleagues, conflicts of interest, and human rights. All employees have 
participated in a training course and received a printed copy of the Code, and each 
operating company has a nominated Ethics Compliance Officer who is responsible for 
ensuring compliance in their business. Compliance is also monitored by the internal audit 
function as part of the risk assessment process. 
On-line training modules supporting the ethics programme were introduced during 2010 
and further modules will be implemented in 2011. 
 
All operating companies are required to comply with export control regulations governing 
shipment of products and the appropriate compliance procedures are in place. Our export 
control policy can be viewed on our website.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns they may have over fraud, including 
bribery and corruption, unethical business practices or conduct, dangers to health and 
safety, or breach of company policies, via the group’s ‘whistle-blowing’ policy. This is 
supported by a telephone and internet-based multi-lingual hotline enabling employees 
and others to report concerns, anonymously if they wish. All whistle-blowing reports 
are summarised for the audit committee on a six-monthly basis. In the past 12 months 
the hotline has been used on a number of occasions and the reports followed up to a 
successful conclusion. Spectris is committed to protecting the career and reputation of 
employees who report wrongdoing in accordance with established procedures, so long  
as their disclosures are delivered in good faith and seek to safeguard the best interests of 
the group.
Community
Our social responsibilities extend to the communities in which we operate. Our companies 
provide charitable assistance to local causes and also participate in a range of activities 
and educational initiatives in support of their local communities. These include providing 
apprenticeships and work placements for students, working with local schools and 
colleges on science projects, and sponsorship of scientists attending key scientific 
conferences. 
Total donations to charities and community causes in 2010 were £27,429, of which 
£8,286 were in the UK (2009: £19,955 of which £6,042 in UK). This included donations in 
response to disasters such as the Haiti earthquake and the Pakistan floods and to charities 
such as the International Red Cross as well as to local sports clubs, schools and colleges 
and local arts and educational projects. The company also makes contributions in kind to 
a number of projects. For example, as part of Boulder County’s annual Day of Caring, in 
the USA, ten staff from Particle Measuring Systems volunteer a half day each to help on 
local projects for charities. At Microscan, in Renton, USA, 15 employees volunteer one 
hour each on a weekly basis to help local elementary school pupils with maths, reading 
and special education activities. At HBM in Darmstadt, Germany, the company provided 
work placements for 13 pupils and also held in-house seminars for students from the 
technical university.
It is Spectris’ policy that donations or provision of support in kind to political parties or 
campaigns are prohibited.
Our values
Honesty 
Empowerment
Ownership 
Delivery 
Speed 33 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Customers
Spectris sells productivity-enhancing instrumentation and services to a large number of 
customers around the world. We have developed close working relationships with our 
customers and in many instances involve them in the development of new products to 
ensure they meet their requirements. Surveys of customer satisfaction are conducted on 
a regular basis, for example via web-based questionnaires where customers are asked, 
amongst other things, to rate product performance and the quality of documentation, 
and to specify overall satisfaction.
Suppliers
Spectris has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent upon the company’s 
business. Suppliers are paid in line with contractual and legal obligations. 
We recognise that our strategy of outsourcing non-core manufacturing does not absolve 
us from responsibility for the environmental impact of our suppliers and we work to 
help them reduce their impact on the environment and ensure that their products meet 
relevant legislation. Outsourcing of products and services is only to quality-approved 
organisations which are regularly inspected and audited by the group’s strategic sourcing 
team and local management. Due to the high technology content of our instrumentation 
and control products, suppliers of our parts need to have leading edge manufacturing 
equipment and are subject to rigorous qualification processes which cover both their 
technological capabilities and their quality and regulatory conformance. In order to gain 
improved assurance from suppliers, particularly in the areas of human rights, working 
conditions, health and safety, and environmental issues, significant suppliers (those 
providing bespoke parts, assemblies and systems), both new and current, will be  
screened against relevant criteria stipulated in the social accountability standard SA8000. 
The initiative will commence with Asia Pacific, with the intention that all significant 
suppliers, and all new suppliers, in this region will be audited by the end of 2011,  
and the programme will then be extended to suppliers in other regions based on  
experience gained.
Contractual arrangements
The company has no contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the 
business of the company, nor any key customers or major suppliers upon which it 
is dependent.
SA8000
Auditing against this standard will 
commence in 2011 34 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Board of Directors
Nomination committee
John Hughes (chairman)
Peter Chambré
Russell King
John O’Higgins
John Warren
Remuneration committee
Russell King (chairman)
Peter Chambré
John Hughes
John Warren
Audit and risk committee 
John Warren (chairman)
Peter Chambré
Russell King
Senior independent director
John Warren
Front row, left to right: John O’Higgins, John Hughes, Clive Watson
Back row: Russell King, John Warren, Peter Chambré, Jim Webster, Roger Stephens 35 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
1 John O’Higgins, Chief Executive
John O’Higgins joined Spectris in 2006. Prior to joining Spectris, he was with Honeywell, 
latterly as President of Automation and Control Solutions, Asia Pacific. He began his 
career with Daimler Benz in Stuttgart. John has engineering degrees from University 
College Dublin and Purdue University and an MBA from INSEAD. John is a non-executive 
director of Exide Technologies, a company listed on NASDAQ.
2 John Hughes CBE, Chairman
John Hughes was appointed to the Board in 2007 and became non-executive Chairman 
in 2008. John was previously executive vice-president and chief operating officer of 
defence, aerospace and electronic systems company Thales Group SA. He is currently 
non-executive chairman of Sepura plc and Telecity Group plc, and a non-executive 
director of Nice Systems Limited, a company listed on NASDAQ. John is an adviser 
to private equity firm Advent International and also serves as an Ambassador for the 
Alzheimer’s Society. 
3 Clive Watson, group finance director
Clive Watson joined Spectris in 2006. He was previously at Borealis, a leading provider 
of plastics solutions, where he was chief financial officer and executive vice president for 
business support. Prior to this, he was group finance director at Thorn Lighting Group 
and before that group finance director Europe with Black & Decker. Clive is a member of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and the Chartered Institute 
of Tax and holds a Bachelors degree in Commerce and Accounting from the University of 
Birmingham. He is a non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
4 Russell King, non-executive director 
Russell King was appointed to the Board in October 2010. Until October 2009, Russell 
was chief strategy officer of Anglo American PLC and between 2006 and 2009 was a 
non-executive director of Anglo Platinum Ltd. Prior to that, he spent over 20 years in 
senior roles at ICI, gaining worldwide experience in its fertiliser, petrochemical and paint 
businesses. Russell is also a non-executive director of Aggreko plc.  
5 John Warren, non-executive director
John Warren was appointed to the Board in 2006. From 2000 to 2005, John was group 
finance director at WH Smith PLC. Prior to that he was with United Biscuits Plc for 19 
years, latterly as group finance director. He has been a non-executive director of Rexam 
Plc, RAC plc, Arla Foods UK plc and BPP Holdings plc and is currently chairman of Uniq plc 
and a non-executive director of The Rank Group Plc and Bovis Homes Group PLC.
6 Peter Chambré, non-executive director
Peter Chambré was appointed to the Board in 2006. He is chairman of Xellia Pharmaceuticals 
and 7TM Pharma, both private companies, and a non-executive director of BTG plc. He is 
also an adviser to private equity company 3i. Peter was formerly chief executive officer of 
Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc and prior to that was chief operating officer of 
Celera Genomics Group and chief executive of Bespak plc.
7 Jim Webster, business group director
Jim Webster, a metallurgy graduate, joined Spectris in 1993. He is responsible for the 
operational supervision of a number of the group’s trading companies. He was previously 
general manager of the European Wire and Cable Division of Raychem Corporation. 
8 Roger Stephens, head of commercial and company secretary
Roger Stephens is an economics graduate and chartered company secretary. Prior to 
joining Spectris in 1997, he held commercial roles in the power and construction sectors, 
specialising in contract negotiation, litigation and claims resolution, IP exploitation and 
property development. 36 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ Report
The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 
31 December 2010.
Principal activities
Spectris designs, develops and markets productivity-enhancing 
instrumentation and controls. The businesses are grouped 
into four segments for management and segmental reporting 
purposes: Materials Analysis, Test and Measurement, In-line 
Instrumentation and Industrial Controls. Further details of the 
trading companies within each segment can be found in the 
Operating Review (pages 14 to 23). Developments in the group’s 
business activities are discussed in the Chairman’s Statement  
(page 10), the Chief Executive’s Review (page 12) and the  
Business Review (pages 2 to 33).
Acquisitions
During the year five acquisitions were made. The assets of 
Reologica Instruments AB, a Swedish company specialising in 
the design and manufacture of rheometers, were acquired by 
Malvern Instruments and provide access to additional technologies 
and intellectual property that will support the continued 
development of Malvern’s rheometry product offering. Zhuhai 
Omec Instruments Co. Ltd, a privately-owned Chinese company 
specialising in particle characterisation, extends the group’s 
range of instrumentation in the Materials Analysis segment. 
Malvern Instruments acquired from Sysmex Corporation the 
Japanese distribution and service business for both Malvern’s 
own instruments and Sysmex’s FPIA analysers and CDA particle 
counters. N-Tron Corporation, a producer of rugged industrial 
networking components based in Mobile, Alabama, USA, is a 
leading manufacturer of ethernet switches – the products used 
to connect multiple ethernet devices to each other and to build 
network infrastructure – and associated components for the 
industrial, infrastructure and power generation markets. The 
business will become part of the Industrial Controls segment, 
operating in close co-operation with Red Lion Controls. Finally, 
within the In-line Instrumentation segment, the acquisition 
of Delta F Corporation adds trace and ultra-trace oxygen and 
moisture analysis capability to Servomex’s product offering. 
The total cost of acquisitions during the year was £63.0 million, 
including £0.8 million for cash acquired. Of this, £4.1 million 
is attributable to the fair value of deferred and contingent 
consideration expected to be paid in future years.
Disposals
There were no disposals during the year.
Share capital
The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 5p 
each; each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings 
of the company. The authorised and issued share capital of the 
company, together with movements in the company’s issued 
share capital during the year, is shown in Note 24 on page 86. The 
Articles of Association of the company, available on the company’s 
website, contain provisions governing the ownership and transfer 
of shares.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised 
the directors to make market purchases of the company’s 
ordinary shares up to a maximum number of 12,500,000 shares, 
representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the 
company, and to either cancel the shares or hold them as Treasury 
shares which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or transferred 
for the purposes of the company’s share plans, depending on the 
best interests of the company’s shareholders at the time. No such 
purchases were made during the year. At the close of business 
on 24 February 2011, the company had 125,005,123 ordinary 
shares in issue, of which 9,063,279 were held in Treasury. During 
the year 419,815 shares were transferred out of Treasury to meet 
the company’s obligations under its share plans and no shares 
were cancelled out of Treasury. An authority to make further 
market purchases of the company’s ordinary shares, if believed 
appropriate, will be sought at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting although the Board has no present intention of so doing.
Also included in the special business of the 2011 Annual General 
Meeting are proposals to renew the directors’ authority to allot 
shares up to prescribed limits.
At 24 February 2011, interests notified to the company in 
accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules comprised:
Black Rock Inc.
15,048,498 shares (12.98% material interest)
Standard Life Investments Limited 
8,229,088 shares (7.1% material interest)
Global Aegon Asset Management Group 
8,156,408 shares (7.04% material interest)
F & C Asset Management plc
6,128,308 shares (5.29% material interest)
Massachusetts Financial Services Company
5,611,725 shares (4.84% material interest)
Legal & General Group Plc
4,603,565 shares (3.99% material interest)
Takeovers directive
Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which 
implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required to 
disclose certain additional information. The disclosures not covered 
elsewhere in this annual report are as follows:
The company’s Articles of Association (‘Articles’) give power to 
the Board to appoint directors, but require directors to submit 
themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting 
following their appointment and for re-election where they 
have been a director at each of the preceding two Annual 
General Meetings and were not appointed or re-appointed by 
the company at, or since, either such meeting. The Articles may 
be amended by special resolution of the shareholders and are 
available to view on the company’s website.
The Board of directors is responsible for the management of the 
business of the company and may exercise all the powers of the 
company subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes and the  37 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
company’s Articles. The Articles contain specific provisions and 
restrictions regarding the company’s power to borrow money. 
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are 
also included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by 
shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting. 
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control of the group following a 
takeover, such as bank loan agreements and company share 
plans. None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of 
their potential impact on the business of the group as a whole. 
In addition, there is a service contract between the company and 
one of its directors which provides for compensation for loss of 
office or employment following a change of control of the group 
(please refer to the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 46 for 
further explanation). It is also possible that funding arrangements 
for the group’s defined benefit pension arrangements would need 
to be enhanced following a change of control if that resulted in a 
weakening of the employer covenant.
Dividend
Results for the group are set out in the consolidated statement of 
income on page 52 and in the supporting notes. A final dividend 
of 20.9 pence per ordinary share is proposed for the year to 31 
December 2010 (2009: 17.85 pence). With the interim dividend, 
this makes a total for the year of 28.0 pence (2009: 24.25 pence). 
The final dividend will be paid on 24 June 2011 to shareholders on 
the register on 3 June 2011.
Research and development
Expenditure committed to research and development is focused 
on new product development, applications engineering and 
process integration. Costs are expensed as incurred, except where 
the expenditure meets certain strict criteria for capitalisation.  
In the year to 31 December 2010, amounts expensed totalled 
£62.4 million (2009: £58.2 million), and no expenditure met the 
criteria for capitalisation (2009: £nil).
Fixed assets
Whilst the market values of some properties differ from book 
values, the directors believe that the differences are not material.
Payment of suppliers
The group’s policy on payment of suppliers is to ensure that terms 
of payment accord with contractual and legal obligations. The 
company had no trade creditors at the year end (2009: £nil).
Directors
The directors of the company are named on pages 34 and 35. 
In accordance with the requirement of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, which the company is adopting early with 
regard to annual election of directors by shareholders, each 
director has agreed to resign at the 2011 Annual General Meeting 
and put themselves up for re-election. A change to the Articles, 
reflecting the resignation of each director at every Annual 
General Meeting and their submission for re-election at each such 
meeting, will be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
The directors’ total remuneration for the year and their interests 
in the shares of the company and its subsidiaries at 31 December 
2010 are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 48 to 50.
In accordance with Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the 
directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity provision 
entered into between the company and its directors and officers 
which was in force at the date of approval of this report. This 
indemnity gives contractual force to the Indemnity of Officers 
provision contained in the company’s Articles.
Auditors
Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors 
and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at the 
company’s offices on Friday 13 May 2011 at 11.30 a.m. is 
contained in a separate letter from the Chairman accompanying 
this report.
Corporate Governance
Combined Code statement of compliance
Spectris plc is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (the ‘Combined Code’) that is appended to the  
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. The Combined Code  
sets out principles and provisions relating to the good governance 
of companies. 
Corporate governance has been and remains the responsibility 
of the whole Board. This statement describes how the company 
applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the 
Combined Code during 2010. The Board considers that it was 
throughout the year and continues to be in full compliance with the 
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, save that:
Between 19 May and 19 October 2010 (comprising the •	
period between the retirement of Anthony Reading and the 
appointment of Russell King) at least half the Board, excluding 
the Chairman, did not comprise independent non-executive 
directors, as required by provision A3.2.
Board composition and procedures
The Board meets formally at regular intervals throughout the 
year to consider developments in relation to the company’s 
strategy and long-term objectives and to review trading results 
and operational and business issues. In particular, it deals with 
those matters reserved to it for decision, including the acquisition 
and disposal of businesses, major capital expenditure, the 
appointment and, where necessary, removal of directors and 
Board and senior management succession planning. Additional 
meetings are convened as required to consider specific topics 
requiring immediate decision. Usually, two meetings each year 
are held at operating locations and encompass a detailed review 
of the relevant business. Through these meetings, the induction 
process on appointment and the access given to the company’s 
operations and its staff, all directors gain the knowledge of the 
company required for them to discharge their duties. Operational 
decisions are delegated by the Board to senior management at 
trading company level, over which the executive directors exercise  38 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ Report continued
supervision. All directors receive detailed progress reports one 
week prior to each Board meeting.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive 
directors and three non-executive directors. The Board considers 
its non-executive directors (Peter Chambré, Russell King and John 
Warren) to be independent, in that none of them are or have 
ever been holders of an executive office with the company. The 
positions of Chairman, Chief Executive and senior independent 
director are held by separate individuals and, in accordance with 
the Combined Code, the Board has adopted written profiles for 
the first two of these. The non-executive directors have all had 
senior experience in other organisations and offer independent 
judgement on Board matters. The Chairman’s other significant 
listed company interests are as non-executive chairman of Sepura 
plc and Telecity Group plc. The Board believes that the Chairman’s 
obligations to the company are unaffected by these directorships.
There are procedures for individual Board members to receive 
induction and training as appropriate and to solicit independent 
professional advice at the group’s expense where specific expertise 
is required in the course of exercising their duties. The Chairman 
annually reviews and agrees with each director their training and 
development needs. All directors have access to the company 
secretary, who is responsible for ensuring compliance with 
appropriate statutes and regulations.
The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Board committees, 
notably the nomination, remuneration and audit and risk 
committees. The terms of reference of these committees are 
published on the company’s website and the following additional 
documents are available to shareholders on application to the 
company secretary:
schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board; •	
responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the •	
non-executive directors;
relations with shareholders; •	
performance evaluation; •	
procedure for taking independent professional advice. •	
The Board has adopted the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators’ Guidance Note of September 2009 on Board 
Meeting Etiquette. 
Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation 
where he has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that 
conflicts, or may conflict, with the company’s interests. During the 
year, in accordance with the powers and duties of directors laid 
down in the company’s Articles, directors were asked to declare 
any such conflict or potential conflict of interest to the Board  
for the Board’s authorisation of a matter which otherwise may 
have given rise to a conflict of interest. No such conflicts have 
been declared.
Board and committee meeting attendance 2010
Board
Remuneration 
committee
Audit 
committee
Nomination 
committee
Total meetings  
during year 14 4 3 2
J L M Hughes 
(Chairman) 14 4 N/A 2
J A Warren (senior 
independent director) 14 4 3 2
P A Chambré 14 4 3 2
R J King 2 2 – –
J E O’Higgins 
(Chief Executive) 14 N/A N/A 2
C G Watson 14 N/A N/A N/A
J C Webster 14 N/A N/A N/A
A J Reading 7 1 2 1
R J King and A J Reading held office for part of the year only. R J King attended two 
of the three Board meetings and all of the remuneration committee meetings which 
he was eligible to attend. A J Reading attended all of the Board meetings and all of 
the audit, nomination and remuneration committee meetings which he was eligible 
to attend.
Board appointments and performance evaluation
The nomination committee consists of the Chairman, Chief 
Executive and all non-executive directors. It is chaired by the 
Chairman, save in the event of discussions relating to his 
succession when the senior independent director takes the chair.
Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of a new 
director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to present 
for Board consideration suitably qualified candidate(s). In making 
such recommendations, the committee evaluates the balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and develops 
a description of the role and required capabilities. Due regard is 
given to the benefits of diversity on the Board and consideration 
is given to the time commitment expected for the Chairman and 
non-executive director positions. Candidates are then identified 
for interview, external search consultants being engaged as part 
of this process. The committee also makes recommendations to 
the Board regarding the re-election and/or re-appointment of any 
director. Similar selection processes apply for the appointment of 
a chairman.
Recommendations are also made to the Board concerning 
succession plans for both executive and non-executive directors 
and, in particular, for the key roles of Chairman and Chief 
Executive. The committee also recommends to the Board suitable 
candidates for the position of senior independent director. 
The nomination committee meets as the need arises. Its terms of 
reference can be found on the company’s website.
The operation of the Board and its committees is reviewed by 
the Board as a whole annually. The executive directors’ and 
company secretary’s performances are appraised annually against 
objectives established for the prior year. The contributions of the 
Chairman and non-executive directors are reviewed in advance  39 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
of the conclusion of their initial three-year term, by the senior 
independent director and the Chairman respectively, prior to 
their being proposed to shareholders for re-election. Additionally, 
the Chairman holds periodic meetings with the non-executive 
directors only and, led by the senior independent director, the 
non-executives have the opportunity to meet at least annually 
without the Chairman present.
An evaluation of the operation and performance of the Board 
was conducted in 2010 by external facilitators, Egon Zehnder. The 
process included submissions from all Board members in response 
to a structured questionnaire covering a range of issues, which 
were then reviewed by the Board as a whole. Areas addressed 
and reviewed included strategy, Board structure and organisation, 
development plan input for the directors, Board dynamics, the 
performance of the Chairman, information flows, shareholder 
reporting, the Board committees, succession planning and risk 
management. A number of action items identified to enhance the 
Board’s governance were agreed. Egon Zehnder are additionally 
retained by the company as search consultants.
Shareholder relations
Spectris conducts regular dialogue with institutional shareholders 
and divulges such information as is permitted within the guidelines 
of the Listing Rules. The content of presentations made after 
results announcements may be accessed by individual investors on 
the group’s website, www.spectris.com.
All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General 
Meeting, where the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the 
chairmen of the audit and risk, remuneration and nomination 
committees are available to answer questions. The results of proxy 
votes are declared at the Annual General Meeting after each 
resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands. These are then 
published on the group’s website. 
The Board is kept informed of the views of major shareholders 
through periodic reports from the Chief Executive and the 
company’s joint brokers J P Morgan Cazenove and RBS Hoare 
Govett. The Chairman and non-executive directors have the 
opportunity to attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
Shareholders representing in excess of 3% of the company’s 
issued share capital receive a standing invitation to meet the 
Chairman, the senior independent director or new non-executive 
directors. Such meetings would supplement if necessary, but not 
replace, the regular meetings with the Chief Executive and group 
finance director.
Audit and risk committee
The audit and risk committee comprises the non-executive 
directors and is chaired by John Warren, who has recent and 
relevant financial experience as the former group finance director 
of both United Biscuits plc and WH Smith PLC. Mr Warren is also 
the current chairman of the audit committees of Bovis Homes 
Group PLC, The Rank Group Plc and Uniq plc. The committee 
meets at least three times each year to consider the effectiveness 
of the group’s internal controls, policies and procedures, the 
process of internal audit and the conduct and outcome of 
the external audit. Its meetings are normally attended by the 
Chairman, the Chief Executive, the group finance director, the 
company secretary and the external and internal auditors. All 
executive directors attend the year end audit committee meeting 
and processes requiring the disclosure of relevant information 
by individual directors to the auditor have been adopted. The 
committee confers annually with both the Head of Internal Audit 
and the external auditors without the attendance of executive 
directors. Additionally, both the external audit partner and the 
Head of Internal Audit have the right of direct access to the audit 
and risk committee chairman. The committee’s terms of reference 
can be found on the company’s website.
The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the 
Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and 
then for approving the external auditor’s remuneration, terms of 
engagement and scope of work.
The committee has also adopted procedures governing and 
restricting the appointment of the external auditor for non-audit 
services. The following services are precluded:
book-keeping or other services related to the accounting •	
records or financial statements of Spectris plc;
financial information systems design and implementation; •	
appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution •	
in kind reports;
actuarial services; •	
internal audit outsourcing services; •	
management functions or human resources; •	
broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking •	
services;
legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit. •	
A cumulative annual cap of £200,000 is established for all other 
non-audit services (save for acquisition due diligence and taxation 
services) above which all engagements are subject to prior 
approval by the audit and risk committee.
The Head of Internal Audit is employed by the group to perform 
internal control reviews across the group according to a work 
programme agreed by the committee. The Head of Internal Audit 
is assisted in this by two further internal auditors. The nature and 
scope of the group’s internal control review resources is reviewed 
by the audit and risk committee annually. The audit and risk 
committee receives reports twice a year on the results of internal 
control reviews.
The committee has considered the risk of the withdrawal of 
their auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, from the market in their risk 
evaluation and planning and has concluded that the risk is small. 
In the event that the company’s auditor did exit the market, a 
replacement appointment would be made from audit firms of 
equivalent standing. KPMG Audit Plc were appointed as the 
company’s auditors on 12 May 1998. The position of auditor to 
the company is kept under regular review, but KPMG Audit Plc’s 
in-depth understanding of the company’s operations is considered 
by the committee to be of benefit to both the company and its 
shareholders. 40 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ Report continued
There were no contractual obligations that acted to restrict the 
committee’s choice of auditor. 
Internal controls 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the group’s system of 
internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. However, such 
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure 
to meet business objectives and can provide only reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Consistent with the guidance provided for directors on internal 
control by the Financial Reporting Council (‘Internal Control: 
Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’), the 
Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing assessed significant risks faced by the 
group, that this has been in place for the year under review and 
up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, that 
this process has been reviewed by the Board during the year and 
that the group accords with the guidance. The Board affirms the 
importance it attaches to the continuous review and application of 
the guidance, the regular and systematic assessment of the risks 
facing the group and the value of embedding risk management 
and internal control systems within its business processes. The 
group has an internal audit function which reviews the design and 
effectiveness of internal controls across the group’s operations, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls.
 
The processes which the Board and the audit and risk committee 
have applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the group’s system 
of internal controls are summarised below:
an established process is in place whereby each business •	
unit regularly assesses, evaluates and reports risks of group 
significance. Each business unit is required to document the 
management and mitigating actions in place and proposed;
regular review of the status of risks and corresponding •	
mitigating actions ensure that risk management is embedded 
in day-to-day management processes and decision-making as 
well as in the annual strategic planning cycle;
the effectiveness of risk management and mitigating actions is •	
reviewed regularly by the executive directors and twice yearly 
by the audit and risk committee;
additionally, the executive directors consider those risks to the •	
group’s strategic objectives which are not addressed within 
the business units and develop appropriate approaches to 
managing and mitigating these risks;
annual financial plans for each business unit, significant •	
capital investments or contractual commitments and major 
acquisitions or divestments are all subject to review and 
approval by the Board;
a Group Accounting and Policies Manual sets out the minimum •	
standards and procedures to be applied in relation to those risk 
areas which are regarded as significant in a group context;
a process of self-assessment of compliance with the Manual •	
and reporting thereon has been established, providing 
for a documented trail of accountability from business 
unit presidents and finance directors to the audit and risk 
committee. The necessary actions are taken by the audit and 
risk committee to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified 
by its review of the internal control system; 
the executive directors report to the Board on changes in the •	
business and external environment which present significant 
risks. The group finance director provides the Board with 
monthly financial information which includes key performance 
indicators and information on the group’s operating segments. 
Regular reports on significant legal, ethics and compliance 
issues and insurance matters are received from the company 
secretary.
Going concern
Having reviewed the group’s plans and available financial facilities, 
the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason it continues to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the group’s accounts.
Business Review
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business 
Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, 
and which should be treated as forming part of this report by 
reference, is included in the following sections of the annual 
report:
Chairman’s Statement on •	 pages 10 and 11.
Chief Executive’s Review on •	 pages 12 and 13.
Group Overview on •	 pages 2 to 5.
Operating Review on •	 pages 14 to 23, which includes a review 
of the external environment.
Principal risks and uncertainties are described on •	 pages 8  
to 9.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on •	
pages 14 to 23.
Financial Review on •	 pages 24 to 28.
Corporate Social Responsibility on •	 pages 29 to 33, which 
includes the company’s policy on treatment of its employees. 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
annual report and the financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and 
the group and parent company financial statements, in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRS’) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected 
to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and  41 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
group and parent company financial statements, the directors are 
required to: 
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them •	
consistently; 
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  •	
and prudent; 
for the group financial statements, state whether they have •	
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU; 
for the parent company financial statements, state whether •	
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the parent company financial statements; 
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis •	
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and parent 
company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting  
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s  
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as 
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that 
complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the company’s auditors 
are unaware; and each director has taken all the steps that he 
ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the 
annual report 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the •	
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
the information that is cross-referred from the Business Review •	
section of the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the position 
of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board.
R J Stephens
Secretary
25 February 2011 42 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Russell King
Chairman of the remuneration committee
Dear Shareholder
As the new chairman of the remuneration committee, I am pleased to present to you the 
2010 Directors’ Remuneration Report of Spectris plc. 
A policy of relating pay to the performance of Spectris continues to be a strong principle 
underlying your committee’s consideration of executive remuneration. We aim to ensure 
that the company continues to attract, motivate and retain high calibre management to 
deliver the best possible performance for shareholders, commensurate with appropriate 
risk considerations.
The key elements of the executive directors’ remuneration arrangements are:
base salary and total remuneration set at or modestly below the median of •	
comparable UK quoted companies, subject to adjustment up or down to reflect the 
experience and performance of individual incumbents;
on-target and maximum annual bonus of, respectively, 50% and 100% of salary, only •	
payable on achievement of stretching profit and individual objectives, with any bonus 
in excess of 60% being applied to the purchase of Spectris shares until a two times 
base salary shareholding is achieved;
annual awards under the company’s performance share plan of up to 125% of salary, •	
with vesting after three years based 50% upon Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) 
relative to the FTSE 250 index and 50% upon earnings per share (‘EPS’) growth. This 
long-term incentive links individual reward to the continuing growth of the company, 
with vested share retention until a shareholding of two times base salary is achieved;
benefits provided on a market competitive basis. •	
During 2010 the company’s remuneration advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street, conducted 
a benchmarking review of directors’ salaries and fees. Spectris does not undertake 
benchmarking on an annual basis, the normal period being every two to three years as 
recently endorsed in NAPF guidelines. However, the review scheduled for 1 January 2009 
was deferred for two years as a result of the recession. Salaries and fees for all directors 
were frozen as at 1 January 2009, a voluntary 7.7% salary cut was implemented for the 
second half of the year and no profit-related or individual bonuses were awarded. As of  
1 January 2010, salaries were increased by 2% across the board. It has thus been five 
years since Hewitt New Bridge Street were last commissioned to undertake a review. 
In the interim, the Spectris executive team has produced commendable results. Adjusted 
profit before tax rose by 94% during 2010, producing maximum payment under this 
element of the annual bonus plan. As can be seen from the TSR graph opposite, Spectris 
has also outperformed over the longer term. £100 invested in Spectris on 31 December 
2005 would have been worth £240 at the end of 2010, compared to the £153 it would 
have been worth if invested in the FTSE 250 index.
 
The Hewitt New Bridge Street review concluded that, although the current remuneration 
structure remained appropriate, the fee payable to the Chairman and the salaries of the 
executive directors had fallen significantly below market median. In particular, the Chief 
Executive had been appointed to his first CEO role in January 2006 on a below market 
salary with a view to this increasing as he became established, but due to the economic 
situation that realignment had to date not been possible. Your committee therefore
Letter from Russell King,  
Chairman of the remuneration committee 60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
240
260
31 Dec 05
Value (£)
31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10
The graph above shows the value, at 31 December 2010, of £100 invested in Spectris plc 
on 31 December 2005 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index
(excluding investment trusts) over the same period.  
Spectris plc
FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts)
43 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Total shareholder return
       Source: Thomson Reuters
determined that the salary increases below should be implemented with effect from  
1 January 2011 (conditional with regard to Mr O’Higgins and Mr Watson that their salary 
uplift in lieu of benefits payable on termination of employment (as described on page 46) 
be reduced to 0.4 times salary).
J L M Hughes (Chairman) £165,000 (+17.9%)
J E O’Higgins (Chief Executive) £500,000 (+16.7%)
C G Watson (finance director) £310,000 (+10.5%)
J C Webster (business group director) £268,000 (+5.1%)
Your committee’s approach to setting remuneration packages for the company’s 
executives is designed to reward management fairly if it is successful in continuing the 
track record of performance and long-term growth enjoyed by shareholders in recent 
years. We consider that compensation is now at a competitive level to the external market 
and that the balance between fixed and variable elements remains appropriate. We will, 
however, keep remuneration packages under review to ensure that this remains the case. 
I hope that you will support the advisory vote on the 2010 Directors’ Remuneration 
Report which will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Yours sincerely
Russell King
Chairman of the remuneration committee
25 February 2011 44 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
The directors present their remuneration report for the year ended 
31 December 2010.
Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is responsible for recommending to 
the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, 
the Chief Executive, the executive directors and the company 
secretary. The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter 
reserved to the Chairman and executive directors.
Within the terms of the agreed policy, the committee determines:
the total individual remuneration package including, where •	
appropriate, bonuses and share-based incentives;
the targets for any performance-related incentives; •	
the scope of any pension arrangements; •	
contractual terms of engagement and any payments to be •	
made on termination;
any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout •	
the company; and
the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the •	
Chairman and Chief Executive.
The committee also monitors the level and structure of 
remuneration for business unit presidents or managing directors 
and the head of corporate development. 
The remuneration committee consists of the Chairman, John Hughes 
(who was independent on appointment), and the non-executive 
directors (all of whom are independent), being at the date of this 
report Russell King (chairman), Peter Chambré and John Warren. 
The Chief Executive may be in attendance by invitation and the 
committee takes into consideration his recommendations regarding 
the remuneration of his executive colleagues. The Chief Executive is 
not involved in discussions concerning his own remuneration. 
The committee has appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street to 
advise on various aspects of the Chairman’s and executive 
directors’ remuneration. They additionally provide services to the 
committee and to the company in relation to IFRS 2 reporting on 
the company’s share plans and Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) 
performance calculations in relation to the company’s Performance 
Share Plan. Hewitt New Bridge Street were paid £30,534 in 
respect of services undertaken in 2010 (2009: £29,323). Hewitt 
New Bridge Street is part of Aon Corporation. A subsidiary of Aon 
Corporation provides actuarial services to the company. 
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee can be 
found on the company’s website and are available on request.
Remuneration policy
The Board, in considering the recommendations of the 
remuneration committee, complied throughout the year with 
the provisions of the Combined Code (including the principles 
for performance-related remuneration set out in Schedule A). 
The policy objective is to ensure that the high calibre individuals 
required at board level are fairly and competitively remunerated 
and incentivised in a manner consistent with the group’s strategic 
objectives and compatible with its risk policies and internal  
control systems.
Clawback provisions have been introduced from January 2011 
and are in place to enable variable remuneration to be reclaimed 
under exceptional circumstances. Such provisions relate to bonus 
payments and to future awards made under the company’s 
Performance Share Plan, were there to be any miscalculation of 
entitlement, misstatement of accounts, or incidence of fraud. 
The remuneration committee also regularly reviews the balance 
between fixed and variable pay. 
Salaries and fees
Base salaries and fees are established by reference to surveys 
of the terms offered by comparable UK quoted companies. 
The starting point for comparative surveys is the scope of the 
position and associated performance of the Chairman, each 
executive director and the company secretary. Excluding his own 
position and performance, the Chief Executive is responsible 
for the definition of the scope of positions and assessment of 
the performance of each executive director, for approval by the 
remuneration committee. Salaries for the executive directors are 
reviewed at the beginning of each year and are set at competitive 
levels, typically based around the market median, although 
the remuneration committee reserves the flexibility to respond 
to individual circumstances which may cause salaries to be set 
at a level higher or lower than market median. A bi-annual 
compensation review for the Chairman is undertaken on a similar 
basis as that for the executive directors. Due account is also taken 
of pay conditions elsewhere in the company. Market ranges are 
reviewed on a regular basis. 
Following a review of Board remuneration conducted by Hewitt 
New Bridge Street during the year, the salaries of the Chairman 
and the executive directors were adjusted as detailed on page 
43. It was also determined that the base non-executive director 
fee and the fee paid for chairing the remuneration and audit and 
risk committees were below the market median. Accordingly, 
following the approval of the Chairman and the executive 
directors, the non-executive director fee was increased from 
£39,270 to £42,000 (7.0% increase) and the committee chairman 
fee was increased from £6,630 to £8,000 (20.7% increase). 
Additionally, the fee paid to Mr Warren for his chairmanship of 
Spectris Pension Trustees Limited was increased from £15,300 to 
£16,500 (7.8% increase). The salaries and fees given above and 
those detailed on page 43 were increased on 1 January 2011 and 
will not be further reviewed until 1 January 2012 for the executive 
directors and until 1 January 2013 for the Chairman and the non-
executive directors. 
Bonuses
To align remuneration with shareholders’ interests, a proportion 
of executive directors’ potential total remuneration is related to 
annual corporate performance.
Under the 2010 arrangements, bonuses of up to 100% of base 
salary were achievable upon the attainment of demanding 
profitability (75% potential) and personal (25% potential) targets 
set in relation to carefully considered business plans. Bonus 
payments commence only at a level which shows an acceptable 
financial result in the context of economic circumstances and 
market expectations, with an ‘on-plan’ performance yielding a  45 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
payment of approximately half the maximum potential. Targets for 
maximum outturn are set at highly stretching, albeit attainable, 
levels. There is no change for the 2011 bonus potential and the 
same performance measurement framework remains in place. 
Bonuses achieved in respect of 2010 performance, based on 
targets set at the start of the financial year, were as follows (as a 
percentage of salary at 31 December 2010):
J E O’Higgins 95%
C G Watson 95%
J C Webster 90%
In respect of the above bonus payments for Mr O’Higgins, 
Mr Watson and Mr Webster, 75% of their salary related to 
profitability targets and 20%, 20% and 15% of their salary, 
respectively, related to personal targets.
Share-based incentives
The remuneration committee keeps under review the company’s 
share-based incentive arrangements and takes advice on market 
practice. The committee is of the view that offering senior 
management the opportunity to be awarded and then retain shares 
in the company is an important part of motivating and rewarding 
key employees so that they may participate in the future growth 
in value of the company. The Spectris Performance Share Plan (the 
‘Plan’), is intended to support this objective and to facilitate the 
retention of senior management over the longer term. 
Under the Plan, annual awards of shares may be made which 
vest at the end of a three-year period subject to continued 
employment, the satisfaction of challenging performance 
conditions and justification of vesting in relation to the overall 
underlying financial performance of the company. The maximum 
award of performance shares that can be made to any participant 
in any financial year is limited to shares with a market value equal 
to 125% of the participant’s salary. In line with median awards 
for FTSE 250 companies, the committee’s policy is to determine 
awards by reference to a base award over shares worth 125% of 
salary, which may then be flexed downwards from year to year 
depending on corporate and personal performance. 
Awards to executive directors are currently structured so that 
50% of the award is subject to an earnings per share (‘EPS’) target 
and 50% subject to a Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) target. 
Each condition operates over a fixed three-year period with no 
opportunity for retesting.
The performance criteria for grants made in 2008, 2009 and 2010 
are summarised in the tables below. 
Company EPS performance
% of award that vests (expressed as 
a percentage of one-half of the total 
number of shares subject to an award)
Consumer Prices Index (‘CPI’) 
+ 12% compound per annum 
(‘c.p.a.’) 100%
Between CPI + 5% and  
12% c.p.a.
Pro-rata straight line between
25% and 100%
CPI + 5% c.p.a. 25%
Less than CPI + 5% c.p.a. 0%
Company TSR performance  
relative to the FTSE 250 (excluding  
investment trusts)
% of award that vests (expressed as 
a percentage of one-half of the total 
number of shares subject to an award)
Upper quintile or above 100%
Between upper quintile  
and median
Pro-rata straight line between
25% and 100%
Median 25%
Below median 0%
The above criteria will continue to apply to Plan awards to be 
made in 2011.
For awards in excess of 100% of salary, the committee stipulates, 
in accordance with undertakings provided on approval of the 
Plan, that the percentage of an award that will vest for threshold 
performance will be limited to 25% of a participant’s base salary 
rather than 25% of the number of shares subject to an award, 
with pro-rata straight line vesting from this lower point up to 
100% of the award. This restriction applies to awards made in 
2010 and beyond. 
The committee considers the above performance conditions to be 
an appropriate means of aligning the interests of participants with 
those of longer-term shareholders. The TSR performance condition 
is measured independently by Hewitt New Bridge Street and the 
EPS condition is verified by the company’s auditors. 
The committee undertook to review the Plan’s provisions, 
including performance criteria, five years after its approval by 
shareholders at the 2006 Annual General Meeting. Such review 
was completed within the scope of Hewitt New Bridge Street’s 
overall assessment of the remuneration arrangements. The 
only amendments proposed to be made to the Plan following 
the review are as follows. Subject to HM Revenue & Customs 
approval, the Plan will be amended to permit a proportion of the 
value provided under the Plan to be delivered in a tax-efficient 
manner via an HM Revenue & Customs approved option scheme. 
This amendment will not increase the cost to the company of  
the awards. 
It is the intention of the committee that all future share-based 
incentives granted to senior managers or executive directors 
should be made solely under the Plan. Executive directors may, 
however, continue to participate in grants made under the Spectris 
Savings Related Share Option Scheme which is applicable to all  
UK employees.
 
Exercise of share options granted under the 1996 executive share 
plan or the 1999 executive share option scheme was subject 
to prior achievement of a performance condition, requiring 
compound annual growth in EPS before exceptional items and 
amortisation of goodwill over three financial years to be between 
3% and 5% per annum ahead of the increase in the retail prices 
index (‘RPI’). This condition was met for the executive director 
option exercised during the year. No options now remain to be 
exercised by the executive directors under the 1996 executive 
share plan or the 1999 executive share option scheme.  46 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Share retention
It is intended that each executive director should, subject to 
personal circumstances, build a retained shareholding in Spectris 
plc greater than two times base salary in value within a five-year 
period from appointment. Executive directors are required to 
apply the post-tax benefit of any vested Plan awards or any bonus 
payments exceeding 60% of base salary to the acquisition of 
shares until this level of shareholding is achieved. 
Benefits
Company car and health insurance benefits are subject to income 
tax. The executive directors have defined contribution pension 
arrangements to which the company currently contributes at a 
rate of 25% of base salary. In light of the government’s intention 
to reduce the pension lifetime allowance to £1.5 million in 2012 
and introduce a maximum pension contribution allowance of 
£50,000 p.a. in 2011, the executive directors will be entitled, at 
their option, to a taxable salary supplement in lieu of pension 
contributions otherwise payable by the company. 
Contractual terms
All executive directors have rolling contracts subject to 12 months’ 
notice of termination by either party, or to summary notice in the 
event by the director of serious breach of obligations, dishonesty, 
serious misconduct or other conduct bringing the company into 
disrepute. 
Mr O’Higgins’ and Mr Watson’s contracts of employment, 
concluded in 2006 and modified in 2011 simultaneous to their 
salary review, also contain an option, at the sole discretion of 
the Board, for the contract to be terminated by way of payments 
in lieu of notice equivalent to 1.4 times (reduced from 1.65 
times) monthly basic salary. In such circumstances, the executive 
becomes subject to a contractual best endeavours obligation 
to seek alternative employment, and full mitigation reflective 
of any earnings from a new position applies so as to reduce the 
payments otherwise due from the company during the notice 
period. Additionally, in these circumstances, bonus entitlements 
are calculated to the date of notice of termination only, with the 
phased payment provision, subject to reduction as explained 
above, then applying in lieu of all remuneration and benefits 
otherwise payable during the notice period and in full and final 
settlement of all employment-related claims. The 0.4 uplift on 
monthly salary is intended to account for the 25% employer 
pension contribution; company car, insurance and fuel benefits; 
mobile telephone provision; life, disability and medical expenses 
insurances and settlement of any statutory employment claims 
that may arise from termination. No other payments would be 
made, including any forward bonus payment. Whether the Board 
elects to apply this payment in lieu option will depend on the 
circumstances underlying termination and the best interests of 
shareholders at the time.
Mr Webster’s contract, concluded in 1998, provides for a 
predetermined compensation payment in lieu of notice (equivalent 
to total notice period remuneration – salary, bonus and benefits) 
in the event of termination by the employer within 12 months of 
a change in control of the group. Termination payments in other 
circumstances would be a matter for negotiation and remain, 
at the discretion of the committee, subject to mitigation and/or 
reduction for accelerated payment. 
The committee has discussed the best practice expectations set 
out in the 2008 ABI/NAPF joint statement on executive contracts 
and severance and noted the update to the NAPF policy that was 
published in January 2009. This guidance, and any future revisions, 
will be taken into account before agreeing any future service 
contracts. The committee is committed to continuous review of its 
policies in the best interests of shareholders. 
No compensation payments on termination of employment were 
made during the year.
External appointments
Executive directors may retain any payments received in respect 
of external non-executive appointments. Such appointments 
are limited to one per director at any time and are subject to the 
approval of the Board. Mr O’Higgins is a non-executive director of 
NASDAQ listed Exide Technologies and was paid a fee of $17,000 
during 2010 (from his appointment on 15 September 2010) and 
Mr Watson is a non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering 
plc and was paid a fee of £50,000 during 2010. No other external 
directorships are held by the executive directors.
Remuneration below board level
Remuneration for presidents of the group’s trading companies 
is set at competitive levels to reflect the size, complexity and 
geographic locations of these businesses. Base salaries fall within 
a range between £310,000 and £132,000. Additionally, the 
group’s presidents participate in share awards under the Spectris 
Performance Share Plan (typically over 60% of base salary) and 
in profit-related bonus arrangements linked to base salary and 
payable against their business annual operating profit after 
exchange, plus or minus a financing charge/credit arising from 
changes in working capital over the year. On plan performance 
delivers a c. 30% of base salary bonus with the upper limit of the 
payment range delivering 50% of base salary.
Internal relativity
The committee is sensitive to the need to set directors’ remuneration 
having regard to pay and conditions in the group as a whole 
and is satisfied that the approach taken by the company is fair 
and reasonable in light of current market practice and the best 
interests of shareholders.
Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors’ fees are agreed by the Chairman and 
executive directors by reference to market practice. The base fee 
is supplemented by allowances for chairmanship of the audit 
and risk and remuneration committees and the pension scheme 
trustee board. There is no participation in bonus, share option, 
or pension arrangements and no participation in the Spectris 
Performance Share Plan. All non-executive directors’ conditions 
of appointment provide for a six-month period of notice within 
an initial term of three years from election by shareholders at the 
director’s first Annual General Meeting. The appointment may be 
renewed by mutual agreement for a further three-year period.  47 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Total shareholder return
The following graph indicates the value by the end of 2010 of £100 invested in Spectris plc 5p ordinary shares on 31 December 2005 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 index (excluding investment trusts) over the same period. The graph was 
selected as the most appropriate comparison measure because the company is a constituent member of the FTSE 250 index and the 
members of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) form the comparator group for the purposes of the TSR performance test under 
the Spectris Performance Share Plan. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
240
260
31 Dec 05 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09
Spectris plc
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts)
The graph above shows the value, by 31 December 2010, of £100 invested in Spectris plc on 31 December 2005 compared with the value of £100 invested 
in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year ends. 
Source: Datastream
Value (£)
Service contracts
The following table sets out a summary of the directors’ service contracts or terms of appointment. Executive directors’ service contracts 
provide for automatic termination on the director reaching the age of 65. 
Date of contract Expiry date Notice period
Length of service at 
24 February 2011
Executive directors
J E O’Higgins 1.1.06 3.2.29 12 months 5 years 1 month
C G Watson 1.10.06 4.2.23 12 months 4 years 4 months
J C Webster 27.3.98 21.6.15 12 months 17 years 4 months
Non-executive directors
P A Chambré 1.8.06 16.5.13 6 months 4 years 6 months
J L M Hughes 1.6.07 16.5.11 6 months 3 years 8 months
R J King 12.10.10 16.5.14 6 months 4 months
J A Warren 7.3.06 16.5.12 6 months 4 years 11 months
Mr Webster’s contract provides for a predetermined compensation payment in lieu of notice (equivalent to total notice period 
remuneration – salary, bonus and benefits) in the event of termination by the employer within 12 months of a change in control  
of the group. 
Mr O’ Higgins’ and Mr Watson’s contracts provide, subject to a duty of mitigation, for phased monthly payments equivalent to  
1.4 times monthly salary in lieu of all remuneration and benefits otherwise payable during the notice period in full and final settlement 
of all employment-related claims.  48 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ remuneration and interests
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following sections a) to e).
a) Emoluments of directors excluding pension contributions (£’000)
Salary 
and/or 
fees Bonus
Benefits 
in kind
Taxable 
expenses
2010 
Total
2009 
Total
Executive directors
J E O’Higgins 428 407 13 5 853 422
C G Watson 281 266 12 5 564 280
J C Webster 255 229 20 – 504 262
Non-executive directors
P A Chambré 39 – –  – 39 37
J L M Hughes 140 – –  – 140 135
R J King 9 – –  – 9 –
J A Warren 61 – –  – 61 54
A J Reading 19 –  – – 19 43
2,189 1,233
1. Benefits in kind include company cars, private fuel and medical expenses insurance. Taxable expenses relate to allowances paid in lieu 
of company cars and private fuel.
2. For Mr King and Mr Warren, their base fee of £39,270 p.a. is increased by an additional fee of £6,630 p.a. for their chairmanship of, 
respectively, the remuneration and audit committees. Additionally, Mr Warren receives a fee of £15,300 p.a. for his chairmanship of 
Spectris Pension Trustees Limited, following his appointment to that position in April 2008.
3. During the year Mr O’Higgins received $17,000 in respect of his appointment as a non-executive director of Exide Technologies and  
Mr Watson received £50,000 in respect of his appointment as a non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
b) Directors’ pensions 
Company contributions to defined contribution plans:
2010 
£’000
2009 
£’000
J E O’Higgins 107 105
C G Watson 70 69
J C Webster 64 63
The company contributes at the rate of 25% of salary. 
c) Directors’ total remuneration 
2010 
£’000
2009 
£’000
Aggregate emoluments 2,189 1,233
Company pension contributions to defined contribution schemes 241 237
Gains made on exercise of share options 508 469
2,938 1,939
Balance of remuneration
The balance of remuneration for the executive directors is such that a significant part of overall remuneration is subject to achieving 
performance conditions over both the short and long term. The reward mix for the Chief Executive, finance director and business group 
director is shown in the chart below. This assumes Performance Share Plan awards with a value on grant equal to 125% of the director’s 
basic salary, giving an expected vesting of 55% of the award (68.75% of basic salary) and an annual bonus on-plan expectation of 60% 
of salary.
  
 Base pay 39%
 Pension 10%
 Annual bonus 24%
 Performance Share Plan 27%
Note: based on remuneration for 2011. 49 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
d) Directors’ interests in options to purchase ordinary shares
Date 
granted
Options 
held 
1 Jan 10
Granted 
during the 
year
Exercise 
price (p)
Exercised 
during the 
year
Share price 
at date of 
exercise (p) 
Lapsed 
during the 
year
Options 
held 
31 Dec 10
Date 
exercisable Expiry date
J E O’Higgins
SAYE Oct 2009 1,255 723 1,255 Dec 2012 Jun 2013
1,255 1,255
C G Watson
SAYE Oct 2007 1,146 837 1,146 1165 0 Dec 2010 Jun 2011
1,146 0
J C Webster
Sep 2005 85,000 589 85,000 813.01 0 Sep 2008 Sep 2015
85,000 0 
Total 87,401 86,146 1,255
  
Shares other than those marked SAYE relate to executive share option grants. Entitlement to exercise grants under the Unapproved 1996 
Executive Share Plan is conditional upon a performance criterion requiring compound growth in normalised EPS over three years up to 
5% per annum in excess of the increase in RPI (please refer to the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 45 for further explanation). 
This condition has been met for all outstanding option grants. No consideration was paid by any recipient in relation to the grant of an 
option and there were no changes to the conditions on which any option was granted during the year. 
J C Webster exercised 85,000 options under the Unapproved 1996 Executive Share Plan during the year. The gain on exercise  
was £190,404.
Mr Watson exercised his 2007 SAYE option on 1 December 2010. The gain on exercise was £3,759. 
e)  Directors’ share awards under the Spectris Performance Share Plan
Number 
of shares 
subject to 
award at 
1 Jan 10
Date 
granted
Exercise 
price
(p)
Granted 
during 
the 
year
Exercised 
during 
the year
Market 
price at 
exercise
(p)
Addition 
of 
reinvested 
dividends*
Lapsed 
during 
the 
year
Number 
of shares 
subject to 
award at 
31 Dec 10 
Market 
value 
of each 
share at 
date of 
award 
(p)
Date 
exercisable Expiry date
J E O’Higgins
35,500 Mar 2007 5 (17,572) 822.00 3,522 (21,450) 0 865 Mar 2010 Mar 2017
53,400 Feb 2008 53,400 786.5 Feb 2011 Feb 2018
96,600 Feb 2009 96,600 434.5 Feb 2012 Feb 2019
Mar 2010 65,400 65,400 818.5 Mar 2013 Mar 2020
185,500 215,400
C G Watson
21,500 Mar 2007 5 (10,641) 830.40 2,133 (12,992) 0 865 Mar 2010 Mar 2017
34,900 Feb 2008 34,900 786.5 Feb 2011 Feb 2018
63,200 Feb 2009 63,200 434.5 Feb 2012 Feb 2019
Mar 2010 42,800 42,800 818.5 Mar 2013 Mar 2020
119,600 140,900
J C Webster
20,500 Mar 2007 5 (10,147) 822.00 2,034 (12,387) 0 865 Mar 2010 Mar 2017
31,700 Feb 2008 31,700 786.5 Feb 2011 Feb 2018
57,500 Feb 2009 57,500 434.5 Feb 2012 Feb 2019
Mar 2010 38,900 38,900 818.5 Mar 2013 Mar 2020
109,700 128,100
Total 414,800 147,100 (38,360) 7,689 (46,829) 484,400
*  Under the terms of the Plan, notional dividends of the company are applied over award shares during the performance period and exercise period to date of exercise, 
thus increasing the number of award shares granted. These additional award shares are subject to application of the performance criteria attaching to the award.  
 
The above awards were made as conditional rights to acquire shares (structured as nominal cost options) and the number of shares 
awarded were based on the mid-market closing price of the company’s shares on the business day prior to the date of grant. In respect  50 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
of the 2010 award, for each of Mr O’Higgins, Mr Watson and Mr Webster, the value of the award was equivalent to 125% of their base 
salaries at the date of grant. Following satisfaction, in whole or part, of the performance criteria attaching to the awards (as summarised 
on page 45), the directors may call for the release to them of the vested shares during the above-shown exercise periods. 
During the year the terms and conditions of all subsisting awards were varied to allow a seven-year period of exercise from vesting. 
Formerly, the period of exercise for awards was 12 months.
The awards granted to Mr O’Higgins, Mr Watson and Mr Webster in 2007 of 35,500, 21,500 and 20,500 award shares, respectively, 
became exercisable and were exercised by them during the year. The awards had two performance conditions attaching to them. The 
EPS target lapsed completely (50% of the award) and the TSR target was met to 45.03% of the award. In determining the level of 
vesting against the TSR target, the committee took into account the company’s underlying financial performance. The awards were 
satisfied from the company’s treasury shares.
The Spectris Performance Share Plan operates within the dilution limits laid down by the Association of British Insurers. 
Mr O’Higgins retained 10,386 shares arising from the exercise of his 2007 award on 11 March 2010 and sold 7,186 shares. The gain on 
exercise was £143,563.
Mr Watson retained 6,289 shares arising from the exercise of his 2007 award on 12 March 2010 and sold 4,352 shares. The gain on 
exercise was £87,830.
Mr Webster retained 5,935 shares arising from the exercise of his 2007 award on 11 March 2010 and sold 4,212 shares. The gain on 
exercise was £82,900.
The aggregate gains on exercise for all directors under the company’s share plans were thus £508,456 (2009: £469,356). 
f) Directors’ interests
The following directors or their families had beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the company:
Shareholdings
2010  
31 Dec  
(or date of 
resignation)
 2010  
1 Jan  
(or date of 
appointment)
J L M Hughes 8,000 8,000
J E O’Higgins 103,319 92,933
P A Chambré 5,344 5,197
R J King 3,000 –
J A Warren 3,000 3,000
C G Watson 32,745 24,964
J C Webster 118,310 118,736
There were no changes to the above interests between the year end and the date of this report. 
No director had during the year or at the end of the year any material interest in any contract of significance to the group’s business.
At 31 December 2010 the middle market closing share price on the London Stock Exchange was 1311p. The highest share price in the 
year was 1326p and the lowest was 735p.
By order of the Board
R J King 
Chairman of the committee
25 February 2011
Company No. 2025003 51 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Spectris plc
We have audited the financial statements of Spectris plc  
for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the 
consolidated statement of income, the consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes 
in equity, the consolidated statement of financial position, the 
consolidated statement of cash flows, the parent company 
balance sheet and the related notes. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the  
group financial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the EU. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the parent company financial statements 
is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the 
company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 40, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and 
express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements  
is provided on the APB’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the  •	
state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as  
at 31 December 2010 and of the group’s profit for the year 
then ended;
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in •	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
the parent company financial statements have been properly •	
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance •	
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as 
regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited •	
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial •	
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent •	
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
the parent company financial statements and the part of •	
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law •	
are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we •	
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
the directors’ statement, set out on •	 page 40, in relation to 
going concern;
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on •	 page 37 
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on •	
directors’ remuneration.
I K Bone (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
25 February 2011 52 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Consolidated Statement of Income
Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 901.9 787.3 
Cost of sales (375.1) (342.0)
Gross profit 526.8 445.3
Indirect production and engineering expenses (75.4) (84.0)
Sales and marketing expenses (206.0) (184.7)
Administrative expenses (117.5) (108.1)
Operating profit
Operating profit before acquisition-related costs and amortisation of acquisition-related  
intangible assets 142.1 79.2
Acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments (1.9) –
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets (12.3) (10.7)
6 127.9 68.5 
Profit on disposal of businesses 26 – 0.1 
Financial income 9 8.2 5.9 
Finance costs 9 (16.2) (20.3)
Profit before tax 119.9 54.2 
Taxation – UK 10 (5.5) (2.6)
Taxation – Overseas 10 (18.2) (9.0)
Profit after tax for the year from continuing operations attributable  
to owners of the company 96.2 42.6 
Basic earnings per share 12 83.1p 36.9p 
Diluted earnings per share 12 81.6p 36.8p 
Interim dividends paid and final dividends proposed for the year (per share) 11 28.00p 24.25p
Dividends paid during the year (per share) 11 24.95p 23.40p
Spectris uses adjusted figures as key performance measures in addition to those reported under adopted IFRS. Reconciliations showing 
how the adjusted performance measures are derived from those reported under adopted IFRS are set out in Note 3.
For the year ended 31 December 2010 53 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Profit for the period attributable to owners of the company 96.2 42.6
Other comprehensive income:
Net gain on effective portion of changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts 0.7 8.1
Foreign exchange movements on translation of overseas operations 1.3 (36.8)
Net gain on changes in fair value of effective portion of hedges of net investment in overseas 
operations 2.2 14.8
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising on pension schemes, net of exchange 8 2.1 (19.0)
Tax on items recognised directly in comprehensive income 10 0.1 5.0
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to owners of the company 102.6 14.7
For the year ended 31 December 2010 54 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
Balance at 1 January 2010 6.2 231.4 119.5 70.9 (0.5) 3.1 0.3 430.9
Total comprehensive income for the period:
Profit for the period – – 96.2 – – – – 96.2
Other comprehensive income:
Net gain on effective portion of changes in 
fair value of forward exchange contracts, 
net of tax – – – – 0.3 – – 0.3
Foreign exchange movements on 
translation of overseas operations – – – 1.3 – – – 1.3
Net gain on changes in fair value of 
effective portion of hedges of net 
investment in overseas operations,  
net of tax – – – 3.1 – – – 3.1
Actuarial gain arising on pension schemes, 
net of exchange, net of tax – – 1.7 – – – – 1.7
Distributions to and transactions with 
owners:
Equity dividends paid – – (28.9) – – – – (28.9)
Share-based payments, net of tax – – 7.1 – – – – 7.1
Share options exercised from own shares  
(treasury) purchased – – 1.9 – – – – 1.9
Balance at 31 December 2010 6.2 231.4 197.5 75.3 (0.2) 3.1 0.3 513.6
For the year ended 31 December 2009
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
Balance at 1 January 2009 6.2 231.4 117.3 93.0 (8.1) 3.1 0.3 443.2
Total comprehensive income for the period:
Profit for the period – – 42.6 – – – – 42.6
Other comprehensive income:
Net gain on effective portion of changes in 
fair value of forward exchange contracts, 
net of tax – – – – 7.6 – – 7.6
Foreign exchange movements on 
translation of overseas operations – – – (36.8) – – – (36.8)
Net gain on changes in fair value of 
effective portion of hedges of net 
investment in overseas operations,  
net of tax – – – 14.7 – – – 14.7
Actuarial loss arising on pension schemes, 
net of exchange, net of tax – – (13.4) – – – – (13.4)
Distributions to and transactions with 
owners:
Equity dividends paid – – (27.0) – – – – (27.0)
Share-based payments, net of tax – – (0.4) – – – – (0.4)
Share options exercised from own shares 
(treasury) purchased – – 0.4 – – – – 0.4
Balance at 31 December 2009 6.2 231.4 119.5 70.9 (0.5) 3.1 0.3 430.9 55 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets:
Goodwill 13 355.1 324.8 
Other intangible assets 14 97.4 70.3 
452.5 395.1 
Property, plant and equipment 15 110.5 107.6 
Equity-accounted investments 0.5 0.6 
Deferred tax assets 23 18.4 26.2 
581.9 529.5 
Current assets
Inventories 16 121.0 99.8 
Taxation recoverable 8.5 8.1 
Trade and other receivables 17 194.8 167.8 
Derivative financial instruments 20 2.3 0.9 
Cash and cash equivalents 18 64.7 36.8 
391.3 313.4 
Total assets 973.2 842.9 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 19 (1.7) (49.8)
Trade and other payables 21 (212.1) (150.7)
Current tax liabilities (36.7) (36.1)
Provisions 22 (23.4) (25.3)
(273.9) (261.9)
Net current assets 117.4 51.5
Non-current liabilities
Medium- and long-term borrowings 19 (135.5) (92.4)
Derivative financial instruments 20 (14.9) (21.1)
Other payables 21 (17.3) (9.3)
Retirement benefit obligations 8 (14.1) (23.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 23 (3.9) (3.8)
(185.7) (150.1)
Total liabilities (459.6) (412.0)
Net assets 513.6 430.9 
Equity 
Issued share capital 24 6.2 6.2 
Share premium 231.4 231.4 
Retained earnings 197.5 119.5 
Translation reserve 75.3 70.9 
Hedging reserve (0.2) (0.5)
Merger reserve 3.1 3.1 
Capital redemption reserve 0.3 0.3 
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 513.6 430.9 
Total equity and liabilities 973.2 842.9
 
The financial statements on pages 52 to 93 were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2011 and were signed on its  
behalf by:
Clive Watson
Director
Company Registration No. 02025003
As at 31 December 2010 56 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit after tax 96.2 42.6 
Adjustments for:
Tax 10 23.7 11.6 
Profit on disposal of businesses 26 – (0.1)
Finance costs 9 16.2 20.3 
Financial income 9 (8.2) (5.9)
Depreciation 15 14.4 14.3 
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 14.4 13.1 
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 6 (0.1) (0.3)
Share-based payment charge/(credit) 7 7.3 (0.4)
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions 163.9 95.2 
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (18.5) 31.0 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (15.1) 38.1 
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 55.9 (42.9)
Decrease in provisions and employee benefits (10.8) (3.2)
Corporation tax paid (21.0) (16.7)
Net cash from operating activities 154.4 101.5 
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and software (18.9) (14.2)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.4 1.5 
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 28 (62.6) (28.7)
Proceeds from disposal of businesses – 0.1 
Interest received 1.0 0.4 
Net cash flows used in investing activities (79.1) (40.9)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (11.1) (11.2)
Dividends paid 11 (28.9) (27.0)
Share options exercised from treasury shares 1.9 0.4 
Proceeds from borrowings 46.8 99.0 
Repayment of borrowings (52.8) (142.0)
Net cash flows used in financing activities (44.1) (80.8)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 31.2 (20.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 33.7 54.8 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1.6) (0.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18 63.3 33.7
 
Reconciliation of changes in cash and cash equivalents to movements in net debt
Note
2010
£m
2009 
£m
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 31.2 (20.2)
Proceeds from borrowings (46.8) (99.0)
Repayment of borrowings 52.8 142.0 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 15.4
Movement in net debt 37.7 38.2 
Net debt at start of year 19 (123.9) (162.1)
Net debt at end of year 19 (86.2) (123.9)
For the year ended 31 December 2010 57 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Notes to the Accounts
1. Accounting policies
General information
Spectris plc is a public limited company incorporated and 
domiciled in the United Kingdom, whose shares are publicly 
traded on the London Stock Exchange. 
These financial statements are presented in millions of pounds 
sterling rounded to the nearest one decimal place. Foreign 
operations are included in accordance with the policies set out 
below. 
Statement of compliance and basis of preparation
The group financial statements have been prepared and approved 
by the directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRS). The 
company has elected to prepare its parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; these are presented on pages 94 to 100. 
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis 
except that derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The group’s business activities, together with factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set 
out in the Business Review on pages 2 to 33. The financial position 
of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 
28. In addition, Note 2 to the financial statements includes the 
group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; 
its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to credit risk 
and liquidity risk.
Having reviewed the group’s plans and available financial facilities, 
the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group has 
adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, it continues to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the group’s accounts. There are no key 
sensitivities identified in relation to this conclusion.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of 
policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income 
and expenses. The key judgements made in respect of the 
appropriateness of the group accounting policies relate to: 
the timing of revenue recognition where the group has some •	
responsibility for installation activity;
the classification of financial instruments in relation to hedge •	
accounting;
the classification of retirement benefit arrangements between •	
defined benefit and defined contribution schemes;
the point at which development activity meets the cost •	
capitalisation threshold.
The directors do not consider the practical application of any of 
these judgements to involve significant subjectivity or uncertainty.
The estimates and associated assumptions used are continually 
evaluated and are based on historical experience and various 
other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in 
which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period 
or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision 
affects both current and future periods. Estimates that have the 
most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements are recognised in the following areas:
business combinations in relation to the determination of the •	
fair value of acquired assets and liabilities (Note 28);
goodwill in relation to the assumptions underpinning •	
impairment testing (Note 13);
retirement benefit schemes in relation to the assumptions used •	
to value plan assets and liabilities (Note 8);
provisions and contingent liabilities in relation to determining •	
the quantum and timing of management’s best estimate of 
outflows (Notes 22 and 29).
The accounting policies set out below have been applied 
consistently by group entities to all periods presented in these 
financial statements. 
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
There are a number of new standards, amendments to standards 
and interpretations that are not yet effective for the year ended 
31 December 2010. None of these have been adopted early in 
preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of  
these are anticipated to have any impact on the results or 
statement of financial position reported in these consolidated 
financial statements. The adoption of IFRS 3 (Revised) with effect 
from 1 January 2010 has changed the group’s definition of the 
cost of business combinations and the treatment of contingent 
consideration for transactions completed from that date. None 
of the other new standards, amendments to standards and 
interpretations not yet effective are anticipated to materially 
change the group’s published accounting policies.
New standards adopted during the year
As at 1 January 2010, the group changed its accounting policies 
in the following area to reflect accounting standards adopted for 
the year:
The group has adopted IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’ 
for transactions arising after 1 January 2010. This has changed 
the group’s definition of the cost of business combinations and 
the treatment of contingent consideration. The adoption of IFRS 3 
(Revised) has been applied prospectively and has had no material 
impact on assets, profit or earnings per share in the year ended 
31 December 2010; the impact on profit and earnings per share is 
highlighted in Note 3.
Had this accounting policy change not arisen, then acquisition-
related costs of £1.9m would have been capitalised within intangible 
assets arising on acquisition and operating costs reduced and profit 
before tax increased by the same amount. Basic earnings per share 
would have been 1.6p per share higher at 84.7p per share. Adjusted 
earnings per share, as defined, would not differ from that presented.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the group measures 
goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred less the 
net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as at the 
acquisition date. 58 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
1. Accounting policies continued
Previously, transaction costs to effect a business combination were 
included in the cost of acquisition, but under IFRS 3 (Revised) these 
acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. 
For transactions relating to acquisitions before 1 January 2010, 
subsequent adjustments to contingent consideration were 
made against goodwill, but under IFRS 3 (Revised) subsequent 
accounting depends on whether the contingent consideration is 
initially recognised as equity or as a liability and whether the event 
is considered a measurement period adjustment. 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the results of the 
company and all of its subsidiary undertakings and associates 
(equity-accounted investments).
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the group. Control is the 
power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity 
so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The financial statements 
of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date that control commences until the date 
that control ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the group has significant 
influence, but not control, over the financial and operating 
policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the group 
holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another 
entity. Associates are accounted for using the equity method of 
accounting and are recognised initially at cost.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or 
income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are 
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated 
into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. 
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated 
into sterling at average exchange rates. Foreign exchange 
differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a 
separate translation reserve within the statement of changes  
in equity.
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign 
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the 
balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at 
that date with any exchange differences arising on retranslation 
being recognised in the statement of income. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost 
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the 
date of the transaction.
Derivative financial instruments may be purchased to hedge 
the group’s exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates. The 
accounting policies applied in these circumstances are described 
under the heading ‘Derivative financial instruments and hedge 
accounting’ below.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less 
attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any 
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised 
in the statement of income over the period of the borrowings on 
an effective interest basis.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its 
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from 
operating and financing activities. In accordance with its treasury 
policy, it does not hold or use derivative financial instruments for 
trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are presented as current or non-
current based on their contracted maturity dates.
Cash flow hedge accounting
Derivative financial instruments may be transacted to hedge 
the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or 
of highly probable forecast transactions, caused by changes in 
exchange rates.
Derivative financial instruments are carried in the balance 
sheet at fair value. Where a derivative financial instrument is 
designated in a cash flow hedge relationship with a highly 
probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or 
loss arising is recognised in the hedging reserve via the statement 
of comprehensive income. The ineffective part of any gain or 
loss is recognised in the statement of income. When the forecast 
transaction subsequently occurs and results in the recognition of a 
financial asset or liability that impacts on the statement of income, 
the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the 
hedging reserve and presented within the statement of income. 
When the forecast transaction subsequently occurs and results in 
the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated 
cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and 
included within the initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is either sold, terminated or exercised without 
replacement or rollover; or the group revokes the designation; or 
the hedging instrument no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
If a derivative financial instrument is not formally designated 
in a cash flow hedge relationship, any change in fair value is 
recognised in the statement of income.
Net investment hedge accounting
The group uses US dollar and euro-denominated borrowings and 
derivative financial instruments as a hedge against the translation 
exposure on the group’s net investment in overseas companies. 
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in 
the net assets of such companies caused by changes in exchange 
rates, the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income. The ineffective part of any 
change in value caused by changes in exchange rates is recognised 
in the statement of income.
The group takes advantage of cross-currency swaps for some of its 
US dollar-denominated private placement borrowings. The swaps 
have the effect of converting fixed rate US dollar borrowings into  59 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
‘synthetic’ fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. The value of 
the element of the swap that locks interest payments at a fixed 
euro interest rate changes as US dollar variable interest rates, euro 
variable interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates change. 
Under IAS 39’s rules, such changes in value are considered to be 
ineffective as a net investment hedge and accordingly they are 
recognised in the statement of income.
Business combinations and goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the 
purchase method. Goodwill represents the excess of the fair 
value of the purchase consideration for the interests in subsidiary 
undertakings over the net fair value to the group of the identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. In respect of 
acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the 
basis of its deemed cost which represents the amount recorded 
previously under UK GAAP. Prior to 1 January 1998, goodwill was 
written off to reserves in the year of acquisition. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is stated at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill 
are not reversed. From 1 January 2004, goodwill is allocated 
on acquisition to cash-generating units that are anticipated to 
benefit from the combination, and is no longer amortised but 
is tested annually for impairment. Impairment is determined by 
assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to 
which the goodwill relates. This estimate of recoverable amount 
is determined at each balance sheet date. The group’s identified 
cash-generating units are smaller than reportable segments. 
The estimate of recoverable amount requires significant 
assumptions to be made and is based on a number of factors 
such as the near-term business outlook for the cash-generating 
unit, including both its operating profit and operating cash 
flow performance. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment 
loss is recognised. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-
generating unit and part of the operation within that unit  
is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation 
disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation 
when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed 
of in this circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative 
values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-
generating unit retained.
Segmental reporting
An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the 
group that is engaged in business activities from which it may 
earn revenues and incur expenses, and whose operating results 
are reviewed regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker to 
make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment 
and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial 
information is available.
Reportable segments are operating segments that either meet the 
thresholds and conditions set out in IFRS 8 or are considered by 
the Board to be appropriately designated as reportable segments.
Segment result is the result reviewed by the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker and represents operating profits (excluding 
intangible asset amortisation and goodwill impairment charges), 
acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value 
adjustments, and includes an allocation of head office expenses. 
Segment result excludes tax and financing items.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, 
property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other 
receivables. Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, 
provisions and other payables. Unallocated items represent 
corporate and deferred taxation balances, defined benefit scheme 
liabilities and all components of net debt.
Intangible assets
The cost of acquiring software (including associated 
implementation costs where applicable) that is not specific to  
an item of property, plant and equipment is classified as an 
intangible asset.
Self-funded research and development costs are charged to 
the statement of income in the year in which they are incurred 
unless development expenditure meets certain strict criteria 
for capitalisation. These criteria include demonstration of the 
technical feasibility and intent of completing a new intangible 
asset that will be available for sale and that the asset will generate 
probable future economic benefits. From the point where 
expenditure meets the criteria, development costs are capitalised 
and amortised over their useful economic lives. The directors 
consider that, due to the nature of projects undertaken, the 
proportion of development costs incurred that meets the criteria 
for capitalisation is immaterial.
Other intangible assets that are separately acquired by the group are 
stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the 
future economic benefits, otherwise it is expensed as incurred.
Intangible assets arising from a business combination are 
recognised at fair value.
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administrative 
expenses in the statement of income on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of intangible assets determined on an 
asset by asset basis. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Software – 3 to 5 years. •	
Patents, trademarks and technology – up to 10 years, •	
dependent upon the nature of the underlying contractual right 
or the technology acquired.
Customer related – 3 to 10 years, dependent upon the •	
underlying contractual arrangements and specific 
circumstances such as customer retention experience.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost (which from 
1 January 2009 includes capitalised borrowing costs where 
appropriate) less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
The group recognises in the carrying amount of property, plant 
and equipment the additions that are appropriate to capitalise and 
the subsequent costs of replacing the parts of such items when 
there are future economic benefits that will flow to the group and 
its cost can be measured reliably. Cost includes expenditure that is 
directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset cost. All other 
costs are recognised in the statement of income as an expense as 
they are incurred. 60 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
1. Accounting policies continued
Depreciation is recognised in the statement of income on 
a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less the estimated 
residual value (which is reviewed annually), of property, plant and 
equipment over its estimated useful life. The depreciation charge is 
revised where useful lives are different from previously estimated, 
or where technically obsolete assets are required to be written 
down. Where parts of an item of plant and equipment have 
separate lives, they are accounted for and depreciated as separate 
items. Land is not depreciated. Estimated useful lives are as follows:
Freehold and long leasehold property – 20 to 40 years
Short leasehold property – over the period of the lease
Plant, machinery and other equipment – 5 to 20 years
Motor vehicles – 4 years
Tooling, computer hardware – 3 to 5 years
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding 
goodwill
The carrying amount of the group’s assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication 
of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated. Where the asset does not generate cash 
flows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates 
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which 
the asset belongs. Any intangible asset with an indefinite useful 
life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an 
indication that the asset may be impaired. The group currently has 
no such assets.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the 
estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less 
than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to its 
recoverable amount with the impairment loss recognised as an 
operating expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset 
in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as 
income immediately.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at their fair 
value and are subsequently reduced by appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. Discounting is applied where it is 
expected to have a material impact.
Inventories
Inventories and work in progress are carried at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. Inventory acquired as part of business 
combinations is valued at fair value. Cost represents direct costs 
incurred and, where appropriate, production or conversion costs 
and other costs to bring the inventory to its existing location 
and condition. In the case of manufacturing inventory and work 
in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of production 
overheads based on normal operating capacity. Inventory is 
accounted for on a first-in, first-out basis. Provision is made to 
write down slow-moving and obsolete items to net realisable 
value, based on an assessment of technological and market 
developments and on an analysis of historic and projected usage 
with regard to quantities on hand. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call 
deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form 
an integral part of the group’s cash management are included as a 
component of cash equivalents for the purposes of the statement 
of cash flows.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group 
has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation. In respect of warranties, a 
provision is recognised when the underlying products or services 
are sold. Provisions are recognised at an amount equal to the best 
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the group’s liability. 
Obligations arising from restructuring plans are recognised when 
detailed formal plans have been established and when there is a 
valid expectation that such a plan will be carried out.
Post-retirement benefits
The group operates pension schemes providing benefits based on 
final pensionable pay. The assets of the schemes are held separately 
from those of the group. The group’s net obligation in respect of 
defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan 
by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have 
earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; 
that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair 
value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is determined 
by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high 
quality corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to 
the terms of the group’s obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the 
projected unit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
in full in the period in which they arise in the statement of 
comprehensive income.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of 
the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is 
recognised as an expense in the statement of income on a 
straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits 
become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, 
the expense is recognised immediately in the statement of 
income. Similarly, any cost or income relating to the curtailment or 
settlement of a pension scheme is recognised as a cost or income 
immediately in the statement of income.
For defined contribution schemes, the assets are held separately 
from those of the group in independently administered funds. 
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the 
statement of income as they fall due.  61 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
In certain countries, the group participates in industry-wide 
defined benefit-type pension arrangements. In such 
circumstances, it is not possible to determine the amount of 
any surplus or deficit attributable to the group and the pension 
costs are accounted for as if the arrangements were defined 
contribution schemes.
Other long-term employee benefits
The group’s net obligation in respect of long-term employee 
benefits other than pension plans is the amount of future benefit 
that employees have earned in return for their service in the 
current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine 
its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. 
The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields at 
the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds that have 
maturity dates approximating to the terms of the group’s obligations.
Share-based payments
The fair value of equity-settled employee share option grants 
is calculated at grant date. The resulting cost is charged to the 
statement of income over the vesting period of the plans. The 
value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels 
of options that vest, except where forfeiture is only due to share 
prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Revenues
Revenues comprise sales to outside customers after discounts and 
excluding value added tax.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the statement of 
income when the significant risk and rewards of ownership of the 
goods have been transferred to the customer, which is typically 
on delivery. For contracts that involve a significant element of 
installation or testing of equipment, revenue is recognised at the 
point of customer acceptance. Revenue from services rendered 
is recognised in the statement of income in proportion to the 
measurement of the stage of completion of services rendered 
as at the balance sheet date. This is assessed by reference to the 
amount of time incurred in proportion to the total expected time 
to be taken to deliver the service.
The group has an immaterial amount of activity accounted 
for under IAS 11, Construction Contracts, and accordingly the 
applicable disclosures for these types of contracts are not provided.
Interest payable and receivable
Interest payable comprises the interest payable on borrowings 
calculated using the effective interest method. 
Interest receivable and payable is recognised in the statement of 
income as it accrues using the effective interest method.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the 
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the 
statement of income on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
relevant lease. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive 
to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises both current 
and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the statement of income 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised either in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case 
tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income or 
statement of changes in equity, respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for 
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect 
of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes 
and the amounts used for taxation purposes. A deferred tax  
asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that  
future taxable profits will be available against which the asset  
can be utilised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of intra-
group dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to 
pay the related dividend.
2. Financial risk management
The group’s multinational operations and debt financing expose 
it to a variety of financial risks. In the course of its business, 
the group is exposed to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, 
liquidity risk and credit risk. Financial risk management is an 
integral part of the way the group is managed. Financial risk 
management policies are set by the Board of Directors. These 
policies are implemented by a central treasury department that 
has formal procedures to manage foreign exchange risk, interest 
rate risk and liquidity risk, including, where appropriate, the use 
of derivative financial instruments. The group has clearly defined 
authority and approval limits.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the group does not hold 
or use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative 
purposes. Such instruments are only used to manage the risks 
arising from operating or financial assets or liabilities or highly 
probable future transactions. The quantitative analysis of financial 
risk is included in Note 20.
(a) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk arises both where sale or purchase 
transactions are undertaken in currencies other than the 
respective functional currencies of group companies (transactional 
exposures) and where the results of overseas companies are 
consolidated into the group’s reporting currency of £ sterling 
(translational exposures). The group has operations around the 
world which record their results in a variety of different local 
functional currencies. In countries where the group does not have 
operations, it invariably has some customers or suppliers that 
transact in a foreign currency. The group is therefore exposed 
to the changes in foreign currency exchange rates between a 
number of different currencies but the group’s primary exposures 
relate to the US dollar, euro, Danish krone, Swiss franc and 
Japanese yen. Where appropriate, the group manages its foreign 
currency exposures using derivative financial instruments. 62 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
2. Financial risk management continued
The group manages its transactional exposures to foreign currency 
risks through the use of forward exchange contracts. Forward 
exchange contracts are typically used to hedge highly probable 
transactions which can be forecast to occur from anything 
between 1 and 18 months into the future. 
The group’s translational exposures to foreign currency risks can 
relate both to the statement of income and net assets of overseas 
subsidiaries. The group’s policy is not to hedge the translational 
exposure that arises on consolidation of the statement of income 
of overseas subsidiaries. The group finances overseas company 
investments partly through the use of foreign currency borrowings 
in order to provide a natural hedge of foreign currency risk arising 
on translation of the group’s foreign currency subsidiaries. The 
quantitative analysis of foreign currency risk is included in Note 20.
(b) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk comprises both the interest rate price risk that 
results from borrowing at fixed rates of interest and also the 
interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing at variable rates. 
Where appropriate, interest rate swaps are used to manage the 
group’s interest rate profile.
Currently, the majority of the group’s borrowings attract fixed 
rates of interest payments and therefore the group’s principal 
interest rate risk is a price risk. Quantitative analysis of interest rate 
risk is included in Note 20.
(c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk represents the risk that the group will not be able 
to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The group’s 
approach to managing this risk is to ensure, as far as possible, 
that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities 
when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without 
incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the group’s 
reputation. The group manages this risk through the use of 
regularly updated cash flow and covenant compliance forecasts and 
a liquidity headroom analysis which is used to determine funding 
requirements. Adequate committed lines of funding are maintained 
from high quality investment grade lenders. The facilities committed 
to the group as at 31 December 2010 are set out in Note 19.
(d) Credit risk
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its 
obligations. The group is exposed to credit risk on financial assets 
such as cash balances, derivative financial instruments, trade and 
other receivables.
The group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade 
receivables. The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are net 
of appropriate allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by 
the group’s management based on prior experience and their 
assessment of the current economic environment. Trade receivables 
are subject to credit limits, and control and approval procedures 
in the operating companies. Due to its large geographic base 
and number of customers, the group is not exposed to material 
concentrations of credit risk on its trade receivables. Quantitative 
analysis of credit risk to receivables is included in Note 17.
Credit risk associated with cash balances and derivative financial 
instruments is managed centrally by transacting with an 
existing relationship bank with strong investment grade rating. 
Accordingly, the group’s associated credit risk is limited. The group 
has no significant concentration of credit risk.
The group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by 
the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative 
financial instruments, in the group balance sheet (see Note 20).
Capital Management
The Board considers equity shareholders’ funds together with 
committed debt facilities as capital for the purposes of funding the 
group’s operations. Total managed capital at 31 December 2010 is:
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Equity shareholders’ funds (page 55) 513.6 430.9
Committed debt facilities 229.5 281.4
743.1 712.3
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly 
attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are 
recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to 
maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain 
future development of the business. The Board of Directors 
monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders and the 
level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
The Board encourages employees to hold shares in the company. 
This is carried out through a Save As You Earn option scheme in 
the UK, as well as Performance Share Plans. Full details of these 
schemes are given in the Share-based payments note (Note 25) of 
these accounts.
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns 
that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings, the 
advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position and 
the benefits of a good credit rating.
From time to time the group purchases its own shares in the 
market; the timing of these purchases depends on market prices. 
Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by 
the Board. 
There were no changes to the group’s approach to capital 
management during the year.
Neither the company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to 
externally imposed capital requirements. 63 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
3. Adjusted performance measures
Spectris uses adjusted figures as key performance measures in addition to those reported under adopted IFRS. Adjusted figures exclude 
certain non-operational items which management has defined as amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets, 
acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments, profits or losses on termination or disposal of businesses, 
unrealised changes in the fair value of financial instruments, gains or losses on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances, 
related tax effects and other tax items which do not form part of the underlying tax rate (see Note 10). As noted in the 2009 Annual 
Report, the definition has been modified for 2010 to include the income statement effects arising from the adoption of IFRS 3 (Revised). 
The adjusted performance measures are derived from the reported figures under adopted IFRS as follows: 
    
Adjusted operating profit Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 127.9 68.5 
Acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments 28 1.9 –
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 14 12.3 10.7 
Adjusted operating profit 142.1 79.2 
Restructuring and post-acquisition integration charges 0.8 14.0 
Adjusted operating profit before restructuring and post-acquisition integration charges 142.9 93.2
  
       
Adjusted operating profit by segment – 2010 Note
Materials 
Analysis 
£m
Test and 
Measurement 
£m
In-line 
Instrumentation 
£m
Industrial 
Controls 
£m
2010 
Total 
£m
Operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 34.7 28.3 57.1 7.8 127.9
Acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration  
fair value adjustments 1.2 0.2 0.3 0.2 1.9
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 3.6 6.3 0.9 1.5 12.3
Adjusted operating profit: segment result under adopted IFRS 4 39.5 34.8 58.3 9.5 142.1
Restructuring and post-acquisition integration charges 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.8
Adjusted operating profit before restructuring and  
post-acquisition integration charges 39.6 35.2 58.5 9.6 142.9
 
 
Adjusted operating profit by segment – 2009 Note
Materials 
Analysis 
£m
Test and 
Measurement 
£m
In-line 
Instrumentation 
£m
Industrial 
Controls 
£m
2009 
Total 
£m
Operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 29.6 (5.3) 40.7 3.5 68.5 
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 2.3 6.7 0.8 0.9 10.7 
Adjusted operating profit: segment result under adopted IFRS 4 31.9 1.4 41.5 4.4 79.2 
Restructuring and post-acquisition integration charges 2.3 9.7 0.9 1.1 14.0 
Adjusted operating profit before restructuring and  
post-acquisition integration charges 34.2 11.1 42.4 5.5 93.2
Return on sales by segment – 2010
Materials 
Analysis
Test and 
Measurement
In-line 
Instrumentation
Industrial 
Controls
2010 
Total
Using operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 12.8% 9.5% 20.9% 13.0% 14.2%
Using adjusted operating profit 14.5% 11.7% 21.3% 15.9% 15.8%
Return on sales by segment – 2009
Materials 
Analysis
Test and 
Measurement
In-line 
Instrumentation
Industrial 
Controls
2009 
Total
Using operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 11.9% (2.0)% 17.9% 7.8% 8.7%
Using adjusted operating profit 12.9% 0.5% 18.2% 9.9% 10.1% 64 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
3. Adjusted performance measures continued
Reconciliation to adjusted profit before tax and adjusted operating profit Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Profit before tax as reported under adopted IFRS 119.9 54.2
Add/(deduct):
Acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments 28 1.9 –
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 14 12.3 10.7
Net gains on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 9 (0.4) (0.1)
Profit on disposal of businesses 26 – (0.1)
(Increase)/decrease in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 20 (1.4) 3.5
Adjusted profit before tax 132.3 68.2
Adjusted net finance costs (see below) 9.8 11.0
Adjusted operating profit 142.1 79.2
Adjusted net finance costs Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Net interest costs as reported under adopted IFRS 9 (8.0) (14.4)
(Increase)/decrease in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 20 (1.4) 3.5
Net gains on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 9 (0.4) (0.1)
Adjusted net finance costs (9.8) (11.0)
Operating cash flow Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Net cash from operating activities under adopted IFRS 154.4 101.5
Acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration adjustments paid 28 1.9 –
Corporation tax paid 21.0 16.7
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and software (18.9) (14.2)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.4 1.5
Operating cash flow for management purposes 159.8 105.5
Adjusted earnings per share Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Profit after tax as reported under adopted IFRS 96.2 42.6
Adjusted for:
Acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments 28 1.9 –
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 14 12.3 10.7
Profit on disposal of businesses 26 – (0.1)
(Increase)/decrease in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 20 (1.4) 3.5
Net gains on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 9 (0.4) (0.1)
Tax effect of the above and other exceptional items 10 (8.3) (4.2)
Adjusted earnings 100.3 52.4
Weighted average number of shares outstanding (millions) 12 115.8 115.4
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 86.6 45.4
Adjusted diluted earnings per share Note 2010 2009
Adjusted earnings (as above) (£m) 100.3 52.4
Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding (millions) 12 117.9 115.8
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence) 85.1 45.2
Basic and diluted earnings per share in accordance with IAS 33 are disclosed in Note 12. 65 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Analysis of net debt for management purposes Note
2010
 £m
2009 
£m
Bank overdrafts 1.4 3.1
Bank loans – secured 2.2 2.4
Bank loans – unsecured 48.3 6.2
Unsecured loan notes 85.3 130.5
Cross-currency interest rate swaps – currency portion 20 13.7 18.5
Total borrowings 150.9 160.7
Cash balances 18 (64.7) (36.8)
Net debt 86.2 123.9
4. Operating segments
The group has four reportable segments, as described below, which are the group’s strategic business units. These units offer different 
applications, assist companies at various stages of the production cycle and are focused towards specific industries. These segments 
reflect the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (considered to be the Board) on a regular basis. The 
following summary describes the operations in each of the group’s reportable segments.
Materials Analysis provides a wide range of analytical instrumentation to the metals and mining, pharmaceutical and life sciences, •	
and electronics industries, and to academic and research institutions.
Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement and analysis equipment and software for product design optimisation, •	
manufacturing control and environmental monitoring systems, principally to the aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics 
industries.
In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical measurement, asset monitoring and on-line controls for both primary processing •	
and the converting industries.
Industrial Controls supplies automation and control products for the discrete manufacturing industries. •	
Further details of the nature of these segments and the products and services they provide are contained in the Business Review on 
pages 2 to 33.
 
Segment revenue
 
Inter-segment revenue
External  
customer revenue
Reportable  
segment profit
Information about 
reportable segments
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Materials Analysis 271.7 248.6 (0.1) (0.5) 271.6 248.1 39.5 31.9
Test and Measurement 298.2 267.8 (0.8) (0.7) 297.4 267.1 34.8 1.4
In-line Instrumentation 273.7 227.6 (0.6) (0.1) 273.1 227.5 58.3 41.5
Industrial Controls 60.5 45.0 (0.7) (0.4) 59.8 44.6 9.5 4.4
Eliminate inter-segment sales (2.2) (1.7) 2.2 1.7 – – – –
Total continuing operations 901.9 787.3 – – 901.9 787.3 142.1 79.2
Acquisition-related costs and contingent 
consideration fair value adjustments (1.9) –
Amortisation of acquisition-related 
intangibles (12.3) (10.7)
Operating profit 127.9 68.5
Profit on disposal of businesses* – 0.1
Financial income* 8.2 5.9
Finance costs* (16.2) (20.3)
Profit before tax 119.9 54.2
Tax* (23.7) (11.6)
Profit after tax 96.2 42.6
Reportable segment profit is consistent with that presented to the Chief Operating Decision Maker. Inter-segment pricing is on an arm’s 
length basis. Segments are presented on the basis of actual inter-segment charges made.
* Not allocated to reportable segments in reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker. 66 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
4. Operating segments continued
Carrying amount of  
segment assets
Carrying amount of  
segment liabilities**
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Materials Analysis 256.2 221.9 (104.6) (67.5)
Test and Measurement 346.9 337.5 (93.9) (78.0)
In-line Instrumentation 224.3 193.9 (46.6) (35.0)
Industrial Controls 51.9 17.6 (7.7) (4.8)
Total segment assets and liabilities 879.3 770.9 (252.8)  (185.3)
Cash and borrowings* 64.7 36.8 (137.2) (142.2)
Derivative financial instruments* 2.3 0.9 (14.9) (21.1)
Net pension liability* – – (14.1) (23.5)
Taxation* 26.9 34.3 (40.6) (39.9)
Consolidated total assets and liabilities 973.2 842.9 (459.6)  (412.0)
* Not allocated to reportable segments in reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
** Segment liabilities are presented here on a voluntary basis.
Additions to  
non-current assets
Depreciation and 
amortisation Impairment charges
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Materials Analysis 22.8 5.5 7.4 5.9 – –
Test and Measurement 13.0 41.6 14.1 15.2 – –
In-line Instrumentation 24.2 4.3 5.3 5.0 – –
Industrial Controls 28.8 0.7 2.0 1.3 – –
88.8 52.1 28.8 27.4 – –
Geographical segments
The group’s operating segments are each located in several geographical locations, and sell on to external customers in all parts of the 
world.
No individual country amounts to more than 3% of turnover, other than those noted below.
The following is an analysis of revenue by geographical destination.
 
Materials 
Analysis
£m
Test and  
Measurement
£m
In-line 
Instrumentation
£m
Industrial 
Controls
£m
2010 
Total
£m
UK 10.5 11.3  7.6 2.0 31.4 
Germany 19.0 54.7 26.0 4.8 104.5 
France 11.7 18.1 7.8 1.3 38.9 
Rest of Europe 43.8 56.2 46.9 3.5 150.4 
USA 55.5 49.5 63.0 34.9 202.9 
Rest of North America 8.7 4.9 8.0 2.8 24.4 
Japan 19.2 23.5 30.1 0.4 73.2 
China 33.0 32.4 41.5 4.3 111.2 
Rest of Asia Pacific 43.2 30.5 23.8 5.0 102.5 
Rest of the world 27.0 16.3 18.4 0.8 62.5 
271.6 297.4 273.1 59.8 901.9 67 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
 
Materials 
Analysis
£m
Test and  
Measurement
£m
In-line 
Instrumentation
£m
Industrial 
Controls
£m
2009 
Total
£m
UK 9.3 11.9 7.5 1.5 30.2 
Germany 19.8 54.0 21.3 3.3 98.4 
France 12.1 18.7 7.5 1.1 39.4 
Rest of Europe 50.2 56.3 44.0 3.0 153.5 
USA 43.1 38.9 53.2 27.8 163.0 
Rest of North America 6.6 3.8 5.8 2.1 18.3 
Japan 11.8 16.9 21.6 0.5 50.8 
China 32.6 23.3 30.4 1.5 87.8 
Rest of Asia Pacific 36.0 28.0 22.1 3.1 89.2 
Rest of the world 26.6 15.3 14.1 0.7 56.7 
 248.1 267.1 227.5 44.6 787.3 
The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of non-current segment assets, analysed by the geographical area in which the 
assets are located.
Non-current assets
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
UK 75.6 72.6
Germany 29.3 29.3
France 0.4 0.3
Rest of Europe 260.4 266.9
USA 124.9 79.4
Rest of North America 6.3 11.7
Japan 4.2 0.6
China 13.1 4.5
Rest of Asia Pacific 43.6 32.8
Rest of the world 5.7 5.2
563.5 503.3
5. Revenue
An analysis of the group’s revenue is as follows:
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Sale of goods 778.3 685.8 
Services rendered 123.6 101.5 
Revenue 901.9 787.3 
No individual customer accounted for more than 2% of external revenue in either 2010 or 2009.
Spectris does not have the necessary information readily available to disclose the revenue from external customers for each product and 
service, or each group of similar products and services, and the cost to develop this would be excessive. 68 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
6. Operating profit
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging:
 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Net foreign exchange losses 0.3 0.5 
Research and development expenditure 62.4 58.2 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14.4 14.3 
Amortisation of intangible assets 14.4 13.1 
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.1) (0.3)
Auditor's remuneration
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Fees payable to the company’s auditor for audit of the group's annual accounts 0.4 0.4
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– the audit of the company's subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.0 1.0
– tax services 0.5 0.4
1.9 1.8
7. Employee costs
Employee costs, including directors' remuneration, comprise:
 
 
Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Wages and salaries 261.0 239.2
Social security costs 43.0 41.3
Defined benefit pension plans: current service cost 8 0.7 1.8
Defined benefit pension plans: past service credit 8 (2.9) –
Defined benefit pension plans: curtailment gain 8 – (1.8)
Defined benefit pension plans: settlements 8 – 0.1
Defined contribution pension plans 8 9.0 9.4
Share-based payment charge/(credit) 7.3 (0.4)
318.1 289.6
 
Directors' remuneration
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Short-term benefits 1.3 1.2
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2
Share-based payment expense 1.1 0.1
2.6 1.5
Further details of directors’ remuneration and share options are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 50.
 
Average number of employees
2010 
Number
2009 
Number
Production and engineering 2,904 2,862
Sales and marketing 2,296 2,307
Administrative 581 595
5,781 5,764
8. Retirement benefit schemes
Spectris plc operates funded defined benefit 'final salary' and defined contribution pension plans for the group’s qualifying employees 
in the UK. In addition, 12 overseas subsidiaries in three overseas countries provide defined benefit plans. Other UK and overseas 
subsidiaries have their own defined contribution plans invested in independent funds.
Notes to the Accounts continued 69 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Defined contribution plans
The total cost of the defined contribution plans for the year ended 31 December 2010 was £9.0m (2009: £9.4m). There were no 
outstanding or prepaid contributions to these plans as at 31 December 2010 (or at 31 December 2009).
Defined benefit plans
The last full actuarial valuations were carried out as at the following dates:
Plan name Date of last full actuarial valuation
German:
Brüel & Kjær GmbH 31 December 2010
Brüel & Kjær Vibro GmbH 31 December 2010
BTG Mütek GmbH 31 December 2010
Spectris GmbH Sensoren und Systeme 31 December 2010
Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik GmbH 31 December 2010
LDS Test and Measurement GmbH 31 December 2010
PANalytical GmbH 31 December 2010
Dutch:
LDS Test and Measurement 31 December 2009
Brüel & Kjær BV 31 December 2009
Brüel & Kjær Vibro BV 31 December 2009
Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik BV 31 December 2009
Swiss:
BTG Eclépens SA 31 December 2010
UK:
Spectris Pension Plan 31 December 2008
The valuations were updated to 31 December 2010 for IAS 19 purposes by qualified independent actuaries.
The total company contributions made to the defined benefit plans during the year ended 31 December 2010 were £5.6m (2009: 
£4.4m). Contributions for 2011 are expected to be as follows:
Plan name
Expected 2011 contributions  
£m
German:
Brüel & Kjær GmbH –
Brüel & Kjær Vibro GmbH –
BTG Mütek GmbH –
Spectris GmbH Sensoren und Systeme –
Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik GmbH 0.5
LDS Test and Measurement GmbH –
PANalytical GmbH –
Dutch:
LDS Test and Measurement –
Brüel & Kjær BV –
Brüel & Kjær Vibro BV –
Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik BV –
Swiss:
BTG Eclépens SA 0.9
UK:
Spectris Pension Plan 2.6
The above contribution rates are subject to review at future valuations and periodic certifications of the Schedule of Contributions. 
The Spectris Pension Plan (UK) was closed to future accrual of benefits with effect from 31 December 2009.
Since 1 January 2010, the directors have included three additional defined benefit plans in the Netherlands in this note. These had 
previously been excluded on the grounds of immateriality. 70 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
8. Retirement benefit schemes continued
The major assumptions used by the actuary to value the liabilities of the defined benefit plans were:
UK plans
2010 
% pa
2009 
% pa
Discount rate 5.40 5.60
Salary increases 4.90 5.10
Pension increases in payment:
RPI max 5% (LPI)* 3.20 3.40
RPI max 3% 2.60 2.80
RPI max 2.5% 2.30 2.40
RPI min 3%, max 5% 3.70 3.80
CPI max 5% 2.70 N/A
Pension increases in deferment:
RPI 3.40 3.60
CPI 2.70 N/A
Inflation assumption:
RPI 3.40 3.60
CPI 2.70 N/A
* LPI is Limited Price Indexation.
Mortality rate assumptions:
Pensioner life expectancy assumed in the 31 December 2010 valuation is based on the following table:
Current and future pensioners PxA00 tables with medium cohort projections and a +1 year age 
rating and a 1% pa underpin to future improvements
Samples of the age which pensioners are assumed to live to are as follows:
Males Females
Pensioner aged 65 in 2010 86.5 89.0
Pensioner aged 65 in 2020 87.6 89.9
German plans
2010 
% pa
2009 
% pa
Discount rate 4.80 5.20
Salary increases 3.00 3.00
Pension increases in payment 2.00 2.00
Pension increases in deferment – –
Inflation assumption 2.00 2.00
Mortality rate assumptions:
Pensioner life expectancy assumed in the 31 December 2010 valuation is based on the following tables: 
Current pensioners and future pensioners Dr K Heubeck pension tables 2005 G
Samples of the ages which pensioners are assumed to live to are as follows:
Males Females
Pensioner aged 60 in 2010 83.3 87.9
Pensioner aged 60 in 2020 84.8 89.3
Dutch plans
2010 
% pa
2009 
% pa
Discount rate 5.20 5.20
Salary increases 3.00 3.00
Inflation assumption 2.00 2.00
Notes to the Accounts continued 71 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Mortality rate assumptions:
Pensioner life expectancy assumed in the 31 December 2010 valuation is based on the following tables:
Current pensioners and future pensioners Prognostetafel 2005–2050 tables
Sample ages to which pensioners are expected to live are not available (but this table covers improving life expectancies and is a general 
standard in the Netherlands).
Swiss plans
2010 
% pa
2009 
% pa
Discount rate 2.75 2.75
Salary increases 1.00 1.00
Inflation assumption 1.00 1.00
Mortality rate assumptions:
Pensioner life expectancy assumed in the 31 December 2010 valuation is based on the following tables:
Current pensioners and future pensioners EVK 2000 tables
Sample ages to which pensioners are expected to live are not available (but this table covers improving life expectancies and is a general 
standard in Switzerland).
UK plans Overseas plans Total
Amounts recognised in the statement of income
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Current service cost – 1.0 0.7 0.8 0.7 1.8
Interest cost 5.3 4.7 0.7 1.0 6.0 5.7
Expected return on scheme assets (5.3) (4.9) (0.2) (0.5) (5.5) (5.4)
Curtailment gain – (1.8) – – – (1.8)
Past service credit (2.9) – – – (2.9) –
Settlement charge – Servomex Inc. Retirement Plan – – – 0.1 – 0.1
(2.9) (1.0) 1.2 1.4 (1.7) 0.4
On materiality grounds, the current service cost is recognised solely in administrative expenses in the statement of income. The interest 
cost and expected return on scheme assets are recognised in finance costs and financial income, respectively, in the statement of 
income. Actuarial losses or gains are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
During the year, insurance premiums for death-in-service benefits were paid amounting to £0.2m (2009: £0.2m).
The total return on scheme assets in the year (and reimbursed rights) was £10.2m (2009: £8.7m).
In July 2010, the UK government announced that CPI should be used as the basis for statutory minimum pension increases. The impact 
of the change to CPI (from RPI) for the UK plan, where the pension rules mandate inflation according to the deemed statutory index, 
was a credit to the statement of income of £2.9m, within administrative expenses.
UK plans Overseas plans Total
Amounts recognised in the statement of  
comprehensive income
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the current year 3.2 (17.1) (0.8) (2.6) 2.4 (19.7)
Exchange (losses)/gains in the current year – – (0.1) 0.7 (0.1) 0.7
Loss on inclusion of Dutch plan – – (0.2) – (0.2) –
Total gains/(losses) recognised in the current year 3.2 (17.1) (1.1) (1.9) 2.1 (19.0)
Cumulative actuarial (losses) since 1 January 2004 (34.1) (37.3) (4.1) (3.0) (38.2) (40.3) 72 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
8. Retirement benefit schemes continued
UK plans Overseas plans Total
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (96.9) (96.4) (26.0) (20.9) (122.9) (117.3)
Fair value of scheme assets 93.2 82.1 15.6 11.7 108.8 93.8
Net deficit in scheme (3.7) (14.3) (10.4) (9.2) (14.1) (23.5)
UK plans Overseas plans Total
Reconciliation of movement in net deficit
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
At 1 January (14.3) (0.7) (9.2) (7.8) (23.5) (8.5)
Expected return on plan assets 5.3 4.9 0.2 0.5 5.5 5.4
Contributions from sponsoring company 4.5 2.5 1.1 1.9 5.6 4.4
Current service cost – (1.0) (0.7) (0.8) (0.7) (1.8)
Interest cost (5.3) (4.7) (0.7) (1.0) (6.0) (5.7)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 3.2 (17.1) (0.8) (2.6) 2.4 (19.7)
Curtailment gain – 1.8 – – – 1.8
Exchange difference – – (0.1) 0.7 (0.1) 0.7
Settlement of Servomex Inc. Pension Plan – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Past service credit 2.9 – – – 2.9 –
Inclusion of three additional Dutch plans – – (0.2) – (0.2) –
At 31 December (3.7) (14.3) (10.4) (9.2) (14.1) (23.5)
UK plans Overseas plans Total
Analysis of movement in the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
At 1 January 96.4 75.4 20.9 23.1 117.3 98.5
Current service cost – 1.0 0.7 0.8 0.7 1.8
Interest cost 5.3 4.7 0.7 1.0 6.0 5.7
Actuarial losses 1.6 21.3 0.7 1.7 2.3 23.0
Curtailment gain (UK) – (1.8) – – – (1.8)
Exchange difference – – 1.6 (1.7) 1.6 (1.7)
Contributions from scheme members – 0.3 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.9
Benefits paid (3.5) (4.5) (1.1) (2.5) (4.6) (7.0)
Past service credit (2.9) – – – (2.9) –
Settlement of Servomex Inc. Pension Plan – – – (1.6) – (1.6)
Settlement of Swiss Plan – – 1.2 (0.5) 1.2 (0.5)
Inclusion of three additional Dutch plans – – 0.6 – 0.6 –
At 31 December 96.9 96.4 26.0 20.9 122.9 117.3
UK plans Overseas plans Total
Analysis of defined benefit obligation
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation – – 6.8 6.7 6.8 6.7
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 96.9 96.4 19.2 14.2 116.1 110.6
UK plans Overseas plans Total
Reconciliation of movement in fair value of plan assets 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
At 1 January 82.1 74.7 11.7 15.3 93.8 90.0
Expected return on plan assets 5.3 4.9 0.2 0.5 5.5 5.4
Actuarial gains/(losses) 4.8 4.2 (0.1) (0.9) 4.7 3.3
Exchange difference – – 1.5 (1.0) 1.5 (1.0)
Contributions from sponsoring company 4.5 2.5 1.1 1.9 5.6 4.4
Contributions from scheme members – 0.3 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.9
Benefits paid (3.5) (4.5) (1.1) (2.5) (4.6) (7.0)
Settlement of Servomex Inc. Pension Plan – – – (1.7) – (1.7)
Settlement of Swiss plan – – 1.2 (0.5) 1.2 (0.5)
Inclusion of three additional Dutch plans – – 0.4 – 0.4 –
At 31 December 93.2 82.1 15.6 11.7 108.8 93.8
Notes to the Accounts continued 73 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Analysis of the scheme assets and expected rate of return
Expected return Fair value of assets
UK plans
2010 
%
2009 
%
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Equity instruments 7.3 7.5 29.0 21.1
Debt instruments 5.5 6.1 66.2 64.0
Other assets 4.0 4.8 (2.0) (3.0)
6.1 6.5 93.2 82.1
Expected return Fair value of assets
German plans
2010 
%
2009 
%
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Insurance policies 4.8 5.2 1.2 1.5
Expected return Fair value of assets
Dutch plan
2010 
%
2009 
%
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Insurance policies 5.2 5.2 1.3 0.9
Expected return Fair value of assets
Swiss plan
2010 
%
2009 
%
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Insurance policies 3.0 2.0 13.1 9.3
The overall expected return on assets is calculated as the weighted average of the expected return on each individual asset class. The 
expected return on equities is the sum of inflation, dividend yield and economic growth, less investment expenses. The return on gilts 
and bonds is the current market yield on long-term gilts and bonds. The expected return on other assets reflects market conditions for 
interest rate swaps.
History of experience adjustments
2010 
£m
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
2007*
£m
2006*
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (122.9) (117.3) (98.5) (93.7) (96.7)
Fair value of scheme assets 108.8 93.8 90.0 82.6 77.9
Deficit in the scheme (14.1) (23.5) (8.5) (11.1) (18.8)
Experience adjustment on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) (2.3) (23.0) 10.0 4.8 1.3
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) (1.9) (19.6) 10.2 5.1 1.3
Experience adjustment on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) 4.7 3.3 (8.0) 1.1 2.4
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 4.3 3.5 (9.0) 1.3 3.1
*  The history of experience for 2007 and earlier excludes the German and Dutch LDS Test and Measurement plans as they were new acquisitions in 2008. It also 
excludes the Swiss plan that had not previously been treated as a defined benefit arrangement.
9. Finance costs and financial income
Financial income Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Interest receivable 0.9 0.4 
Increase in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 20 1.4 –
Net gains on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 0.4 0.1 
Expected return on pension scheme assets 5.5 5.4 
8.2 5.9  74 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
9. Finance costs and financial income continued
Finance costs Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Interest payable on loans and overdrafts 9.9 11.1 
Decrease in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 20 – 3.5 
Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 6.0 5.7 
Other finance costs 0.3 –
16.2 20.3 
Net interest costs of £9.0m (2009: £10.7m) for the purposes of the calculation of interest cover comprise of bank interest receivable of 
£0.9m (2009: £0.4m), and interest payable on loans and overdrafts of £9.9m (2009: £11.1m).
10. Taxation
2010 2009
 
UK
£m
Overseas
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
Overseas 
£m
Total
£m
Current tax charge 4.8 24.5 29.3 3.1 9.1 12.2
Adjustments in respect of current tax of prior years (0.6) (6.8) (7.4) 0.5 (0.8) (0.3)
Deferred tax – origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.3 0.5 1.8 (1.0) 0.7 (0.3)
5.5 18.2 23.7 2.6 9.0 11.6
The standard rate of corporation tax for the year, based on the weighted average of tax rates applied to the group’s profits, is 27.6% 
(2009: 25.1%). The tax charge for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax for the reasons set out in the following 
reconciliation:
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit before taxation 119.9 54.2
Corporation tax at standard rate of 27.6% (2009: 25.1%) 33.1 13.6
Non-taxable income and gains (2.8) (3.4)
Non-deductible expenditure 1.7 0.9
Movements on unrecognised deferred tax assets 0.3 0.3
Research and development tax incentives (2.1) (0.6)
Other current year tax items (0.4) 0.4
Change in tax rates (0.1) 0.1
Adjustments relating to prior year acquisitions and disposals (4.3) –
Other adjustments to prior year current and deferred tax charges (1.7) 0.3
Total taxation 23.7 11.6
Factors that may affect the future tax charge
The group’s tax charge in future years is likely to be affected by the proportion of profits arising, and the effective tax rates, in the 
various territories in which the group operates. Due to a change in UK tax legislation in 2009, no UK tax is expected to be payable on 
the future remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries.
Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income
2010
£m
2009
£m
Tax on net gain on effective portion of changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts (0.4) (0.5)
Tax on changes in fair value of effective portion of hedges of net investment in overseas operations 0.9 (0.1)
Tax on actuarial (loss)/gain arising on pension schemes, net of exchange (0.4) 5.6
Aggregate current and deferred tax charge relating to items that are charged directly to the statement of 
comprehensive income 0.1 5.0
Notes to the Accounts continued 75 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
The following tax charges relate to items of income and expense that are excluded from the group’s adjusted performance measures.
Tax on items of income and expense that are excluded from the group’s adjusted profit before tax
2010
£m
2009
£m
Tax charge/(credit) on unrealised change in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 0.4 (1.0)
Tax credit on amortisation of intangible assets (4.0) (3.2)
Tax credit on acquisition-related costs (0.1) –
Tax credit on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances (0.3) –
Tax credit relating to prior year acquisitions and disposals (4.3) –
Total tax credit (8.3) (4.2)
The effective adjusted tax rate for the year was 24.2% (2009: 23.2%) as set out in the reconciliation below.
Reconciliation of total tax charge on adopted IFRS basis to adjusted tax charge Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Total tax charge on adopted IFRS basis 23.7 11.6
Tax credit on items of income and expense that are excluded from the group’s adjusted profit 
before tax 8.3 4.2
Adjusted tax charge 32.0 15.8
Adjusted profit before tax 3 132.3 68.2
11. Dividends
Amounts recognised and paid as distributions to owners of the company in the year
2010
£m
2009
£m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 17.85p (2008: 17.0p) per share 20.7 19.6
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 7.1p (2009: 6.4p) per share 8.2 7.4
28.9 27.0
Amounts arising in respect of the year
2010
£m
2009
£m
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 7.1p (2009: 6.4p) per share 8.2 7.4
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 20.9p (2009: 17.85p) per share 24.2 20.6
32.4 28.0
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a 
liability in these financial statements.
12. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (excluding treasury shares).
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year but adjusted for the effects of dilutive options. The key features of share 
option contracts are described in Note 25.
Basic earnings per share 2010 2009
Profit after tax (£m) 96.2 42.6
Weighted average number of shares outstanding (millions) 115.8 115.4
Basic earnings per share (pence) 83.1 36.9 76 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
12. Earnings per share continued
Diluted earnings per share 2010 2009
Profit after tax (£m) 96.2 42.6
Basic weighted average number of shares outstanding (millions) 115.8 115.4
Weighted average number of dilutive 5p ordinary shares under option (millions) 2.2 0.6
Weighted average number of 5p ordinary shares that would have been issued at average market value from 
proceeds of dilutive share options (millions) (0.1) (0.2)
Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding (millions) 117.9 115.8
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 81.6 36.8
13. Goodwill
Cost Note £m
At 1 January 2009 384.1
Recognised on acquisitions 16.3
Adjustments to provisional fair values:
Recognition of acquired intangible assets (24.4)
Other fair value adjustments 6.7
Exchange differences (19.2)
At 31 December 2009 363.5
Recognised on acquisitions 28 24.3
Adjustments to contingent consideration 28 8.3
Exchange differences (3.7)
At 31 December 2010 392.4
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses £m
At 1 January 2009 41.5
Exchange differences (2.8)
At 31 December 2009 38.7
Exchange differences (1.4)
At 31 December 2010 37.3
Carrying amount £m
At 31 December 2010 355.1
At 31 December 2009 324.8
At 1 January 2009 342.6
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, goodwill is allocated to the group’s cash-generating units which 
are represented by the group’s trading businesses. The most significant elements of the group’s total consolidated goodwill of £355.1m 
at 31 December 2010 are allocated to PANalytical: £97.7m (2009: £99.3m), BTG: £54.7m (2009: £54.9m), HBM: £72.3m (2009: £74.7m) 
and Brüel & Kjær Sound & Vibration: £68.9m (2009: £59.4m). Acquired entities are quickly integrated into existing group companies 
with the result that it is not appropriate to consider their individual performance when determining cash-generating units and 
performing goodwill impairment testing. Each cash-generating unit is assessed for impairment annually and whenever there is a specific 
indication of impairment. There were no indications of impairment in 2010.
As part of the annual impairment test review, the carrying value of goodwill has been assessed with reference to value in use to 
perpetuity, reflecting the projected cash flows of each cash-generating unit based on actual operating results, the most recent budget 
for the next financial year, and strategic review projections for 2012 and 2013.
The key assumptions on which the value in use calculations are based relate to business performance over the next three years, long-
term growth rates beyond 2013 and the discount rates applied. There are no individually significant business level cash flow assumptions 
in respect of any business that materially impact the impairment testing. The key judgements are the level of revenue and operating 
margins anticipated and the proportion of operating profit converted to cash in each year. Growth rates for the period beyond 2013 
are assumed to be 2.5% (2009: 2.5%), which is considered to be at or below long-term market trends for each business. The cash flow 
projections have been discounted using entity-specific pre-tax discount rates between 12% and 17% (2009: 14% and 18%). These rates 
have been determined taking size of business and specific geographic and industry risk factors into account. No impairment charge has 
been required to be recognised in either 2010 or 2009. 77 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
The directors do not consider that there are any reasonable possible sensitivities that could arise in the next 12 months that could result 
in a significant impairment charge arising. For illustration, the directors have considered the following specific individual sensitivities:
a 2% increase in the pre-tax discount rate applied to each business would result in an impairment of £nil (2009: £nil); •	
if the long-term growth rate assumption was reduced to 1% no impairment would arise (2009: £nil); and •	
if the cash flow projections of all businesses were reduced by 25% for the next two years no impairment would arise (2009: £nil). •	
Management considers that operating results in 2010 confirm that none of the group’s trading businesses have suffered permanent 
diminutions in value as a result of recent difficult economic conditions.
14. Other intangible assets
Cost
Patents, 
trademarks and 
technology
£m
Customer- 
related 
 intangibles 
£m
Software
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2009 34.4 15.3 27.3 77.0 
Additions – – 2.4 2.4 
Reclassification of intangibles 2.6  – (2.6) –
Recognised on acquisitions 5.3 8.6  – 13.9 
Disposals – – (0.1) (0.1)
Transfer from goodwill 13.8 10.6  – 24.4 
Transfer from property, plant and equipment – – 3.1 3.1
Exchange differences (2.4) 0.6 (2.0) (3.8)
At 31 December 2009 53.7 35.1 28.1 116.9 
Additions – – 1.9 1.9
Recognised on acquisitions 16.2 20.3 0.1 36.6
Disposals – – (0.5) (0.5)
Exchange differences 2.3 1.5 (0.2) 3.6
At 31 December 2010 72.2 56.9 29.4 158.5
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2009 9.8 5.8 17.5 33.1 
Transfer from property, plant and equipment – – 2.7 2.7
Charge for the year 6.7 4.0 2.4 13.1 
Exchange differences (0.3) (0.5) (1.5) (2.3)
At 31 December 2009 16.2 9.3 21.1 46.6 
Disposals – – (0.3) (0.3)
Charge for the year 6.5 5.8 2.1 14.4
Exchange differences 0.2 0.6 (0.4) 0.4
At 31 December 2010 22.9 15.7 22.5 61.1
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2010 49.3 41.2 6.9 97.4
At 31 December 2009 37.5 25.8 7.0 70.3
At 1 January 2009 24.6 9.5 9.8 43.9
Of the total amortisation charge of £14.4m (2009: £13.1m), the amount attributable to the amortisation of acquisition-related intangible 
assets was £12.3m (2009: £10.7m).
The transfers from property, plant and equipment to software in 2009 relate to identifiable software assets.
The transfer from goodwill to intangibles and the reclassification within intangibles in 2009 relates to the finalisation during 2009 of the 
allocation of goodwill and intangibles for the 2008 acquisitions (Note 28). 78 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
15. Property, plant and equipment
Cost
Freehold  
property
£m
Leasehold  
property
£m
Plant and  
equipment
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2009 102.0 11.1 148.9 262.0
Additions 1.6 0.9 9.3 11.8
Recognised on acquisitions – – 1.0 1.0
Disposals (0.3) (1.3) (8.6) (10.2)
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings – – (0.1) (0.1)
Transfers to intangible fixed assets – – (3.1) (3.1)
Exchange differences (7.4) (0.6) (11.3) (19.3)
At 31 December 2009 95.9 10.1 136.1 242.1 
Additions 4.6 1.2 11.5 17.3
Recognised on acquisitions – – 0.4 0.4
Disposals (1.9) (0.4) (7.3) (9.6)
Transfers from/(to) plant and equipment 0.3 – (0.3) –
Exchange differences (0.9) 0.5 1.8 1.4
At 31 December 2010 98.0 11.4 142.2 251.6
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2009 31.3 7.7 104.8 143.8
Charge for the year 2.6 0.8 10.9 14.3
Disposals (0.2) (1.2) (7.8) (9.2)
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings – – (0.1) (0.1)
Transfers to intangible fixed assets – – (2.7) (2.7)
Exchange differences (3.1) (0.6) (7.9) (11.6)
At 31 December 2009 30.6 6.7 97.2 134.5 
Charge for the year 2.6 0.9 10.9 14.4
Disposals (1.8) (0.4) (6.5) (8.7)
Exchange differences (0.5) 0.3 1.1 0.9
At 31 December 2010 30.9 7.5 102.7 141.1
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2010 67.1 3.9 39.5 110.5
At 31 December 2009 65.3 3.4 38.9 107.6
At 1 January 2009 70.7 3.4 44.1 118.2
The amount recognised in the carrying amount of items of plant and equipment in the course of its construction was £1.0m (2009: £1.0m). 
No borrowing costs met the required criteria for capitalisation during the year (2009: £nil).
The group has pledged land and buildings having a carrying amount of approximately £2.2m (2009: £2.4m) to secure bank loans 
granted to the group.
16. Inventories
2010
£m
2009
£m
Raw materials 46.5 37.7 
Work in progress 23.6 19.1 
Finished goods 50.9 43.0 
121.0 99.8 
In the ordinary course of business, the group makes provision for slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory as appropriate. 
Inventory is stated after charging impairments of £4.0m (2009: £4.1m) and crediting reversals of previous impairments of £2.5m  
(2009: £2.8m). Impairments and reversals of impairments are included within operating profit. 79 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Inventory carried at fair value less cost to sell is £0.2m (2009: £nil).
The amount of inventory recognised as an expense during both the current and prior year is equal to the amount recognised within the 
cost of sales.
17. Trade and other receivables
2010
£m
2009
£m
Trade receivables 168.8 144.6 
Prepayments and accrued income 10.4 9.3
Other receivables 15.6 13.9 
194.8 167.8 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing. Standard credit terms provided to customers differ according to business and country, and 
are typically between 30 and 60 days. Included within the above are amounts receivable in more than one year of £nil (2009: £nil). 
Trade receivables and other receivables are stated after net impairments recognised and utilised during the year of £3.3m (2009: £2.2m) 
and reversals of impairments of £1.4m (2009: £1.0m). Impairments and reversals of impairments are included within operating profit.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December by geographic region was:
2010
£m
2009
£m
UK 6.2 8.3
Germany 17.5 13.5
France 10.3 9.2
Rest of Europe 36.5 36.0
USA 37.6 28.3
Rest of North America 5.8 2.8
Japan 15.6 12.6
China 10.6 8.0
Rest of Asia Pacific 18.6 17.8
Rest of the world 10.1 8.1
168.8 144.6
Impairment losses
The ageing of trade receivables and related impairment provisions at 31 December was:
2010 2009
Gross
£m
Impairment
£m
Gross
£m
Impairment
£m
Not past due 128.3 0.3 110.0 0.3
One month past due 27.6 0.1 23.7 0.2
Two months past due 8.1 0.3 5.6 0.2
Three months past due 3.6 0.2 2.8 0.3
Over three months past due 9.0 6.9 8.3 4.8
176.6 7.8 150.4 5.8
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Balance at 1 January 5.8 4.9
Impairment loss recognised 4.3 3.2
Impairment loss utilised (1.0) (1.0)
Impairment loss released (1.4) (1.0)
Exchange differences 0.1 (0.3)
Balance at 31 December 7.8 5.8 80 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
17. Trade and other receivables continued
An impairment has been recorded against the trade receivables that the group believes may not be recoverable. In the case of trade 
receivables that are past due, management makes an assessment of the risk of non-collection, taking into account factors such as any 
disputes, or other factors delaying payment, and the risk of bankruptcy or other failure of the customer to meet their obligations. For 
trade receivables that are not past due, taking into account good historic collection experience, management records an impairment 
charge only where there is a specific risk of non-collection. All trade receivables past due for more than 120 days have been fully 
provided in line with the group’s credit risk policy.
The fair value of trade and other receivables approximates to book value due to the short-term maturities associated with these items. 
There is no impairment risk identified with regards to prepayments and accrued income or other receivables where no amounts are 
past due.
18. Cash and cash equivalents
Analysis of balances of cash and cash equivalents Note
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Cash balances 64.7 36.8
Bank overdrafts 19 (1.4) (3.1)
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 63.3 33.7
The group’s exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities is disclosed in Note 20.
19. Borrowings
Current Effective interest rate
Earlier of repricing date or 
maturity date
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Bank loans – secured see below see below 0.3 0.3
Bank overdrafts on demand 1.4 3.1
Unsecured loan notes – 2000 $75m 8.23% 13 September 2010 – 46.4
1.7 49.8
Non-current Effective interest rate
Earlier of repricing date or 
maturity date
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Bank loans – secured see below see below 1.9 2.1
Bank loans – unsecured – 9 October 2011 – 6.2
Bank loans – unsecured $75.6m 3.12% 10 September 2015 48.3 –
Unsecured loan notes – 2003 $100m 6.08% 15 October 2013 63.9 61.9
Unsecured loan notes – 2003 €25m 5.56% 15 October 2013 21.4 22.2
Total unsecured borrowings 133.6 90.3
Total non-current borrowings 135.5 92.4
At 31 December 2010, the group had available £80.0m (2009: £123.8m) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which 
all conditions precedent had been met.
Secured bank loans
Bank loans are secured by fixed charges over property at three of the group’s subsidiaries. Of these £1.5m is denominated in Chinese 
renminbi and is repayable by instalments until December 2012 with a fixed interest rate of 7.5%, £0.5m is denominated in US dollars and 
is repayable by instalments until December 2014 with a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus a small margin, and £0.2m is denominated in 
euros and is repayable by instalments until December 2012 with a variable interest rate of LIBOR plus a small margin.
Unsecured loan notes
The interest rates on the unsecured loan notes are those contracted on the underlying borrowings before taking into account any 
cross-currency interest rate swaps, and remain fixed until redemption. On issue of the US$100m loan notes in October 2003, the 
group entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap which has the effect of converting this US dollar borrowing into fixed interest 
euro-denominated debt. The combined effect of the borrowing and swap arrangement results in euro debt of €90.5m with a fixed 
interest rate of 5.64%. This interest rate remains fixed until redemption. 81 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Under adopted IFRS, where cross-currency interest rate swaps are used, the value of the underlying US dollar borrowing is presented 
in this borrowings note and the value of the related cross-currency interest rate swaps is presented separately within derivative financial 
instruments in Note 20. For management purposes, the value attributed to the portion of the swap arrangements that converts US 
dollar borrowings into euro borrowings is viewed as part of the group’s net debt, as analysed below.
Analysis of net debt Note
2010  
£m
2009 
£m
Bank overdrafts 1.4 3.1
Bank loans – secured 2.2 2.4
Bank loans – unsecured 48.3 6.2
Unsecured loan notes 85.3 130.5
Cross-currency interest rate swaps – currency portion 20 13.7 18.5
Total borrowings 150.9 160.7
Cash balances 18 (64.7) (36.8)
Net debt 86.2 123.9
20. Financial instruments
2010 2009
Fair value and carrying amount of financial instruments
Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Fair
value
£m
Trade and other receivables 194.8 194.8 167.8 167.8
Trade and other payables (229.4) (229.4) (160.0) (160.0)
Cash and cash equivalents 64.7 64.7 36.8 36.8
Floating rate borrowings (1.8) (1.8) (10.1) (10.1)
Fixed rate borrowings (135.4) (145.0) (132.1) (147.9)
Forward exchange contracts 2.3 2.3 0.9 0.9
Cross-currency interest rate swaps (14.9) (14.9) (21.1) (21.1)
(119.7) (129.3) (117.8) (133.6)
The fair value of floating rate borrowings approximates to the carrying value because interest rates are at floating rates where payments 
are reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year. 
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments is estimated by discounting the future contracted cash flow, 
using appropriate yield curves, to the net present values.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts outstanding as at 31 December 2010 is an asset of £2.3m (2009: £0.9m) of which £1.9m 
has been credited to the hedging reserve (2009: £1.0m), and £0.4m credited to the income statement (2009: £0.1m debit). These 
contracts mature over periods not exceeding 12 months. A summary of the movements in the hedging reserve during the year is 
presented below. There was no ineffectiveness arising with regards to cash flow hedges in either 2010 or 2009.
Analysis of movements in hedging reserve
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
At 1 January (0.5) (8.1)
Amounts removed from statement of changes in equity and included in statement of income during the year (0.6) 6.6
Amounts recognised in statement of changes in equity during the year 0.9 1.0
At 31 December (0.2) (0.5)
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using discounted cash flow techniques based on readily available market 
data and represents a Level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 7.
The amount included in the income statement is split between revenue and administrative expenses. 82 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
20. Financial instruments continued
The following table shows the contractual forward exchange contracts hedging designated transactional exposures. These contracts 
mature in the next 12 months, therefore the cash flows and resulting effect on profit and loss are expected to occur within the next 
12 months.
Forward exchange contracts at 31 December 2010 2009
Foreign currency sale amount (£m) 93.7 59.8
Percentage of total:
US dollar 24% 32%
Euro 41% 43%
Japanese yen 30% 25%
Other 5% –
Cross-currency interest rate swaps 
The value of the group’s cross-currency interest rate swaps can effectively be split into two components: a portion that is attributable 
to converting a 100m US dollar-denominated borrowing liability into a euro-denominated borrowing liability (the currency portion) 
– the value of this portion changes as currency exchange rates change and a portion that is attributable to converting fixed rate US 
dollar interest payments into fixed rate euro interest payments (the interest portion) – the value of this portion of the swap changes as 
US dollar variable interest rates, euro variable interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates change.
Under adopted IFRS, the underlying US dollar borrowings are required to be presented separately in the balance sheet from the cross-
currency interest rate swaps. In addition, the fair value of the cross-currency interest rate swaps is required to be recognised in full on the 
balance sheet.
The table below shows the movements in the total value of the cross-currency interest rate swaps during the year and also how it is 
attributed to its currency and interest portions.
Fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps
Currency 
portion 
£m
Interest 
portion 
£m
Total 
value 
£m
As at 1 January 2009 (17.8) 0.9 (16.9)
Change in fair value recognised in statement of comprehensive income (0.7) – (0.7)
Change in fair value recognised in statement of income – (3.5) (3.5)
As at 31 December 2009 (18.5) (2.6) (21.1)
Change in fair value recognised in statement of comprehensive income 4.8 – 4.8
Change in fair value recognised in statement of income – 1.4 1.4
As at 31 December 2010 (13.7) (1.2) (14.9)
Together with the group’s €25m borrowing, this combination of the underlying US dollar borrowings and cross-currency interest 
rate swap has been designated as a net investment hedge of the group’s net investment in its European businesses. However, the 
interest portion of the swap is ineffective in this hedging relationship. Accordingly, the change in value of the currency portion of the 
swap is recognised together with the change in value of the underlying US dollar borrowings in the statement of comprehensive income, 
and the change in value of the interest portion of the swap is recognised in the statement of income within financing costs. The group’s 
US$75.6m borrowings have been designated as a net investment hedge of the group’s net investment in its US businesses.
The fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps is determined using discounted cash flow techniques based on readily available 
market data and represent a Level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 7. The principal borrowing amounts match 
exactly with the related unsecured loan note borrowings as described in Note 19.
A maturity profile of the gross cash flows related to financial liabilities is:
2010 2009
Maturity of financial liabilities
Bank 
loans and 
overdrafts 
£m
Secured 
bank 
loans 
£m
Unsecured 
loans 
£m
Cross- 
currency 
swap 
£m
Total 
£m
Bank 
loans and 
overdrafts 
£m
Secured 
bank 
loans 
£m
Unsecured 
loans 
£m
Cross- 
currency 
swap 
£m
Total 
£m
Due within one year 1.4 0.3 6.6 0.5 8.8 3.1 0.3 55.3 0.8 59.5
Due between one and two years – 1.7 6.6 0.5 8.8 – 0.5 11.2 0.8 12.5
Due between two and five years – 0.3 143.1 14.2 157.6 – 1.7 94.1 20.1 115.9
Due in more than five years – – – – – – – – – –
1.4 2.3 156.3 15.2 175.2 3.1 2.5 160.6 21.7 187.9 83 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Trade and other payables (Note 21) are substantially due within one year.
It is not expected that the cash flows described above could occur significantly earlier or at substantially different amounts.
Financial assets Financial liabilities 2010 
Net 
financial 
assets/ 
(liabilities) 
£m
Interest rate exposure of financial 
assets and liabilities by currency
Fixed  
rate 
£m
Floating 
rate 
£m
Non- 
interest 
bearing 
£m
Total 
£m
Fixed  
rate 
£m
Floating 
rate 
£m
Total 
£m
Sterling – 38.8 0.2 39.0 – – – 39.0
Euro 0.3 5.2 2.7 8.2 (99.1) – (99.1) (90.9)
US dollar 0.4 3.8 0.2 4.4 (48.3) (1.3) (49.6) (45.2)
Japanese yen – 0.7 – 0.7 – (0.1) (0.1) 0.6
Other 2.6 6.0 3.8 12.4 (1.7) (0.4) (2.1) 10.3
3.3 54.5 6.9 64.7 (149.1) (1.8) (150.9) (86.2)
Financial assets Financial liabilities 2009  
Net 
financial 
assets/ 
(liabilities) 
£m
Interest rate exposure of financial 
assets and liabilities by currency
Fixed  
rate 
£m
Floating 
rate 
£m
Non- 
interest 
bearing 
£m
Total 
£m
Fixed  
rate 
£m
Floating 
rate 
£m
Total 
£m
Sterling – 12.6 0.2 12.8 – – – 12.8
Euro 1.6 7.0 0.8 9.4 (102.6) (0.7) (103.3) (93.9)
US dollar – 4.0 0.8 4.8 (46.4) (7.8) (54.2) (49.4)
Japanese yen – 0.8 – 0.8 – (0.5) (0.5) 0.3
Other 1.3 5.7 2.0 9.0 (1.6) (1.1) (2.7) 6.3
2.9 30.1 3.8 36.8 (150.6) (10.1) (160.7) (123.9)
The above exposures are net of the cross-currency interest rate swap.
Sensitivity analysis
At 31 December 2010 it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates would increase the group’s profit 
before tax by approximately £0.5m (2009: increase of £0.2m).
Based on foreign exchange translational exposures for the year ended 31 December 2010 it is estimated that a ten percentage point 
weakening in the value of the US dollar against £ sterling would have decreased the group’s profit before tax by approximately £2.2m 
(2009: £0.6m), a ten percentage point weakening in the value of the euro/Danish krone against £ sterling would have decreased 
the group’s profit before tax by approximately £2.9m (2009: £1.1m) and a ten percentage point weakening in the value of the Swiss 
franc against £ sterling would have decreased the group’s profit before tax by approximately £2.2m (2009: £1.6m). In addition, a 
ten percentage point weakening in the value of the US dollar against £ sterling would have decreased the group’s net assets by 
approximately £26.1m and a ten percentage point weakening in the value of the euro against £ sterling would have decreased the 
group’s net assets by approximately £41.2m; exposures to other currencies are not considered to have a material impact on net assets.
21. Trade and other payables
Current
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Trade payables 84.7 50.6 
Non-trade payables, accruals and deferred income 127.4 100.1 
212.1 150.7 
 
Non-current
Non-trade payables, accruals and deferred income 17.3 9.3 
The fair value of trade and other payables approximates to book value due to the short-term maturities associated with these items.
The effect of discounting on non-current amounts is not material. 84 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
22. Provisions
Reorganisation 
£m
Product 
warranty 
£m
Legal, 
contractual 
and other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2010 5.4 7.2 12.7 25.3
Additional provision in the year 0.5 6.7 7.4 14.6
Acquired on acquisition – 0.1 – 0.1
Utilised during the year (4.3) (2.0) (2.1) (8.4)
Released during the year (0.1) (3.7) (4.6) (8.4)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) 0.1 0.2 0.2
At 31 December 2010 1.4 8.4 13.6 23.4
Provisions are all presented as current liabilities.
Provisions are discounted to reflect the time value of money where the effect is significant, generally only where it is anticipated that a 
liability will crystallise in more than one year.
Reorganisation
Reorganisation provisions relate to committed restructuring plans in place within the business and represent the directors’ best estimate 
of the cost to complete the restructuring. Costs are expected to be incurred within one year and there is little judgement in determining 
the amount.
Product warranty
Product warranty provisions reflect commitments made to customers on the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business and 
included within the group’s standard terms and conditions. Warranty commitments typically apply for a 12-month period, with the 
occasional extension up to 36 months. These extended warranties are not significant. The provision represents the directors’ best 
estimate of the group’s liability based on past experience, and barring significant unforeseen events, there is little judgement involved in 
determining the amount. 
Legal, contractual and other
Legal, contractual and other comprises mainly amounts reserved against open legal and contractual disputes. The company has on 
occasion been required to take legal or other actions to protect its intellectual property rights, to enforce commercial contracts or 
otherwise and similarly to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties. Provisions are made for the expected costs 
associated with such matters, based on past experience of similar items and other known factors, taking into account professional advice 
received, and represent management’s best estimate of the likely outcome. The timing of utilisation of these provisions is frequently 
uncertain, reflecting the complexity of issues and the outcome of various court proceedings and negotiations. Contractual and other 
provisions represent the directors’ best estimate of the cost of settling future obligations although there is a higher degree of judgement 
involved. Unless specific evidence exists to the contrary, these reserves are shown as current.
However, no provision is made for proceedings which have been or might be brought by other parties against group companies unless 
management, taking into account professional advice received, assesses that it is more likely than not that such proceedings may be 
successful. Contingent liabilities associated with such proceedings have been identified, but the directors are of the opinion that any 
associated claims that might be brought can be resisted successfully, and therefore the possibility of any material outflow in settlement 
in excess of amounts provided is assessed as remote. 85 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
23. Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the current corporate tax rate in the relevant 
local jurisdiction.
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
At 1 January (22.4) (29.0)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 3.0
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 5.7 7.7
Deferred tax on changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts recognised in statement of 
comprehensive income 0.4 1.8
Deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes recognised in statement of  
comprehensive income 0.4 (5.3)
Deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in equity (0.5) –
Tax on foreign exchange in statement of comprehensive income – (0.3)
Charged to statement of income in the year (see Note 10) 1.8 (0.3)
At 31 December (14.5) (22.4)
 
Comprising:
Deferred tax liabilities 3.9 3.8 
Deferred tax assets (18.4) (26.2)
(14.5) (22.4)
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset 
where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
Net deferred tax assets
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
£m
Accruals 
and 
provisions 
£m
Tax 
losses 
£m
Unrealised 
profit on 
inter- 
company 
transactions 
£m
Pension 
schemes 
£m
Goodwill  
and 
intangible 
assets 
£m
Other 
£m
2010 
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2010 (1.2) (10.6) (3.8) (3.6) (5.2) 5.4 (3.4) (22.4)
Exchange adjustments – 0.1 – – – – – 0.1
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings – – – – – 5.7 – 5.7
Deferred tax on changes in fair value of 
forward exchange contracts recognised in 
statement of comprehensive income – – – – – – 0.4 0.4
Deferred tax on actuarial gain on pension 
schemes recognised in statement of 
comprehensive income – – – – 0.4 – – 0.4
Deferred tax on share-based payments 
recognised in equity – – – – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Charged/(credited) to statement of income (1.2) (3.8) 1.2 (2.7) 1.3 2.2 4.8 1.8
At 31 December 2010 (2.4) (14.3) (2.6) (6.3) (3.5) 13.3 1.3 (14.5) 86 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
23. Deferred tax continued
Net deferred tax assets
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
£m
Accruals 
and 
provisions 
£m
Tax 
losses 
£m
Unrealised 
profit on 
inter-
company 
transactions 
£m
Pension 
schemes 
£m
Goodwill  
and 
intangible 
assets 
£m
Other 
£m
2009 
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2009 (1.2) (13.1) (3.1) (4.2) (1.1) (2.1) (4.2) (29.0)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 1.2 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.3 0.1 3.0
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings – – (1.3) – – 9.0 – 7.7
Deferred tax on changes in fair value of forward 
exchange contracts recognised in statement of  
comprehensive income – – – – – – 1.8 1.8
Deferred tax on actuarial gain on pension 
schemes recognised in statement of 
comprehensive income – – – – (5.3) – – (5.3)
Tax on foreign exchange in statement of 
comprehensive income – – – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Charged/(credited) to statement of income (0.1) 1.3 0.2 0.2 0.7 (1.8) (0.8) (0.3)
At 31 December 2009 (1.2) (10.6) (3.8) (3.6) (5.2) 5.4 (3.4) (22.4)
Unrecognised temporary differences
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on the following temporary differences due to the degree of uncertainty over both the 
amount and utilisation of the underlying tax losses and deductions in certain jurisdictions. £1.5m of the tax losses will expire after 
seven years. There is no expiry date associated with the other tax losses.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Tax losses 29.0 23.6
Other temporary differences 9.6 6.4
38.6 30.0
The UK government’s emergency budget statement in June 2010 announced a phased reduction in the main UK corporation tax rate  
from 28% to 24% with the first 1% reduction taking effect from 1 April 2011 being substantively enacted on 20 July 2010. This rate 
reduction has no material impact on the financial statements as at 31 December 2010. No account will be taken of the expected further 
3% reduction in UK tax rates until substantive enactment of these changes. Until this change and other potential changes are enacted it is 
not possible to identify the impact these changes might have. However, for indicative purposes only, had the UK main corporate tax rate 
been reduced to 24% the net impact on recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2010 would not have been material.
24. Share capital and reserves
2010 2009
Number  
of shares  
million £m
Number  
of shares 
million £m
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 5p each 210.0 10.5 210.0 10.5
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 125.0 6.2 125.0 6.2
At 31 December 125.0 6.2 125.0 6.2
The group has one class of ordinary voting shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Other reserves
Movements in reserves are set out in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. The retained earnings reserve also includes own 
shares purchased by the company and treated as treasury shares (see Note 27). The nature and purpose of other reserves forming part 
of equity are as follows:
Translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign subsidiaries, including gains or losses arising on net investment hedges. 87 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Hedging reserve         
This reserve records the cumulative net change in the fair value of forward exchange contracts where they are designated as effective 
cash flow hedge relationships.
Merger reserve
This reserve arose on the acquisition of Servomex Limited in 1999, a purchase satisfied substantially by the issue of share capital and 
therefore eligible for merger relief under the provisions of section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Capital redemption reserve
This reserve records the historical repurchase of the group’s own shares.
25. Share-based payments
Under the Save As You Earn scheme, equity shares are issued following a vesting period of three years. Options may be exercised during a  
six-month period following the vesting date, and exercise prices are determined according to the mid-market closing share price prevailing on 
the day before the date of grant. There are no performance criteria associated with options granted under the Save As You Earn scheme.
The Executive Share Option Scheme and Save As You Earn share option schemes were set up in order to provide executives and selected 
employees with options to purchase ordinary shares in the company. Under the Executive Share Option Scheme, exercise prices are 
determined according to the mid-market closing share price prevailing on the day before the date of grant. Share options granted under 
the Executive Share Option Scheme are also subject to performance criteria, being the fulfilment of earnings growth targets. Options 
vest after a period of three years, and have a maximum term of ten years. 
Under the Performance Share Plan, the exercise price is the nominal cost of the company’s shares. Awards to Spectris plc executives and 
senior managers are subject to performance criteria; 50% of the award being based on fulfilment of an earnings growth target (EPS) 
and 50% subject to a total shareholder return target (TSR). Awards made to executives and senior managers of the group’s operating 
companies in 2008 and 2009 have performance criteria subject to EPS in respect of 50% of the award and operating company targets 
in respect of 50% of the award. For awards made in 2010, the performance criteria is EPS in respect of 33.33% of the award and 
operating company targets in respect of 66.67% of the award. Operating company manager awards are entirely subject to operating 
company profitability targets. Awards vest after a period of three years and must be exercised during the seven-year period (previously 
one-year period) following vesting except for the 2006 awards, no longer capable of exercise, which had a 12-month exercise period.
Share options outstanding at the end of the period
SAYE – Year of grant
Exercise price 
£
Exercise  
period
2010 
Number 
thousands
2009 
Number 
thousands
2006 6.18 2010 – 14
2007 8.37 2011 7 31
2008 7.66 2012 35 37
2009 7.23 2013 51 51
2010 10.19 2014 19 –
112 133
Executive Share Option Scheme – Year of grant
Exercise price 
£
Exercise  
period
2010 
Number 
thousands
2009 
Number 
thousands
2000 5.13–5.25 2003–2010 – 119
2001 3.58–4.99 2004–2011 60 107
2004 4.06–4.62 2007–2014 7 7
2005 5.89 2008–2015 5 163
72 396
Performance Share Plan – Year of grant
Exercise price 
£
Exercise  
period
2010 
Number 
thousands
2009 
Number 
thousands
2006 0.05 2009–2010 – 14
2007 0.05 2010–2017 23 434
2008 0.05 2011–2018 709 755
2009 0.05 2012–2019 1,391 1,491
2010 0.05 2013–2020 943 –
3,066 2,694  88 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
25. Share-based payments continued
Movements in the year
2010 2009
SAYE
Number 
thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
Number 
thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
At 1 January 133 7.52 1.0 158 7.12 1.2
Granted 19 10.19 0.2 51 7.23 0.3
Exercised (32) 7.66 (0.2) (29) 6.18 (0.2)
Lapsed (8) 7.12 (0.1) (47) 6.72 (0.3)
At 31 December 112 7.95 0.9 133 7.52 1.0
Exercisable at 31 December 7 8.37 0.03 16 6.18 0.10 
2010 2009
Executive Share Option Scheme 
Number 
thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
Number 
thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
At 1 January 396 5.17 2.1 445 5.11 2.3
Granted – – – – – –
Exercised (299) 5.49 (1.7) (42) 4.44 (0.2)
Lapsed (25) 5.04 (0.1) (7) 5.43 –
At 31 December 72 3.92 0.3 396 5.17 2.1
Exercisable at 31 December 72 3.92 0.3 396 5.17 2.1
2010 2009
Performance Share Plan
Number 
thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
Number 
thousands
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price 
£
Value of 
shares 
£m
At 1 January 2,694 0.05 0.14 1,412 0.05 0.07
Shares granted 972 0.05 0.05 1,520 0.05 0.08
Dividends granted 17 0.05 – – – –
Exercised (89) 0.05 (0.01) (134) 0.05 (0.01)
Lapsed (528) 0.05 (0.03) (104) 0.05 –
At 31 December 3,066 0.05 0.15 2,694 0.05 0.14
Exercisable at 31 December 23 0.05 – 14 0.05 –
Share-based payment expense
Share options are valued using a stochastic option pricing model, with support from an independent remuneration consultant. The TSR 
performance condition was included in the calculation of fair value under the Performance Share Plan. For options granted in 2010 and 
2009, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
SAYE Performance Share Plan
2010 2009 2010 2009
Weighted average share price (pence) 1075 685 738–1311 435–551.5
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 1019 723 5 5
Expected volatility 41.2% 39.9% 41.6% 36.4%
Expected life 3.25 yrs 3.25 yrs 0.2–3.0 yrs 1.3–3.0 yrs
Risk-free rate 1.1% 2.1% 3.1% 1.8%
Expected dividends (expressed as a yield) 2.3% 3.4% 0%–3.2% 0%–4.2%
Fair value per option 24.6% 17.9% – –
Fair value per award – TSR condition 68.4%–71.4% 56.2%–59.6%
Fair value per award – Profit condition 92.7%–99.6% 88.5%–98.9%
Fair value per award – EPS condition 92.7%–99.6% 88.5%–98.9% 89 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the expected term. The expected life is the average expected period to 
exercise. The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed  
option life. 
The group recognised a total charge of £7.3m (2009: £0.4m credit) in the statement of income, of which £6.6m related to equity settled 
share-based payment transactions.
26. Disposal of businesses
During the year the group did not divest any businesses.
On 30 September 2009, the group sold its operation in Hungary for a profit on disposal of £0.1m. The total consideration was £0.1m net 
of transaction costs.
27. Treasury shares
At 31 December 2010, the group held 9,073,760 treasury shares (2009: 9,493,575). 419,815 of these shares were issued to satisfy 
options exercised by employees which were granted under the group’s share schemes (2009: 200,920). No shares were repurchased by 
the group during the year (2009: nil) and no shares were cancelled during the year (2009: nil).
28. Acquisitions
On 7 April 2010, the group acquired the trade and assets of Reologica Instruments AB, located in Sweden, for a consideration of £0.5m. 
No goodwill arose on the Reologica Instruments AB acquisition, with the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the 
fair value of the net assets acquired represented by technology-based intangibles. This business has been integrated into the Materials 
Analysis segment.
On 6 July 2010, the group acquired 100% of the share capital of Zhuhai Omec Instruments Co. Ltd, a company based in China, which 
extends the group's capabilities in analytical systems for particle characterisation, for a total consideration of £9.2m including £1.9m 
contingent on the future performance of the acquired business. This forms part of the Materials Analysis segment. The excess of the 
fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of the assets acquired is represented by customer-related and marketing based 
intangibles and the value of a non-compete agreement entered into with the previous owners of the business.
On 1 October 2010, the group acquired the trade and assets of a distributor in Japan where direct presence was sought for a 
consideration of £4.6m including £1.7m contingent on the future performance of the acquired business. This also forms part of the 
Materials Analysis segment. No goodwill arose on this acquisition with the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the  
fair value of the net assets acquired represented by customer-based intangibles. There was no material fair value attaching to the pre-
existing relationships with the distributor.
Also on 1 October 2010, the group acquired the trade and assets of N-Tron Corp, a company based in the USA, which extends the 
group's capabilities in industrial networking products, for a consideration of £32.9m including deferred consideration of £0.1m. This 
forms part of the Industrial Controls segment. An analysis of the assets acquired is provided below. The excess of the fair value of the 
consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired is represented by customer-related, technology and other intangibles of 
£9.1m, £2.5m and £2.1m, respectively, with residual goodwill arising of £16.7m. The goodwill arising is considered to represent the value 
of the acquired workforce and the ability to exploit the group’s existing distribution arrangements to expand N-Tron’s routes to market, 
particularly outside of North America where it currently makes limited sales.
On 24 November 2010, the group acquired 100% of the shares of the Delta F Corporation, a company based in the USA, which extends  
the group's capabilities in trace oxygen and water measurement, for a consideration of £15.8m, including deferred consideration of 
£0.4m. This forms part of the In-line Instrumentation segment. The excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair 
value of the net assets acquired is represented by technology-based intangibles of £9.0m with residual goodwill arising of £7.6m. The 
goodwill arising is considered to represent the value of the acquired workforce and the ability to exploit the group’s existing customer 
relationships and know-how to expand Delta F’s routes to market, particularly into markets (both geographic and industry) where it 
currently makes limited sales.
The assets and liabilities acquired as a result of the above transactions, together with the aggregate purchase consideration, are 
summarised below. The revenue and operating profit contribution from the acquisitions in the year to the group's results for the year 
were £8.1m and £1.1m respectively. Group revenue and operating profit would have been £929.6m and £135.4m, respectively, had each 
of these acquisitions taken place on the first day of the year. 90 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
28. Acquisitions continued
On acquisitions prior to 1 January 2010, the deferred and contingent consideration has been revised to reflect the increased earn-out 
payments amounting to £8.3m that were not accrued at 31 December 2009 with a corresponding increase to goodwill. The group also 
paid £4.5m in respect of prior period acquisitions, which had been accrued as deferred or contingent consideration at 31 December 2009.
Acquisition-related costs of £1.9m have been recognised in the statement of income under IFRS 3 (Revised) and included within 
administrative expenses.
The effect of the acquisition on the individual assets and liabilities of the group is as follows:
Net assets acquired under 2010 acquisitions
Book 
value 
£m
Adjustments 
£m
2010 
Fair value 
£m
Intangible fixed assets 0.1 36.5 36.6
Tangible fixed assets 0.5 (0.1) 0.4
Inventories 4.1 (0.2) 3.9
Trade and other receivables 4.5 – 4.5
Trade and other payables (1.7) – (1.7)
Provisions (0.1) – (0.1)
Deferred tax liabilities – (5.7) (5.7)
Cash 0.8 – 0.8
Net assets acquired 8.2 30.5 38.7
Goodwill 24.3
Total consideration in respect of 2010 acquisitions 63.0
Analysis of cash outflow in consolidated cash flow statement
Total consideration in respect of 2010 acquisitions 63.0
Adjustment for cash acquired on 2010 acquisitions (0.8)
Deferred and contingent consideration on 2010 acquisitions to be paid in future years (4.1)
Cash paid in 2010 in respect of 2010 acquisitions 58.1
Prior year acquisitions
Purchase price adjustment re prior year acquisition* 8.3
Deferred and contingent consideration in relation to prior year acquisitions:
Accrued at 31 December 2009 4.5
Accrued during 2010 but not paid at 31 December 2010* (8.3)
Cash paid in 2010 in respect of prior year acquisitions 4.5
Net cash outflow relating to acquisitions 62.6
*   An additional purchase price of £8.3m in relation to prior period acquisitions has been accrued (but not paid) during the year based on updated expectations 
of the amounts to be paid under contingent consideration arrangements.
Due to their contractual due dates, the fair value of receivables acquired (shown above) approximates the gross contractual amounts 
receivable. The amount of gross contractual receivables not expected to be recovered is immaterial. 
There are no material contingent liabilities recognised in accordance with paragraph 23 of IFRS 3 (Revised). 
 
Contingent consideration exists on two of the acquisitions made in 2010. The maximum amounts payable (which will be settled in cash) 
total £4.1m and are contingent based on the future performance of the acquired businesses over periods of up to three years. Reflecting 
the levels of the performance targets set and expected business performance, these amounts have been accrued in full at the respective 
acquisition dates as the fair value of the contingent consideration is considered by the directors to approximate the full amounts 
potentially payable under the ‘earn out’ arrangements. 
£16.7m of the goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year is expected to be amortised and deductible for tax purposes. 91 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Net assets acquired for N-Tron
Book value 
£m
Adjustments 
£m
2010 
Fair value 
£m
Intangible fixed assets 0.1 13.6 13.7
Tangible fixed assets 0.1 – 0.1
Inventories 1.5 0.3 1.8
Trade and other receivables 1.8 – 1.8
Trade and other payables (1.2) – (1.2)
Net assets acquired 2.3 13.9 16.2
Goodwill 16.7
Total consideration 32.9
Adjustment for cash acquired –
Net consideration 32.9
The following table presents the information related to 2009 acquisitions, including the effect of the finalisation of acquisition fair values 
on prior year acquisitions, reflected in the comparative figures.
Amount previously 
recognised at  
31 December 2009
Net assets acquired
Book 
value 
£m
Fair value 
adjustments 
£m
Final fair 
values 
£m
Intangible fixed assets 1.9 36.4 38.3
Tangible fixed assets 1.0 – 1.0
Deferred tax asset 1.3 – 1.3
Inventories 1.8 (0.6) 1.2
Trade and other receivables 5.1 – 5.1
Trade and other payables (6.0) – (6.0)
Provisions – (0.6) (0.6)
Deferred tax liabilities (0.6) (8.4) (9.0)
Cash 0.6 – 0.6
Net assets acquired 5.1 26.8 31.9
Goodwill (1.4)
Total consideration recognised in the year 30.5
 
Total consideration in relation to 2009 acquisitions 26.6
Adjustment for cash acquired on 2009 acquisitions (0.6)
Deferred and contingent consideration to be paid in future years (4.1)
Cash paid in 2009 in respect of 2009 acquisitions 21.9
 
Prior year acquisitions
Additional consideration:
Purchase price adjustment re prior year acquisitions not previously recognised 3.9
Deferred and contingent consideration in relation to prior year acquisitions previously recognised 2.9
6.8
Net cash outflow in 2009 relating to acquisitions 28.7 92 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Accounts continued
29. Contingent liabilities
Royal Bank of Scotland
Spectris plc and its UK subsidiaries are party to a cross guarantee arrangement to support trade finance facilities provided by the bank. 
They are also party to a cross guarantee arrangement that allows individual subsidiaries to borrow from the bank on overdraft within the 
overall borrowing limit agreed with the bank. Spectris plc has provided a parent company guarantee to support trade finance facilities 
provided by the bank to its subsidiaries in various countries outside of the UK and USA. Spectris plc has also provided a parent company 
guarantee to support overdraft and intra-day facilities provided by the bank to its subsidiaries who participate in the cross-border euro 
zero balance pooling arrangement. An amount of £11.2m (2009: £11.9m) was outstanding at 31 December 2010.
JP Morgan Chase NA
Spectris plc has provided a parent company guarantee to JP Morgan Chase NA to support trade finance facilities provided by the bank to 
its subsidiaries in the USA. An amount of £1.4m (2009: £1.3m) was outstanding at 31 December 2010.
Other banks
Group companies have, in the normal course of business, provided bonds and guarantees through local banking arrangements 
amounting to £8.5m (2009: £5.6m).
Legal
Refer to Note 22 ‘Provisions’.
30. Operating lease arrangements 
2010 2009
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 
Property 
£m
Other 
£m
Property 
£m
Other 
£m
Not later than one year 5.9 2.9 4.7 2.7 
Later than one year and not later than five years 14.3 5.4 11.0 5.7 
Later than five years 5.3 – 9.1 –
25.5 8.3 24.8 8.4 
Group companies are party to a number of operating leases, mainly for plant and machinery, including motor vehicles and property 
rentals. The arrangements do not impose any significant restrictions on the group.
During the year £10.6m (2009: £10.2m) was recognised in the statement of income in respect of operating lease rental payments. 
31. Capital commitments
At 31 December 2010, the group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and 
software amounting to £2.0m (2009: £0.6m), which have not been provided for.
32. Related party transactions
Details of directors’ remuneration (being the key management personnel) are summarised in Note 7 and shown in detail in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 48. There were no other related party transactions requiring disclosure. 93 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
33. Subsidiary undertakings
The following are the group's principal subsidiary undertakings. They operate mainly in the countries of incorporation. All the subsidiaries 
are involved in the manufacture and sale of materials analysis systems, test and measurement equipment, in-line instrumentation and 
industrial controls.
Spectris plc holds 100% of the ordinary share capital of all the subsidiaries either directly or indirectly through intermediate holding 
companies.
Country of 
incorporation
Malvern Instruments Limited UK
Servomex Group Limited UK
Spectris China Limited China
Brüel & Kjær Sound & Vibration Measurement A/S Denmark
Brüel & Kjær Vibro A/S Denmark
Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik GmbH Germany
Spectris Company Limited Japan
BTG Eclépens SA Switzerland
PANalytical BV The Netherlands
Beta LaserMike Inc USA
Fusion UV Systems Inc USA
Microscan Systems Inc USA
NDC Infrared Engineering Inc USA
Particle Measuring Systems Inc USA
Red Lion Controls Inc USA
LDS Test and Measurement Limited UK
Lochard Limited Australia 94 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes
2010
£m
2009
£m
Fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets 36 1.6 2.0
Tangible fixed assets 37 0.2 0.2
Fixed asset investments 38 247.1 193.8
248.9 196.0
Current assets
Debtors 39 398.2 393.8
Cash at bank 35.1 9.5
433.3 403.3
Creditors: due within one year
Short-term borrowings 40 – (46.4)
Other creditors 40 (179.0) (129.9)
(179.0) (176.3)
Net current assets 254.3 227.0
Debtors: due after more than one year
Debtors 41 170.6 191.8
Total assets less current liabilities 673.8 614.8
Creditors: due after more than one year
Medium- and long-term borrowings 42 (168.7) (133.0)
Derivative financial instruments 43 (15.0) (21.4)
(183.7) (154.4)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 44 (2.7) (0.3)
 
Net assets 487.4 460.1
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 45 6.2 6.2
Share premium account 46 231.4 231.4
Merger reserve 46 3.1 3.1
Capital redemption reserve 46 0.3 0.3
Special reserve 46 34.1 34.1
Profit and loss account 46 212.3 185.0
Equity shareholders’ funds 487.4 460.1
The financial statements on pages 94 to 100 were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2011 and were signed on its 
behalf by:
Clive Watson
Director
Company Registration No. 02025003
Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2010 95 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
34. Accounting policies
The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. As permitted by that Act,  
the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.  
In accordance with the exemption provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the company has not presented its own  
profit and loss account.
The company has taken the exemption available in respect of the requirements of FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Basis of accounting
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis, except that derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value as described 
below.
Derivative financial instruments
The company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge the group’s exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising  
from operating and financing activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, it does not hold or use derivative financial instruments  
for trading or speculative purposes.
Cross-currency interest rate swaps
The company takes advantage of cross-currency interest rate swaps for some of its US dollar-denominated private placement 
borrowings. The swaps have the effect of converting fixed rate US dollar borrowings into fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. 
The underlying US dollar borrowings are required to be presented separately in the balance sheet from the cross-currency interest rate 
swaps. In addition, the fair value of the cross-currency interest rate swap is required to be recognised in full on the balance sheet.  
All changes in value are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Financial guarantees
Where the company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, 
the company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the company treats the 
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the company will be required to make a payment 
under the guarantee.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date with any 
exchange differences arising on retranslation being recognised in the profit and loss account. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that  
are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation
Tangible fixed assets are stated at historic cost.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the difference between the cost or valuation of fixed assets and their residual value over their 
estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis at the following rates per annum:
Leasehold improvements – 5 years
Office equipment – 3 years
Intangible fixed assets and amortisation
Intangible fixed assets purchased by the company are capitalised at their cost.
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administrative expenses in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
estimated useful lives of intangible assets. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Software costs – 5 years
Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at their amortised cost, reduced by 
appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Notes to the Company’s Accounts 96 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Company’s Accounts continued
34. Accounting policies continued
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in 
respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not 
reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Leasing
Annual payments under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis.
Post-retirement benefits
The company participates in group operated defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. The assets of the schemes 
are held separately from those of the company in independently administered funds. The company is unable to identify its share of the 
group defined benefit scheme’s underlying assets and liabilities and therefore accounts for it as a defined contribution scheme. The 
amounts charged against profits represent contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
Share-based payments
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon 
which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the 
related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is 
based on the number of awards that do meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date. For share-
based payment awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such 
conditions and there is no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
Where the company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the cost of 
investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s financial 
statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
Cash flow statement
The company has not presented a separate cash flow statement in accordance with the exemption provided by FRS 1 (Revised), as its 
cash flows are included within the cash flows of the group, as set out elsewhere in this Annual Report.
35. Employee costs and other information
Employee costs, including directors’ remuneration
2010
£m
2009
£m
Wages and salaries 4.7 3.1
Social security costs 1.8 0.8
Defined benefit pension plans 3.5 1.7
Defined contribution pension plans 0.4 0.4
Share-based payment expense 1.9 0.1
12.3 6.1
2010
Number
2009
Number
Average number of employees 29 30
Directors’ remuneration
Further details of directors’ remuneration and share options are given in Note 7 to the group’s consolidated financial statements and in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 50.
Auditor’s fees
Fees paid in respect of audit services amounted to £0.2m (2009: £0.2m). 97 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
36. Intangible fixed assets
Cost
Software 
costs
£m
At 1 January 2010 2.6
Additions 0.2
At 31 December 2010 2.8
Amortisation
At 1 January 2010 0.6
Charge for the year 0.6
At 31 December 2010 1.2
Net book value
At 31 December 2010 1.6
At 31 December 2009 2.0
37. Tangible fixed assets
Cost
Leasehold 
improvements
£m
Office
equipment
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 0.5 0.5 1.0
Additions – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2010 0.5 0.6 1.1
Depreciation
At 1 January 2010 0.3 0.5 0.8
Charge for the year 0.1 – 0.1
At 31 December 2010 0.4 0.5 0.9
Net book value
At 31 December 2010 0.1 0.1 0.2
At 31 December 2009 0.2 – 0.2
38. Fixed asset investments
Cost
Investments 
in subsidiary 
undertakings
£m
At 1 January 2010 263.4
Additions 53.3
At 31 December 2010 316.7
Provision for impairment
At 1 January 2010 69.6
Charge for the year –
At 31 December 2010 69.6
Net book value
At 31 December 2010 247.1
At 1 January 2010 193.8
Further details regarding the investments in subsidiaries are given in Note 33 to the group’s consolidated financial statements. 98 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Notes to the Company’s Accounts continued
39. Debtors
Amounts falling due within one year
2010
£m
2009
£m
Amounts owed by group undertakings 394.4 389.4
Other debtors 0.5 0.8
Prepayments and accrued income 0.7 0.7
Corporation tax 1.0 –
Deferred tax asset 1.6 2.9
398.2 393.8
40. Creditors: due within one year
2010
£m
2009
£m
Short-term borrowings:
Unsecured bank loans – 46.4
Amounts owed to group undertakings 172.9 124.5
Other taxation and social security 0.2 –
Corporation tax – 0.6
Accruals and deferred income 5.9 4.8
179.0 129.9
Total 179.0 176.3
Further details regarding the company’s borrowings are set out in Note 19 of the group’s consolidated financial statements.
41. Debtors: due after more than one year
2010
£m
2009
£m
Medium- and long-term debtors:
Amounts owed by group undertakings 170.6 191.8
42. Creditors: due after more than one year
2010
£m
2009
£m
Medium- and long-term borrowings:
Amounts owed to group undertakings 35.1 42.7
Unsecured bank loans 48.3 6.2
Unsecured loan notes 85.3 84.1
168.7 133.0
Further details regarding the company’s borrowings are set out in Note 19 of the group’s consolidated financial statements.
43. Derivative financial instruments
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cross-currency interest rate swaps 14.9 21.1
Forward exchange contracts 0.1 0.3
15.0 21.4
Further details regarding the company’s cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts are set out in Note 20 of the 
group’s consolidated financial statements. 99 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
44. Provisions for liabilities and charges
£m
At 1 January 2010 0.3
Utilised during the year (0.1)
Charged during the year 2.5
At 31 December 2010 2.7
Provisions represent the directors’ best estimate of settling various potential claims against the company arising in the ordinary course of 
business.
45. Share capital
2010 2009
Number of 
shares  
million £m
Number of 
shares  
million £m
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 5p each 210.0 10.5 210.0 10.5
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 125.0 6.2 125.0 6.2
At 31 December 125.0 6.2 125.0 6.2
During the year no ordinary shares were issued upon exercise under share option schemes (2009: nil).
Share options have been granted to subscribe for ordinary shares of Spectris plc. Full details of share options currently in issue, including 
those issued during the year, together with information regarding the basis of calculation of the share-based payment expense, is 
contained in Note 25 to the group’s consolidated financial statements.
The company recognised total expenses of £1.9m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2010 (2009: £0.1m). 
In addition, the company recognised a charge of £4.7m (2009: credit of £0.6m) related to equity-settled share-based transactions for 
certain employees of other group companies.
46. Reserves
Share
premium
account
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Special
reserve
£m
Profit and
loss
account
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 231.4 3.1 0.3 34.1 185.0 453.9
Profit for the year – – – – 47.7 47.7
Equity dividends paid – – – – (28.9) (28.9)
Share-based payments – – – – 6.6 6.6
Share options exercised from own shares (treasury) purchased – – – – 1.9 1.9
At 31 December 2010 231.4 3.1 0.3 34.1 212.3 481.2
The purpose of the merger reserve and capital redemption reserve is detailed in Note 24 of the group’s consolidated financial 
statements. The special reserve was created historically following the cancellation of an amount of share premium for the purpose of 
writing off goodwill. The special reserve is not distributable. 100 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
47. Reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders’ funds
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Profit for the year 47.7 123.7
Amounts recycled to profit and loss – 1.3
Equity dividends paid in the year (28.9) (27.0)
Share-based payments 6.6 (0.4)
Share options exercised from own shares (treasury) purchased 1.9 0.4
Net increase in equity shareholders’ funds 27.3 98.0
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 460.1 362.1
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 487.4 460.1
48. Pensions
The company operates the Spectris Pension Plan, a UK defined benefit pension plan that is closed to new members. Further details of 
the Spectris Pension Plan are contained in Note 8 to the group’s consolidated financial statements. The company is unable to identify its 
share of the Plan’s underlying assets and liabilities and therefore accounts for the Plan as a defined contribution scheme. In accordance 
with the Schedule of Contributions in place for the Spectris Pension Plan for the financial year ending 31 December 2010, employer 
contributions of £1,620,000 pa were due. The actuary certified in 2010 that this level of contribution was adequate for the purposes of 
securing the statutory funding objective. On 25 June 2010, a payment of £1,900,000 was made by the company as an additional one-
off contribution towards the Spectris Pension Plan. Contributions paid in the year to the Spectris Pension Plan were £3.5m (2009: £1.7m) 
and the amounts outstanding at the year end were £0.1m (2009: £0.1m). Contributions paid in the year to defined contribution plans 
were £0.4m (2009: £0.4m).
49. Related party disclosures
The company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose related party transactions 
between the company and wholly-owned subsidiaries.
There are no material transactions with directors and other related parties of the company except those relating to remuneration and 
share dealing disclosed in the Director’s Remuneration Report, enclosed within this Annual Report.
50. Commitments
Land and buildings
Annual commitments for operating leases expiring
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Between two and five years 0.2 –
After five years – 0.2
At the balance sheet date the company had no capital commitments for which provision has not been made (2009: £nil).
51. Contingent liabilities
There are no contingent liabilities as at the year end. The cross guarantee arrangements to support trade finance facilities are stated in 
Note 29 of the group’s consolidated financial statements.
Notes to the Company’s Accounts continued 101 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Highlights
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting and Interim 
management statement  13 May 2011
Record date for 2010 final dividend  3 June 2011 
2010 final dividend payable  24 June 2011 
2011 Interim results  23 August 2011 
Interim management statement  11 November 2011 
2011 Preliminary results February 2012  
Company secretary
R J Stephens, FCIS
Registered office
Spectris plc
Station Road
Egham
Surrey
TW20 9NP
England
Tel: +44 (0)1784 470470
Email: info@spectris.com
Company registered in England, No. 2025003
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
Shareholder Information
Solicitors
Macfarlanes LLP
Brokers
RBS Hoare Govett Limited 
J P Morgan Cazenove
Financial PR advisers
FD
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
The registrars provide a range of shareholder services on-line at 
www.shareview.co.uk
Share price information
The company’s ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock 
Exchange. The latest share price is available via the company’s 
website at www.spectris.com
E-mail news service
To receive details of press releases and other announcements 
as they are issued, register with the e-mail alert service on the 
company’s website at www.spectris.com
Board photography by Simon Jarratt.
Page 15: PANalytical laboratory at University of São Paulo, Brazil. 
Photograph by Dudu Tresca.
Page 17: Formula One racing car photograph courtesy of  
Scuderia Ferrari.
Page 21: Windmills at Middelgrunden, Copenhagen. Photograph 
by Tore Johannesen.
Designed by Emperor Design
Printed in England by Park Communications Ltd.
This report is printed on Heaven 42, comprising pulp sourced 
from well-managed forests certified in accordance with the 
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). The paper is manufactured 
using elemental chlorine-free processes and the high degree of 
whiteness is achieved through high quality natural materials.
© Spectris plc February 2011
The name ‘Spectris’ is a trade mark of Spectris plc and is protected 
by registration in the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions. Other 
product names referred to in this annual report are registered or 
unregistered trade marks or registered names or logos of Spectris 
plc or its subsidiary companies and are similarly protected. Spectris plc
Station Road
Egham
Surrey
TW20 9NP
England
T: +44 (0)1784 470470
F: +44 (0)1784 470848
info@spectris.com
www.spectris.com
