 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.speedyhire.plc.uk
Speedy Hire Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Overview
02 Speedy at a glance
04 Speedy figures 
06 Efficiencies and savings
08 Customer intimacy
10 Wins and revenues
12 Partnerships and opportunities 
13 Markets and diversification 
14 Our people
16 Safety 
17 Speedy spirit
Business review
18 Chairman’s statement
20 Chief Executive’s review 
24 Principal risks and uncertainties
25 Stratton report
30 Our performance 
36 Group financial review 
40 Corporate responsibility
Governance
46 Board of Directors
48 Directors’ report 
51 Corporate governance
56 Remuneration report
64 Audit Committee report 
65 Nomination Committee report 
66 Independent auditors’ report
Financial statements
68 Consolidated income statement
69  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
70 Consolidated balance sheet
71 Company balance sheet
72 Consolidated cash flow statement
73 Company cash flow statement
74  Consolidated statement of changes in equity
75  Company statement of changes in equity
76 Notes to the financial statements
 1 01 Five-year summary
Investor information
 1 02 Shareholder information
 1 03 Registered office and advisers
 1 04  Awards
IBC  Accreditations and memberships
Speedy content S
Overview Governance Business review Financial statements Investor information
Accredit Ation S
i So A ccredit Ation S
i So 9001*
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
i So 14001
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
i So 18001
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
i So 17020
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
*Partial accreditation only.
i ndu Stry S upplier A ccredit Ation S
Achilles Link-up – rail supplier qualification and verification scheme
Achilles UVDB – utilities pre-qualification scheme
Achilles Building Confidence – construction pre-qualification scheme
F-Pal – oil and gas industry pre-qualification scheme
Constructionline – UK register of pre-qualified construction services
CHAS – The Contractors Health and Safety Scheme
SAFEcontractor – the contractor accreditation scheme for business
SafeHire – HAE Hire and Rental certification scheme
MeM ber Ship S
p rofe SSion Al body A nd tr Ade ASSoci Ation Me MberS hip HAE: Hire Association of Europe
PASMA: Prefabricated Access Suppliers and Manufacturers Association
LEEA: Lifting Equipment Engineers Association
OPERC: Off-Highway Plant and Equipment Research Centre
ERA: European Rental Association
BSC: British Safety Council (International Asset Services)
CBI: Confederation of British Industry (Steve Corcoran member  
of Construction Council)
FTSE4Good
BITC: Business in the Community
CPA: Contractors Plant Association
British Water Authority
Federation of Communication Services
MPBA: Modular and Portable Building Association
a ccred It a t IOns and mem Bersh Ips
Investor information
Printing and paper: this report has been printed in the UK by The Colourhouse. Our printers 
are accredited with the ISO14001 and hold full FSC chain of custody, they are also carbon 
neutral. All inks used are vegetable-based. The paper used is Heaven 42 which is fully 
recyclable and biodegradable and is an FSC mixed sources accredited material, using an 
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process and partly bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free 
(TCF) process. 
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it  
on to other interested readers, return it to Speedy Hire Plc or recycle it. Thank you.
This annual report is available at www.speedyhire.plc.uk
Designed and produced by The College  www.thecollege.uk.com
Cert no. XXX-XXX-000 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  01
The past year has been turbulent; however 
we are dealing with these short-term 
challenges and have taken action to stabilise 
our business. We are positive about our 
long-term strategy and confi dent that 
it will drive opportunities for future growth. 
Speedy has been making great progress 
in our transformation from a national 
equipment hire company to a business-
to-business support services company 
providing equipment, expertise and 
value-added services to our customers 
both in the UK and overseas.
As our customers’ businesses have 
developed across market sectors, we 
have transformed our own structure and 
organisation to service their needs. 
Overview 02  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Overview
SPEED Y A T A GLANCE
SPEEDY STORY SPEEDY LONG- TERM STRA TEGY
Speedy is a leading service provider 
off ering equipment for both hire 
and sale, and associated services, to 
construction, infrastructure, industrial 
and related industries. 
 
Founded in 1977 , we are the UK’s 
largest provider of hire equipment and 
have grown to be a £350m turnover 
organisation with over 100,000 
customers, 4,000 employees and 
a national network of over 
350 depots.
 
Our customers include organisations 
such as AMEC, Balfour Beatty, 
Carillion, ExxonMobil and Network 
Rail plus many thousands of smaller 
customers who are just as important 
to us. 
 
Examples of some of the customers 
we work with, and the services that 
we provide for them, can be found 
throughout this report.
UK
SALES
Continue to build solid 
relationships to increase 
our circa 10% market share 
in the UK hire market.
Provide a comprehensive range of 
consumable items and personal 
protective equipment for sale as 
well as advising customers on 
hire, lease or purchase of their 
core equipment.
Work closely with key clients and 
identify ways in which we can 
support them in their activities 
overseas, on a ‘follow the 
customer’ principle.
Extend our core business 
off ering with consultancy, 
assurance and training services, 
providing an enhanced portfolio 
of solutions.
INTERNATIONAL
SERVICES
TOOL & 
EQUIPMENT HIRE
SALES
INTERNATIONAL
AVAILABILITY NETWORK
QUALITY
RANGE
UK SERVICES
MARKETS
MARKETS
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Overview ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  03
SPEEDY DIVISIONS
We remain committed to having the most eff ective 
fulfi lment model with national coverage in the UK. Our 
people have extensive product knowledge and are 
dedicated to providing service excellence. Over the past 12 
months we have aligned ourselves with our customers and 
their end markets to support them and gain a greater depth 
of knowledge about their industry sectors. Our aim is to 
deliver true asset management for our customers, with 
tailored services and a continued commitment to 
relationship management. This means that whether a 
customer wants to hire, lease or buy an asset, we can advise 
them and support their needs. 
We support our customers 
in delivering major overseas 
projects and facilities 
management contracts by 
providing a managed site 
support service, which 
combines our core expertise 
in equipment hire with asset 
management, infrastructure 
and logistics services. A key 
part of our service is helping 
our customers to make more 
effi  cient and eff ective use of 
assets on overseas projects.
We help customers to 
manage the risk of 
employees working unsafely 
by providing effi  cient safety 
and skills training services. 
Our objective is to advise on 
and implement practical 
solutions for customers to 
mitigate other key risks, 
whether legal, reputational 
or fi nancial, in relation to 
sustainability, waste, 
environmental and health 
and safety issues. All of this 
builds on Speedy’s core 
brand values of safety, skills, 
compliance and innovation.
UK & IRELAND ASSET SERVICES INTERNATIONAL & ADVISORY SERVICES
Revenue
£347 .4m
Revenue
£3.7m
INTERNATIONAL 
ASSET SERVICES
BRANDED & ADVISORY 
SERVICES
Overview 04  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Overview
SPEED Y FIGURES
HIGHLIGHTS FINANCIAL KPIs
Revenue down £131.6m or 27 .3%  >
to £351.1m (2009 restated: £482.7m)
EBITA* positive at £8.0m  >
(2009 restated: £49.2m), 
down £41.2m or 83.8%
Operating loss of £8.6m – an  >
improvement on prior year 
(2009 restated: loss £50.7m)
Adjusted loss before tax* of £6.2m  >
(2009 restated: profi t £33.4m), 
with H2 loss of £1.4m showing an 
improving trend on H1 loss of £4.8m
Loss before tax £22.8m  >
(2009 restated: loss £71.1m)
Net debt reduced by over 50%  >
to £1 19.3m (2009: £248.4m)
Strong operating cash fl ow of £52.4m  >
(2009 restated: £78.1m) demonstrates 
successful focus on cash generation 
Revenue* £m 
05/06
06/07
07/08
08/09
09/10
      254.3
                          336.0
                                                          465.9
                                                             482.7       
                              351.1
EBITDA* £m 
05/06
06/07
07/08
08/09
09/10
        77.0
                         100.3
                                                   131.6
                                             125.1       
68.2
EBITDA* % of revenue 
05/06
06/07
07/08
08/09
09/10
                                                 30.3
                                             29.9
                                       28.2
                               25.9       
        19.4
Operating profit* £m 
05/06
06/07
07/08
08/09
09/10
                                                38.1
                                                                50.0
                                                                                      64.0
                                                              49.2       
 8.0
* Preamortisation and exceptional items
Overview ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  05
NON-FINANCIAL KPIs
Net book value of property, plant and equipment  
£m 
05/06
06/07
07/08
08/09
09/10
                                             241.4
                                                            295.7
                                                                                    372.9
                                                                   323.2       
                                                          285.6
Group operating margin* % 
05/06
06/07
07/08
08/09
09/10
                                                                                                                  15.0
                                                                                                             14.9
                                                                                                    13.7
                                                                      10.2       
        2.3
Return on capital employed* % 
05/06
06/07
07/08
08/09
09/10
                                                                                                   17.5
                                                                                          16.9
                                                                                 15.2
                                                     10.9       
 2.0
Earnings per share* pence
05/06
06/07
07/08
08/09
09/10
                                                                            14.35
                                                                                             17.64
                                                                                                           19.87
                                                                13.00       
 -1.41
* Preamortisation and exceptional items
The non-fi nancial KPIs were set for three 
years in 2007 and we can now report on 
the fi nal position: 
  > Customer retention: target to retain 
90% of the top 100 customers 
(determined by turnover in FY2006/07). 
Target achieved (100% retained)
Emissions per vehicle: > target to reduce 
emissions per vehicle by 5% from 2007 
base line of 12,31 1kg CO
2
 per vehicle. 
Target achieved (reduced by 6%)
Accident loss frequency rate: > target 
to reduce accident loss frequency rate 
by 5% from 2007 base line of 0.36 hours 
per employee per month. 
Target achieved (reduced by 27%)
Rehabilitation agenda: > target to provide 
training places for 200 prisoners. 
Target achieved (training places 
provided for 200 prisoners)
Overview 06  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Overview
 EF F I C I EN C I E S 
AND SA VINGS
Improving our effi  ciency to sharpen 
our competitive edge is fundamental 
to our overall strategy. In view of 
the weakness seen across the UK 
construction market, our key focus 
this year has been to ensure that the 
business maintains a strong fi nancial 
footing. Further improvements and 
effi  ciencies have been identifi ed within 
the business and additional cost-saving 
measures have been implemented.
£80m+
of annualised cost savings in place since July 2008
“ Our newly established Shared Services Centre is the 
most cost-eff ective way of delivering fi rst-class back 
offi  ce support to our customers; our annual running 
costs have reduced and our key performance measures 
have been progressively improved.”
RICHARD HINDS
Head of Shared Services, Speedy
Overview ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  07
 12 . 7 %
vehicle fl eet reduction (322 vehicles)
363 depots
workshops and offi  ces compared to 425 in FY2008/09
Overview 08  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Overview
CUSTOMER INTIMA CY
Our markets and our customers’ needs 
are changing all the time and we must 
adapt to stay ahead. Our core business 
off ering has been augmented with 
more service-based solutions, increasing 
our alignment with our customers. 
Customer relationships are founded on 
the concept that we must develop an 
in-depth understanding and knowledge 
of each customer’s business, market 
sector and the challenges that they face, 
in order that we can off er outstanding 
solutions regardless of sector, scale or 
country. Our aim is for our customers 
to see us not just as a supplier but a 
trusted partner. It’s all about the Speedy 
‘know-how’ and ‘can-do’ attitude.
“ Our hire needs across our UK projects are extremely diverse. 
Speedy’s comprehensive product range and high service levels, 
as well as its coverage across the UK, mean we are confi dent 
that we have appointed the right supply chain partner.” 
MARTIN ORRELLS
General Manager, Procurement at Costain
“ We’ve been working with Speedy for 
a number of years and we continue to 
be constantly impressed with the high 
service level they provide us.”
JOHN COSFORD
Head of Procurement for Interserve’s Project Services Division
Overview ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  09
“ Over the past fi ve years, we have been impressed 
with Speedy’s national coverage, commitment to 
health and safety, product range and availability.”
RICHARD MOORES
Group purchasing manager at Southern Electric Contracting
Overview 10  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Overview
WINS AND REVENUES
This year we have had some impressive 
contract wins. Recent contract awards
underline the Group’s ability to win 
good-quality work in its target sectors. 
There is also increased penetration of 
industrial and other non-construction 
markets.
Five-year sole supply agreement  >
with Connaught for the provision of 
tools and equipment and an asset 
management service through a 
single dedicated hire desk
Three-year sole supply agreement  >
with Works Infrastructure UK, a 
leading engineering group operating 
in the infrastructure, facilities 
management, civil engineering and 
rail sectors
Three-year sole supply agreement  >
with WysePower, a leading provider 
of site enabling services, for 
generators and associated fuel
Two-year sole supply agreement  >
with Tube Lines, the company 
upgrading three of the busiest lines 
on the London Underground
Three-year contract extensions with  >
ExxonMobil and Osborne and the 
renewal of a fi ve-year preferred 
supplier agreement with Galliford Try 
“ We have worked with Speedy for just 
over a year and have consistently been 
impressed with its excellent service levels, 
product range, training off ering and 
commitment to health and safety.” 
PHILIP CONSTABLE
Head of Distribution Services at Tube Lines
Overview ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  11
“ We assessed a number of equipment providers, 
but Speedy’s continual investment in the latest 
equipment and its comprehensive range of 
products put them ahead of the competition.”
LAWRENCE IRELAND
Executive Director UK at Works Infrastructure UK
Overview 12  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Overview
 PA R T N E R S H I P S 
AND OPPORTUNITIES
Our major customers are increasingly 
active overseas so, to be a true partner, 
Speedy needs to operate on an 
international scale. Last year we signed 
a fi ve-year strategic services agreement 
with Al Futtaim Carillion (AFC), Carillion 
plc’s joint venture in the Middle East. The 
aim of this strategic agreement is to work 
with AFC to create value in their project 
support infrastructure by providing a 
fully-outsourced service that includes 
asset management, site support services 
and logistics management, as well as our 
traditional equipment hire services. This 
targeted, client-driven approach will 
provide an excellent platform for new 
opportunities and growth as the Group 
extends this industry-leading, fully-
outsourced service model to other 
strategic customers.
“ Building long-term relationships with key suppliers is 
important to deliver increasingly effi  cient, high-quality 
services for our customers. We look forward to working 
with Speedy in the Middle East, building on the strong 
relationship already developed in the UK.”
JOHN McDONOUGH
Chief Executive at Carillion
Overview ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  13
At Speedy we are developing our service 
off ering to access diverse sectors and 
enhance our market diff erentiation. 
Despite the decline in construction 
demand, there is still an underlying 
need for investment and expansion of 
our infrastructure in the UK, in sectors 
such as transport, waste, water and 
energy. It is opportunities for Speedy’s 
equipment and services within these 
areas that will allow us to extend our 
off ering into wider industries and create 
long-term growth for the future, both 
in the UK and internationally.
MARKETS AND 
DIVERSIFICA TION
“ This partnership with Speedy provides our maintenance 
teams with consistently high standards in equipment. 
As well as sourcing, servicing and maintaining our 
equipment through its seven dedicated rail depots, 
Speedy also provides us with on-site maintenance, 
equipment familiarisation and training.”
STEVE FEATHERSTONE
Director of Infrastructure Maintenance at Network Rail
Overview 14  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Overview
OUR PEOPLE
Our people are fundamental to our 
success. In order for us to deliver 
on our strategy, enable change within 
our organisation and provide our 
customers with unrivalled service, 
we need to engage and support all 
our staff  to ensure that they have the 
necessary skills to do what is being 
asked of them. Our people share our 
vision and our spirit. We are taking 
a collaborative approach to employee 
development and our objective 
is to provide a challenging and 
stimulating working environment, 
where people enjoy their jobs, fulfi l 
their potential and go the extra mile.
CASE STUDY
When Network Rail asked for assistance following an accident where a train 
had come off  the rails after striking a vehicle, the Speedy Rail team were swift 
to respond.
Speedy’s Rail Plant Co-ordinator Les Burrows commented: “On 19 December 
a train was de-railed near Congleton when it hit a 4x4 vehicle which had rolled 
down a hill onto the railway line after the owner failed to put the handbrake on 
properly. Fortunately there were no fatalities and no-one was seriously hurt. 
Once the train had been safely evacuated Network Rail had to act quickly and 
needed trusted suppliers to help. When I received a call at around 6.30am, the 
rail team pulled together (two of us even cancelled annual leave) and worked 
closely with colleagues from other Speedy divisions and the Multi Service 
Centres Transport Manager Jimmy Dixon. Together we landed the urgent 
request for welfare units, trackside lighting and back-to-back radios in record 
time – we had everything on site within four hours.”
LES BURROWS AND THE MSC RAIL TEAM
Speedy Warrington
“ I am incredibly proud to have been the fi rst 
employee to receive a reward in the new ‘spot 
reward’ scheme that has been introduced. I’m 
glad that my contribution to the company has 
been recognised.” 
  Joe drove a 226-mile round trip at dawn on a 
Saturday to collect equipment urgently needed 
for a customer.
JOE HEARN
Driver, Speedy Cambridge
Overview ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  15
CASE STUDY
Speedy has looked after the needs of Elliott 
Turbomachinery for approximately ten years, 
performing six-monthly inspections on the rigging, 
tools and hydraulics which their employees use on 
site. This equipment is usually kept in containers 
at a UK location but on this occasion one of the 
containers was at their head offi  ce in Switzerland. 
When the customer asked if we could send 
someone to Switzerland to carry out the necessary 
inspections the Speedy team in Teesside were 
delighted to be able to help.
Marty Clarkson from the Speedy Teesside depot 
fl ew to Zurich with a suitcase full of the necessary 
inspection equipment and completed the work 
in a day.
MARTY CLARKSON 
On-site Inspector, Speedy Teesside
“ I began working for Speedy as a Credit Controller in 2002 and 
have progressed to Senior Credit Manager. Throughout my 
career with Speedy I have received a great deal of support in 
my personal and professional development. Speedy have 
supported my education to become fully qualifi ed in Credit 
Management through ICM studies. I gained MICM (Grad) status 
in August 2007 and earlier this year I was privileged to have been 
selected for the Strategic Leadership Programme which is for 
people highlighted as senior managers for the future.”
SUSAN WESTHEAD
Senior Credit Manager, Speedy
Overview 16  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Overview
SA FETY
We endeavour to engender a 
commitment to quality and safety in 
every aspect of our business. For over a 
decade, Speedy has taken a pioneering 
stance on health and safety in the hire 
industry and has worked hard to drive 
standards of best practice across our 
business and our industry. 
This has led to a continually improving 
set of policies and procedures to ensure 
those standards are maintained by 
all, and a well-deserved reputation 
amongst our customers for consistently 
high standards. 
In the hire business and across most 
other service sectors in which we 
operate we have led the way with 
new solutions, products and services.
In recent years we have brought new 
standards of communication to site 
operatives with our award-winning 
‘Safety from the Ground Up’ campaign 
off ering easy to understand and 
accessible guidance on the main health 
and safety topics of working at height, 
hand-arm vibration, dust, manual 
handling and noise. 
“ Without the support and help from Speedy 
I do not believe that our industry or Kier 
would have moved as far forward on issues 
such as hand-arm vibration, work at height 
and many more.”
JOHN MORGAN
Director of Safety, Health & Environment at Kier
Overview ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  17
SPEED Y SPIRIT
  CUSTOMER FIRST – ALWAYS
We never compromise on fi rst-class 
service. We deliver what we 
promise.
  ONE TEAM, ONE SPEEDY
Everything we do refl ects on all 
areas of our company. Our team 
extends beyond our day-to-day 
team – we are one Speedy team!
  KEEP IT SIMPLE, DO IT WELL, 
KEEP IT SAFE
We get it right fi rst time, every 
time and always in a safe and 
responsible way.
  DRIVEN BY SUCCESS AND REWARD
We encourage people to go the 
extra mile and make it worth while 
doing so!
  TAKE A LEAD, FIND A BETTER WAY
We strive for excellence. We 
continually challenge the way 
things are done and look for 
innovative solutions and new 
ideas for improvement. 
“ No matter what changes happen at Speedy, 
over the years one thing that has never and will 
never alter is our Spirit. It represents a powerful 
set of principles that defi ne our people and our 
business, and underpin our ‘can-do’ culture.”
STEVE CORCORAN
Chief Executive, Speedy
Overview 18  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
DAVID WALLIS
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
OVERVIEW
It has been another diffi  cult and challenging year for your company, 
as evidenced by the unsatisfactory fi nancial result achieved. 
However, it is important to put this into context. A year ago I set 
out our strategy for the coming 12 months: to maximise revenues, 
optimise costs, generate cash and reduce bank debt. I am pleased 
to report that each objective has successfully been achieved. 
Despite revenues declining in the year by 27%, market share has been 
maintained, albeit at a slight cost to margins. Since July 2008, costs 
have been reduced by over £80m, or 18%, and during the past year 
the business has generated £52m of operating cash fl ow. As a result of 
this strong cash generation and the successful rights issue in July 2009, 
together with tight control of capital expenditure, net bank debt 
reduced from £248.4m to £1 19.3m, leaving gearing as at 31 March 2010 
at 48%, the lowest in the Group’s history, which illustrates our progress 
in strengthening the balance sheet. 
 
We remain committed to paying a dividend when prudent to do 
so and the Board is therefore recommending a fi nal dividend of 
0.2 pence per share. If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming 
AGM, this will bring the total for the year to 0.4 pence per share. The 
fi nal dividend will be paid on 18 August 2010 to all shareholders on 
the register on 18 June 2010.
STRATEGY
Although we have seen a more stable trading environment over the 
last six months, levels of activity in the construction and industrial 
markets remain subdued and uncertainty over the number and size 
of public sector projects will persist until the Government is able to 
give clear guidance. As a result, we will continue to run the business 
cautiously. Our short-term focus will remain on cash and costs, whilst 
ensuring that we do not compromise our ability to service our hard-won 
customer base. Over the last year, our business with the UK’s top 50 
construction companies has continued to increase and now makes 
up 27% of revenues. These companies operate extensively in both 
the public and private sectors. As a result of the supply arrangements 
which we have with them, the future fl ow of work to Speedy mirrors 
their order books and improves the future visibility of our earnings.
We will focus on growing the existing business organically, with 
the immediate objective of improving margins in a move towards 
generating appropriate returns. Additionally, we will nurture our 
fl edgling business in the Middle East, which is already showing 
extremely positive signs of growth, as well as our Branded and 
Advisory business. 
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  19
As the business and its back offi  ce functions have been restructured 
over the last year, we are now beginning to see the benefi ts of those 
actions. The setting up of a Shared Services Centre, replacing a 
network of regional offi  ces, and the successful implementation of the 
‘One Speedy’ programme are producing benefi ts for both customers 
and the business. There is now greater visibility of our assets, their 
location and their utilisation, which will ultimately enhance returns 
and enable us to provide higher service levels.
Over the longer term, we are seeking to evolve Speedy’s strategy 
to become a service provider to our clients wherever they have 
operations, building on the relationships we have already established 
with them. To achieve this we must off er the best quality fl eet 
and operational network, as well as testing, repair, maintenance 
and training facilities, all provided by well-trained, skilled and 
knowledgeable people.
OUR PEOPLE
It has been a year of tremendous upheaval and uncertainty for our 
people, who have responded magnifi cently to the challenges. There 
will undoubtedly be many more in the year ahead, but it is at times 
like these that a strong culture and team spirit win the day. I would like 
to extend the thanks of the Board and shareholders to all of them.
LOOKING FORWARD
The more stable levels of recent trading are encouraging, which may 
indicate that economic activity in our markets is bottoming out, but 
we are under no illusions that there remain many diffi  cult months 
ahead. Until there are clear indications that recovery is established, we 
will invest in new fl eet behind the demand curve, rather than ahead 
of it, but equally will ensure that we maintain service levels to our 
existing clients. We will also prudently invest behind our Middle East 
operation in support of our strategic services agreement with Al 
Futtaim Carillion.
The short-term focus will remain on cash generation, whilst running 
the business as effi  ciently as possible in a demanding market. I am 
confi dent that we have adopted a strategy which will serve our 
shareholders well in both the short and longer term. As activity levels 
improve, your business is in good shape to capitalise on the recovery.
DAVID WALLIS
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
IT HAS BEEN A YEAR OF 
TREMENDOUS UPHEAVAL 
AND UNCERT AINTY FOR 
OUR PEOPLE, WHO HAVE 
RESPONDED MAGNIFICENTL Y 
TO THE CHALLENGES 
Business review 20  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
STEVE CORCORAN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OVERVIEW
Throughout the past fi nancial year we have consolidated our 
market-leading position with clients in the UK (both construction and 
non-construction) whom we saw as being the principal benefi ciaries 
of a polarising market in the short term and a consolidating one over 
the longer term. This has been accompanied with an unstinting focus 
on delivering the objectives we outlined last year, namely to maximise 
revenues, optimise costs, generate cash and reduce bank debt. 
In the fi rst half we concentrated on restructuring our business and 
whilst it has been a diffi  cult year it is pleasing to report that we have 
delivered on our objectives. The cost base has been reduced from 
a £464m run rate at July 2008, when we fi rst initiated our cost 
reduction programmes. It now stands at £348.6m and whilst some 
of this reduction can be explained by lower revenue, £80m+ has been 
achieved as a result of specifi c management actions. Net bank debt 
at the year end was less than £120m, down from a peak of £301.8m in 
August 2008 and £129.1m below the March 2009 fi gure, underpinned 
by a hire fl eet with a net book value of £246.9m. Additionally, we 
realised £2.7m of profi ts from asset sales which confi rms the 
appropriateness of the Group’s balance sheet valuations. Tight control 
was also maintained over capital expenditure, down 41.7% on the 
prior year.
 
Having completed the closure of 37 depots and 14 workshops, the 
removal of 322 vehicles and a 317 reduction in employee headcount 
over a 12 month period, the business was able, in the second half, 
to concentrate on reinforcing its market leading position. In the year 
we have secured over 212 new or renewed awards, with a projected 
value of £170m; including recent contract wins with Costain Plc, 
Galliford Try Plc and Willmott Dixon Ltd, together with secured 
agreements with Connaught Plc and Spice Plc in the UK and Al 
Futtaim Carillion in the UAE. These have been complemented 
with signifi cant awards in non-construction activities, including a 
£7 .5m award from ExxonMobil and a £4m award from Welsh Water Plc. 
Revenues from non-construction activities now account for 35% 
of our turnover. 
 
We will continue to keep a tight rein on costs, diligently control 
capital expenditure and manage our cash prudently. Whilst sensitivity 
remains in respect of the future outlook for some of the markets 
that we serve, the early and determined action undertaken by 
management has ensured that the business is now very strongly 
placed to benefi t from the eventual upturn. 
STRATEGY
In the short-term whilst economic uncertainty prevails, we will 
continue to manage our business very conservatively, maintaining 
a tight control over costs and cash management. In parallel we will 
continue to consolidate our market leading position with those best 
placed to support the regulated/privately fi nanced markets in energy, 
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  21
transport, waste and water and also with the key operators involved 
in the supply of services to food retailing, the communications sector 
and essential repair and maintenance. Many of these activities require 
equity investment, generally through PFI/PPP or are undertaken 
through joint ventures or framework agreements which typically lend 
themselves to the larger construction and engineering groups where 
Speedy enjoys a market leading position, with the top 50 construction 
companies accounting for 27% of our turnover. 
Over the longer term our strategy is to position Speedy as an 
international service provider. This will be achieved by building 
upon the trusted relationships established over 33 years serving 
construction and industry. Our clients hire to mitigate the risks that 
they associate with the fi nancial liability, operational management 
and compliance risk of ownership. They choose Speedy because we 
have the fl eet quality, the operational network and the product range, 
together with a commitment to health and safety, sustainability and 
quality, that best supports their objectives. However, in isolation hiring 
does not remove all risk. If hired equipment is given to someone 
inadequately trained in its use they could break it, fail in their task 
or cause injury to themselves or others; eff ectively exchanging 
one risk for another. Speedy has instigated the off er of training and 
consultancy services to complement the use of the hired asset. We 
will also use our purchasing power to provide clients with consumable 
products, e.g. drill bits, saw blades and personal protection 
equipment or safety wear, to operate equipment safely, each of 
which is integral to the use of an asset but which are typically ordered 
separately, incurring additional cost and disruption to our client.
This more integrated solution will also be enhanced with the provision 
of test and inspection services to provide for the planned service and 
maintenance needs of both owned and hired equipment. Our goal is 
a full service based off ering built around the provision of the hired 
asset and delivered by leveraging the strength of the Speedy brand 
whilst at the same time extending the size of the market in which 
Speedy operates. This more integrated off ering clearly diff erentiates 
Speedy from its peers.
FUNDING PLAN
Our business is a strong generator of cash, with net operating cash 
fl ow of £52.4m for the year to 31 March 2010. Our fi nancial model 
provides for the utilisation of operating cash fl ows to self fi nance new 
fl eet requirements in a period of non growth. This has enabled new 
fl eet investment during the year and yet still allowed us to reduce 
debt by £5m more than anticipated in November 2009. 
At our interim presentation in November 2009 we advised the market 
that to support our long-term objective of establishing Speedy as an 
international service provider we would adopt a three stage approach 
to funding requirements. 
REDUCTION IN LIABILITY
OPERATING LIABILITY
COMPLIANCE LIABILITY
FINANCIAL LIABILITY
DE-RISKING: 
WHY CUSTOMERS HIRE
Supply chain
Quality control
Price control
Management costs
Availability
Consistency
Balance sheet
Capital outlay 
Depreciation
Availability
Operating costs
Purchase costs
Health and safety
Environmental
Testing
Regulatory
Hire/Purchase
WE WILL CONTINUE TO 
MANAGE OUR BUSINESS VERY 
CONSERVA TIVEL Y , MAINT AINING 
A TIGHT CONTROL OVER COSTS 
AND CASH MANAGEMENT
Business review Business review
22 SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW C ONTINUED
In the short term, and until there is clear evidence that a  >
sustainable recovery is underway in UK construction, we will 
continue to manage our cash conservatively, funding UK capex 
to support our service level requirements from the cash generated 
by operations. The balance will continue to be used to pay 
down debt or to fund our fledgling operation in the Middle East. 
In the last financial year the business invested £7 .7m in this 
operation which generated £2.4m in revenues and achieved a 
turnover run rate of c.£10m per annum at the period end.
Investment in the hire fleet for growth is not planned until we see  >
a more sustainable recovery in UK construction activity, which 
we forecast will not occur until at least the 201 1/12 financial year 
Over the longer term (2015+), we would expect to have  >
secured sufficient future contracts, with longer term visible 
revenues, that enjoy a transparency in earnings that will support 
additional funding. 
In the meantime, we will continue to concentrate on generating 
strong cash fl ow and maintaining the strength of the balance sheet 
whilst we develop our long-term plans to build the business into a 
fully recognised outsource service provider and establish appropriate 
long-term fi nances to support such plans.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
The safety and well being of our employees, our clients, stakeholders 
and the communities in which we operate continues to be at the 
forefront of what we do. Our values, the ‘Speedy Spirit’, embody 
the way that we want to do business and be seen to do business. 
We believe that good corporate responsibility can be measured by 
a company’s commitment to its values even when economically 
pressed. We are pleased to be able to stand up to this test. In 2009 
we set ourselves four primary objectives for the year; by design these 
were intended to be three year stretching targets; our performance 
to target is as follows:
customer retention: 100% achieved (100% retained); >
emissions per vehicle: 100% achieved (reduced by 6%); >
accident loss frequency rate: 4.3% achieved (reduced by 27%); and >
rehabilitation agenda: 100% achieved (training provided for  >
200 prisoners).
We acknowledge that work still remains to be done. Our 2010 
Corporate Responsibility report will be available in July 2010 and will 
provide greater detail on these achievements and also outlines our 
objectives for the coming year. You will be able to view this report 
at www.speedyhire.plc.uk. 
Speedy is also the acknowledged leader in its fi eld for the provision 
of health and safety guidance and innovation in safety design, as 
evidenced by our award winning ‘Safety from the Ground Up’ 
campaign. An example of this is our initiative in response to site 
related hand-arm vibration risks where Speedy sourced and assisted 
with the design of an innovative meter which records and registers 
vibration whilst machinery is in use, helping to protect the user 
from excessive exposure and the employer with improved safety 
management and risk control measures. We now have over 285 of 
these on hire and they are specifi ed by clients such as Balfour Beatty, 
Bam Nuttall and Carillion. 
Our own safety record continues to improve with our All Major 
Accident Frequency Rate reducing from 5.9 to 4.3, a reduction of 
27% positioning Speedy at the forefront of our industry. 
We remain resolute in our determination to provide solutions to 
support sustainability initiatives. In conjunction with ERM Ltd, the 
world leading environmental and sustainable development 
consulting service in the supply of data relating to carbon reduction 
and sustainability, we launched our new ‘Go’ initiative. This industry 
fi rst provides our clients with a monthly carbon statement detailing 
the carbon usage of the equipment that they have hired and 
provides them with ‘Go’ credits which they can use to set targets for 
further reductions if they choose more energy effi  cient, less carbon 
emitting products.
We also continue to support the organisation ‘Business In The 
Community’ at a number of levels and continue to be members 
of the FTSE4Good index.
LOOKING AHEAD
Having taken the early and aggressive action to reduce our cost base 
by over £80m from its high of £464m, something that we started to 
instigate as early as July 2008, we developed a cost base which has 
enabled us to trade through the substantial diffi  culties that befell our 
industry post the economic and fi nancial turmoil in September 2008. 
As the benefi ts of the actions on costs fed through, we were able 
to concentrate on consolidating our clear market leading position. 
As a result, and despite trading off  substantially lower volumes, the 
Group has been able to deliver a progressive improvement in trading 
throughout the second half of the year ended 31 March 2010 and built 
a much more stable platform from which to move into the current 
calendar year.
It is encouraging to note that this stability has continued into this 
fi nancial year and that volumes on hire at the end of April 2010 were 
broadly in line with those of April 2009. Whilst we expect to see 
a further slight reduction in overall construction volumes this year, 
we expect to see our trading position maintained. This will be 
underpinned by private and regulated industry spending on 
infrastructure. Orders from this sector continue to show growth out 
to 2014 and, whilst there will be a signifi cant reduction in public sector 
spending from current levels, we do not anticipate the impact of this 
action will be felt until 201 1 as ongoing contracts will continue to 
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  23
As the year progresses and should the economic outlook 
continue to improve, we expect new opportunities to emerge 
from outsourcing. We will also maintain the development of our 
fl edgling activities in Branded & Advisory Services and gradually 
progress our business in the Middle East, which is underpinned by 
the fi ve year exclusive strategic services agreement with Al Futtaim 
Carillion. In summary, whilst the short-term outlook is not without 
its challenges, we are confi dent that we will continue to develop 
our overall strategic objectives and position our business as a full 
outsourcing partner, building upon our UK market leading 
position for asset services in rental. 
STEVE CORCORAN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
UK & IRELAND
provide solid levels of activity until then. At that point, all market 
forecasters predict that the private sector will have re-established 
its traditional position as the construction industry’s principal client 
sector. As a sector agnostic business, Speedy will follow this transition 
as our clients move towards contracts in support of private clients. 
We expect this to manifest itself fi rst in spending associated with the 
energy, water, waste and transport (especially rail) sectors, followed 
by the major food retailers.
Given our key relationships with those clients that continue to increase 
market share in their particular markets and given the progressive 
improvement in trading in H2 2010 which has continued into 201 1, our 
current expectation is that the business will maintain this momentum 
in the current fi nancial year, notwithstanding uncertainty in respect 
of the short-term economic outlook. As ever, we will continue to 
concentrate closely on keeping a tight control over costs and will 
retain a clear focus on generating cash.
SPEEDY’S
STRATEGY
OPTIMISE CAPITAL 
STRUCTURE
LONGER TERM 
STRATEGIC GOALS
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015+
Focus on cash, manage costs, 
contain capital expenditure 
and improve margins
Work with and plan future 
requirements of current 
revolving credit facilities
Recognition as a service business
Reduce capital intensity/ Further improve return on capital expenditure
SHORT-TERM
Existing facility 
maturity date
Review overall capital structure 
to align funding strategy with 
business priorities 
Timeline and Strategic Goals
OUR STRATEGY – THE BUILDING BLOCKS
MID TO LONGER TERM
June 2012
TARGETED
REVENUE
MIX
BRANDED 
& ADVISORY 
SERVICES
REST OF 
WORLD
MENA
Consider stand alone 
MENA fi nancing
Geographic diversifi cation, product development and enhanced service provision
Drive customer intimacy – establish longer term outsourcing agreements
>  Focus on cash
> Communication of strategy
>  Self fi nance Middle East and North 
Africa (MENA) operations and 
establish Branded & Advisory Services
An international organisation providing multiple services. 
We understand our customers in depth and are ready to adapt to their 
changing needs and markets at any time through superior knowledge, 
integrated systems and operational eff ectiveness
Business review 24  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
PRINCIP AL RISKS 
AND UNCERT AINTIES
The Board is fully committed to a programme of continual 
improvement which includes identifying, evaluating and managing 
signifi cant risks facing the business and has developed a set of 
processes to allow it to do so. Nine key risk areas have been identifi ed, 
the successful management of which is seen as essential to the 
Group’s ability to achieve its corporate goals. A revised risk KPI 
Risk description Mitigation
1. ATTRACTING & MAINTAINING KEY STAFF
Lack of staff  with appropriate skills hinders our ability to win, mobilise and deliver on contracts. Speedy off ers competitive benefi ts packages and provides training at all levels, including 
a training academy. Speedy also off ers career development and succession plans. 
2. BUSINESS CONTINUITY 
Any interruption to the Group’s IT systems or infrastructure could have a material adverse 
eff ect on the Group’s business, communication, capabilities, management of projects and 
overall fi nancial performance.
Responsibility for the integrity of the Group’s IT systems rests with the Director of Information 
Technology. Back-up and recovery procedures are in place for key systems and buildings. 
Changes to Group systems are considered as part of wider change management programmes 
and implemented in phases wherever possible. 
3. DATA AND MANAGEMENT INFORMATION 
To achieve its strategic aims, the business needs to measure and analyse performance in 
every business area and across all products and services. Leveraging revenue-generating 
opportunities, exceeding customer expectations, eff ective decision-making and keeping 
costs down all require eff ective systems, MI and KPIs.
The Group has IT systems throughout all business areas, which are the responsibility of the 
Director of Information Technology. The ‘One Speedy’ project, which has been running since 
mid-2009, continues to deliver material data and information benefi ts and will continue to do 
so. Ongoing investment is planned to use technology further to improve asset management, 
data management and customer management information.
4. EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
A downturn in construction/industrial activity, or a decline in the desirability of hiring tools 
and equipment to fulfi l such activity, may reduce the prices that the Group can charge for its 
services. Government expenditure is important across the wider construction industry in the 
UK. Any reduction in Government expenditure which is not off set by an increase in private 
sector expenditure could adversely aff ect the Group.
The Group continually monitors and assesses market capacity by reference to a number 
of external sources, together with internal data which reports customer, product and 
geographical demand. It operates a fl exible model that can react to prevailing market conditions.
The Group assesses changes in Government spending as part of its wider market analysis. 
The impact on the Group of any such reduction in expenditure is assessed as part of the 
ongoing fi nancial and operational budgeting and forecasting process. Our strategy is to 
develop a broader spectrum of services across diff erent markets and to ensure that we are 
well positioned with clients who are likely to benefi t from those areas in which increased 
activity is forecast.
5. FAILURE/INSOLVENCY OF MAJOR CUSTOMER
Whilst no single customer accounts for more that 7% of revenue or receivables, in the event 
of the loss of a major customer the revenue generated by the Group could be reduced with 
a corresponding impact on the Group’s market position.
Credit control processes are in place to monitor the potential for credit defaults and exposures. 
This is reported on a regular basis to the executive management team and, where necessary, 
issues are escalated to resolve payment issues as soon as practicable. Visibility of exposures 
to individual customer groups is improving through the implementation of the business 
information and credit management systems. The Group does not maintain credit insurance 
since nearly all of its debt exposure is with UK-based customers, and management of the risk 
of debt default is managed as part of the day-to-day operations of the business.
6. FINANCE
Should the Group be unable to obtain suffi  cient capital in the future, it may not be able to 
take advantage of strategic opportunities, or it may be required to reduce or delay capital 
expenditure, resulting in the ageing of the fl eet and/or availability issues. This could 
disadvantage the Group relative to its competitors and may adversely impact its ability 
to command acceptable levels of pricing.
The Group’s Treasury Policy sets out objectives regarding the nature, amount and maturity 
of committed funding facilities that should be in place to support the Group’s activities. 
In line with the policy, the Group’s capital requirements and potential sources of fi nance are 
reviewed at Board level on a regular basis in order that its requirements can be adequately 
planned for. Close relationships are maintained with the Group’s bankers in order to ensure 
that the Group enjoys a broad degree of support. Short lead times for purchasing hire 
equipment are maintained in order to manage capital requirements. 
7 . INCREASE IN COMPETITION
The equipment rental industry is extremely competitive and highly fragmented. Many of the 
markets in which the Group operates are served by numerous competitors, ranging from 
national equipment rental companies to regional independents. Some of the Group’s principal 
competition may have greater fi nancial resources, be more geographically diversifi ed, have 
greater brand recognition in certain market sectors and may be better able to withstand 
adverse market conditions within the industry.
The Group monitors its competitive position closely, with a view to ensuring that it is able to 
off er its customers the best solution to their requirements. Capital expenditure requirements 
are assessed as part of the budgeting process, and throughout the year via regular forecasts. 
Day-to-day capital expenditure requirements are assessed on a needs basis, with limited 
long-term future ordering commitments. The Group monitors the performance of its major 
accounts against market forecasts and individual expectations with a view to ensuring that 
the opportunities for the Group are maximised. Market share is regularly measured and our 
competitors’ activities are reported on and reacted to where appropriate.
8. PLANNING AND CHANGE MANAGEMENT
To address the material reduction in the size of the hire market since 2008, the Group is 
executing a strategy that delivers growth and profi t though leveraging core competencies 
better than our competitors, developing new and better ways of operating and entering new 
markets (for example, the Middle East) where diff erent risks to those faced in the UK and 
Ireland will emerge. If the strategy is wrong or not executed eff ectively, or the changes 
undermine our ability to plan and forecast, the Group may not achieve its objectives.
In-depth and ongoing reviews of business strategy have been undertaken by the Board 
and its advisors in determining strategy. The change programme has been communicated 
to all employees to explain the Group’s strategy, and plans to deliver the strategy are 
compared to actual performance. Signifi cant projects are subject to careful evaluation and 
monitoring at Board level, with risks being subject to ongoing reporting around appropriate 
mitigation strategies.
9. SAFETY
The Group operates in an industry where safety is a critical consideration. Failure to meet 
customers’ safety expectations or regulatory requirements increases the risk of legal, fi nancial 
and brand damage. This requires an uncompromising attitude to safety.
The Group is recognised for its industry-leading position promoting enhanced health and 
safety compliance, together with a commitment to product innovation. The Group’s systems 
and health and safety and environment team measure and promote employee understanding 
of and compliance with procedures that aff ect safety. Also key customer account managers 
address any service and safety issues arising in respect of those customers.
dashboard has been agreed and will be reviewed by the Board 
every quarter. Additionally, the Internal Audit Plan is aligned to the 
key risks. The text below summarises the risks that were identifi ed 
as key (in alphabetical order), together with a short description of 
monitoring/mitigation.
24 SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC 25
OUTLOOK UNCLEAR AND UNCERTAIN 
2010 is proving to be another testing year for construction 
companies and their suppliers. The extremely difﬁ cult 
economic background has been compounded by the political 
uncertainty engendered by the protracted General Election 
campaign and its outcome. The coalition clearly faces some 
very testing times ahead but, given the extraordinary 
difﬁ culties of the economy, neither party will wish to be seen 
as acting against the ’National Interest’. The problem is that 
each will interpret the ‘National Interest’ according to their 
political philosophy.
 The fall-out from the ‘credit crunch’ and the 
ensuing recession remains with us and is likely to continue 
for the foreseeable future. The new Government will 
introduce an Emergency Budget on 22 June; it has declared 
that ‘Deﬁ cit reduction and continuing to ensure economic 
recovery is the most urgent issue facing Britain’. The 
Conservative- Liberal Democrat coalition agreement states 
that there will be ‘a signiﬁ cantly accelerated reduction in 
the structural deﬁ cit’. It is proposed that there will be a 
£6 billion cut in spending budgets for 2010-2011 but, at 
the time of writing, the speciﬁ cs of such cuts are not clear. 
It has, however, been announced that the new Government 
has cancelled a third runway at Heathrow and will refuse any 
additional runways at Stansted and Gatwick. On the other 
hand, it will support the establishment of a high speed rail 
network. The new Government has also clearly signalled it 
will protect spending on Health and Education but how far 
this will focus purely on ‘front line’ services is as yet 
unconﬁ rmed. 
 Cuts alone will not sufﬁ ce to tackle the deﬁ cit; the 
new Government will also have to raise its income. Inﬂ uential 
economists are forecasting a rise in VAT from 17.5% to 20%. 
This will have demand implications for many sectors of the 
economy including most aspects of construction. Earlier this 
year, the ‘Cut the VAT Coalition’ (which includes The Royal 
Institute of Chartered Surveyors and The Federation of 
Master Builders) argued for a reduction in VAT to 5% for
the repair and maintenance of homes, indicating that it could 
lead to £17 billion of beneﬁ ts to the UK economy by 2019. 
It seems unlikely that such a measure will be implemented 
now (although it is possible that there might be some 
concessions for work that could be classiﬁ ed as ‘environment 
ally friendly’). As the economy pulls slowly away from 
recession, one would expect to see a revival in ‘repair 
and maintenance’, and that have been some signs of this 
happening. Repair and maintenance is a big user of tool hire, 
so any weakening of demand as a result of a VAT increase 
would be a blow to the hire sector. An increase in VAT also 
has inﬂ ationary implications for the whole economy, not all 
of which are negative, as it would reduce the relative value 
of debt and could stimulate building development. 
 With a budget deﬁ cit of almost £170bn equating 
to 11% of Gross Domestic Product, public expenditure 
now over 50% of GDP and the Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development forecasting that UK net 
public debt will stand at 70% of GDP by the end of 2011, 
a prolonged period of retrenchment looks inescapable. 
All this at a time when the UK economy is crawling out 
of recession with the latest ﬁ gures indicating a 0.3% 
growth in the ﬁ rst quarter of 2010, compared with a 0.4% 
expansion, compared with a 0.4% decline in the previous 
quarter. Of course the severe bad weather in the opening 
months of the year is deemed to have played a part in 
restricting growth, particularly in the retail and construction 
sectors. Indeed anecdotal evidence suggests that hire 
companies have been doing rather better than they might 
have anticipated in the second quarter partly because of the 
delays in construction work. 
 Despite all the brave words of the politicians on 
the campaign trail, it is to be anticipated that cuts, of a far 
greater severity than they have acknowledged, will be 
implemented; international market pressure, particularly 
in the wake of the Greek crisis, will focus minds intently.
The over-riding question- especially for the construction 
sector- is where will the spending axe fall and how swiftly? 
We have heard much of ‘efﬁ ciency’ savings but these are 
likely to be a fairly slow process and will almost certainly 
Speedy market report 2010
Catherine Stratton – Independent analyst
STRATTON 
REPORT
Business review 26 SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
STRATTON REPORT continued
turn out to be much more difﬁ cult to implement in practice 
than in theory. Indeed, government’s perennial resorting 
to ‘efﬁ ciency cuts’ when faced with need for axing public 
expenditure, engenders a certain cynicism and, given the 
depth of the crisis this time, the presumption that cuts in 
services are inevitable. That aside, history would suggest 
that, over decades of ﬁ nancial crises, Capital Expenditure 
has been the most vulnerable area for cuts and, despite all 
the valiant efforts of the construction lobby, we must face 
the prospect that it will again be lined up as a leading victim. 
It comes at a time when the construction sector is already 
extremely weak; unsurprisingly private development is still 
only edging towards recovery, and it has been left to public 
infrastructure work to bring limited succour to the 
struggling industry. The most recent statistics analysing 
construction output and new orders show the sector’s 
dependence on government spending since the onset of 
the recession. No doubt the new Government will want to 
re-appraise schemes now in the pipeline and we must expect 
that will inevitably mean cuts in capital programmes. 
 Just two years ago the construction sector fell 
dramatically from feast to famine and that overall that 
famine looks set to continue in 2011. A recent forecast 
from the Construction Products Association indicates that 
the industry will have lost up to £16bn of work in the three 
years up to December 2010. The Association anticipates a 
fall of 3% in construction activity this year, following the 
12% drop last year. Recovery is expected to be slow with a 1% 
growth rate in 2011 and similar levels in the two subsequent 
years. One comparatively bright spot is private housing, 
where starts are forecast to grow by 32% between 2010 and 
2012, but this growth is put into perspective by the fact that 
starts in 2012 will remain at one of the lowest levels since 
1946. The industrial and commercial sectors are predicted 
to grow by 8% and 4% respectively in 2011, following very 
precipitous declines in 2009 and 2010. 
 In the course of the second half of 2008 the hire 
sector had to adjust swiftly to the unprecedented decline 
in construction activity and, it is probably fair to say that the 
adjustment is still continuing. Many of the leading players 
(both public and privately owned) have had to renegotiate 
their borrowing levels and terms with their bankers. Speedy 
and Lavendon have also raised new capital. Among the 
private companies there has been a number of casualties 
but, so far, the damage has been conﬁ ned to smaller players. 
There is a danger that the failure rate will accelerate when 
companies have to gear up to replace equipment and then 
to expand their ﬂ eets when demand revives.
Catherine Stratton
Catherine Stratton has researched and 
analysed the Plant and Tool Hire sector for 
many years and is the author of ‘The Plant 
Hire Investment Report’, which has been 
published annually since 1994 and examines 
the performance of the UK’s 75 leading plant, 
equipment and tool hire companies. 
Her interest in the hire sector began when 
she joined the research department of City 
stockbrokers Greene & Company in 1969. 
Six years later she became a partner in the 
fi rm and a member of the London Stock 
Exchange. After Greene & Co merged with 
Grieg Middleton in 1988 she served as a 
director of the enlarged fi rm until 1992. 
In that year she left the City and became 
an independent researcher and consultant 
in the hire industry. She writes a regular 
‘City News’ column for ‘Executive Hire News’.
The seventeenth edition of ‘The Plant Hire 
Investment Report’ will be published in 
July 2010 (www.phir.co.uk). 
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC 27
Construction output (constant (2005) prices, seasonally adjusted) £m
New work
Quarter 
Public 
housing 
Private 
housing 
Infra- 
structure 
Public 
(excl. infra) 
Private 
industrial 
Private 
commercial 
All
new work
2007 Q1 9914,6121,3892,2921,2425,213 15,738
Q2 1,01 2 4,67 4 1,532 2,257 1,227 5,450 16,1 52
Q3 932 4,696 1,655 2,3 1 1 1,16 1 5,708 16,464
Q4 843 4,428 1,613 2,346 1,154 5,807 16,190
2008 Q1 8924,2661,7862,4981,1205,929 16,493
Q2 865 3,855 1,840 2,607 964 5,685 1 5,81 7
Q3 884 3,536 1,828 2,734 934 5,702 15,61 7
Q4 842 3,196 1,666 2,807 842 5,212 14,565
2009 Q1 773 2,892 1,803 2,909 674 4,547 13,599
Q2 799 2,797 1,931 3,234 609 4,370 13,741
Q3 905 2,454 1,896 3,485 597 3,964 13,301
Q4* 1,033 2,539 2,182 3,935 655 3,664 14,008
Repair and maintenance
Quarter 
Public 
housing 
Private 
housing 
Public 
non- 
housing
Private 
non- 
 housing
All repair
and
 maintenance
2007 Q12,1883,6681,9153,93311,704
Q2 1,967 3,849 1,822 3,891 1 1 ,528
Q3 1,891 3,583 1,844 4,026 1 1 ,344
Q4 1,94 1 3,955 1,81 7 4,1 1 9 1 1 ,832
2008 Q1 2,010 3,749 2,000 4,059 1 1,818
Q2 2,128 3,981 2,033 4,063 12,206
Q3 2,095 3,723 2,1 19 3,791 1 1,729
Q4 1,937 4,055 1,954 3,526 1 1 ,471
2009 Q1 1,91 0 3,394 1,870 3,3 1 5 1 0,489
Q2 1,93 1 3,394 1,782 3,201 1 0,308
Q3 2,109 3,585 2,239 3,403 1 1,337
Q4* 1,912 3,265 1,981 3,212 10,369
Total all construction work
Quarter one Quarter two Quarter three Quarter four Total for year
2007 27 ,442 27 ,680 27 ,808 28,022 1 10,952
2008 28,31 1 28,023 27 ,346 26,036 109,716
2009 24,088 24,048 24,638 24,377* 97 , 1 52
% change 2007/08 +3.2 +1.2 -1.7 -7 .1 -1.1
% change 2008/09 -14.9 - 14.2 -9.9 -6.4 -1 1 .5
% change 2007/09 -1 2.2 - 1 3.1 -1 1 .4 - 1 3.0 -1 2.4
* Provisional
Source: Offi  ce for National Statistics, ‘Output in the Construction Industry’ (published 5 March 2010). 
Volume of new construction orders (constant (2005) prices) £m
Public 
housing 
Private 
housing 
Infra- 
structure 
Public 
(excl. infra) 
Private 
industrial 
Private 
commercial 
All
new work
2007 2,644 12,004 4,987 6,483 3,151 17 ,525 46,794
2008 2,185 6,869 5,873 8,140 2,288 12,717 38,072
2009* 2,304 5,029 8,359 8,852 1,408 7 ,165 33,1 1 7
% change 2007/08 - 1 7.3 -42.8 + 1 7.8 + 25.6 - 27.4 - 25.9 - 1 8.6
% change 2008/09 +5.4 -26.8 +42.3 +8.7 -38.5 -43.7 -13.0
% change 2007/09 -12.9 -58.1 +67 .6 +36.5 -55.3 -58.3 -29.2
* Provisional
Source: Offi  ce for National Statistics, Statistical Bulletin, ‘New orders in the construction industry, December 2009’ (published 11 February 2010).
Business review 28 SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
STRATTON REPORT continued
 Some major hire companies such as Speedy were 
quick to begin cutting back their ﬂ eets as the ﬁ rst indications 
of the construction downturn were recognised in the 
middle of 2008 but others were slower to react, partly because 
the construction boom had resulted in long lead times for 
machine orders, and they had placed orders for equipment 
which were fulﬁ lled after demand had fallen so they were 
wrong-footed. ‘The Plant Hire Investment Report 
2008/2009’, using accounts mainly covering a signiﬁ cant 
part, if not the whole, of 2008 found a median annual growth 
rate of 10.2% for the gross book value of plant held by the 
leading 75 hire companies; this compared with a ﬁ gure of 
13.4% in the previous year. It must be anticipated that 2009 
ﬁ gures will indicate a signiﬁ cant reversal of this growth. 
Most of the major players have sold surplus plant, axed 
depots and curtailed capital expenditure to a minimum. 
If we assign an average economic life cycle to tools and 
equipment of around four years, it would suggest that hirers 
are soon going to be faced with the task of replacing their 
aging ﬂ eets. Some will ﬁ nd this a formidable task as their 
bankers re-assess their creditworthiness; almost all are going 
to ﬁ nd it expensive. Much equipment is imported, so we may 
assume that weak sterling will add to costs (although the 
problems of the euro should help to keep down the costs 
of imported machines from countries such as Germany, 
France and Italy). Another problem facing hirers is that 
manufacturers have also ‘down sized’ so that their capacities 
are greatly reduced and, this is already resulting in longer 
lead times as companies start to re-equip. 
 Given the uncertainties about the state of the 
economy in general and construction in particular, one 
might raise the question why re-equip? Doubtless many 
hirers will try to maximise the life of their equipment but, 
eventually they will ﬁ nd that maintenance costs will make 
that uneconomic. The danger is that they will then be 
confronted with an inability to ﬁ nance the replacement. 
For all hirers, one of the key questions must be how can 
I justify replacing equipment at high cost (both in terms 
of actual machine cost and interest payments) at a time 
when hire rates are under continuing pressure? 
 A brief analysis of ﬁ gures for hire costs shown in 
the 2009 accounts of some leading contractors suggests that 
for many such charges have fallen by signiﬁ cantly higher 
percentages than their revenues have fallen. There appear to 
be two main reasons for this: the ﬁ rst is the obvious one that 
hire rates have been pulverised as contractors seek to reduce 
costs. No doubt other suppliers have been put under similar 
pressure but hire is particularly vulnerable because there are 
a large number of companies (including some single person 
operators working with second-hand equipment and little in 
the way of overhead). Even when times are good, hirers ﬁ nd 
it difﬁ cult to improve their rates; in current conditions they 
are all too exposed. In the course of the recent recession, 
another reason why contractors have cut their hire costs is 
that they have become more efﬁ cient in their use of 
equipment. A constant refrain of hire companies has been 
that hire periods have shortened dramatically. This suggests 
that the contractor is using plant more intensively (no doubt 
aided by intranet facilities) and this will make for both less 
revenue and higher costs for the hire company with transport 
and maintenance costs taking a higher proportion of 
revenues and thus squeezing margins. 
 If, as is suggested above, the construction industry 
is in for two or three more years of very restricted growth, it 
seems almost certain that the structure of both construction 
and hire sectors must change. There has already been 
attrition with a signiﬁ cant number of smaller players going 
into administration as well as one or two more prominent 
players such as Jarvis. Rationalisation seems inevitable. On 
the plant hire side, we have seen GE Capital Equipment 
Services (which, in terms of ﬂ eet size, was the tenth largest 
company included in last year’s ‘Plant Hire Investment 
Report’) retreat from Scotland in recent months, with 
speculation that it is also reducing its depot network in 
England. Finning has recently completed its disposal of 
Hewden Stuart to a private equity group Sun European 
Partners for £110m. The fact that Hewden, once regarded 
as the UK’s premium hire company, has been sold to private 
equity interests suggests, unsurprisingly, that there was 
little appetite for large acquisition amongst major UK or 
overseas players in the hire sector. In recent weeks there 
have been a few signs of more modest acquisitions being 
transacted. For example, in May HSS announced it was 
buying the training operations of the Hydrex Group. On 
the whole, however, it seems that company failures may be 
an important factor in the foreseeable future and that could 
mean that rationalisation is a somewhat protracted process. 
The tool hire segment (as opposed to more general and 
larger plant) may, in fact, prove to be more resilient. There
is some evidence (mainly anecdotal) that some of the small 
independent hirers have beneﬁ ted from the closure 
programmes of the major companies. The continuing low  
level new build activity should, of course, stimulate repair and 
maintenance orders, which will beneﬁ t tool hire.
 Because an extremely high proportion of hire 
companies are either privately owned or the subsidiaries 
of public companies, recent information on the ﬁ nancial 
performance of the sector is limited. The statistical tables 
compiled on the next page give a brief indication of the latest 
annual ﬁ gures available from some of the most important 
players in the UK Hire sector (results for their 2009/2010 
ﬁ nancial years are still awaited for Vp and Ashtead). When 
appraising these ﬁ gures, the different account periods are 
signiﬁ cant, and, for the most part, indicate the worsening 
conditions from the second half of 2008 through 2009. It 
should also be borne in mind that Aggreko, Ashtead and 
Lavendon all have signiﬁ cant overseas operations: Europe 
accounts for only 15% of Aggreko’s revenues; Ashtead’s UK 
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC 29
Major UK Plant Hire Companies – 
Most recent annual results
Change in revenues
Company
Revenue
(£m)
% change
on previous
accounting 
period Year ended
Ashtead 1,073.5 + 2.5 30.04.09
Aggreko 1,023.9 +8.2 3 1 . 1 2.09
Speedy 351.1 -27 .3 31.03.10
Lavendon 226.9 -12.7 31.12.09
Vp 1 50.9 + 1. 1 3 1.03.09
Hewden Stuart 1 1 8.3 -31 .0 31 .1 2.09
Brandon Hire 86.6 -14.0 31.07 .09
Andrew Sykes 54.4 -19.3 31.12.09
Change in pre-tax profi t
Company 
Pre-tax 
profi t/(loss)
(£m) 
% change
on previous
accounting
period
Aggreko 244.0 + 28.4
Vp 20.8 +4.5
Andrews Sykes 13.3 - 1 3.6
Ashtead 0.8
*
-99.3
Speedy (22.8) Loss in previous year
Brandon Hire (28.0)
**
-751. 1
Hewden Stuart (1 9.4) Loss in previous year
Lavendon (4 7 .8 )
***
-31 2.4
* Ashtead: Pre-tax profi t is after exceptional items of £86.6m (2008: £2.6m).
** Brandon: Pre-tax loss is after exceptional items of £23.7m (2008: None).
***  Lavendon: Pre-tax loss is after exceptional items and amortisation charges 
of £61.7m (2008: £7 .9m).
Change in gross book value of rental fl eet
Company
GBV 
rental fl eet 
(£m)
% change
on previous
accounting 
period
Ashtead 1,798.2 + 1 7 .7
Aggreko 1,379.0 -0.3
Speedy 471.2 -8.4
Lavendon 433.3 -19.8
Hewden Stuart 349.5 -20.0
Vp 154.2 +9.4
Brandon Hire 63.6 -10.3
Andrew Sykes 35.3 + 1.1
Change in average number of employees
Company
Average
number of
employees
% change
on previous
accounting 
period
Ashtead 9,060 -7 .5
Speedy 4,267 -16.5
Aggreko 3,620 +12.3
Lavendon 1,700 -10.1
Vp 1,579 +11.1
Hewden Stuart 1,524 -21.0
Brandon Hire 1,279 -9.4
Andrew Sykes 483 -2.6
subsidiary A-Plant for only 19% of the Group’s revenues, 
while at Lavendon 47% is attributable to the UK. By contrast 
Speedy, Brandon Vp and Andrews Sykes all draw most of 
their revenues from this country. Aggreko and Lavendon 
have both issued Interim Management Statement subsequent 
to the publication of their 2009 Annual Reports. Aggreko 
continues to progress with revenues in the ﬁ rst quarter 
some 5% up on a headline basis and 8% in constant currency 
terms. Lavendon reported a 12% decline in UK revenues in 
the ﬁ rst quarter but stated that the rate of revenue decline 
reduced month by month. Ashtead’s results for the ﬁ rst 
three quarters of the year 2009/2010 showed 27% decline 
in revenues overall, with A-Plant showing a similar fall. 
The group’s pre-tax proﬁ t for the nine month period was 
£2.9m with a loss of £15.7m in the third quarter compared 
with a loss of £9.5m a year before. A-Plant produced 
operating proﬁ ts of £1.3m in the nine months, compared 
with £14.5m in the same period of 2008/2009; in the latest 
three month period it recorded an operating loss of £1.9m, 
compared to an operating loss of £3.7m a year earlier. The 
half year results of Vp showed a 16% fall in revenues to 
£72.2m and a 35% decline in pre-tax. The company’s tool 
hire subsidiary Hire Station experienced an 11.5% drop in 
revenues to £25.6m and its operating proﬁ ts halved to £2.0m.
 As far as the performance of construction companies 
is concerned, it would appear to be the major players who 
have withstood the recession best, largely because they have 
been positioned to secure the large infrastructure contracts. 
In recent years most hire companies with a national presence 
have sought to secure long term hire contracts with major 
construction companies. Speedy has a strong record on this 
front and has been able to take its established relationship 
with Carillion a step further through its ﬁ ve year Strategic 
Services Agreement with Al Futtaim Carillion in the Middle 
East and North Africa. While a number of UK hire 
companies have substantial overseas operations undertaken 
by subsidiaries (Aggreko, Ashtead and Lavendon are the 
most signiﬁ cant) this agreement is unusual. It does have the 
merit of extending an important UK relationship overseas 
and, at the same time, widening Speedy’s geographical 
experience without being fully exposed to the risks of 
establishing an overseas business from scratch. Given the 
slow recovery of the UK market, one might expect Speedy 
and other hirers to look for further opportunities of this 
kind but clearly, to be successful, a prerequisite would be 
a strong relationship with the contractor in the UK ﬁ rst.
 Overall, however, the immediate future looks 
to be a severely challenging one for construction and 
for hire. Sadly it may prove to be ‘survival of the ﬁ ttest’ 
for hire companies, i.e. those who have strengthened their 
balance sheets, cut overheads signiﬁ cantly, and cemented 
good long term relationships with their major customers. ■
Business review 30  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
Although the construction sector is not without 
challenge, the second half of the year ended 
31 March 2010 was notable for a steadily improving 
monthly trend in year-on-year revenue variances 
and for a generally more predictable forecasting 
environment. Adjusted PBT (before amortisation 
and exceptional costs) in the second half improved 
to a loss of £1.4m (compared to the loss of £4.8m 
reported in the fi rst half of 2010), despite revenue 
falling 26.5% and the adverse weather conditions 
experienced in the fi nal quarter of the fi nancial 
year. Combined with better than anticipated 
performance with regard to year-end net debt, 
this suggests a fi rmer base for the coming year.
OUR PERFORMANCE
A NEW REPORTING STRUCTURE
During the year, Speedy’s ten UK regional and product-based 
businesses were merged into one UK and Ireland business, UK & 
Ireland Asset Services. This is part of the Group’s drive to make Speedy 
easier to trade with and also enhanced the effi  ciencies coming from 
the Group’s new centralised Shared Service Centre, which came into 
operation during the course of the year and is now fully functional.
In addition, two new divisions were established during the year to 
build upon the strength of Speedy’s brand and customer relationships 
and to provide new growth opportunities. The objective of these 
initiatives is to create services which both complement and expand 
our existing business off erings, thereby facilitating the development 
of Speedy as the long-term strategic partner of choice with its 
key customers.
The fi rst of these two new businesses is International Asset Services. 
Building on a recently signed exclusive fi ve-year strategic services 
agreement with Al Futtaim Carillion (Carillion’s joint venture in the 
UAE), the aim is, over time, to establish an industry-leading ‘full 
outsource’ model which will involve Speedy providing, in addition 
to its traditional hire off ering, complementary services in areas such 
as asset management, site support services and logistics control. 
Once this fl edgling operation has established a successful track record, 
this targeted, client-driven approach can potentially be extended as 
a fuller outsourcing initiative to other selected customers across 
the Middle East and elsewhere.
The second new business is Branded & Advisory Services. This new 
division aims to leverage the Speedy brand by building broader and 
deeper relationships with the Group’s customers. It will do so by 
providing consultancy and training services based on Speedy’s core 
brand values of safety, skills, compliance and innovation, thereby 
better positioning Speedy within the asset management cycle of its 
major customers. The range of services are being initially off ered to 
the UK construction market, but over time will be expanded to other 
sectors and geographies, thereby assisting in Speedy’s goal of being 
recognised as an international services provider.
As a consequence of these moves, and following the introduction
of IFRS 8, the Group’s segmental reporting was changed with the 
publication of its interim results in November 2009. It now reports two 
segments: UK & Ireland Asset Services and International & Advisory 
Services (combining the new International Asset Services and Branded 
& Advisory Services businesses). As previously advised, the two 
component businesses of the International & Advisory segment will 
be reported as separate segments when their individual contribution 
to Group results becomes more signifi cant.
OVERVIEW
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  31
ALIGNING OUR BUSINESS TO THE CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
UK & IRELAND ASSET SERVICES INTERNATIONAL & ADVISORY SERVICES
Strategic vision:
ALIGN
to the customer
Goals:
1. Become an integral part of the 
customer’s supply chain
2. Promote all Group services – product 
hire and beyond
3. Create a sales and fulfi lment model 
that meets the customer’s needs
INTERNATIONAL 
ASSET SERVICES
Strategic vision:
FOLLOW
the customer
Goals:
1. Support our 
customers, wherever 
they are in the world
2. Help our customers 
make eff ective use 
of assets on overseas 
projects
3. Expand into new 
markets
ADVISORY SERVICES
Strategic vision:
ADD VALUE
to the customer
Goals:
1. Leverage the strength 
of the brand to move 
into new services
2. Develop new service 
off erings based on our 
core values of health 
and safety, training 
and environmental 
commitment
SHARED SERVICES
Strategic vision:
Make it easy to do business with us
Goals:
1. Deliver service excellence 
2. Develop a world-class operation
SUPPORT SERVICES
Human resources, supply chain, property, transport, marketing, fi nance, IT and legal
Business review 32  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
OUR PERFORMANCE C ONTINUED
UK & IRELAND ASSET SERVICES
Our division is structured to incorporate specialist disciplines, grouped 
into four key service lines:
UK Hire: our largest operation, comprising product specialist depots  >
offering small tools, lifting and materials handling equipment, light 
plant, power generation, compressors, pumps, surveying and 
specialist safety, temporary accommodation and communication 
equipment. Sales teams are organised along market sector lines;
Engineering Services: a new business unit created in 2009, following  >
the extraction from our hire operations of our Industrial Services, 
Asset Management and Test and Inspection activities; 
Retail: our consumable and equipment sales operation, building on  >
the business we already undertake through our depot network; and
Ireland: five depots offering the full range of Speedy products into  >
Irish markets. 
STRATEGY
Our strategy is based on developing strong relationships with our 
customers, focused on fulfi lling their equipment and site infrastructure 
needs through a range of hire and asset management services. 
Our aim is to maximise profi tability and returns and to broaden our 
service off ering so we are able to support the entire asset cycle. 
In order for UK & Ireland Asset Services to reach ‘preferred’ or 
‘strategic partner’ status, customers demand that we provide quality, 
consistency and added value to their businesses. Investment in fl eet, 
an unrivalled operational network and an expanding range of services, 
are ensuring we are well placed to meet these requirements.
Our plan is simple:
be customer intimate: know our customers and their markets; >
give our customers the best service: align our offering and service  >
capability to our customers’ needs;
add value through innovation: extend into other areas of our  >
customers’ perceived value chain; and
safety and sustainability: at the core of our offer. >
PRIORITIES FOR 2010/11
2008 and 2009 have clearly been challenging years for our industry. 
We have continued to seek ways in which we can progress our 
business and advance our leading position in the marketplace. 
WHAT WE DO
We deliver true asset management for 
our customers, with tailored services and 
a continued commitment to relationship 
management. This means that, whether 
a customer wants to hire, lease or buy an
asset, we can advise them and support 
their needs.
CLAUDIO VERITIERO
MANAGING DIRECTOR, UK & IRELAND ASSET SERVICES
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  33
Notwithstanding the market challenges, much of what we have done 
has centred on delivering ‘One Speedy’, a common approach to our 
customers and service excellence.
Over the next 12 months we will be driving the following priorities 
and initiatives:
ensuring the business remains focused on delivering improved  >
trading performance, financial returns and asset efficiency 
combined with strong profit to cash conversion;
consolidating our leading approach to providing tailored support  >
and on-site facilities to major projects; 
delivering our transition to a market- and sector-based model for  >
client relationship management, ensuring we are well placed to 
benefit from the more robust markets in infrastructure, energy, 
waste and education;
launching our new Retail offer through web-based sales and  >
an enhanced in-branch proposition;
growing our Industrial & Engineering Services operations,  >
by renewing and securing additional long-term asset 
management contracts and extending our portfolio of inspection 
and testing services;
developing enhanced service measurement tools and reporting; >
delivering a further improvement in our safety record, reducing  >
accidents in the workplace and risk for all our stakeholders;
progressing our recently launched sustainability programme,  >
‘Getting Greener from the Ground Up’, which aims to support 
our clients’ carbon reduction objectives; and
delivering e-solutions to support our business and help our  >
customers reduce administration and transaction costs.
OUR MARKETS
Our key markets in the UK and Ireland are construction, infrastructure, 
utilities, and major industrial groups. 
Commercial construction rentals are geared towards contractors 
conducting new-build and repair and renovation work, who hire a 
wide range of equipment. Industrial rentals are geared towards 
businesses conducting routine plant maintenance as well as special 
projects that require power and welding equipment, lifting and 
material handling equipment and safety products. 
In the last year all of our end-user markets, with the exception of 
infrastructure, have continued to be challenging and have contracted. 
We have continued to focus on identifying and penetrating those 
market segments that are growing or are more robust, such as waste, 
energy, rail and education. 
HOW WE PERFORMED
During the period we secured a range of major long-term contract 
awards, renewals and extensions across a number of sectors including:
CONSTRUCTION
Galliford Try: five-year preferred supplier agreement. >
Costain: two-year preferred supplier agreement for the provision  >
of tools and training.
Willmott Dixon: two-year renewal of preferred supplier agreement. >
Osborne: three-year renewal of preferred supplier agreement. >
INFRASTRUCTURE AND UTILITIES
Welsh Water: five-year framework agreement to provide tools and  >
small plant to Welsh Water and its tier 1 AMP 5 contractors.
Tube Lines: two-year sole supply agreement for a wide range of  >
equipment and training.
BT: supply of mobile generators and fuel bowsers to support BT’s  >
nationwide network of more than 6,000 exchanges.
INDUSTRIAL
AMEC: early extension of our exclusive contract to 2014. >
ExxonMobil: early extension of our managed services contract  >
at Fawley refinery to 2016.
We have continued to develop our leading approach to fl eet 
outsourcing solutions, whereby we seek to combine the transfer to 
Speedy of clients’ internal fl eet operations with the agreement 
of long-term secured contractual positions. In the year our fl eet 
outsourcing arrangements included Connaught and Works 
Infrastructure, a division of Downer EDI.
OUR STRA TEGY IS BASED ON 
DEVELOPING STRONG RELA TIONSHIPS 
WITH OUR CUSTOMERS, FOCUSED ON 
FULFILLING THEIR EQUIPMENT AND 
SITE INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS
Business review 34  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
OUR PERFORMANCE C ONTINUED
INTERNA TIONAL & ADVISORY SERVICES
INTERNATIONAL ASSET SERVICES
WHAT WE DO
We support our customers in delivering major 
overseas projects and facilities management 
contracts by providing a managed site support 
service, which combines our core expertise 
in equipment hire with asset management, 
infrastructure and logistics services.
We help our customers manage risk on major overseas projects and 
contracts by delivering the highest safety and quality standards, often 
in challenging environments, and by tracking and controlling assets 
through our in-house management information and control systems. 
We also work with our customers to help them make more effi  cient 
and eff ective use of assets. Typically, we implant experienced teams 
into our customers’ operations to work in partnership with their 
management teams to apply our expertise and innovation in driving 
measurable effi  ciency savings.
STRATEGY
Our ultimate vision is to be able to support our customers on any 
major project, anywhere in the world. By following our existing 
customers into new markets, we can reach out to new customers 
who will benefi t from our services.
We are implementing the fi rst phases of our strategy by investing 
in the Middle East where there is a high concentration of our existing 
customers, along with attractive returns and long-term opportunities 
in our target markets.
PRIORITIES FOR 2010/11
In December, we signed a fi ve-year, exclusive, strategic services 
agreement to support Al Futtaim Carillion’s operations across the 
Middle East and North Africa. Our fi rst priority is to deliver upon the 
contract targets and complete the investment in our purpose-built 
services hub in Abu Dhabi so we can extend our reach across the 
wider region. Our second priority is to sign similar agreements with 
a select group of strategic customers.
OUR MARKETS
We are focusing on two key markets in the Middle East: Government-
backed infrastructure and industrial, including the onshore and 
off shore oil and gas markets. Many Middle Eastern governments have 
long-term plans to invest in infrastructure, particularly water, power 
and transport, where there are structural shortages, and social 
programmes for new hospitals, schools and universities. As well as 
being an international hub for the oil and gas industry, the region has 
major programmes of industrial diversifi cation underway. 
HOW WE PERFORMED
We made signifi cant progress in our fi rst year and, from a standing 
start, have generated an operating profi t and ended the year with an 
annualised run rate of £10m in revenue. We have a highly focused plan 
to build our business and have delivered on the fi rst phase of that 
plan, selecting Abu Dhabi as our base and ensuring that we are 
working with the right local partners. We have built a highly talented 
team, combining experience from within Speedy with new talent 
bringing considerable experience of major overseas projects.
Our fi ve-year, exclusive, strategic services agreement with Al Futtaim 
Carillion provides an outstanding opportunity to grow with our fi rst 
major customer and prove our abilities with a view to bringing in new 
customers across the region.
OUR ULTIMATE VISION IS TO 
SUPPORT OUR CUSTOMERS 
ON ANY MAJOR PROJECT, 
ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD
MIKE McGRATH
MANAGING DIRECTOR, INTERNATIONAL ASSET SERVICES
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  35
Branded & Advisory Services provides over 200 accredited or certifi ed 
training courses in safety, skills and compliance. We off er courses from 
over 100 nationwide training locations or delivered at customer sites.
Our key activity has been the delivery of training services to Speedy 
customers. During 2009/10 the right products have been developed 
and the right people recruited such that the new service off erings in 
the areas of waste, environmental and health and safety consultancy 
will be commercially available during 2010/1 1.
STRATEGY
We will deliver solutions-orientated assurance services and fi nancial 
products to existing Group customers in traditional sectors, new 
customers in traditional sectors and new customers in new sectors, in 
the UK and international markets. These services will add strength to 
the Speedy brand, extending customer intimacy into wider industries.
PRIORITIES FOR 2010/11
The short-term priority is the further recruitment of experts to 
develop and deliver the new service off erings that will complement 
Speedy’s current off erings, developing the already strong relationship 
with Speedy’s existing customers and strengthening its market 
position. Key priorities are also to sell the new product off erings 
outside Speedy’s traditional core sectors.
OUR MARKETS
To date the focus has been on the delivery of new service off erings 
to customers within the Group’s traditional markets. As the Group 
extends its position within industrial and non-construction sectors, 
we will develop commercial relationships within these new markets. 
Our service off erings will also enable us to penetrate sectors outside 
the traditional core markets, with a cross-selling benefi t to the Group 
as a whole.
HOW WE PERFORMED
In the past year we focused on developing our training off ering, 
which comprises a portfolio of safety and skills courses capable 
of nationwide delivery. We recently entered into a preferred supply 
agreement in respect of the provision of plant training for the Carillion 
Group. This demonstrates that the new product off erings do indeed 
complement the traditional product off erings and will enable Speedy 
to develop further its key customer relationships.
BRANDED & ADVISORY SERVICES
WHAT WE DO
We aim to leverage the strength of the 
Speedy brand by building broader and deeper 
relationships with the Group’s customers, as 
well as developing commercial relationships 
with new customers for the Group. Branded 
& Advisory Services provides consultancy and 
training services based on Speedy’s core 
brand values of safety, skills, compliance and 
innovation. The new service off erings have been 
developed to complement the core product 
off erings provided by Speedy.
KEY PRIORITIES ARE TO 
SELL THE NEW PRODUCT 
OFFERINGS OUTSIDE 
SPEEDY’S TRADITIONAL 
CORE SECTORS
PATRICK RAWNSLEY
HEAD OF BRANDED & ADVISORY SERVICES
Business review 36  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW
JUSTIN READ
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Turnover for the year to 31 March 2010 of £351.1m was 27 .3% below 
the prior year period (2009 restated: £482.7m). Gross margin was 
59.4% (2009 restated: 59.7%) and the Group reported EBITA (before 
exceptional costs) of £8.0m (2009 restated: £49.2m), after deducting 
depreciation charges of £60.2m (2009: £75.9m).
The Group’s loss before taxation, amortisation and exceptional items 
was £6.2m (2009 restated: profi t £33.4m). The loss after taxation, 
amortisation and exceptional items was £18.3m (2009 restated: 
loss £55.1m). 
Revenue in the UK & Ireland Asset Services division totalled £347 .4m 
(of which £5.8m relates to the Ireland operations), which was 28.0% 
down on the prior year period. Despite this £135.3m drop in turnover, 
the division remained profi table at the operating level, with EBITA 
(before exceptional costs) of £15.0m (2009 restated: £59.1m). However, 
notwithstanding signifi cant cost reduction measures, operational 
leverage within the business meant that the operating profi t margin 
(before amortisation and exceptional costs) fell to 4.2% from 12.0%.
The two businesses which are reported within the International & 
Advisory Services segment were both formed during the year. Of the 
segment’s £3.7m turnover, £2.4m relates to the International Asset 
Services division and derives principally from activity with Al Futtaim 
Carillion in the UAE, where the Group has invested £7 .7m in hire 
equipment during the year. The Branded & Advisory Services division 
reported turnover of £1.3m in the year, largely derived from servicing 
the training requirements of some of the Group’s major customers. 
The operating profi t of this segment, all derived from International 
Asset Services, amounted to £0.5m despite the start-up nature of the 
activities in the year. 
The fi gures for the segments reported above are stated before 
corporate costs. These costs amounted to £7 .5m (before exceptional 
costs) in the year, equivalent to 2.1% of revenue. In the prior year 
period corporate costs were £9.9m (before exceptional costs), 
equivalent to 2.1% of revenue.
The Group’s principal operating cost items are personnel, depreciation 
and vehicles/fuel. These totalled £201.2m in the year (2009 restated: 
£247 .6m), representing 58.6% of total operating costs (2009 restated: 
57 .1%). Personnel costs totalled £1 1 1.9m, which was 15.8% down on 
the prior year. Depreciation totalled £60.2m (of which £2.7m is within 
corporate costs) and was 24.3% down on the prior year period. Vehicle 
costs amounted to £29.1m, including transport-related fuel. These 
were 17 .2% down on the prior year period.
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  37
INTEREST AND HEDGING
Net interest expense (before exceptional costs) totalled £14.2m 
(2009: £15.8m), of which £5.7m was incurred in the second half 
of the year. 
Borrowings under the Group’s bank facility are priced on the basis 
of LIBOR plus a margin, while the unutilised commitment is charged 
at 50% of the applicable margin. During the year, the margin payable 
under the facility fell from 4% to 2.5% as a result of the Group 
bettering thresholds contained within the facility agreement’s 
leverage covenant.
The Group hedges part of its exposure to fl uctuations in interest 
rates. Typically, it aims to hedge between 40% and 70% of net debt. 
As a consequence of the rights issue proceeds being entirely used 
to pay down debt, it was over hedged, compared to Group policy, 
for much of the year. At the year end, hedges with a notional value 
of £1 10m (2009: £140m) were in place, equivalent to approximately 
90% of net debt outstanding. The market value of these hedges 
was £(3.2)m at year end and they have varying maturity dates out 
to July 201 1. The incremental interest cost arising from these hedges 
amounted to £3.7m during the year (2009: £0.3m). 
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items of £1 1.1m before taxation (2009: £95.3m) relate 
to restructuring and cost-saving initiatives that were undertaken 
during the year which resulted in a number of non-recurring items 
of expense. 
 
The principal exceptional items were charges in respect of an 
onerous lease provision to cover the costs for up to three years of 
the 51 leasehold properties (37 depots and 14 workshops) that were 
closed during the year, redundancy costs relating to the 317 positions 
which were removed during the year and other costs relating to the 
closure of regional back offi  ces and the set up of the Shared Services 
Centre. The cash cost before taxation of these exceptional items, 
excluding the onerous lease provision, was £6.1m, all of which was 
spent in the year.
TAXATION
The Group’s income statement shows a tax credit for the year 
of £4.5m (2009 credit: £16.0m). Of this amount, £1.8m relates to 
a pre-exceptional tax credit based on an eff ective tax rate of 
15.4% (2009 charge: 28.9%). The balance represents a credit of £2.7m 
in respect of the exceptional items referred to above.
Cash tax in the year ending 31 March 2010 amounted to a net refund 
of £5.9m (2009: paid £9.8m).
SHARES, EARNINGS PER SHARE AND DIVIDENDS
During the year, the Group announced and completed a fund raising 
via a fully underwritten 9 for 1 rights issue which involved the issue 
of 458,658,900 new ordinary shares at 23 pence each raising gross 
proceeds of £105.5m (net £99.7m). As a consequence, the weighted 
average number of shares outstanding for the year ended 31 March 
2010 was 419.1m. At the year end, 517 .2m shares were outstanding, 
of which 10.4m were held in the Employee Benefi ts Trust. 
The basic loss per share before amortisation and exceptional items 
was 1.41 pence (2009 adjusted: earnings 13.00 pence). The basic loss 
per share after amortisation and exceptional costs was 4.37 pence 
(2009 adjusted: loss 29.57 pence).
The Board remains committed to the payment of dividends when 
prudent to do so. Subsequent to the year end, it has recommended 
a fi nal dividend of 0.2 pence per share (2009: 1.7 pence adjusted for 
the rights issue) which represents a total cash cost of approximately 
£1m. This gives a total dividend for the year of 0.4 pence per share. 
If approved by shareholders, the fi nal dividend will be paid on 
18 August 2010 to all shareholders on the register on 18 June 2010. 
THE GROUP WILL CONTINUE TO 
MAINT AIN A TIGHT FOCUS ON 
CASH GENERA TION, RECOGNISING 
HOWEVER THE NEED TO INVEST IN 
ORDER TO MAINT AIN THE QUALITY 
OF ITS UK HIRE FLEET
Business review 38  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW C ONTINUED
Net debt has fallen from £248.4m at the beginning of the year to 
£1 19.3m at 31 March 2010, a £129.1m decrease. £99.7m of this decrease 
was a consequence of the rights issue launched last summer, the 
proceeds of which were entirely used to pay down debt.
As a consequence of the signifi cant debt reduction during the year, 
net debt to EBITDA (before exceptional items) was 1.75x at 31 March 
2010, which was a stronger position than the 1.99x (restated) reported 
for 31 March 2009. Equally, the improvement in the net debt position 
and the share premium arising from the rights issue, means that 
gearing (net debt divided by shareholders’ funds) has improved from 
148.3% at 31 March 2009 to 48.4% at 31 March 2010.
BALANCE SHEET
Net assets at 31 March 2010 totalled £246.6m, a £79.1m increase on 
the £167 .5m reported at 31 March 2009. This is equivalent to a per 
share value of 48 pence. As a result of disposals and capex running 
below the rate of depreciation, net property, plant and equipment 
of £285.6m at 31 March 2010 is £37 .6m lower than at the beginning 
of the year. Equipment for hire represents approximately 86% of net 
property, plant and equipment and net debt/net property, plant and 
equipment of 0.42x at 31 March 2010 (2009: 0.77x) underlines the 
strong asset backing within the business.
Gross trade debtors totalled £101.1m at 31 March 2010, down 
£1 1.6m from the start of the year. Bad debt and credit note provisions 
totalled £10.7m at 31 March 2010 (£13.9m at 31 March 2009), equivalent 
to 10.6% of the debtor book (12.3% at 31 March 2009). Debtor weeks 
(calculated on a count-back basis) remained broadly in line with 
the position at the start of the year at 1 1.1 weeks (10.7 weeks at 
31 March 2009).
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND DISPOSALS
Total capital expenditure during the year amounted to £43.8m, of 
which £33.5m related to equipment for hire (including £7 .7m in the 
Middle East) and the balance principally to investments in IT, the new 
Shared Services Centre and the Group’s depot network. This compares 
to £75.1m in 2009, a reduction of 41.7%. With disposal proceeds of 
£23.0m (2009: £39.4m), net capital expenditure totalled £20.8m (2009: 
£35.7m). The disposal of hire fl eet during the year generated profi t of 
£2.7m, underlining the appropriateness of the carrying value of the 
Group’s fi xed assets.
The 41.7% reduction in net capital expenditure was consistent with 
the Group’s objective of investing only in assets necessary to maintain 
the operational integrity of its UK businesses and support the growth 
of its Middle East presence, whilst at the same time promoting the 
disposal of older and under-utilised assets. 
A consequence of this strategy, in particular with gross capital 
expenditure representing only 72.8% of total depreciation (2009: 
98.9%), there has been an increase in the average age of the Group’s 
hire fl eet. At 31 March 2010 the average age was estimated at 4.2 years 
(2009: 3.4 years). Based on net book value, approximately 50% of the 
fl eet is less than three years old.
CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT
Cash generation has remained strong, with net cash fl ow generated 
from operating activities amounting to £52.4m in the year (2009: 
£78.1m), a year on year reduction of only £25.7m despite the £30.8m 
negative variance in the Group’s year on year post-tax loss before 
amortisation and exceptional items. The principal drivers of this 
performance were a 42.7% reduction in net investment in hire 
equipment, £6.9m lower net interest expense, a £8.8m release of 
cash from working capital and a £5.9m receipt of cash from HMRC.
Free cash fl ow (i.e. before acquisitions, dividends and fi nancing 
activities) amounted to £34.2m (2009 restated: £31.4m). There were 
no acquisitions during the year (2009: £14.6m) and dividend payments 
amounted to £4.3m (2009: £10.0m).
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  39
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND TREASURY
Speedy’s long-term funding is provided through a combination 
of shareholders’ funds and bank debt. 
For the year ended 31 March 2010, shareholders’ funds increased 
by £79.1m, following a rights issue which generated net proceeds 
of £99.7m, and net debt was reduced by £129.1m as a consequence 
of both the rights issue and strong cash fl ow generation. The 
objective of the rights issue was to strengthen the Group’s balance 
sheet and reduce the extent of its fi nancial leverage.
Bank funding for the Group is via a committed bank facility provided 
by seven relationship banks. At 31 March 2010 the amount of the 
facility was £260m and headroom under the facility amounted 
to approximately £140.5m (including £12.5m of cash) (£51.0m at 
31 March 2009, including £11.0m of cash). The facility combines a 
term loan facility and a revolving credit facility, both of which are 
subject to gradual amortisation prior to maturity of the facility in 
June 2012. The facility includes quarterly interest, fi xed charge, 
leverage and cash fl ow cover tests. Speedy was compliant with 
these tests throughout the year.
The Group will continue to maintain a tight focus on cash generation, 
recognising however the need to invest in order to maintain the 
quality of its UK hire fl eet. Additionally, investment will be provided 
to help support the Group’s Middle East operations.
RETURN ON CAPITAL
Return on capital (based on EBITA before exceptional items) totalled 
2.0% in the year ended 31 March 2010. This compares to 10.9% in the 
prior year period. The principal reason for the decline was a 83.8% 
decline in EBITA (before exceptional items), only partially off set by 
a 14.2% decline in average capital employed.
JUSTIN READ
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
Speedy FTSE
1 Jun
2009
1 Aug
2009
1 Oct
2009
1 Dec
2009
1 Feb
2010
31 Mar
2010
1 Apr
2009
30
40
50
60
70
ONE-YEAR SHARE PRICE RECORD COMPARED TO FTSE 250
Price in pence
20
10
0
80
Business review 40  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY
Speedy has a comprehensive 
corporate responsibility strategy 
which is built into the fabric of 
our organisation. At the heart 
of this strategy is a determination 
to drive innovation and positive 
change through our leading 
market position.
GUIDING PRINCIPLES
  To operate and conduct our business 
in a transparent, straightforward and 
open way.
  To attract, retain, train and develop the 
best people and recognise and reward 
success.
  T o progressively reduce our 
environmental impact and promote 
sustainable growth.
  To implement internal excellence in 
the health, safety and wellbeing of our 
people and promote those standards 
externally.
  To be a positive influence in the 
communities in which we operate.
POSITIVE CHANGE THROUGH LEADERSHIP
Over the last fi ve years Speedy has been recognised on a national 
basis for its commitment to the corporate responsibility agenda. 
However, we are never complacent and we continue to build a 
comprehensive corporate responsibility strategy into the fabric 
of the organisation and our plans for future business growth.
Our strategy is underpinned by a determination to utilise our 
market-leading position to drive positive change throughout 
our industry.
Setting the context for our commitment to corporate responsibility 
are our corporate responsibility ‘guiding principles’, which ensure 
common standards whenever and wherever we operate. Locally, 
nationally or internationally, engagement with Speedy will carry 
the same commitment to health and safety, to the environment, 
and to customer service excellence.
Our commitment to these issues is unrivalled within our 
chosen sectors.
OUR MANIFESTO
Over the last three decades, Speedy has grown into the UK’s clear 
market leader. The Group has always believed that with leadership 
comes responsibility, which is why we have continued to change 
and adapt, challenging existing methods, innovating with new 
products and services and tackling the industry’s most diffi  cult 
challenges head on.
Our manifesto builds on this foundation of continuous improvement 
and outlines our commitment to being part of the solution to the issues 
our industry faces against the current challenging economic backdrop.
The solution, we believe, is the creation of a world-class built 
environment industry whose skills, technologies, standards and 
services can be delivered domestically and exported globally.
Principally looking at the areas of the economy, skills and the 
environment, our manifesto is not intended as a complete or 
comprehensive review; rather it is a package of simple, logical, 
priority measures that Speedy believes could be implemented 
quickly to create a positive and measurable impact.
A new era of collaboration between client and supplier is required 
if we are going to deliver a vision of which we can all be proud. This 
will require joint leadership, shared responsibility and a combined 
commitment to innovation.
At Speedy we are ready to play our part and take a lead.
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  41
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Creating an environment where our industry, our customers and our 
suppliers can thrive, as we have indicated earlier, is not something we 
can achieve in isolation. Open dialogue with our customers, supply 
chain, employees, communities, investors and wider stakeholders is 
a crucial part of ensuring our approach to corporate responsibility 
remains relevant and focused. 
The key aspects of our approach have therefore been designed and 
delivered in collaboration with our stakeholders. Our award-winning 
‘Safety from the Ground Up’ campaign was launched in 2005, but 
remains as relevant and important today as it was then. It set the 
standard that we have built upon year on year. Designed in collaboration 
with key stakeholders, in particular the Health and Safety 
Executive (HSE), it formed the basis of our ‘From the Ground Up’ 
communications, addressing key industry issues at site level to 
support the eff orts of our customers and the wider industry.
Customer and supplier events take place regularly on issues of 
joint importance to share best practice and promote collaborative 
solutions to industry issues. The most recent of these was the launch 
of our ‘GO (Green Option) Initiative’ (further details on page 42).
Speedy’s approach to corporate responsibility looks to engage 
and collaborate with our stakeholders on a continuous basis. 
MARKETPLACE
The marketplace has been the most prominent arena for Speedy’s 
approach to corporate responsibility over a number of years. 
Speedy’s commitment to openness, honesty and straightforwardness 
is long-standing and forms the basis for all our external dialogue.
Speedy’s recognition for the ‘Safety from the Ground Up’ campaign 
as the National Example of Excellence for responsible marketing 
in Business in the Community’s Awards for Excellence programme 
in 2007 , subsequently re-accredited for three years running, provided 
the benchmark for an ongoing commitment to transparency in all 
our activities. Also it demonstrated a commitment to providing our 
customers with the most comprehensive market information on 
safety, and more recently on energy and environmental performance.
The marketplace is an area where Speedy, we believe, has the 
opportunity to innovate continually on the responsible and 
sustainable aspects of our operations. While improving the health 
and safety, environmental and social impacts of our products and 
services, we are also looking to provide solutions for our customers 
and opportunity for our suppliers.
By creating strategic relationships with our customers, we aim to build 
joint approaches to sustainability that deliver responsible, sustainable 
growth and development.
Speedy delivers a toolbox talk 
on safe working at heights to 
construction site workers.
Speedy’s fi rst manifesto was 
launched in December 2009 
outlining our commitment to 
continuous improvement in 
the areas of economy, skills 
and the environment.
Business review 42  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY C ONTINUED
ENVIRONMENT
Speedy’s commitment to the principles of sustainable growth and 
working collaboratively has led to a range of sector-leading activity.
We believe that sustainability should be viewed as a driver for 
cost reduction and effi  ciency, which helps us meet commercial as 
well as environmental goals. By working in partnership we can both 
increase the scale of our impacts and the speed of progress.
THE ‘GO INITIATIVE’ 
Recently launched to our customers, the ‘GO Initiative’ places 
environmental performance at the centre of the procurement 
process. It provides customers with independently assessed data 
provided by ERM, the world’s leading provider of environmental 
and sustainable development consulting services, on the energy 
use and CO 2 emissions of products, thus linking environmental 
best practice directly to cost effi  ciencies.
To supplement this information Speedy is also rolling out our ‘Getting 
Greener from the Ground Up’ programme of toolbox talks to ensure 
that best practice in terms of the use and effi  ciency of tools and 
equipment reaches its most important audience, site operatives.
Reaction from our customers has been excellent as we look to 
enhance carbon management at site level through product options 
and on-site behaviours. Our focused approach to carbon reduction 
is also providing opportunities for International & Advisory Services. 
Current work on ‘best practice’ site design and management, 
addressing issues including energy, waste and transport, will provide 
substantial environmental and commercial benefi t.
GREENER ON THE INSIDE
In addition to our customer-facing activity on the environment, 
we realise that our own internal performance is equally important.
In terms of our vehicle fl eet we have reduced emissions per vehicle 
by 6% over the last three years, and with the introduction of 
incentivised low-emission ‘star cars’ in our company car procedures, 
we are confi dent that once again we will be able to increase cost 
effi  ciency and reduce our CO 2 emissions going forward. 17 of our 
19 listed company car options are now under the 120g CO 2 per km 
threshold. Vehicle emissions are our largest carbon footprint 
contributor and therefore remain a signifi cant factor in our future 
environmental strategy.
Leading on our internal strategy is our Head of Sustainability and 
Environment, appointed during the last 12 months, who is working 
within the business to prioritise further the key performance indicators 
that will enhance our effi  ciency, provide material cost reductions and 
tackle our carbon emissions. Speedy has also decided to shadow the 
Government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC), even though 
we are not currently captured by it, to further our commitment to 
carbon reduction for future years.
The targets and timescales for all our key performance indicators 
have been pulled together in one ‘road map’ which will act as an 
implementation plan going forward. This will allow us to monitor and 
manage our progress on a regular basis and set challenging targets 
going forward.
Our environmental programme will look to engage all our people, 
from simple ‘switch off ’ campaigns in depots to sustainable 
procurement options and customer relations.
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  43
WORKPLACE
We are acutely aware that our whole approach to, and aspirations 
for, corporate responsibility are dependent on our people. Many 
of the social and environmental issues we face are linked as much 
to behaviours as they are to product or service improvements 
and effi  ciencies. 
Therefore at the heart of our approach to corporate responsibility is 
a commitment to engage, inspire and listen to our people. We look 
to achieve this through a number of routes. Our depot teams have 
all received a green ‘How To’ handbook giving a lighthearted insight 
into best practice on energy, waste and water, backed up by the Safety, 
Health, Environment and Quality (SHEQ) Team who perform both 
a central advice and guidance function and an audit role.
Speedy is also addressing areas of work/life balance. For example, 
our sales team are reducing road miles wherever possible, increasing 
their use of the rail network, conference calls and video conferencing 
to improve effi  ciency and improve quality of life. We have no intention 
of taking the personal approach out of our business but there is 
a great opportunity to work smarter.
Similarly by improving the environmental performance of our 
buildings and engaging our people in the process, by engaging 
our procurement team in dialogue with our suppliers to improve 
product effi  ciency, and by signalling our stance on corporate 
responsibility from the employee induction stage, we are committed 
to enhancing behaviours throughout the Group.
The enthusiasm of our people continues to bode well for our success 
in making corporate responsibility an essential part of the way we 
do business.
The VT1-Eco lighting tower is 
exclusive to Speedy. It produces 
24.17kg CO
2 (equivalents) less 
per hire day than a standard 
VT1 lighting tower and off ers an 
energy saving of 33%.
The essential data on energy 
and carbon savings is presented 
as a pie chart on every product 
in the Green Range.
Example data for illustration only. Energy effi  ciency rating pie chart is based 
on £0.10 kw/hr and £0.80 per litre of fuel and data provided is per hire day.
RED
The estimated cost-saving 
in energy versus the 
alternative test product.
GREEN
The number of GO 
credits awarded.
BLUE
The actual amount of carbon 
saved versus the ‘typical’ 
alternative, expressed as kg 
CO 2 equivalents.
YELLOW
The amount of energy saved 
expressed as a %, versus the 
alternative test product.
EXAMPLE ENERGY EFFICIENCY RATING
Business review 44  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Business review
CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY C ONTINUED
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The health, safety and wellbeing of our people remains of paramount 
importance to the Group. It has become part of the fabric of the 
Group both internally via the ‘Safety Starts Here’ programme and 
externally via the ‘Safety from the Ground Up’ campaign. An extensive 
depot checklist submitted every month, supplemented by a rigorous 
internal audit process, allows the Group to improve procedures and 
monitor progress.
Health and safety forms a central part of our corporate responsibility 
approach and a range of key performance indicators monitor and 
measure our performance. Health and safety is a standing agenda 
item at Board meetings.
Behind much of our customer-facing activity has been an excellent 
working relationship with the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) and 
the Off -highway Plant and Equipment Research Centre (OPERC) who 
provide the Group with independent performance data in relation to 
health and safety issues such as hand-arm vibration of power tools. 
This allows the Group to continue to target excellence in health and 
safety and simultaneously to support our customers to improve their 
health and safety performance.
REWARDING SUCCESS
One of the Group’s core values is ‘driven by success and reward’. We 
are currently introducing a ‘balanced scorecard’ to help us measure 
fi nancial and non-fi nancial performance indicators such as this core 
value. We believe in getting it right fi rst time, every time, but always 
in a safe and responsible way, and to live these values we want to 
measure these highly important non-fi nancial indicators.
As part of valuing the impacts of ‘going the extra mile’ for a customer, 
a colleague, or a community organisation, and to keep the fun 
element in our operations, we have recently introduced ‘spot rewards’. 
These are rewards given to our people, directly by their line managers, 
to recognise exceptional performance and provide reward ‘on the 
spot’, allowing managers to recognise employee eff orts and 
rewarding our people as appropriate throughout the year.
COMMUNITY
The Group over the last three years has built community relationships 
with a number of organisations, engaged our people and looked to 
add value to the communities in which we operate.
We also have a number of charitable partnerships with construction-
based charities such as the Lighthouse Club and CRASH, with whom 
we have long-standing relationships. Wider partnerships exist with 
organisations such as Learning for Life and Habitat for Humanity with 
whom we have supported projects abroad in disadvantaged parts of 
the world on three separate occasions. 
Our Charities Committee has continued to disburse a small charitable 
fund to organisations based on a set of criteria against which the 
Group assesses applications. Employee engagement has also 
continued through a number of avenues in addition to the Charities 
Committee and our people have, as always, often gone above and 
beyond the call of duty. 
APPRENTICESHIPS
We expanded our award-winning apprenticeship programme after 
successfully leading the ‘Construction Site Solutions’ consortium 
which won the Olympic bid to provide on-site tool and equipment 
needs for the Olympic Park. Part of our bid was an undertaking to 
recruit an extra 50 apprentices to help build the skills legacy of 
the Games and we have also provided substantial support to the 
National Construction College as part of this initiative.
REHABILITATION AGENDA
The Group’s long-standing partnership with HM Prison Service has also 
continued, with prison workshops now established in prisons across 
England and Scotland. Speedy’s contribution includes providing 
the fi nancial support for fi ve full-time employees within the prisons 
who provide accredited training courses for prisoners in electrical 
maintenance. We have also provided the kit required to set up the 
prison workshops and supply the work each month by way of sending 
equipment from Speedy’s hire fl eet for testing, repair and maintenance.
There are now over 200 inmates in accredited training via the 
workshops. In addition, employment opportunities will be made 
available to prisoners, where appropriate, upon release and in 
consultation with the HM Prison Service. Reoff ending rates are 
proven to reduce dramatically if former inmates have a job to go 
to when released.
Business review ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  45
LOOKING FORWARD
Corporate responsibility will remain at the heart of everything we 
do. Our customers, people, communities and wider stakeholders 
deserve the assurance that as a Group we will not only rise to the 
environmental and social challenges that face us on a global basis, 
but that we will provide innovation and leadership within our industry.
The right behaviours, triggered by understanding, are central to 
achieving our corporate responsibility objectives, and through training 
and involving our people, through on-site toolbox talks on safety 
and the environment, and through excellence in the supply chain 
we will look to play our part in communicating the corporate 
responsibility message.
Our customers can be assured that we will continually look to add 
value, to innovate and to provide options for a more sustainable 
future. Our people can be assured that we will support their training 
needs and engage and develop them and that their dedication and 
success will be both recognised and rewarded. Our investors and 
wider communities can be assured that our future growth will be 
safe, responsible and sustainable wherever and whenever we operate.
Our approach will continue to be open and honest, engaging 
and collaborative.
The apprenticeship scheme was 
launched in 2007 and has gone 
from strength to strength. We 
provide apprenticeship training 
up to NVQ Level 3 in a range of 
industry-based qualifi cations.
Business review 46  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Governance
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MIKE McGRATH 
MANAGING DIRECTOR, INTERNATIONAL ASSET SERVICES
Mike McGrath became Managing Director, International Asset Services 
in 2009. He previously held the role of Commercial Director from 2006 
to 2009, and was Company Secretary on a part-time basis from 2001 
to 2006. Mike was formerly a partner at Pinsent Masons, the Group’s 
legal advisers, and has advised Speedy in relation to the majority of its 
acquisitions over the last 17 years.
CLAUDIO VERITIERO 
MANAGING DIRECTOR, UK & IRELAND ASSET SERVICES 
Claudio Veritiero joined the Board in 2007 having been employed
by Speedy since 2004. Previous roles within the Group include Chief 
Operating Offi  cer from 2007 to 2009, Group Business Development 
Director with responsibility for acquisitions and strategic development 
and Managing Director of Speedy Lifting. Prior to joining Speedy, he 
worked for eight years with the investment banking arm of Rothschild.
JUSTIN READ 
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR 
Justin Read joined the Board in April 2008. Prior to joining Speedy, 
he worked for 13 years at Hanson PLC, the international building 
materials company. At the time of leaving Hanson, he held the dual 
roles of Managing Director, Hanson Continental Europe and Head 
of Corporate Development. Previously he held a number of other 
senior roles within Hanson, including Deputy Finance Director, 
Head of Risk Management and Treasury, and Group Treasurer. He 
had also been responsible for Hanson’s corporate communications 
and investor relations.
STEVE CORCORAN 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
Steve Corcoran was appointed Chief Executive of the Company 
in April 2005 and was previously the Chief Operating Offi  cer from 
April 2001. Having joined the Company in 1987 when the business 
had 13 outlets, he has been progressively promoted ‘through the 
ranks’. He has over 25 years’ experience in the hire industry.
DAVID WALLIS 
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN 
David Wallis joined the Board in June 2000, and was appointed 
as Chairman in February 2001 when he also became Chairman 
of the Nomination Committee. He is also Chairman of Directorbank 
Group Limited and has previously held the position of Chairman or 
Non-Executive Director in a number of public and private companies 
including, most recently, Chairman of Glisten plc. His executive career 
included nine years as Group Managing Director of Merchant Retail 
Group plc. 
Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  47
SUZANA KONCAREVIC 
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY
Suzana Koncarevic joined the Company in April 2009. Suzana has a 
corporate and commercial law background and was formerly a senior 
legal adviser at United Utilities Group PLC for fi ve years. Prior to that 
Suzana was a corporate lawyer at Herbert Smith in London and at 
DLA Phillips Fox in Sydney, Australia.
ISHBEL MACPHERSON 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR 
Ishbel Macpherson joined the Board in July 2007 when she 
also became the Senior Independent Director and chair of the 
Remuneration Committee. Ishbel is an investment banker of over 
20 years’ standing who has specialised in UK mid-market corporate 
fi nance. Ishbel was Head of UK Emerging Companies Corporate 
Finance at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein from 1999 to 2005 and 
is presently a Non-Executive Director of GAME Group plc, Hydrogen 
Group plc, May Gurney Integrated Services plc and Dignity plc.
JAMES MORLEY 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
James Morley joined the Board on 2 April 2009 and became Chairman 
of the Audit Committee on 8 May 2009. He is a Chartered Accountant 
with some 25 years’ experience as a board member at both listed and 
private companies. Most recently, James was Chief Operating Offi  cer 
of Primary Insurance Group. He currently holds Non-Executive 
Directorships at Clarkson plc, Costain Group plc and The Innovation 
Group plc. Previously James was also a Non-Executive Director of the 
Bankers Investment Trust, WS Atkins and The Trade Indemnity Group.
PETER ATKINSON 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
Peter Atkinson joined the Board in June 2005. Peter is currently 
Chief Executive of Macfarlane Group plc, a position which he has 
held since October 2003. Prior to this he held a number of senior 
positions within Brambles Industries plc, GKN plc, SC Johnson Wax 
and Procter & Gamble.
MICHAEL AVERILL 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
Michael Averill joined the Board on 1 May 2008. Previously he held 
the position of Group Chief Executive of Shanks Group plc for 13 years 
until September 2007 . Michael is also Chairman of Enviroco Limited. 
Previously he was Chairman of JBM International Limited and a 
Non-Executive Director of Care UK plc, TDG plc and the Waste and 
Resources Action Programme (WRAP).
 
Governance 48  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Governance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
The Group aims to achieve a shared commitment from all employees 
to the success of the businesses in which they are employed. 
The Board believes in the fi nancial eff ectiveness of incentive bonuses. 
It is the Group’s policy that every employee should be in some form of 
incentive scheme as soon as possible after joining the Group. Details 
of such incentive schemes, including annual bonus arrangements for 
Executive Directors, are summarised in the Remuneration 
Committee’s report on page 57 .
PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS
It is the Group’s policy to make suppliers aware of the terms and 
conditions upon which the Group will trade with them and to abide 
by those terms. Codes or standards on payment practice are followed 
where appropriate. The Group had 81 days of purchases outstanding 
at the end of the fi nancial year (Company: 39 days).
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group holds and uses fi nancial instruments to fi nance its 
operations and manage its interest rate and liquidity risks. Full 
details of the Group’s arrangements are contained in note 17 of 
the Financial Statements.
GOING CONCERN
As detailed in note 1 of the Financial Statements (Basis of preparation), 
the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS
The Group made charitable donations amounting to £50,000 
(2009: £76,000) during the year. Company charitable donations were 
£35,000 (2009: £63,000). In accordance with the policy of the Group, 
no political donations were made during the year.
Principal benefi ciaries include The Lighthouse Club and CRASH in the 
construction sector and wider partnerships with Habitat for Humanity 
and Learning for Life. The Group’s charities committee meets quarterly 
to assess applications and make recommendations. Membership 
comes from across the Group’s UK operations and the committee also 
helps to instigate and support employee fundraising activity, ‘in-kind’ 
support through our depot network, and community engagement.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
As at 18 May 2010, the Company had been notifi ed, in accordance 
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following holders 
of shares with 3% or more of the total voting rights in the issued share 
capital of the Company.
    Percentage of
Shareholder    voting rights
Fidelity Investments  14.22
Schroder Investment Management 9.45
Hermes Investment Management 7 .28
JO Hambro Capital Management  5.01
Dexia Banque Internationale A Luxembourg 4.59
Psigma Asset Management 4.46
Legal & General Investment Management 3.63
Oberbank Ag 3.55
Norges Bank Investment Management 3.51
 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY
The Company is a public limited company incorporated in England, 
registered number 927680, with its registered offi  ce at Chase House, 
16 The Parks, Newton-le-Willows, Merseyside WA12 0JQ.
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of equipment for 
hire and sale, and associated services to construction, infrastructure, 
industrial and related industries. The principal activity of the Company 
is that of a holding company. A fuller description of the business 
activities is contained within the Business Review on pages 18 to 45.
BUSINESS REVIEW
The Chairman’s Statement on page 18, the Chief Executive’s Review on 
pages 20 to 23, the Financial and Business Review on pages 30 to 39 and 
the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 24 provide a detailed 
review of the Group’s activities, likely future developments and principal 
risks and uncertainties. All the information detailed in these pages is 
incorporated by reference into this report and is deemed to form part 
of this report.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The consolidated loss after taxation for the year was £18.3m (2009: 
profi t £55.1m). This is after a taxation credit of £4.5m (2009: credit 
£16.0m) representing an eff ective rate of 15.4% (2009: 28.9%) pre 
exceptional items. An interim dividend of 0.2 pence per share was 
paid during the year. The Directors propose that a fi nal dividend 
of 0.2 pence per share be paid, making a total dividend distribution 
in respect of the year of 0.4 pence per share (2009: 12.8 pence).
POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
There have been no signifi cant events since the balance sheet date 
which would have a material eff ect on the Financial Statements.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Except for Director service contracts, the Company did not have 
any material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature with, 
and did not make loans to, related parties in the periods in which 
any Director is or was materially interested.
ISSUE OF SHARES
On 10 July 2009, the Company issued 458,658,900 ordinary shares of 
5 pence each to shareholders and subscribers who had participated 
in the Rights Issue announced by the Company on 28 May 2009. 
BUY-BACK OF SHARES
At the Annual General Meeting held on 21 July 2009, a special 
resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases 
on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10% of its ordinary shares. 
As at 18 May 2010, no shares had been purchased under this authority. 
Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority at the 
forthcoming AGM in July 2010.
EMPLOYMENT OF DISABLED PERSONS
The Group recognises its responsibilities towards disabled persons 
and gives full and fair consideration to applicants in positions suited 
to their own particular abilities where appropriate openings exist. 
Where employees become disabled in the course of their employment, 
every eff ort is made to provide them with continuing employment.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
In the recruitment of employees and their subsequent career 
development, individuals are considered having regard to their 
aptitudes and abilities irrespective of race, sex, marital status, age, 
religion or disability.
Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  49
DIRECTORS
The Directors who served during the year and the interests of 
Directors in the share capital of the Company are set out on pages 
46 to 47 and page 61.
David Wallis, Claudio Veritiero and Ishbel Macpherson are retiring 
by rotation at the AGM and are off ering themselves for re-election. 
The remaining Non-Executive members of the Board have 
undertaken a review of the Chairman’s performance and are satisfi ed 
that David Wallis performs to the very highest standard as Chairman 
and that his wide experience of business and fi nance continue to be 
of great value to the Board and the Company. The Board believes that 
David has played a vital role in overseeing the Company and has been 
responsible for the strengthening and development of the Board into 
the strong and eff ective team it is today. David remains an important 
sounding board for the executive team, providing trust and support 
whilst upholding high standards of governance through constructive 
challenge of strategy and operational developments. 
The Board unanimously supports the re-election of David Wallis, 
Claudio Veritiero and Ishbel Macpherson.
No Director had any interest, either during or at the end of the year, 
in any disclosable contracts or arrangements, other than a contract 
of service, with the Company or any subsidiary company. No Director 
had any interest in the shares of any subsidiary company during 
the year.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
The Directors who held offi  ce at the date of approval of this Directors’ 
Report confi rm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and 
each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have 
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF 
THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group and parent company Financial Statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company Financial Statements for each fi nancial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company Financial Statements 
on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfi ed that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of aff airs of the Group and parent company and of 
their profi t or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
parent company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them  >
consistently;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; >
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs  >
as adopted by the EU; and
prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis  >
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent 
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are suffi  cient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
fi nancial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible 
for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law 
and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and fi nancial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of Financial Statements may diff er from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. 
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES PURSUANT 
TO DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES 4.1.12
The Directors confi rm that, to the best of their knowledge:
(i)  the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, fi nancial position and profi t or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
(ii)  the Business Review includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
The names and functions of the Directors of the Company are set 
out on pages 46 and 47 of the Annual Report.
AUDITORS
KPMG Audit Plc were reappointed at the AGM of the Company held 
on 21 July 2009 and their appointment expires at the conclusion of this 
year’s AGM. KPMG Audit Plc off er themselves, and are recommended 
by the Board, for re-appointment under the provisions of Section 489 
of the Companies Act 2006. 
TAKEOVER DIRECTIVE INFORMATION
Where not provided elsewhere in this report, the additional information 
required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the 
Takeover Directive into English law is set out below.
SHARE CAPITAL
As at 31 March 2010, the Company’s share capital comprised a 
single class of ordinary shares of 5 pence each. As at 31 March 2010 
the authorised share capital of the Company was £35,000,000 
comprising 700,000,000 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, and the 
issued share capital was £25,860,783.30 comprising 517 ,215,666 
ordinary shares of 5 pence each. There are no special rights or 
obligations attaching to the ordinary shares.
Governance 50  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Governance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT C ONTINUED
DIRECTORS’ POWERS
At the AGM to be held on 20 July 2010, shareholders will be asked to 
renew the Directors’ power to allot shares and buy back shares in the 
Company and to renew the disapplication of pre-emption rights.
CHANGE OF CONTROL – SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS
There are no signifi cant agreements to which the Company is a party 
that may take eff ect, alter or terminate upon a change of control 
following a takeover bid other than in relation to (i) employee share 
schemes and (ii) the Company’s borrowings, which would become 
repayable on a takeover being completed.
Shares in the Company are held in the Speedy Hire Employee Benefi ts 
Trust for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the Company’s 
Performance Plan and Co-Investment Plan. Unless otherwise directed 
by the Company, the Trustees of the Trust abstain from voting on 
any shares held in the Trust in respect of which the benefi cial interest 
has not vested in any benefi ciary. In relation to shares held in the 
Trust where the benefi cial interest has vested in a benefi ciary, the 
benefi ciary can direct the Trustees how to vote.
COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF OFFICE
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors 
or employees providing for compensation for loss of offi  ce or 
employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy 
or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has indemnifi ed 
each of the Directors who held offi  ce during the year.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
At the AGM to be held on 20 July 2010, shareholders will be asked to 
pass an ordinary resolution to allow the Company to communicate 
with its shareholders in electronic form and via its website.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Company’s AGM will be held at Mere Court Hotel and Conference 
Centre, Warrington Road, Mere, Knutsford, Cheshire WA16 0RW 
at 11.00am on Tuesday 20 July 2010. A formal notice of meeting, 
an explanatory circular and a form of proxy will each be sent 
separately to shareholders.
By order of the Board on 18 May 2010.
SUZANA KONCAREVIC
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY
RESTRICTIONS ON SHARE TRANSFERS
The Company’s articles of association provide that the Company may 
refuse to transfer shares in the following customary circumstances:
where the share is not a fully paid share; >
where the share transfer has not been duly stamped with the  >
correct amount of stamp duty;
where the transfer is in favour of more than four joint transferees;  >
where the share is a certificated share and is not accompanied by  >
the relevant share certificate(s) and such other evidence as the 
Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor; or 
in certain circumstances where the shareholder in question has  >
been issued with a notice under Section 793 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
These restrictions are in addition to any which are applicable to all 
UK listed companies imposed by law or regulation.
SHARES WITH SPECIAL RIGHTS
There are no shares in the Company with special rights with regard 
to control of the Company.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS
The notice of the AGM specifi es deadlines for exercising voting rights 
and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to 
be passed at the AGM. All proxy votes are counted and the numbers 
for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at 
the AGM and published on the Company’s website after the meeting.
AGREEMENTS WHICH MAY RESULT IN RESTRICTIONS 
ON SHARE TRANSFERS
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 
which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or 
on voting rights.
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS
The Company’s articles of association provide that all Directors must 
stand for election at the fi rst AGM after having been appointed by 
the Board.
Each Director must also stand for re-election at the third AGM 
following their last election or re-election. If the number of Directors 
standing for re-election is less than one-third of the current Board 
(which excludes any Directors appointed by the Board who are 
standing for election for the fi rst time) then additional Directors must 
also stand for re-election in order that at least one-third is standing.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Company’s articles of association may be amended by special 
resolution of the Company’s shareholders. At the forthcoming 
AGM, a special resolution will be put to shareholders proposing 
amendments to the Company’s existing articles of association 
as described in the notice of the meeting.
Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  51
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE
HIGHLIGHTS
Appointment of James Morley as Non-Executive Director  >
and Chairman of the Audit Committee and retirement of 
David Galloway as Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee.
Ongoing review of the effectiveness of the Board’s operation. >
Combined Code Compliance Statement, including terms of  >
reference of the Board and each Committee, available on the 
Company’s website.
COMBINED CODE COMPLIANCE
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance. The Board fi rst reported its compliance with the new 
Combined Code in 2004 and since then has continued to comply 
in full with the Combined Code and to develop further its approach 
to corporate governance and the eff ective management of risk in 
the context of a rapidly growing business.
The following paragraphs explain how the Company has applied 
the principles of good governance and the code of best practice 
set out in the current edition of the Combined Code.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2010, the Company has been 
in compliance with the provisions set out in the Combined Code.
DIRECTORS
THE BOARD
In the year ended 31 March 2010, the Board met nine times, including 
an off -site meeting solely to discuss strategy. The Board also meets as 
required on an ad hoc basis to deal with urgent business, including 
the consideration and approval of transactions. The table below lists 
the Directors’ attendance at the Board meetings and Committee 
meetings during the year ended 31 March 2010.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE
  Audit  Nomination Remuneration
 Board Committee Committee Committee
Executive Directors
Steve Corcoran 8 – – –
Justin Read 8 – – –
Claudio Veritiero 9 – – –
Mike McGrath 9 – – –
Non-Executive Directors
David Wallis  9 – 1 –
Ishbel Macpherson 9 5 1 5
Michael Averill 9 4 2 5
Peter Atkinson 9 5 2 5
David Galloway  
(retired 31 May 2009) 1 1 – –
James Morley  
(appointed 2 April 2009) 9 5 2 4
 
The Executive Directors of the Company may attend meetings of 
the Committees at the invitation of the Chairman of the respective 
Committee. 
The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for decision 
by it. This schedule, which forms part of a Combined Code Compliance 
Statement formally adopted by the Board, is available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered offi  ce and on the Company’s website.
The Combined Code Compliance Statement was last revised on 
22 May 2008 and is regularly reviewed. The matters reserved for 
specifi c approval by the Board can be subdivided into a number 
of key areas including but not limited to:
financial reporting (including the approval of interim and  >
final Financial Statements, interim management statements 
and dividends);
the Group’s finance, banking and capital structure arrangements; >
Group strategy and transactions; >
Stock Exchange/Listing Authority matters (including the issue of  >
shares, the approval of circulars and communications to the market);
approval of the policies and framework in relation to remuneration  >
across the Group (following appropriate recommendations from 
the Remuneration Committee);
approval of the Group’s risk management and control framework  >
(following appropriate recommendations from the Audit Committee);
the constitution of the Board itself, including its various  >
Committees, and succession planning (following appropriate 
recommendations from the Nomination Committee); and 
approving the Group’s policies in relation to, inter alia, the  >
environment, health and safety and corporate responsibility.
Matters requiring Board and Committee approval are generally the 
subject of a proposal by the Executive Directors submitted to the 
Board, together with supporting information, as part of the Board 
or Committee papers circulated prior to the relevant meeting. The 
implementation of matters approved by the Board, particularly in 
relation to matters such as signifi cant acquisitions or other material 
projects, sometimes includes the establishment of a sub-committee 
comprising at least one Non-Executive Director.
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are held by David Wallis 
and Steve Corcoran respectively. In addition to the Chairman, 
the Board includes four independent Non-Executive Directors: 
Ishbel Macpherson, Peter Atkinson, Michael Averill and James Morley. 
Together they bring a strong and independent Non-Executive 
element to the Board. The Senior Independent Director is 
Ishbel Macpherson.
The Audit Committee is chaired by James Morley. Its other 
members are Ishbel Macpherson, Peter Atkinson and Michael Averill. 
In accordance with the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees, the 
Chairman, David Wallis, is not a member of the Audit Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Ishbel Macpherson. Its 
other members are Peter Atkinson, Michael Averill and James Morley.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by David Wallis. Its other 
members are Ishbel Macpherson, Peter Atkinson, Michael Averill 
and James Morley.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors meet at least 
twice a year without the Executive Directors present. In addition, 
the Chairman regularly briefs the other Non-Executive Directors 
on relevant developments regarding the Company and Group 
as necessary. The Senior Independent Director, Ishbel Macpherson, 
and the other Non-Executive Directors meet at least annually without 
the Chairman present to appraise the Chairman’s performance as part 
of the overall Board annual appraisal process.
Governance 52  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Governance
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE C ONTINUED
Three members of the Board are also Non-Executive Directors 
of companies which are customers of or suppliers to the Group. 
Ishbel Macpherson is a Non-Executive Director of May Gurney 
Integrated Services plc, a customer of the Group. David Wallis is 
Non-Executive Chairman of Directorbank Group Limited, which 
is a supplier to the Group. James Morley (who was appointed after 
the start of the fi nancial year) is a Non-Executive Director of Costain 
Group plc, which is a customer of the Group.
The Group’s trading with each of these companies is conducted entirely 
on arm’s length terms and in the ordinary and normal course of the 
Group’s business. Additionally, the Board considers that, in each case, 
the sums involved are de minimis. These potential confl icts of interest 
have been approved by the Board in accordance with previous Board 
procedures and also under the new procedures established under the 
Companies Act 2006. In order to ensure that there can be no possible 
suggestion of a confl ict of interest, it has been resolved by the Board 
that, in the event that the Board should ever be required to discuss or 
make decisions in relation to the Group’s relationships with these 
companies, the aff ected Directors would not take part in, or receive, 
any material information in relation to those discussions. None of these 
Directors has been involved in any commercial negotiations between 
the Group and the other companies.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD
The Board has established a Nomination Committee. Its terms 
of reference are also included in the Combined Code Compliance 
Statement referred to above. The Committee meets formally as 
necessary, but at least once a year, and met twice during this fi nancial 
year. The principal functions of the Nomination Committee are 
to consider and review the structure and composition of the Board 
and membership of Board Committees. It also considers candidates 
for Board nomination including job description, re-election to the 
Board for those candidates retiring by rotation and succession 
planning generally. A specifi cation for the role of Chairman, including 
anticipated time commitment, is included as part of the written 
statement of division of responsibilities between Chairman and 
Chief Executive which was revised and updated in May 2008. Details 
of the Chairman’s other material commitments are set out on page 46 
and are disclosed to the Board in advance and included in a register 
of the same maintained by the Group Company Secretary.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all the Non-Executive 
Directors, and those of the Chairman, are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered offi  ce during normal business hours. 
Each letter of appointment specifi es the anticipated level of time 
commitment including, where relevant, additional responsibilities 
derived from involvement with the Audit, Remuneration or 
Nomination Committees. Details of other material commitments 
are disclosed to the Board and a register of the same is maintained 
by the Group Company Secretary.
None of the Directors is a Non-Executive Director or Chairman 
of a FTSE 100 company. 
A more detailed summary of the work of the Nomination Committee 
during the year is contained in the separate report of the Committee 
on page 65.
The minutes of all meetings of the Board and each Committee are 
taken by the Group Company Secretary. In addition to constituting 
a record of decisions taken, the minutes refl ect questions raised by 
the Directors relating to the Company’s businesses and, in particular, 
issues raised from the reports included in the Board or Committee 
papers circulated prior to the relevant meeting. Any unresolved 
concerns are recorded in the minutes.
On resignation, concerns (if any) raised by an outgoing Non-Executive 
Director are circulated by the Chairman to the remaining members 
of the Board.
Appropriate Directors’ and Offi  cers’ insurance cover is arranged and 
maintained via the Company’s insurance brokers, Marsh, and its terms 
are reviewed annually.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to 
authorise confl icts and potential confl icts of interest of directors 
where the articles of association contain a provision to that eff ect. 
The Company’s articles of association give the Board authority to 
authorise matters which may result in the Directors breaching their 
duty to avoid a confl ict of interest. Directors who have an interest 
in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must declare that 
interest and abstain from voting. Only Directors who have no interest 
in the matter being considered are able to approve a confl ict of 
interest and, in taking that decision, the Directors must act in a way 
they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the 
success of the Company. The Directors are able to impose limits or 
conditions when giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate. 
Any confl icts considered by the Board and any authorisations given 
will be recorded in the Board minutes and in the register of confl icts 
which will be reviewed annually by the Board. The Board considers 
that its procedures to approve confl icts of interest and potential 
confl icts of interest are operating eff ectively.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
A statement as to the division of the responsibilities of the Chairman 
and Chief Executive is included in the Combined Code Compliance 
Statement formally adopted by the Board and referred to above. 
The Board considers that the Chairman on his appointment met the 
independence criteria set out in paragraph A.3.1 of the Combined 
Code. It is the policy of the Board that the Chief Executive should 
not go on to become Chairman.
BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE
Currently there are, in addition to the Chairman, four Non-Executive 
Directors on the Board out of a total of nine Directors (David Galloway 
was a Non-Executive Director until his resignation with eff ect from 
31 May 2009) and their respective experience, details of which are
set out on pages 46 and 47 , clearly indicates that they are of suffi  cient 
calibre and number for their views to carry appropriate weight in 
the Board’s decisions. The Senior Independent Director, Ishbel 
Macpherson, is available to shareholders if they have concerns
which contact through the normal channels of Chief Executive and 
Chairman or Group Finance Director fail to resolve or for which such 
contact is inappropriate.
The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are 
independent, on the basis of the criteria specifi ed in paragraph A.3.1 
of the Combined Code and, generally, are free from any business or 
other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise 
of their independent judgement.
Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  53
INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Before each scheduled Board meeting, all Directors receive 
appropriate information regarding the Group, comprising a fi nancial 
report and briefi ngs from senior executives. The Chief Executive 
also briefs Directors on results, key issues and strategy. During Board 
meetings, the Non-Executives regularly make further enquiries 
of the Executive Directors and seek further information which 
is provided either at the relevant meeting or subsequently.
A monthly information pack is compiled on market data, including 
information and activity in relation to competitors and the 
construction industry generally. This information is drawn from 
a number of respected sources and provides a current, constantly 
updated summary of trends in the Group’s market.
The Board also recognises the importance of ongoing training and 
education, particularly regarding new laws and regulations which 
relate to or aff ect the Group. Such training and education is obtained 
by the Directors individually through the Company or through other 
companies of which they are Directors.
All the Non-Executive Directors have, during the course of the year, 
attended briefi ngs and seminars relevant to their role, including 
updates on best practice in audit and remuneration issues and 
economic aff airs in general, as well as bringing knowledge and 
information gathered from their other business interests.
The Chairman and the Group Company Secretary meet on a regular 
basis to discuss corporate governance and other issues including, 
inter alia, information fl ows, induction and training programmes for 
Directors and operational management.
Procedures are in place to enable Directors to take independent 
professional advice, if necessary, at the Company’s expense, in the 
furtherance of their duties. The procedure to enable such advice 
to be obtained is included in the Company’s Combined Code 
Compliance Statement.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group 
Company Secretary, whose role is to ensure that all procedures are 
followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied 
with. The removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter 
specifi cally reserved for decision by the Board.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
During the fi nancial year ended 31 March 2006, the Chairman and 
Group Company Secretary engaged the services of specialist 
performance consultants Lintstock to carry out a detailed independent 
review of the Board’s processes and procedures, and in the past three 
years the Chairman has undertaken an internal review of the Board’s 
processes and procedures. 
RE-ELECTION
Under the Company’s articles of association, all Directors are
subject to election by shareholders at the fi rst AGM following 
appointment and all Directors are subject to retirement by rotation 
provisions requiring re-election at intervals of no more than three 
years. Biographical details of all the Directors, including those 
subject to re-election, are included in this report in order to enable 
shareholders to take an informed decision on any re-election 
resolution. The letters of appointment of each of the Non-Executive 
Directors and the Chairman confi rm that appointments are 
for specifi ed terms and that re-appointment is not automatic. 
Peter Atkinson commenced a second three-year term in 2008. Ishbel 
Macpherson and Michael Averill commenced their fi rst three-year 
terms in 2008. James Morley commenced his fi rst three years in 2009. 
The appointment of the Chairman was renewed in 2009 for a further 
one-year term to 2010.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
LEVEL AND MAKE-UP OF REMUNERATION
The performance-related elements of the remuneration of the 
Executive Directors form a signifi cant proportion of their potential 
total remuneration packages. The performance-related elements 
of the schemes in which the Executive Directors are entitled to 
participate are set out in more detail in the Remuneration Report. 
The Remuneration Committee, with the advice of Hewitt New 
Bridge Street (HNBS), reviews on a regular basis the Company’s 
remuneration policy including the design of performance-related 
remuneration schemes. Such performance-related elements have 
been designed with a view to aligning the interests of the Executive 
Directors with those of shareholders and to incentivise performance 
at the highest level. The Board’s policy is that no executive share 
options should be off ered at a discount, save as permitted by 
the Listing Rules.
Levels of remuneration payable to Non-Executive Directors are 
regularly benchmarked, with the assistance of external advisers, 
against companies of a similar size. The levels of remuneration 
also refl ect the time, commitment and responsibilities of each role 
including, where relevant, Chairmanship of Board Committees. 
It is the policy of the Board that remuneration for Non-Executive 
Directors should not include share options or any other share-based 
incentives. No current Executive Director serves as a Non-Executive 
Director elsewhere.
The service contracts of all Executive Directors provide for termination 
by the Company on one year’s notice.
Governance 54  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Governance
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE C ONTINUED
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
FINANCIAL REPORTING
The Directors’ Report and Auditors’ Report appear on pages 48 to 50 
and 66 respectively and comply with the provisions of paragraphs 
C.1.1 and C.1.2 of the Combined Code.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for the Company’s schemes of internal 
control and for reviewing the eff ectiveness of such systems.
The Board, via the Audit Committee, conducts a review, at least 
annually, of the Group’s systems of internal control. Such a review 
examines all material controls, including fi nancial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management systems, and accords 
with the recommendations contained in the Turnbull Guidance. 
A formal report is prepared by KPMG Audit Plc (KPMG) highlighting 
matters identifi ed in the course of its statutory audit work and 
reviewed by the Audit Committee in the presence of KPMG, the 
Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the head of the 
Group’s internal audit function. The Committee also considers formal 
reports prepared and presented by the internal audit function. The 
fi ndings and recommendations of the Committee are then reported 
to the Board for detailed consideration.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS
The Board has established an Audit Committee which met fi ve times 
during the year. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are set 
out in full in the Combined Code Compliance Statement. Such terms 
of reference are compatible with the provisions of paragraph C.3 of 
the Combined Code. The Board is satisfi ed that the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee, James Morley, has appropriate recent and relevant 
fi nancial experience.
In addition to its work in relation to the Group’s systems of internal 
control set out above, the Committee is also responsible for reviewing 
the integrity of the Company’s accounts, including the annual and 
interim results, and recommending their approval to the Board. 
The Committee’s work also includes reviewing the adequacy of 
the Group’s ‘whistle-blowing’ procedures.
The Committee meets on a regular basis with the external auditors 
and internal audit function, without the Executive Directors being 
present if appropriate, to review and discuss issues arising from 
internal and external audits and to agree the scope and planning 
of future work.
The eff ectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function is one of 
the matters reviewed in conjunction with KPMG.
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a 
recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal 
of the external auditors. The policy of the Audit Committee is to 
ensure auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded at 
all times. The use of the Company’s auditors for non-audit services 
must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee where the total 
anticipated costs exceed £30,000, taking into account factors such 
as cost, speed and effi  ciency of delivery in determining whether to 
approve their appointment. During the year the Company used two 
additional fi rms for non-audit-related services. Accordingly, the Audit 
Committee considers that the Company’s auditors are independent.
A more detailed description of the work of the Audit Committee 
during the year is contained in the separate report of the Committee 
on page 64.
PROCEDURE
The Board has constituted a Remuneration Committee which met 
fi ve times during the year. Its terms of reference are included in the 
Combined Code Compliance Statement and are fully compatible 
with the provisions of paragraph B.2.1 of the Combined Code. The 
Remuneration Committee consists of the Non-Executive Directors, 
excluding the Chairman, who are independent of management and 
free from any business or other relationship which could materially 
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. The 
Chief Executive regularly attends by invitation but is not present 
for discussions relating to his own remuneration. The Remuneration 
Committee has appointed HNBS to advise it in relation to the design 
of appropriate Executive remuneration structures. HNBS has no other 
connection with the Company.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include setting 
remuneration policy, ensuring that remuneration (including pension 
rights and compensation payments) and the terms of service of 
the Executive Directors are appropriate and that Executive Directors 
are fairly rewarded for the contribution which they make to the 
Group’s overall performance. It is also responsible for the allocation 
of shares under long-term incentive arrangements approved by 
shareholders and in accordance with agreed criteria. In addition, 
it monitors current best practice in remuneration and related issues.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is dealt with by 
a Committee of the Board specifi cally established for this purpose 
comprising the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the 
Managing Director, UK & Ireland Asset Services and the Managing 
Director, International Asset Services without the presence of the 
Non-Executive Directors. The remuneration of the Non-Executive 
Directors is the subject of regular benchmarking reviews usually 
carried out every two years with the assistance of HNBS. The last 
such benchmarking exercise was carried out in February 2007 . 
No such benchmarking exercise was necessary in 2009 as there 
were no salary increases.
The Board’s policy is that all new long-term incentive schemes (as 
defi ned in the Listing Rules) and signifi cant changes to existing schemes 
should be specifi cally approved by shareholders, while recognising that 
the Remuneration Committee must have appropriate fl exibility to alter 
the operation of these arrangements to refl ect changing circumstances. 
In addition, as part of the Company’s commitment to transparency 
as regards its remuneration policy and to maintaining a continuous 
dialogue with shareholders, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
Ishbel Macpherson, has held discussions with shareholders to take 
soundings on the key features of proposed changes to the Executive 
Directors’ incentive arrangements.
A more detailed summary of the work of the Remuneration Committee 
during the year is contained in the separate report of the Committee 
on page 56.
Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  55
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
DIALOGUE WITH INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDERS
The Chairman routinely attends brokers’ and analysts’ presentations 
in relation to the Company’s interim and full-year results. The 
Chairman, with assistance from the Company’s brokers, collates 
feedback from such presentations and reports the fi ndings to the 
next meeting of the Board. The Chairman also maintains a regular 
dialogue with major shareholders in relation to, inter alia, strategy and 
corporate governance issues. The Senior Independent Director, Ishbel 
Macpherson, is available to attend meetings with major shareholders 
in order to understand their issues and concerns should the normal 
communication channels with the Chairman, Chief Executive or the 
Group Finance Director be ineff ective or inappropriate.
CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE AGM
The Company’s AGM procedures indicate, as a matter of course, the 
level of proxies lodged on each resolution and the balance for and 
against each resolution and votes withheld after each has been dealt 
with on a show of hands. It is also the Company’s policy to propose 
a separate resolution at the AGM on each substantive separate issue, 
including in relation to the Report and Accounts and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
All Committee Chairs are available at the AGM.
The Company’s standard procedure is to ensure that the notice of 
AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working 
days before the meeting in compliance with paragraph D.2.4 of the 
Combined Code.
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT DISCLOSURE GUIDELINES
Environmental, social and governance risks are considered by the 
Board as part of the ongoing process of risk assessment. The impact 
of risk is evaluated not only in fi nancial terms but also according to its 
eff ects on employees, operational effi  ciency and stakeholder relations. 
For further details regarding the steps which the Board takes through 
the risk management process in managing and mitigating risk, please 
see page 24.
Pages 24 and 40 to 45 of the Business Review outline the Company’s 
approach to risk, corporate responsibility and sustainability. For more 
detail concerning the opportunity which the Board sees in sustainable 
growth through sound corporate responsibility, please refer to the 
Speedy Corporate Responsibility Report which is due to be published 
in July 2010. This report refers to the KPI targets (running through to 
31 March 201 1) which have been established for monitoring progress 
against the Group’s environmental, community and workplace 
strategies, together with an evaluation of performance from previous 
fi nancial years.
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTROLS
In late 2009, the Board asked the Head of Internal Audit to carry out 
a full review of enterprise-wide risks to business objectives, so that 
the Board could update its understanding of how well risks were 
mitigated by the control environment. Risks were identifi ed in a series 
of workshops held in every key part of the Group and were followed 
by discussions between the Head of Internal Audit and specialists who 
could advise on the quality of controls to mitigate the risks identifi ed 
in the workshops. Physical evidence of the quality of these controls 
was sought where appropriate. The Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) programme was completed in March 2010 and the fi ndings 
were submitted to the Group Board in May.
The results of this work identifi ed that the Group needs to focus 
on nine key risk areas, as detailed on page 24, under the heading 
‘Principal risks and uncertainties’, in order to maximise its chances 
of achieving its strategic aims. Each member of the Executive Team 
has at least one risk template to manage, which describes the nature 
of the risk, the events that need to be prevented, the KPIs that measure 
the probability of these events occurring, the current controls, and a 
prioritised action plan with names and dates. The updated templates 
are presented regularly to the Group Board.
The Internal Audit Plan is informed by the ERM programme fi ndings 
and the fi ndings from these audits feed into the above process 
of the Group Board review of business risks and controls.
Governance 56  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Governance
REMUNERA TION REPORT
The Remuneration Committee met on fi ve occasions during the year. 
Details of the attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are 
set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 51.
The Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference are published on 
Speedy’s website at www.speedyhire.plc.uk and are available in hard 
copy form on application to the Group Company Secretary.
ADVISERS
During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice 
from Hewitt New Bridge Street (HNBS), who are independent 
remuneration consultants, in connection with remuneration matters 
including the provision of general guidance on market and best 
practice and the development of the Group’s performance-related 
remuneration policy. HNBS has no other connection or relationship 
with the Group. HNBS provided no other services to the Group during 
the fi nancial year ended 31 March 2010. 
The Committee also sought advice from the Company’s legal 
advisers, Pinsent Masons LLP , in connection with the operation of the 
Performance Plans, Co-Investment Plans and SAYE Schemes described 
later in this report.
REMUNERATION POLICY AND OBJECTIVES
The remuneration policy with respect to the Executive Directors 
has been designed to ensure that pay practices at Speedy remain 
appropriate for both the Company and its shareholders. 
The principal objective of the policy is to attract and retain the best 
talent to deliver Speedy’s strategy and to drive shareholder value 
within a framework of good corporate governance.
The key principles of this policy are:
between lower quartile and median salaries, but with the  >
potential to earn upper quartile rewards for sustained exceptional 
performance provided stretching and demanding performance 
conditions are met;
a reward structure that balances short-term and long-term  >
performance; and
competitive incentive arrangements that are underpinned by  >
a balance of financial and operational performance metrics to 
provide both a focus on business performance and alignment 
with the interests of shareholders.
The Committee acknowledges that the principle with respect to 
lower to median quartile salaries for Executive Directors has become 
more diffi  cult to maintain given the reduction of the Company’s 
market capitalisation in the past fi nancial year. However, to counter-
balance this eff ect, Executive Director salaries have not increased in 
the past two fi nancial years.
There is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from 
taking into account performance on environmental, social and 
governance issues. The Committee notes with approval the continued 
eff ort being made by the Company in motivating responsible 
behaviour in relation to these issues by encouraging reduced energy 
consumption and providing incentives to choose more effi  cient 
Company vehicles. In addition, the Committee seeks to ensure that 
the Company’s pay policies do not encourage inappropriate 
operational risk-taking. 
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and 
approved by the Board for the fi nancial year ended 31 March 2010. 
It has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
This report provides the Company’s statement of how it has applied 
the principles of good governance relating to Directors’ remuneration 
and is intended to communicate the Company’s policies and practices 
on executive remuneration. This report will be subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM. Information relating to the 
emoluments and pension contributions of the Directors on pages 60 
to 61 and Executive Directors’ interests in the Company’s Performance 
Plan, Co-Investment Plan and UK SAYE Scheme on page 62 has 
been audited.
Refl ecting the Board’s commitment to maintaining high standards of 
corporate governance, the Remuneration Committee has complied 
during the year with Schedule A of the Combined Code (provisions 
on the design of performance-related remuneration).
 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee comprises four Non-Executive 
Directors: Ishbel Macpherson (Chair of the Remuneration Committee), 
James Morley (who joined the Committee following his appointment 
on 2 April 2009), Peter Atkinson and Michael Averill. David Galloway 
was a member of the Remuneration Committee until he retired 
from the Committee with eff ect from 31 May 2009. Each of Ishbel 
Macpherson, James Morley, Peter Atkinson and Michael Averill is 
considered by the Board to be independent. Biographies of the 
members of the Remuneration Committee are set out on page 47 .
At the invitation of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive may attend 
meetings of the Remuneration Committee, except when their 
own remuneration is under consideration. No Director is involved 
in determining his or her own remuneration. The Group Company 
Secretary acts as the secretary to the Remuneration Committee. The 
members of the Remuneration Committee can, where they judge 
it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense.
The Remuneration Committee’s duties include:
to make recommendations to the Board on the Company’s  >
framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, 
Executive Directors, Group Company Secretary and senior 
executives;
to review and determine, on behalf of the Board, the executive  >
remuneration and incentive packages to ensure such packages 
are fair and reasonable;
to review and approve Directors’ expenses; >
to determine the basis on which the employment of executives  >
is terminated;
to design the Company’s share incentive schemes and other  >
performance-related pay schemes, and to operate and administer 
such schemes;
to determine whether awards made under performance-related  >
and share incentive schemes should be made, the overall amount 
of the awards, the individual awards to executives and the 
performance targets to be used;
to ensure that no Director is involved in any decisions as to their  >
own remuneration; and 
to review regularly the ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness  >
of all remuneration policies.
Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  57
The Committee believes that it is incumbent upon it to ensure that the remuneration policy as it applies to the senior executives is eff ectively 
delivered in a manner that takes full account of the Company’s specifi c and developing circumstances. This has proved a particular challenge 
for the Committee this year, against a backdrop of the continuing diffi  cult economic climate. Additionally, in determining the remuneration 
arrangements of the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration not only the performance of the Executive 
Directors but also pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, through regular interaction with the Company’s HR function 
and senior operational executives.
As a result, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the remuneration of Executive Directors will provide an appropriate balance 
between fi xed and performance-related pay elements. The Remuneration Committee will continue to review the remuneration policy to 
ensure it takes due account of best remuneration practice and is aligned to shareholders’ interests. The Remuneration Committee believes 
the policy described on page 56, which applied in 2009, remains appropriate and has resolved that it will continue in 2010.
COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION
The main components of the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors consist of the following elements:
Purpose Delivery Detailed policy
Basic salary Reflect the value of the  >
individual and his or her 
role, skills, experience and 
performance
Cash >
Monthly >
Pensionable >
Normally reviewed annually on or around  >
1 April and benchmarked against comparable 
companies
No increases were made in April 2009 or  >
April 2010. Next review in April 201 1
Annual bonus Incentivise delivery of  >
specific Group, divisional 
and personal annual goals
Deferred share element aids  >
retention and alignment 
with shareholders
Annual payment (subject  >
to performance)
Cash up to 50% of salary,  >
rest in shares (but all can 
be invested in shares)
Performance-related >
Non-pensionable >
Payments based on Group profit before tax  >
performance and project-based KPIs for 2010/1 1
Bonus potential of up to 100% of salary for  >
2010/11 (reduced from the previous 120% 
of salary maximum when bonus last paid 
in 2007/08)
Any bonus above 50% of salary paid in shares  >
(Executive Directors can choose to take all of 
bonus in shares) linked to Co-Investment Plan
Long-term incentives Encourage long-term  >
value creation
Encourage co-investment >
Align executives’ interests  >
with those of shareholders
Retention >
Share-based >
Annual awards >
Shares may be released  >
after three years
Performance-related >
Non-pensionable >
Performance Plan
Normal maximum award 100% of salary,  >
vesting based on comparative TSR targets 
(with an underpin) for most recent awards
70% of salary maximum for 2010/1 1, vesting  >
based on comparative TSR targets (with 
an underpin)
Co-Investment Plan
Matching shares, based on investment  >
of bonus, up to 2:1
Vesting based on real EPS growth >
No awards were made last year or this year >
Benefi ts To provide competitive  >
benefits
Retention >
Ongoing > Car allowance, medical insurance and life  >
assurance
Pension To provide competitive  >
post-retirement benefits
Ongoing >
Payable on retirement >
10%-20% of basic salary depending on length  >
of service
Share ownership 
guidelines
To align the interests of  >
Executive Directors with 
shareholders
Ongoing > Must build a shareholding of 100% of salary >
Governance 58  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Governance
REMUNERA TION REPORT C ONTINUED
BASE SALARY
Base salary for each Executive Director is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee, taking account of the Director’s performance, 
experience and responsibilities. The Remuneration Committee has 
regard to salary levels paid by UK listed companies: (i) which operate 
within the same broad business space as Speedy and with which 
Speedy competes for key talent; and (ii) market capitalisation and 
geographic operations. This approach ensures that the best available 
benchmark data for each Director’s specifi c position is obtained. When 
determining Executive Directors’ base salaries, the Remuneration 
Committee also has regard to economic factors, remuneration trends 
and the general level of salary increases awarded throughout the Group.
The Remuneration Committee has come to the view that no increases 
in these base salary levels should be made this year, with the next 
review due in April 201 1. Therefore, the Executive Directors’ salaries 
will remain at the following levels for the forthcoming year: Steve 
Corcoran – £340,000; Mike McGrath – £220,000; Claudio Veritiero – 
£203,000 and Justin Read – £250,000.
PERFORMANCE-RELATED ANNUAL BONUS
The Committee‘s general policy is that every employee in the Group 
is brought within some form of incentive scheme as soon as possible 
after joining the Group. However, as previously reported, last year 
no annual bonus opportunity was off ered to the Executive Directors 
or other employees.
Following a review of incentive arrangements, the Remuneration 
Committee has determined that an incentive to deliver against 
short-term operational drivers of the business is once again 
appropriate. Therefore an annual performance-related bonus will 
be off ered to Executive Directors and senior executives in 2010/1 1. 
The maximum bonus opportunity for the forthcoming year will be 
100% of salary, which is a reduction on previous bonus arrangements 
under which the maximum percentage achievable was 120% of salary.
The bonus opportunity will be split as follows: (i) 70% of the bonus 
will be payable by reference to performance against a challenging 
range of adjusted profi t before tax targets; and (ii) 30% will be 
payable for performance against key strategic objectives relating 
to Group net debt, working capital, gross profi t margin, central 
costs, asset turn, CO
2 emissions, strategic development, customer 
satisfaction and employee engagement.
Outstanding performance will be required for a maximum bonus 
to become payable, with no bonus payable unless a number of 
fi nancial (i.e. adjusted profi t before tax) and non-fi nancial thresholds 
are achieved.
Any bonus earned over 50% of salary will be subject to a compulsory 
deferral into shares, with such shares subject to a corresponding 
matching award under the Co-Investment Plan (see page 59).
Non-Executive Directors do not receive a bonus.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
In line with the overall remuneration policy of the Remuneration 
Committee, the objectives of the Company’s share-based long-term 
incentive arrangements (which were approved by shareholders in 
2004) are:
to support the Company’s strong performance culture and provide  >
exceptional rewards for exceptional performance;
to provide a competitive total compensation package; >
to link rewards to Group performance so that the interests of  >
executives are fully aligned with Speedy’s shareholders; and
to create an expectation of ownership on the part of executives  >
in accordance with shareholding guidelines established by 
the Committee, requiring Executive Directors to build up and 
retain shares in the Company of a value equivalent to 100% 
of basic salary.
The two main share-based long-term incentive plans operated 
for senior Executives are (i) the Performance Plan and (ii) the 
Co-Investment Plan. 
Benefi ts under the Performance Plan and the Co-Investment Plan 
are non-pensionable.
Performance Plan
The key features of the Performance Plan are as follows:
the normal maximum award that can be made each year is  >
over shares worth up to 100% of salary which vest at the end of 
a three-year period subject to the extent to which performance 
conditions have been satisfied;
‘one-off’ awards that exceeded the normal 100% of salary limit  >
were made to Executive Directors and other senior executives last 
year as approved by shareholders at the Extraordinary General 
Meeting held on 24 June 2009;
vesting of all of the awards made following the Extraordinary  >
General Meeting was subject to a TSR-based performance 
condition measured over a three-year period beginning with the 
date of the grant. 20% of each award will vest if Speedy ranks at 
the median compared to the FTSE 250 (excluding investment 
trusts) measured over the three-year performance period, with full 
vesting at the upper quartile (and straight-line vesting between 
these points). An underpin also applies to this primary TSR 
measure, under which the Committee may reduce the number of 
shares that provisionally vest by reference to performance against 
the relative TSR condition if this performance is not considered 
to be truly representative of the Company’s underlying 
performance over the relevant period. When considering the 
Company’s underlying performance, the Committee will take 
account of performance against a range of targets including 
operating cash flow, profit against targets, working capital 
management and share price progression; and
in accordance with amendments made by the Committee to the  >
rules of the Performance Plan to enable the grant of awards in a 
potentially more tax-efficient manner for participants, as referred 
to in last year’s report and in the Rights Issue Prospectus published 
by the Company on 1 June 2009, awards to Executive Directors 
in 2009/10 were made in the form of ExSOP Awards (and 
associated Initial Value Awards). See page 63 for more details 
regarding these awards.
Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  59
As stated above, the Committee has recently reviewed the Executive 
Directors’ incentive pay policy, encompassing a review of long-term 
incentive provision. Following this review, it has been deemed that 
Performance Plan awards will be made in the forthcoming year, albeit 
subject to a maximum 70% of salary individual limit. This is a reduction 
on previous awards which were subject to a maximum 100% of salary 
individual limit (save for the larger awards made last year). The vesting 
of the awards will be subject to continued employment and the 
satisfaction of a TSR-based performance condition with the same 
structure as that outlined previously for the awards made last year.
TSR has been used again as the primary performance measure for 
the Performance Plan awards as it is currently considered a robust 
measure of Speedy’s long-term performance. The Committee will 
ensure that appropriate independent verifi cation is sought as to the 
extent to which these performance conditions are satisfi ed. 
Both the 2006 and the 2007 Performance Plan awards have not vested 
due to performance below criteria threshold levels.
Co-Investment Plan
The key features of the Co-Investment Plan, as operated thus far, are 
as follows:
Executive Directors are required to defer any annual bonus over  >
50% of basic salary, which is used to acquire Speedy shares, and 
can defer the rest (likewise used to acquire Speedy shares) at the 
Executive Director’s option;
deferral is for three years; >
matching shares are awarded by the Committee which vest  >
at the end of the three-year deferral period if pre-determined 
performance criteria are satisfied. The maximum matching, 
which is only awarded for exceptional performance, could be on 
a 2:1, or 200% basis, by reference to the gross amount of bonus 
deferred; and
performance targets have been based on EPS growth over the  >
deferral period for the most recent awards. To obtain maximum 
matching, EPS growth is required to be greater than Consumer 
Price Index (CPI) plus 12.5% per annum, calculated on a compound 
basis. No awards vest if EPS growth is less than CPI plus 7 .5% per 
annum, also calculated on a compound basis (with straight-line 
vesting in between).
As there was no annual bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors 
last year, there will be no deferral of bonus into shares. Therefore, no 
corresponding award will be made in the forthcoming year under 
the Co-Investment Plan. Nor was any Co-Investment Plan award 
made last year (again due to there being no bonus payable for the 
prior year).
Both the 2006 and 2007 Co-Investment Plan awards have not vested 
due to performance below criteria threshold levels.
BENEFITS IN KIND
The Group operates a policy whereby Executive Directors and senior 
management are off ered a car or cash alternative, as appropriate, 
health insurance and life cover and pension contributions (further 
details of which are set out on page 60). Justin Read also received 
a housing allowance.
The Group does not operate a defi ned benefi t pension scheme 
and has no plans to introduce such a scheme.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR)
The graph below shows Speedy’s performance, measured 
by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index 
(excluding investment trusts), also measured by TSR. The graph 
illustrates the movement of Speedy’s TSR, assuming dividends are 
reinvested on the ex-dividend date, against that of the FTSE 250 
Index (excluding investment trusts) for the fi ve-year period to 
31 March 2010. The FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) 
has been used as it provides consistency with the performance 
measurement of the Group’s executive share incentive plans. 
SERVICE CONTRACTS
It is the Committee’s general policy that the service contracts of 
Executive Directors (none of which are for a fi xed term) should 
provide for termination of employment by giving 12 months’ notice 
or by making a payment of an amount equal to 12 months’ basic 
salary and pension contributions in lieu of notice together with any 
accrued bonus entitlement. It is the Company’s ongoing policy for 
bonus to not be included in any new joiner’s termination payments. 
It is also the Committee’s general policy that no Executive Director 
should be entitled to a notice period or payment on termination of 
employment in excess of the levels set out in their service contracts. 
In determining amounts payable on termination, the Committee also 
considers, where it is able to do so, appropriate adjustments to take 
into account accelerated receipt and the Executive Director’s duty 
to mitigate his loss.
The service contracts of Steve Corcoran, Mike McGrath, Claudio 
Veritiero and Justin Read contain express provisions relating to their 
duty to mitigate their loss and for accelerated receipt in the event 
of termination.
Subject to the above, no Executive Director has the benefi t of 
provisions in his service contract for the payment of pre-determined 
compensation in the event of termination of employment.
Speedy FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Index
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
3 1 Mar
2005
3 1 Mar
2006
3 1 Mar
2007
3 1 Mar
2008
3 1 Mar
2009
3 1 Mar
2010
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
Governance 60  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Governance
REMUNERA TION REPORT C ONTINUED
The execution dates of the service contracts of the Executive Directors 
are set out below:
    Contract date
S Corcoran    7 January 2002
M McGrath    10 March 2006
C Veritiero    16 July 2007
J Read    1 April 2008
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the 
Executive Directors. The policy of the Board is that the remuneration 
of the Non-Executive Directors should be consistent with the levels 
of remuneration paid by companies of a similar size with due regard 
to their expected time commitment and responsibility in 
performing their duties. The levels of Non-Executive Director 
remuneration are the subject of benchmarking exercises, carried 
out with the assistance of HNBS, typically at least every two years. 
No such benchmarking exercise was considered necessary this year 
and therefore the Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration levels are 
unchanged from those paid last year. Non-Executive Directors receive 
an annual fee and are reimbursed expenses incurred in attending 
meetings. They do not receive any performance-related bonuses, 
pension contributions, share awards or other forms of benefi t.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts 
of service but their terms are set out in letters of appointment. 
David Galloway retired as a Non-Executive Director on 31 May 2009. 
Peter Atkinson commenced a second three-year term on 1 June 2008. 
PAYMENTS TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
Base salaries for Executive Directors and remuneration levels for Non-Executive Directors were not increased in the year.
  Pension 
 Salaries and fees contributions
   Salary Benefi ts Bonus Total  2010 2009
   £000 £000 £000 2010 £000 £000
S Corcoran   340 1 1 – 351 68 68
M McGrath   220 10 – 230 29 26
C Veritiero   203 10 – 213 30 29
J Read   250 23 – 273 28 25
Total   1,013 54 – 1,067 155 148
Ishbel Macpherson and Michael Averill commenced their fi rst 
three-year terms in July 2007 and May 2008 respectively. James Morley 
joined on 2 April 2009 commencing his fi rst three-year term. 
Appointments are subject to earlier termination by six months’ notice 
on either side in the case of David Wallis and three months’ notice on 
either side in the case of each of Peter Atkinson, Ishbel Macpherson, 
Michael Averill and James Morley. The letters of appointment, copies 
of which are available for inspection at the Company’s registered 
offi  ce during normal business hours, specify an anticipated time 
commitment of 50 days per annum in relation to David Wallis, 21 days 
per annum in the case of Ishbel Macpherson and James Morley, and 
19 days per annum in the case of Peter Atkinson and Michael Averill.
EMOLUMENTS OF THE DIRECTORS
The emoluments of the Directors of Speedy for the year under review 
were as follows:
AGGREGATE EMOLUMENTS (AUDITED) 
   2010 2009
   £000 £000
Salaries and fees   1,275 1,265
Benefi ts   54 41
Annual performance-related bonuses  – –
Pension contributions   155 148
Total   1,484 1,454
A payment of £18,000 was also made to the widow of a former 
Director (2009: £18,000).
Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  61
PENSIONS
The Committee reviews the pension arrangements for the Executive 
Directors to ensure that the benefi ts provided are consistent with 
those provided by similar companies and take account of changes 
in relevant legislation.
The Company does not off er a defi ned benefi t pension scheme. 
Instead, it makes contributions to an approved pension scheme 
of the Executive Director’s choice. Pensions contributions range 
between 10% and 20% of basic salary depending on length of service.
The amount of pension contributions made in respect of each 
Executive Director is set out on page 60.
Save as set out on page 60, there are no other pension arrangements 
for the Executive Directors.
INDIVIDUAL EMOLUMENTS OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
(AUDITED) 
   2010 2009
   £000 £000
D Wallis   105 105
D Galloway (resigned 31 May 2009)  7 41
P Atkinson   34 34
I Macpherson   41 41
M Averill    34 31
J Morley (appointed 2 April 2009)  41 –
Total   262 252
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AND OPTIONS (AUDITED)
INTERESTS IN SHARES 
The interests of the Directors of Speedy Hire Plc in the issued share 
capital of Speedy Hire Plc at the beginning and end of the year, or 
date of appointment where appropriate, are shown below:
 Speedy Hire Plc 
 ordinary shares
   31 March 31 March
   2010* 2009
S Corcoran   2,186,423 274,786
M McGrath   1,291,500 43,499
C Veritiero   986,245 24,943
D Wallis   187 ,069 50,000
D Galloway (resigned 31 May 2009)  1,000 22,000
P Atkinson   42,800 4,280
I Macpherson   216,940 21,694
J Read   1,201,307 22,800
M Averill   50,000 5,000
J Morley (appointed 2 April 2009)  158,236 –
*Post rights issue.
This table includes joint ownership interests which are included in 
the table on page 62.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the 
share capital of Speedy Hire Plc since 31 March 2010. The Executive 
Directors also have joint ownership interests in the share capital 
of Speedy Hire Plc through their ExSOP awards under the 
Performance Plan.
Governance 62  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Governance
REMUNERA TION REPORT C ONTINUED
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARE OPTIONS AND PERFORMANCE PLAN AWARDS
The options under the SAYE Scheme were granted for nil consideration.
The market price of Speedy ordinary shares at 31 March 2010 was 30.25 pence and the range during the year was 25.25 pence (post rights 
issue) to 250 pence (pre-rights issue) per share.
The price of an ordinary share on 8 September 2009, when the Performance Plan awards were made, was 39 pence. A nominal amount was 
paid for each ExSOP award made under the Performance Plan.
Details of the Executive Directors’ interests in the UK SAYE Scheme, Performance Plan and Co-Investment Plan are as follows:
       Options/   
   Options   Options awards   
  Interest lapsed  Rights lapsed granted Interest at Exercise Expected date
  at 1 April pre-rights Pre-rights issue post-rights during  31 March price  from which
  2009 issue issue adjusted issue the year 2010 (pence) exercisable 
S Corcoran
Save As You Earn 2007  1,426  – 1,426  5,253  (5,253) – – 183 Feb-Jul 2011
Performance Plan 2006
1
  33,646  (33,646) – – – – – nil Jun 2009
Performance Plan 2007
2,3
  26,133  – 26,133  96,274  – – 96,274  nil Jun 2010
Performance Plan 2008
3,4
  49,351  –  49,351  181,809  – – 181,809  nil Jun 2011
Performance Plan 2009
5
  – – – – – 1,323,697  1,323,697  n/a Sep 2012
Co-Investment 2006
6
  45,876  (45,876) – – – – – nil Jun 2009
Co-Investment 2007
3,7
  21,936  – 21,936  80,812  – – 80,812  nil Jun 2010
Co-Investment 2008
3,8
  92,966  – 92,966  342,486  – – 342,486  nil Jun 2011
  271,334  (79,522) 191,812  706,634  (5,253) 1,323,697  2,025,078   
M McGrath
Save As You Earn 2009  – – – – – 9,012  9,012  29 Nov 2012-Apr 2013
Performance Plan 2006
1
  21,870  (21,870) – – – – – nil Jun 2009
Performance Plan 2007
2,3
  16,885  – 16,885  62,204  – – 62,204  nil Jun 2010
Performance Plan 2008
3,4
  31,933  – 31,933  1 17 ,641  – – 11 7,64 1  nil Jun 2011
Performance Plan 2009
5
  – – – – – 856,510  856,510  n/a Sep 2012
Co-Investment 2006
6
  44,728  (44,728) – – – – – nil Jun 2009
Co-Investment 2007
3,7
  30,998  – 30,998  1 14,196  – – 11 4, 1 96  nil Jun 2010
Co-Investment 2008
3,8
  69,888  – 69,888  257 ,467  – – 257 ,467  nil Jun 2011
  216,302  (66,598) 149,704  551,508  – 865,522  1,41 7 ,030   
C Veritiero
Save As You Earn 2005  1,498  (1,498) – –  – – – 624 Feb-Jul 2009
Save As You Earn 2009  – – – – – 9,012  9,012  29 Nov 2012-Apr 2013
Performance Plan 2008
3,4 
 27 ,941  – 27 ,941  102,935  – – 102,935  nil Jun 201 1
Performance Plan 2009
5
  – – – – – 788,378  788,378  n/a Sep 2012
Co-Investment 2006
6
  4,586  (4,586) – – – – – nil Jun 2009
Co-Investment 2007
3,7
  7 ,446  – 7 ,446  27 ,431  – – 27 ,431  nil Jun 2010
Co-Investment 2008
3,8
  56,576  – 56,576  208,425  – – 208,425  nil Jun 2011
  98,047  (6,084) 91,963  338,791  – 797 ,390  1,136,181   
J Read
Save As You Earn 2009  – – – – – 9,012  9,012  29 Nov 2012-Apr 2013
Performance Plan 2008
3,4
  36,288  – 36,288  133,685  – – 133,685  nil Jun 2011
Performance Plan 2009
5
  – – – – – 973,307  973,307  n/a Sep 2012
Co-Investment 2008
3,8
  77 ,288  – 77 ,288  284,729  – – 284,729  nil Jun 2011
  1 13,576  – 1 13,576  418,414  – 982,319  1,400,733   
Total  699,259  (152,204) 547 ,055  2,015,347  (5,253) 3,968,928  5,979,022   
No options were exercised during the year.
Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  63
1
 The TSR target was not met and the awards lapsed. 
2
  The 2007 Performance Plan awards were subject to a TSR performance condition, 
measuring the TSR of Speedy against the TSR of companies within the FTSE 250 index 
(excluding investment trusts) over the performance period, with 20% of the award 
vesting at median and straight-line vesting to upper quartile performance, at which 
point awards would vest in full. In addition, awards under the Performance Plan were 
subject to an underpin, requiring growth in EPS over the performance period to be 
at least equal to the Consumer Prices Index (CPI) plus 2% per annum on a compound 
basis for any award to vest. 
3
  Performance Plan awards and Co-Investment Plan matching awards before 2009 were 
options to acquire shares for nil consideration. No consideration was paid for the grant 
of these options. 
4
  For the 2008 Performance Plan awards, 50% of the award was based on comparative 
TSR against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). 20% of this portion of the award 
will vest at median, with straight-line vesting to upper quartile performance at which 
point this portion of the award will vest in full. The balance of the award was based on 
EPS growth targets. 20% of this portion of the award will vest for the achievement 
of a threshold level of EPS growth, being at least CPI plus 7.5% per annum, calculated 
on a compound basis, with the entire portion of this award vesting if EPS growth is 
at least CPI plus 15% per annum, also on a compound basis (with straight-line vesting 
in between). 
5
  ExSOP awards involve the acquisition of shares jointly by the participant and the 
trustee of the Company’s employee trust on terms that, to the extent the performance 
condition described on page 58 is satisfi ed, the participant can benefi t from any 
growth of the shares in excess of a hurdle. Initial Value Awards entitle the holder 
to a value (in shares or cash) equal to the number of ExSOP shares (if any) in respect 
of which the performance condition is met multiplied by the share value on the award 
date or, if lower, the share value when the ExSOP award crystallises. 
6
  The EPS target was not met and the awards lapsed. 
7
  The 2007 awards under the Co-Investment Plan were subject to an EPS performance 
condition over the performance period requiring growth in EPS to exceed growth 
in the CPI over the performance period, with maximum vesting of matching shares 
if EPS growth exceeded CPI growth by 12.5% per annum on a compound basis. No 
awards would vest if EPS growth were less than CPI growth plus 7.5% per annum on 
a compound basis over the performance period, with straight-line vesting in between 
the two limits. The relevant targets have not been met and, therefore, the awards 
will lapse.
8
  For the 2008 Co-Investment Plan awards, performance targets were based on EPS 
growth over the deferral period. To obtain maximum matching, EPS growth is required 
to be greater than CPI plus 12.5% per annum, calculated on a compound basis. No 
awards vest if EPS growth is less than CPI plus 7.5% per annum, also calculated on a 
compound basis (with straight-line vesting in between).
SAYE SCHEME
Options may be granted over shares in Speedy under the Speedy 
Sharesave Scheme (the ‘UK SAYE Scheme’), in which all eligible 
employees (including Executive Directors) are entitled to participate. 
At the end of a three-year period, participants have the right, if they 
choose, to use funds accumulated under the savings contract linked 
to the SAYE Scheme to purchase shares in Speedy at up to a 20% 
discount to the price of Speedy’s shares at the date employees are 
invited to join the Scheme. 
In November 2007 the Committee established an Irish Revenue-
approved Irish Sharesave Scheme (the ‘Irish SAYE Scheme’) to enable 
Irish employees of the Group to participate in a comparable tax-
favoured manner to their English counterparts, for which shareholder 
approval was obtained at the 2008 AGM. The Committee is keen to 
encourage ownership of Speedy’s shares by employees at all levels in 
the Group and grants are made under the SAYE Schemes on a regular, 
normally annual, basis. A grant was made under both the UK and the 
Irish SAYE Schemes in October 2009. 
 
1,208 employees participated in the 2009 grant and as at 31 March 
2010 there were, in aggregate, 1,267 live accounts spread across 
1,208 participants in the UK and Irish SAYE Schemes. As all-employee 
schemes, no performance targets are attached to options granted 
under the SAYE Schemes. 
LONG-TERM SERVICE AWARDS
Consistent with the Speedy approach of recognising the contribution 
of its employees at all levels in the business, the Group operates a 
long-term service award scheme under which employees serving 
10, 20 and 25 years receive a range of additional benefi ts, including 
additional days of annual holiday entitlement (including the 
employee’s birthday for reaching 20 years’ service). Employees serving 
20 years receive an additional £1,000 in basic salary and those serving 
25 years a further increase of £ 1,000 and an award of shares in the 
Company to the value of £1,000. Members of the 20- and 25-year 
clubs attend an annual luncheon hosted by the Chief Executive.
These benefi ts are popular amongst employees and Speedy believes 
that they fulfi l a business need by encouraging and rewarding the 
loyalty and motivation of long-serving employees and by rewarding 
those employees with higher levels of experience.
This report was approved by the Board on 18 May 2010.
ISHBEL MACPHERSON
CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Governance 64  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Governance
A UDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
The Audit Committee presents a separate report in relation to the 
fi nancial year ended 31 March 2010.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors, 
James Morley (Chairman of the Audit Committee), Ishbel Macpherson, 
Peter Atkinson and Michael Averill, all of whom are considered by the 
Board to be independent. Biographies of each of the members of the 
Audit Committee are set out on page 47 . James Morley is a chartered 
accountant with over 25 years’ experience as a Board member at both 
listed and private companies. He currently holds Non-Executive 
Directorships at Clarkson plc, Costain Group plc and The Innovation 
Group plc. Previously James was also a Non-Executive Director of the 
Bankers Investment Trust, WS Atkins and Trade Indemnity Group. 
The Board is satisfi ed that James Morley has recent and relevant 
fi nancial experience.
OPERATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee met on fi ve occasions during the year. Details 
of the attendance at Audit Committee meetings are set out in the 
Corporate Governance Report on page 51. 
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, together 
with representatives from the external auditors and the Head of 
Internal Audit, are invited to attend all meetings of the Committee 
by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The external auditors and 
the Head of Internal Audit meet privately and are regularly invited 
by the Audit Committee to advise them of any matters which they 
consider should be brought to the Audit Committee’s attention 
without the Executive Directors present. The external auditors may 
also request a meeting with the Audit Committee if they consider 
it necessary.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit 
Committee. The members of the Audit Committee can, where 
they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense.
The Audit Committee’s duties include, inter alia:
monitoring the integrity of the Group’s Financial Statements and  >
formal announcements relating to the Group’s performance;
monitoring the effectiveness of the external process including the  >
appointment, cost and independence of the external auditors;
reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and the internal  >
audit function;
approving the appointment or replacement of the Head  >
of Internal Audit; and
reviewing the Board’s process for reviewing and managing  >
significant risk in the business.
The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line with an annual 
work plan. The Audit Committee agrees the scope of the external 
audit work and discusses the results of the full-year audit and half-year 
review each year with the external auditors and the Group Finance 
Director and Chief Executive.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published 
on Speedy’s website at www.speedyhire.plc.uk and are available 
in hard copy form on application to the Group Company Secretary.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the Group’s 
whistle-blowing procedures to ensure arrangements are in place to 
enable employees to raise concerns about possible malpractice or 
wrongdoing by the Group or any of its employees on a confi dential 
basis. This includes arrangements to investigate proportionately and 
independently such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management and for reviewing its eff ectiveness. 
The Audit Committee undertook a review of the eff ectiveness of, 
and the framework for, the Group’s system of internal control and 
risk management, including fi nancial, operational and compliance 
controls, during the year. In addition to this review, the external 
auditors provided the Audit Committee with reports of the results 
of their controls testing as part of the external audit. 
REVIEW OF THE WORK OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS
Subject to the annual appointment of the external auditors by 
shareholders, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the relationship 
between the Group and the external auditors. This review includes 
an assessment of their performance, cost-eff ectiveness, objectivity 
and independence.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate 
relationship is maintained between the Group and the external 
auditors. The Group has implemented a policy to control the provision 
of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to ensure 
that their objectivity and independence are safeguarded. This policy 
requires that the provision of any non-audit services in excess of 
£30,000 by the external auditor are subject to prior approval by the 
Audit Committee. During the year non-audit services were provided 
to the Group by both the external auditors and other accounting, or 
consulting, fi rms and the Group anticipates that this will continue in 
2010. A full breakdown of the audit and non-audit related fees is set 
out in note 4 to the Group Financial Statements on page 84.
The Audit Committee considered the external auditors’ performance 
during their period in offi  ce and reviewed the level of fees charged 
and considered them appropriate given the current size of the Group. 
The Audit Committee is satisfi ed that the level and scope of non-audit 
services undertaken by the external auditors do not impair their 
independence and objectivity. Having considered the results of 
the Audit Committee’s work, the Board is recommending the 
re-appointment of the external auditors.
This report was approved by the Board on 18 May 2010.
JAMES MORLEY
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  65
The Nomination Committee presents a separate report in relation 
to the fi nancial year ended 31 March 2010.
COMPOSITION OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Nomination Committee comprises the fi ve Non-Executive 
Directors: David Wallis (the Chairman of the Nomination Committee), 
Ishbel Macpherson, Peter Atkinson, Michael Averill and James Morley, 
all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent. 
Biographies of the members of the Nomination Committee are 
set out on pages 46 and 47 .
OPERATION OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Nomination Committee met on two occasions during the year. 
Details of the attendance at Nomination Committee meetings are 
set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 51.
The Nomination Committee’s duties include, inter alia:
reviewing the size and composition of the Board and membership  >
of Board Committees;
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience  >
of the Board;
ensuring that succession planning is in place for the Board; >
ensuring that there is a formal and transparent procedure for the  >
appointment of new Executive and Non-Executive Directors to 
the Board and making recommendations to the Board on such 
appointments; and
the re-appointment of Directors following their retirement  >
by rotation.
The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board. The 
process involves the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable 
candidates who are proposed by either the existing Board members 
or by an external search company. Careful consideration is given to 
ensure appointees have enough time available to devote to the role 
and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board 
is maintained. When the Nomination Committee has identifi ed a 
suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will 
make a recommendation to the Board with the Board making the 
fi nal decision.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, 
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will normally chair 
the Nomination Committee instead of the Chairman.
During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the balance of 
skills, knowledge and experience of the Board together with the size, 
structure and composition of the Board, and reviewed the succession 
plans for the Board. 
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, the 
Chief Executive may attend meetings of the Nomination Committee. 
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination 
Committee. The members of the Nomination Committee can, where 
they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are published 
on Speedy’s website at www.speedyhire.plc.uk and are available 
in hard copy form on application to the Group Company Secretary.
This report was approved by the Board on 18 May 2010.
DAVID WALLIS
CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
NOMINA TION COMMITTEE REPORT
Governance 66  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Governance
INDEPENDENT A UDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF SPEED Y HIRE PLC
We have audited the Financial Statements of Speedy Hire Plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2010 set out on pages 68 to 101. 
The fi nancial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent 
company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 49 the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Financial Statements and for being satisfi ed that they give a 
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A description of the scope of an audit of fi nancial statements is 
provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP .
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion:
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the  >
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2010 
and of the group’s loss for the year then ended;
the group financial statements have been properly prepared  >
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
the parent company financial statements have been properly  >
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006; and
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with  >
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES 
ACT 2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has  >
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; 
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year  >
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements; and
information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set  >
out on pages 51 to 55 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial 
statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY 
EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent  >
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
the parent company financial statements and the part of the  >
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law  >
are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we  >
require for our audit; or
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared  >
by the company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
the Directors’ statement, set out on page 48, in relation to going  >
concern; and
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 51 to 55  >
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
M. NEWSHOLME
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of
KPMG Audit Plc
Statutory Auditor
St James Square
Manchester M2 6DS
18 May 2010
Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  67
FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
Financial statements
68 Consolidated income statement
69  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
70 Consolidated balance sheet
71 Company balance sheet
72 Consolidated cash fl ow statement
73 Company cash fl ow statement
74  Consolidated statement of changes in equity
75  Company statement of changes in equity
76 Notes to the fi nancial statements
 101 Five-year summary
Investor information
 102 Shareholder information
 103 Registered offi  ce and advisers
 104  Awards
IBC  Accreditations and memberships
Financial statements Investor information
Financial statements 68  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
CONSOLID A TED INCOME ST A TEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 1 MARCH 20 1 0
      Before  
   Before   exceptional  
   exceptional Exceptional  items Exceptional Total
   items items Total 2009 items 2009
   2010 2010 2010 restated 2009 restated
  Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue  2 351.1 – 351.1 482.7 – 482.7
Cost of sales   (142.7) – (142.7) (194.7) – (194.7)
Gross profi t   208.4 – 208.4 288.0 – 288.0
Distribution costs   (37.8) – (37.8) (50.5) – (50.5)
Administrative expenses   (168.1) (11.1) (179.2) (197.5) (90.7) (288.2)
Analysis of operating (loss)/profi t
Operating profi t before amortisation and 
 exceptional items   8.0 – 8.0 49.2 – 49.2
Amortisation   (5.5) – (5.5) (9.2) – (9.2)
Impairment of intangible assets  3 – – – – (60.9) (60.9)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 3 – – – – (8.8) (8.8)
Exceptional restructuring costs  3 – (11.1) (11.1) – (21.0) (21.0)
Operating (loss)/profi t  4 2.5 (11.1) (8.6) 40.0 (90.7) (50.7)
Financial income  7 – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Financial expense  3, 7 (14.2) – (14.2) (16.0) (4.6) (20.6)
(Loss)/profi t before taxation   (11.7) (11.1) (22.8) 24.2 (95.3) (71.1)
Taxation   3, 8 1.8 2.7 4.5 (7.0) 23.0 16.0
(Loss)/profi t for the fi nancial year   (9.9) (8.4) (18.3) 17.2 (72.3) (55.1)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent     (18.3)   (55.1)
Earnings per share     Pence   Pence
– Basic  9   (4.37)   (29.57)
– Diluted  9   (4.37)   (29.57)
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  69
CONSOLID ATED ST ATEMENT OF 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 1 MARCH 20 1 0
        2009
       2010 Restated
       £m £m
Loss for the fi nancial year       (18.3) (55.1)
Other comprehensive income:
 Eff ective portion of change in fair value of cash fl ow hedges     2.6 (5.3)
 Exchange diff erence on retranslation of foreign operations     (0.5) –
Other comprehensive income, net of tax      2.1 (5.3)
Total comprehensive income for the fi nancial year      (16.2) (60.4)
Attributable to equity holders of the parent      (16.2) (60.4)
Financial statements 70  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
CONSOLID A TED BALANCE SHEET
A T 3 1 MARCH 20 1 0
       2010 2009
      Note £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets      11 65.7 71.2
Property, plant and equipment      12 285.6 323.2
        351.3 394.4
Current assets
Inventories      14 11.3 12.2
Trade and other receivables      15 103.4 104.4
Income tax       – 6.9
Cash and cash equivalents       12.5 11.0
        127 .2 134.5
Total  assets       478.5 528.9
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings      18 (0.2) (0.2)
Other fi nancial liabilities      17 (3.2) (5.7)
Trade and other payables      16 (70.9) (64.1)
Provisions      19 (4.8) (4.1)
Income tax       (1.7) –
        (80.8) (74.1)
Non-current liabilities 
Borrowings      18 (131.6) (259.2)
Provisions      19 (2.5) (3.8)
Deferred tax liabilities      20 (1 7 .0) (24.3)
        (151.1 ) (287.3)
Total liabilities       (231.9) (361.4)
Net assets       246.6 167.5
EQUITY     
Share capital      21 25.9 2.5
Share premium account       190.2 111.0
Merger reserve       3.7 3.7
Hedging reserve       (3.4) (6.0)
Translation reserve       (0.5) –
Retained earnings       30.7 56.3
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent     246.6 167.5
The fi nancial statements on pages 68 to 101 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
STEVE CORCORAN JUSTIN READ
DIRECTOR DIRECTOR
Company registered number: 927680
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  71
COMP ANY BALANCE SHEET
A T 3 1 MARCH 20 1 0
       2010 2009
      Note £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Investments      13 94.5 94.3
Deferred tax asset      20 0.2 0.1
        94.7 94.4
Current assets
Trade and other receivables      15 353.7 322.6
Tax receivable       1.0 0.9
Cash and cash equivalents       – 0.1
        354.7 323.6
Total assets       449.4 418.0
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Bank borrowings      18 (2.1) (7.6)
Trade and other payables      16 (84.6) (17.1)
Other fi nancial liabilities      17 (3.2) (5.7)
        (89.9) (30.4)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings      18 (131.1 ) (258.6)
Total liabilities       (221.0) (289.0)
Net assets       228.4 129.0
EQUITY
Share capital      21 25.9 2.5
Share premium account       190.2 111.0
Merger reserve       8.6 8.6
Hedging reserve       (3.4) (6.0)
Retained earnings       7.1 12.9
Total equity       228.4 129.0
The fi nancial statements on pages 68 to 101 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
STEVE CORCORAN JUSTIN READ
DIRECTOR DIRECTOR
Company registered number: 927680
Financial statements 72  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
CONSOLID ATED CASH FLOW ST ATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 1 MARCH 20 1 0 
        2009
       2010 Restated
       £m £m
Cash fl ow from operating activities
Loss before tax       (22.8) (71.1)
Adjustments for:   
 Financial income       – (0.2)
 Financial expense       14.2 20.6
 Exceptional impairment of intangible assets      – 60.9
 Exceptional impairment of property, plant and equipment     – 8.8
 Amortisation       5.5 9.2
 Depreciation       60.2 75.9
 (Profi t)/loss on disposal of hire equipment      (2.7) 1.1
 Loss on disposal of other property, plant and equipment (including £0.7m impairment in respect 
 of closed depots (2009: £0.5m)        0.9 0.5
Purchase of hire equipment       (33.6) (58.6)
Disposal of hire equipment       22.6 38.6
Equity-settled share-based payments       (0.1) (0.7)
        44.2 85.0
Decrease in inventories       0.9 4.0
Decrease in trade and other receivables       1.0 39.2
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables      6.9 (55.8)
Movement in provisions       (0.6) 5.7
Cash generated from operations       52.4 78.1
Interest received       – 0.2
Interest paid       (14.3) (21.4)
Tax received/(paid)       5.9 (9.8)
Net cash fl ow from operating activities      44.0 47.1
Cash fl ow from investing activities
Acquisition of businesses       – (14.6)
Purchase of other property, plant and equipment      (10.2) (16.5)
Disposal of other property, plant and equipment      0.4 0.8
Net cash fl ow from investing activities      (9.8) (30.3)
Net cash fl ow before fi nancing activities      34.2 16.8
Cash fl ow from fi nancing activities
Finance lease payments       (0.1) (0.2)
Repayment of bank loans       (127 .5) –
Proceeds from rights issue       105.5 –
Rights issue costs       (5.8) –
Dividends paid       (4.3) (10.0)
Net cash fl ow from fi nancing activities      (32.2) (10.2)
Increase in cash       2.0 6.6
Eff ect of exchange rate fl uctuations       (0.5) –
Cash at the start of the fi nancial year       11.0 4.4
Cash at the end of the fi nancial year       12.5 11.0
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  73
COMP ANY CASH FLOW ST A TEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 1 MARCH 20 1 0 
       2010 2009
       £m £m
Cash fl ow from operating activities
Loss before tax       (2.3) (10.8)
Adjustments for:
 Dividends received       – (13.8)
 Financial income       (13.3) (14.3)
 Financial expense       14.8 20.7
 Impairment of non-current investments      – 18.7
 Equity-settled share-based payments       (0.1) (1.2)
        (0.9) (0.7)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables      (31.1) 15.0
Increase/decrease) in trade and other payables      65.4 (3.5)
Cash generated from operations       33.4 10.8
Interest received       13.3 14.3
Interest paid       (14.9) (21.5)
Tax received       5.9 0.4
Net cash fl ow from operating activities      37 .7 4.0
Cash fl ow from investing activities 
Acquisition of minority interest       (0.2) (1.3)
Dividends received        – 13.8
        (0.2) 12.5
Net cash fl ow before fi nancing activities      37 .5 16.5
Cash fl ow from fi nancing activities
Repayment of borrowings       (133.0) (6.4)
Proceeds from rights issue       105.5 –
Rights issue costs       (5.8) –
Dividends paid       (4.3) (10.0)
Net cash fl ow from fi nancing activities      (37 .6) (16.4)
(Decrease)/increase in cash       (0.1) 0.1
Cash at the start of the fi nancial year       0.1 –
Cash at the end of the fi nancial year       – 0.1
Financial statements 74  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
CONSOLID ATED ST ATEMENT OF 
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 1 MARCH 20 1 0
  Share Share Merger Hedging Translation Retained  Minority Total
  capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings Sub-total interest  equity
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2008  2.5 1 1 1.0 3.7 (0.7) – 122.3 238.8 1.3 240.1
Loss for the fi nancial year – – – – – (55.1) (55.1) – (55.1)
Losses on cash fl ow hedges – – – (5.3) – – (5.3) – (5.3)
Total comprehensive income – – – (5.3) – (55.1) (60.4) – (60.4)
Dividends – – – – – (10.0) (10.0) – (10.0)
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – – – (0.7) (0.7) – (0.7)
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – – – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2)
Purchase of minority interest – – – – – – – (1.3) (1.3)
At 31 March 2009 2.5 1 1 1.0 3.7 (6.0) – 56.3 167 .5 – 167 .5
Loss for the fi nancial year – – – – – (18.3) (18.3) – (18.3)
Gains on cash fl ow hedges – – – 2.6 – – 2.6 – 2.6
Translation reserve – – – – (0.5) – (0.5) – (0.5)
Total comprehensive income – – – 2.6 (0.5) (18.3) (16.2) – (16.2)
Dividends – – – – – (4.3) (4.3) – (4.3)
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Issue of ordinary shares 22.9 76.8 – – – – 99.7 – 99.7
Employee Benefi ts Trust allotments 0.5 2.4 – – – (2.9) – – –
At 31 March 2010 25.9 190.2 3.7 (3.4) (0.5) 30.7 246.6 – 246.6
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  75
COMP ANY ST A TEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 1 MARCH 20 1 0 
   Share Share Merger Hedging Retained Total
   capital premium reserve reserve earnings equity
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2008    2.5 1 1 1.0 8.6 (0.7) 34.9 156.3
Loss for the fi nancial year   – – – – (10.8) (10.8)
Losses on cash fl ow hedges    – – – (5.3) – (5.3)
Total comprehensive income   – – – (5.3) (10.8) (16.1)
Dividends   – – – – (10.0) (10.0)
Equity-settled share-based payments   – – – – (1.2) (1.2)
At 31 March 2009   2.5 1 1 1.0 8.6 (6.0) 12.9 129.0
Profi t for the fi nancial year   – – – – 1.5 1.5
Losses on cash fl ow hedges   – – – 2.6 – 2.6
Total comprehensive income   – – – 2.6 1.5 4.1
Dividends   – – – – (4.3) (4.3)
Equity-settled share-based payments   – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Issue of ordinary shares   22.9 76.8 – – – 99.7
Employee Benefi ts Trust allotments   0.5 2.4 – – (2.9) –
At 31 March 2010   25.9 190.2 8.6 (3.4) 7 .1 228.4
Financial statements 76  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Speedy Hire Plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom. The consolidated fi nancial statements of the Company for the year ended 
31 March 2010 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’). The consolidated and Parent Company fi nancial 
statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2010.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
Both the Group and Parent Company fi nancial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS’). On publishing the Parent Company fi nancial statements 
here together with the Group fi nancial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 
2006 not to present its individual income statement or statement of comprehensive income and related notes that form part of the approved 
fi nancial statements. 
Basis of preparation
The fi nancial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative fi nancial instruments are held at fair value. 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated fi nancial statements.
As highlighted in note 17 to the fi nancial statements, the Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through operating cash 
fl ows, supplemented as necessary by borrowings.
The Directors have prepared cash fl ow projections for the period to September 201 1 which show that the Group is capable of continuing to 
operate within its existing loan facilities and can meet the covenant tests set out within its bank facility agreement. The key assumptions on 
which the projections are based include an assessment of the impact of future market conditions on projected revenues and an assessment 
of the net capital investment required to support the expected level of revenues.
Further information on the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to aff ect its future development, performance and 
position is set out in the Chief Executive’s Review above. The fi nancial position of the Group, its cash fl ows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Group Financial Review above. In addition, note 17 to the fi nancial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, its fi nancial risk management objectives, details of its fi nancial instruments and hedging 
activities and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Whilst the Directors consider that there is a degree of subjectivity involved in their assumptions, on the basis of the above the Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and fi nancial statements.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
fi nancial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefi ts from its activities. The fi nancial statements of subsidiaries are included in 
the consolidated fi nancial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-Group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated fi nancial statements. 
ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
During the year the Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments, as explained in note 2. In addition the following amendments to existing 
standards and IFRICs have also been adopted, details of which can be found in note 22:
IAS 1: Presentation of fi nancial statements: A revised presentation
IFRS 7: Improving disclosures on fi nancial instruments
IFRS 2: Share-based payment: Vesting conditions and cancellations
IAS 16: Property, plant and equipment (and consequential amendment to IAS 7 Statement of cash fl ows)
 
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOT YET EFFECTIVE
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet eff ective for the year ended 31 March 2010, and have 
not been applied in preparing these consolidated fi nancial statements. None of these will have an eff ect on the consolidated fi nancial 
statements of the Group, except for Eligible Hedged Items − Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, 
which clarifi es the existing principles that determine whether specifi c risks or portions of cash fl ows are eligible for designation in a hedging 
relationship. The amendment, which becomes mandatory for the Group’s 201 1 consolidated fi nancial statements, is not expected to have a 
signifi cant impact on the consolidated fi nancial statements.
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  77
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
REVENUE
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the hire. Revenue arising from the sale of ex-hire fl eet 
assets and consumable stock is recognised in the income statement when the signifi cant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred 
to the buyer. Transfer occurs when the product or asset is received at the customers’ location.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes expenditure that 
is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged to the income statement so as to write off  the cost of the assets over the estimated 
useful lives after taking account of estimated residual values. Residual values are reassessed annually. Land is not depreciated. Hire equipment 
assets are depreciated so as to write them down to their residual value over their normal working lives which range from three to 15 years 
depending on the category of the asset. 
The principal rates and methods of depreciation used are as follows:
Hire equipment >
Tools and general equipment   – between three and seven years straight-line
Surveying equipment    – fi ve years straight-line
Power equipment    – between fi ve and ten years straight-line
Accommodation and storage units   – between eight and 15 years straight-line
Non-hire assets >
Freehold buildings, and long leasehold improvements – over the shorter of the lease period and 50 years straight-line
Short leasehold property improvements  – over the period of the lease
Fixtures and fi ttings and offi  ce equipment (excluding IT) – 25%-45% per annum reducing balance
IT equipment and software    –  between three and fi ve years straight line, or over the period of software 
licence (if shorter)
Motor vehicles     – 25% per annum reducing balance
Planned disposals of hire equipment are transferred, at net book value, to inventory prior to sale.
 
START-UP EXPENSES AND LEASE INCENTIVES
Legal and start-up expenses incurred in respect of new hire depots are written off  as incurred. 
Premiums paid or incentives received (including rent-free periods extending beyond a depot’s opening date) on the acquisition of trading 
locations are written off  over the period of the lease. 
LEASES
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classifi ed as fi nance leases. These assets are 
included in the balance sheet at the lower of the fair value or present value of minimum lease payments at inception and are depreciated 
accordingly. The capital element of the corresponding fi nancing commitments is included in the balance sheet. 
Lease payments in respect of fi nance leases are apportioned between the fi nance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. 
The fi nance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease 
incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
FINANCING INCOME AND COSTS
Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, and gains and losses on fi nancial instruments that are recognised in the income 
statement.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the eff ective interest rate.
Interest payable on borrowings includes a charge in respect of attributable transaction costs, which are recognised in the income statement 
over the period of the borrowings on an eff ective interest basis. The interest expense component of fi nance lease payments is recognised 
in the income statement using the lease’s implicit interest rate.
Financial statements 78  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
INCOME TAX
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity in which case it 
is recognised in equity. Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for 
the year, using tax rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary diff erences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for fi nancial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary diff erences are not 
provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities aff ecting neither accounting nor taxable 
profi t, and diff erences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The 
amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
IAS 12 Income Taxes does not require all temporary diff erences to be provided for. In particular, the Group does not provide for deferred tax on 
undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of the distribution and the temporary diff erence created is 
not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profi ts will be available against which the asset can 
be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related 
tax benefi t will be realised. 
 
SEGMENT REPORTING
As of 1 April 2009 the Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that internally is provided to the Group 
Board, which is the Group’s chief operating decision body. This change in accounting policy is due to the adoption of IFRS 8 Operating 
Segments. Previously operating segments were determined and presented in accordance with IAS 14 Segment Reporting. The new accounting 
policy in respect of segment operating disclosures is presented as follows.
Comparative segment information has been re-presented in conformity with the transitional requirements of such standard. Since the change 
in accounting policy only impacts presentation and disclosure aspects, there is no impact on earnings per share.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, 
including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating 
results are reviewed regularly by the Group Board to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its 
performance for which discrete fi nancial information is available. 
Segment results that are reported to the Group Board include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated 
on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets (primarily the Company’s headquarters) and head offi  ce expenses.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other 
than goodwill. 
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
As part of its transition to IFRS, the Group elected to restate only those business combinations that occurred on or after 1 April 2004. In respect 
of acquisitions prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Group’s previous accounting framework, UK GAAP , 
less subsequent impairments.
Goodwill >
 All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. In respect of acquisitions since 1 April 2004, goodwill 
represents the diff erence between the cost of acquisition and the fair value of the identifi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
acquired. 
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, and is included as an intangible asset. It is allocated to cash-generating 
units and is tested annually for impairment and at each reporting date to the extent that there are any indicators of impairment. 
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Other intangible assets >
Intangible assets other than goodwill that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses (note 1 1). 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  79
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Amortisation >
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of identifi ed intangible 
assets. Intangible assets excluding goodwill are amortised from the date that they are available for use. For a number of its acquisitions, the 
Group has identifi ed intangible assets in respect of sole supply contracts, customer lists, brands and non-compete agreements. The values 
of these intangibles are recognised as part of the identifi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. The useful lives are 
estimated as follows:
Sole supply contracts  – over the unexpired period of the contracts, up to fi ve years
Customer lists   – over the period of agreement, up to ten years
Brand    – over the period of use in the business, up to four years
Non-compete agreements  – over the period of the agreement, up to fi ve years.
 
INVESTMENTS (COMPANY ONLY)
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any provisions for permanent diminution in value. Dividends received and 
receivable are credited to the Company’s profi t and loss account to the extent that they represent a realised profi t for the Company. 
IMPAIRMENTS 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-fi nancial assets, other than inventory and deferred tax, are reviewed at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated, being 
the higher of net realisable value and value in use, and if there is an impairment loss then this loss is recognised such that the carrying amount 
is reduced accordingly.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated fi rst to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (or group of units) on a pro rata basis.
OWN SHARES HELD BY EMPLOYEE BENEFITS TRUST
Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee Benefi ts Trust are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore refl ected on the 
Parent Company and Group fi nancial statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value using FIFO, or in the case of ex-hire equipment assets at the lower of cost 
less accumulated depreciation and impairment at the date of transfer to inventory or net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, 
where appropriate, overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition. Net realisable value is 
the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
The Group uses derivative fi nancial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from fi nancing activities. In accordance with 
its Treasury Policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative fi nancial instruments for trading purposes; however, derivatives that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments and the movement in fair value is recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in profi t or loss when incurred. Subsequent to 
initial recognition, changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument designated as a cash fl ow hedge are recognised directly in 
equity to the extent that the hedge is eff ective. To the extent that the hedge is ineff ective, changes in fair value are recognised in profi t or loss.
If the hedging instrument expires, no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, is sold, is terminated or is exercised, then hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast 
transaction occurs. When the hedged item is a non-fi nancial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount 
of the asset when it is recognised. In other cases the amount recognised in equity is transferred to profi t or loss in the same period that the 
hedged items aff ects profi t or loss. 
 
INTRA-GROUP FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Where the Company enters into fi nancial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the 
Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company treats the guarantee 
contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under 
the guarantee.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount less impairment losses.
Financial statements 80  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and overnight deposits.
INTEREST-BEARING BORROWINGS
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any diff erence between cost and redemption value being recognised in the 
income statement over the period of the borrowings on an eff ective interest basis.
TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange gains and losses arising 
on settlement or retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the income statement.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results of overseas 
subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange during the period. Exchange diff erences resulting from 
the translation of the results and balances of overseas subsidiary undertakings are charged or credited directly to the foreign currency 
translation reserve. Such translation diff erences become recognised in the income statement in the period in which the subsidiary undertaking 
is disposed.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Pension schemes >
 The Group off ers a stakeholder pension arrangement to employees and in addition makes contributions to personal pension schemes for 
certain employees. Obligations for contributions to these defi ned contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income 
statement as incurred.
Share-based payment transactions >
  The Group operates a number of schemes which allow certain employees to acquire shares in the Company, including the Performance 
Plan, the Co-Investment Plan, and the all-employee Sharesave Schemes. The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee 
expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured, using an appropriate option 
pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense 
is adjusted to refl ect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to TSR not achieving the threshold for 
vesting. For share-based payment awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value of the share-based payment is measured to 
refl ect such conditions and there is no true-up for diff erences between expected and actual outcomes.
PROVISIONS
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, the 
obligation can be measured reliably, and it is probable that an outfl ow of economic benefi ts will be required to settle the obligation. If the 
eff ect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash fl ows at a pre-tax rate that refl ects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specifi c to the liability.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items are those material items which, by virtue of their size or incidence, are presented separately in the income statement 
to enable a full understanding of the Group’s fi nancial performance. Transactions which may give rise to exceptional items include the 
restructuring of business activities.
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES
The preparation of fi nancial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that aff ect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense. The estimates 
and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily 
apparent from other sources. Actual results may diff er from these estimates.
The judgements and estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision aff ects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future 
periods if the revision aff ects both current and future periods.
In relation to the Group’s property, plant and equipment (note 12), useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been established 
using historical experience and an assessment of the nature of the assets involved. Assets are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine 
whether circumstances exist that could lead to potential impairment of the carrying value of such assets. 
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  81
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
The Group has a number of properties which are leased but no longer occupied. The future cost of these ongoing lease obligations is provided 
for by way of an onerous property contract provision (see note 19). In determining the level of provision required, the Group assesses the 
likelihood of mitigating future lease costs as a result of break clauses in leases, or the likelihood of sub-letting the property to third parties. 
In doing so, the Group obtains external professional advice where the amounts involved are material.
Goodwill is reviewed annually to assess the requirement for impairment. Other intangible assets are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine 
whether circumstances exist that could lead to the conclusion that the carrying value of such assets is not supportable. Impairment testing on 
goodwill is carried out in accordance with the analyses described in note 1 1. Such calculations require judgement relating to the appropriate 
discount factors and long-term growth prevalent in particular markets as well as short-term business performance. The Directors draw upon 
experience as well as external resources in making these judgements.
In the year to 31 March 2010, an impairment review was undertaken in respect of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, using 
the basis and key assumptions set out in note 1 1.
Upon acquisition of a business, its identifi able assets and liabilities are assessed to determine their fair value. The values attributed to assets and 
liabilities as part of this process are, where appropriate, based on market values identifi ed for equivalent assets, together with management’s 
experience and assessments. Where possible, for example in respect of the acquisition of hire assets, comparison is made to the carrying value 
of assets of a similar condition and age in the existing business.
2 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
The Group adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments during the period. This accounting standard requires the segmental disclosure presented 
in the fi nancial statements to refl ect the format of reports reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision-Maker to make strategic decisions.
The Group has undertaken a signifi cant restructure of the operational and statutory structure during the year.
UK statutory entities reported under ‘Tools’ and ‘Equipment’ historically have been incorporated into one statutory entity (Speedy Asset 
Services Limited). Strategic decisions are now made on a consolidated ‘One Speedy’ level refl ecting the Group’s strategy of becoming closer 
to customers, cross-selling and reducing the cost base by having one operational overhead base.
The Group’s chief operating decision body is the Group Board. The Group Board reviews the Group’s internal reporting which is structured into 
UK & Ireland Asset Services and International & Advisory Services in order to monitor and assess performance for the purpose of making 
operating decisions. 
UK & Ireland Asset Services are managed separately but have been aggregated into one operating segment as they have similar economic 
characteristics including the nature of the products and services, the type or class of customer for their products and services and the methods 
used to distribute their products or provide their services.
The International & Advisory Services segment contains the new International Asset Services and Branded & Advisory divisions which 
commenced trading in April 2009 but are not currently material to the Group’s operations. 
      UK &  International   
      Ireland Asset & Advisory
      Services Services Total
For the year ended 31 March 2010      £m £m £m
Analysis of segmental result   
Segmental revenue      353.4 3.7 357.1
Intra-Group revenue      (6.0) – (6.0)
Revenue      347.4 3.7 351.1
Operating result before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional costs   72.0 1.0 73.0
Amortisation      (5.5)  – (5.5)
Depreciation      (57.0) (0.5) (57.5)
Exceptional restructuring costs      (7.3) – (7.3)
Reportable segment result      2.2 0.5 2.7
Corporate costs (including exceptional costs of £3.8m)       (1 1.3)
Operating loss        (8.6)
Net fi nancial expense        (14.2)
Loss before tax        (22.8)
Taxation        4.5
Loss for the fi nancial year        (18.3)
Financial statements 82  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
2 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS CONTINUED
      UK &  International   
      Ireland Asset & Advisory
      Services Services Total
For the year ended 31 March 2010      £m £m £m
Analysis of segmental assets and liabilities
Segmental non-current assets   
Intangible assets      65.7 – 65.7
Property, plant and equipment      276.1 9.5 285.6
       341.8 9.5 351.3
Segmental current assets      106.0 1.8 107.8
Segmental total assets      447.8 11.3 459.1
Cash        12.5
Unallocated assets        6.9
Total assets        478.5
Segmental liabilities      (84.1) (1.0) (85.1)
Borrowings        (131.1 )
Unallocated liabilities        (15.7)
Total liabilities        (231.9)
Net assets        246.6
Analysis of capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment      26.4 7.8 34.2
Segmental capital expenditure      26.4 7.8 34.2
Unallocated capital expenditure        9.6
Total capital expenditure        43.8
      UK &  International   
      Ireland Asset & Advisory
      Services Services Total
For the year ended 31 March 2009 (restated)     £m £m £m
Analysis of segmental result
Segmental revenue      494.4 – 494.4
Intra-Group revenue      (11.7) – (11.7)
Revenue      482.7 – 482.7
Operating result before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional costs   132.2 – 132.2
 Amortisation      (9.2) – (9.2)
 Depreciation      (73.1) – (73.1)
 Impairment of intangible assets      (60.9) – (60.9)
 Impairment of property, plant and equipment     (8.8) – (8.8)
 Exceptional restructuring costs      (17.6) – (17.6)
Reportable segment result      (37.4) – (37.4)
Corporate costs (including exceptional costs of £3.4m)       (13.3)
Operating loss        (50.7)
Net fi nancial expense        (20.4)
Loss before tax        (71.1)
Taxation        16.0
Loss for the fi nancial year        (55.1)
 
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  83
2 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS CONTINUED
      UK &  International   
      Ireland Asset & Advisory
      Services Services Total
For the year ended 31 March 2009 (restated)     £m £m £m
Analysis of segmental assets and liabilities
Segmental non-current assets
Intangible assets      71.2 – 71.2
Property, plant and equipment      322.8 – 322.8
       394.0 – 394.0
Segmental current assets      111.6 – 111.6
Segmental total assets      505.6 – 505.6
Cash        11.0
Unallocated assets        12.3
Total assets        528.9
Segmental liabilities      (88.0) – (88.0)
Borrowings        (258.6)
Unallocated liabilities        (14.8)
Total liabilities        (361.4)
Net assets        167 .5
Analysis of capital expenditure
Intangible assets      12.4 – 12.4
Property, plant and equipment      62.1 – 62.1
Segmental capital expenditure      74.5 – 74.5
Unallocated capital expenditure        13.9
Total capital expenditure        88.4
          
Intra-Group transactions are undertaken on an arm’s length basis. Corporate costs comprise the costs of operating the head offi  ce of Speedy 
Hire Plc and also certain central activities. These are not directly related to the activities of the operating segments.
The fi nancing of the Group’s activities is undertaken at head offi  ce level and consequently net fi nancing costs cannot be analysed segmentally. 
The unallocated net assets comprise principally computer and information systems, working capital balances held by the Support Services 
function and liabilities relating to dividends and taxation and are not directly attributable to the activities of the operating segments.
 
GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION
In presenting geographical information, revenue is based on the geographical location of customers. Assets are based on the geographical 
location of the assets. 
        Non-current
       Revenues assets
For the year ended 31 March 2010       £m £m
UK       342.9 335.3
Ireland       5.8 6.5
Other countries        2.4 9.5
        351.1 351.3
                 
        Non-current
       Revenues assets
For the year ended 31 March 2009       £m £m
UK       473.6 386.0
Ireland       9.1 8.4
Other countries        – –
        482.7 394.4
                 
MAJOR CUSTOMER
No one customer represents more than 10% of revenue, reported profi t or combined assets of all reporting segments.
 
Financial statements 84  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
3 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010
During the period the Group has undertaken further restructuring and cost-saving initiatives resulting in a number of non-recurring items of 
expense. Items include costs related to the creation of a new Shared Service Centre (£0.6m), provisions in respect of further property closures 
including provision for vacant property (£3.9m) and writing off  related fi xtures and fi ttings (£0.7m), redundancy and related costs (£3.9m) and 
reorganisation costs associated with depot and back offi  ce restructuring (£2.0m). 
The resulting tax credit in relation to exceptional items amounts to £2.7m, of which £2.5m relates to current tax and £0.2m relates to 
deferred tax.
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2009
Impairment of non-current assets
A provision of £60.9m was made against the Group’s goodwill and intangible assets following a review of their carrying values as part of the 
annual impairment testing process. Deterioration in the markets in which the Group operates, notably the construction markets, resulted in the 
Group revising its assumptions regarding future activity levels. This resulted in revised forecasts of cash fl ows arising in cash-generating units. 
An impairment loss was calculated on a value-in-use basis and consisted of a £48.0m write-down in goodwill and £12.9m writedown of other 
acquired intangibles. In addition, an impairment loss was identifi ed in respect of the carrying value of tangible assets in respect of the former 
Accommodation business, and accordingly £8.8m was written off  the carrying value in the year.
Exceptional restructuring costs
As part of the Group’s cost reduction programme, a number of initiatives were undertaken to reduce the Group’s operating structure to a 
more appropriate level in light of the changes in market conditions. The main elements of cost incurred as part of these processes include 
provisions for onerous lease obligations on depot closures (£5.3m) together with provisions against the carrying value of related fi xtures and 
fi ttings and leasehold improvements (£0.5m), redundancy costs (£4.0m), losses incurred on the one-off  disposal of surplus hire fl eet assets 
(£7 .1m), reorganisation of back-offi  ce structures and the ongoing creation of a central shared-service facility (£0.8m). In addition, costs of £1.9m 
were incurred arising from the acquisition and integration of the Amec LSS and Carillion Asset Management businesses (relating primarily to 
redundancy, relocation and asset reorganisation costs).
Other exceptional items
The Group negotiated amendments to its bank facility to establish more appropriate fi nancial covenants and £1.4m of costs were incurred 
in respect of various advisers working for either the Group or the bank syndicate (included within operating expenses), and fees amounting 
to £4.6m (included within fi nancing costs) were paid to the bank syndicate.
The resulting tax credit arising in relation to exceptional items amounts to £23.0m, of which £16.8m related to current tax and £6.2m related 
to deferred tax.
 
4 OPERATING (LOSS)/PROFIT
Operating (loss)/profi t is stated after charging/(crediting):
       2010 2009
       £m £m
Amortisation of intangible assets       5.5 9.2
Depreciation  
 of owned property, plant and equipment      60.1 75.8
 of property, plant and equipment held under hire-purchase and fi nance leases    0.1 0.1
Loss/(profi t) on disposal of property, plant and equipment, net of impairment (£0.7m, 2009: £0.5m)   1.8 1.6
Operating lease rentals  
 of plant and equipment       1.6 2.3
 of land and buildings       14.6 15.1
 of vehicles       12.6 14.5
Auditors’ remuneration  
 audit of these fi nancial statements       0.1 0.1
 amounts receivable by auditors in respect of:  
 audit of fi nancial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation     0.1 0.2
 other non-audit services       0.4 0.6
 other services relating to taxation       – 0.1
Non-audit services in 2010 relate to work associated with the rights issue in July 2009 and the costs have been applied against the share 
premium arising on the rights issue.
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  85
5 EMPLOYEES
The average number of people employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was as follows:
        Number of employees
       2010 2009
UK & Ireland Asset Services       3,714 4,681
International & Advisory Services       41 –
Central       512 428
        4,267 5,109
                
The aggregate payroll costs of these employees were as follows:
        2009
       2010 Restated
       £m £m
Wages and salaries       105.0 129.3
Social security costs       9.9 12.4
Other pension costs       0.7 0.6
Share-based payments       (0.1) (0.7)
        11 5.5 141.6
                
The Company does not have any employees.
 
6 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
       2010 2009
       £000 £000
Directors’ emoluments  
Basic remuneration, including benefi ts       1,329 1,348
Performance-related bonuses       – –
Payments to former Directors       18 33
Share-based payment charge       – –
Company pension contributions to personal pension plans     155 154
        1,502 1,535
Emolument of the highest paid Director  
Basic remuneration, including benefi ts       352 352
Performance-related bonuses       – –
Share-based payment charge       – –
Company pension contributions to personal pension plans     68 68
        420 420
Further analysis of Directors’ remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Report.
All of the Directors’ remuneration is paid by Speedy Support Services Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Speedy Hire Plc. No charge is 
incurred by the Parent Company.
Financial statements 86  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
7 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE
       2010 2009
       £000 £000
Financial income  
Bank interest receivable       – 0.2
Financial expense  
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts       (9.9) (15.0)
Hedge interest payable       (3.7) (0.3)
Exceptional amortisation of bank fee       – (4.6)
Other fi nance costs       (0.6) (0.7)
        (14.2) (20.6)
Net fi nancial expense       (14.2) (20.4)
8 TAXATION
       2010 2009
       £000 £000
Current tax  
UK corporation tax on profi ts for the period at 28% (2009: 28%)     – (5.1)
Adjustment in respect of prior years       2.8 2.3
Total current tax       2.8 (2.8)
Deferred tax  
UK deferred tax at 28% (2009: 28%)       (4.9) (9.2)
Adjustment in respect of prior years       (2.4) (4.0)
Total deferred tax       (7 .3) (13.2)
Total tax credit       (4.5) (16.0)
The tax credit for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK and is explained as follows:
        2009
       2010 Restated
       £000 £000
Loss before tax       (22.8) (71.1)
Tax credit at 28% (2009: 28%)       (6.4) (19.9)
Expenses not deductable for tax purposes      1.9 2.5
Non-taxable income       (0.7) (0.6)
Share-based payments       0.1 0.5
Impairment of goodwill arising on consolidation      – 3.2
Deferred tax not provided on losses       0.2 –
Adjustment to tax in respect of prior years      0.4 (1.7)
Tax credit for the year       (4.5) (16.0)
Tax recognised directly in equity (note 20)  
Deferred tax charge       – 0.2
There are no unrecognised deferred tax liabilities (2009: £nil).
 
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  87
9 (LOSS)/EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculation of basic (loss)/earnings per share is based on the loss attributable to equity holders of the Parent of £18.3m (2009: loss £55.1m) 
and the weighted average number of 5 pence ordinary shares in issue during the year ended 31 March 2010 calculated as follows:
        31 March
       31 March 2009
       2010 Restated
Loss (£m)  
Loss for the year after tax – basic earnings      (18.3) (55.1)
Intangible amortisation charge (after tax)      4.0 7.1
Exceptional items (after tax)       8.4 72.2
Adjusted (loss)/earnings (after tax)       (5.9) 24.2
Weighted average number of shares in issue (million)  
At the beginning of the year       186.5 179.6
Issue of ordinary shares       232.4 –
Exercise of share options        0.2 6.5
At the end of the year – basic number of shares      419.1 186.1
Share options       – 2.1
Employee share scheme       – –
At the end of the year – diluted number of shares      419.1 188.2
(Loss)/earnings per share (pence)  
Basic (loss)/earnings per share       (4.37) (29.57)
Amortisation       0.96 3.76
Exceptional costs       2.00 38.81
Adjusted (loss)/earnings per share       (1.41 ) 13.00
Basic (loss)/earnings per share       (4.37) (29.57)
Share options       – –
Employee share scheme       – –
Diluted loss per share       (4.37) (29.57)
Adjusted (loss)/earnings per share       (1.41 ) 13.00
Share options       – (0.12)
Employee share schemes       – –
Adjusted diluted (loss)/earnings per share      (1.41 ) 12.88
Comparative fi gures for the year ended 31 March 2009 have been restated to take account of the bonus element of the rights issue in July 2009. 
The restatement has been calculated by applying the theoretical ex-rights price of 32.775 pence. Total number of shares outstanding at 
31 March 2010 amounted to 517 ,215,666. 
 
10 DIVIDENDS 
The aggregate amount of dividend comprises:
       2010 2009
       £m £m
2008 fi nal dividend (13.4 pence on 50.7m shares)      – 6.8
2009 interim dividend (6.4 pence on 50.7m shares)      – 3.2
2009 fi nal dividend (6.4 pence on 50.7m shares)      3.2 –
2010 interim dividend (0.2 pence on 517 .2m shares)      1.1 –
        4.3 10.0
                
Subsequent to the end of the year and not included in the results for the year, the Directors recommended a fi nal dividend of 0.2 pence 
(2009: 6.4 pence) per share, bringing the total amount payable in respect of the 2010 year to 0.4 pence (2009: 12.8 pence), to be paid on 
18 August 2010 to shareholders on the register on 18 June 2010. The total amount payable in respect of the 2009 year, after adjustment for 
the rights issue, was 1.7 pence per share for both interim and fi nal dividends.
The Employee Benefi ts Trust established to hold shares for the Performance Plan and Co-Investment Plan has waived its right to the interim and 
fi nal proposed dividends. At 31 March 2010, the trust held 10,410,896 5p ordinary shares (including 7 ,594,666 jointly owned shares) (2009: 
281,673 shares).
Financial statements 88  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
11 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS
    Customer Non-compete  Supply 
   Goodwill lists agreements Brand agreements Total
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 
At 1 April 2008   89.3 31.5 4.6 4.1 14.7 144.2
Additions through business combinations  4.2 4.7 0.3 – 3.2 12.4
At 31 March 2009   93.5 36.2 4.9 4.1 17 .9 156.6
Additions through business combinations  – – – – – –
At 31 March 2010   93.5 36.2 4.9 4.1 17 .9 156.6
Amortisation      
At 1 April 2008   1.2 4.3 0.8 2.9 6.1 15.3
Charged in year   – 4.0 1.2 0.6 3.4 9.2
Impairment (note 3)   48.0 7 .1 1.0 – 4.8 60.9
At 31 March 2009   49.2 15.4 3.0 3.5 14.3 85.4
Charged in year   – 3.0 0.8 0.6 1.1 5.5
At 31 March 2010   49.2 18.4 3.8 4.1 15.4 90.9
Net book value
At 31 March 2010   44.3 17.8 1.1 – 2.5 65.7
At 31 March 2009   44.3 20.8 1.9 0.6 3.6 71.2
At 31 March 2008   88.1 27 .2 3.8 1.2 8.6 128.9
All goodwill has arisen from business combinations. On transition to IFRS, the balance of goodwill as measured under UK GAAP was allocated 
to cash-generating units (CGUs). These are independent sources of income streams, and represent the lowest level within the Group at which 
the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes. As explained in note 2, the Group’s reportable business segments comprise 
UK & Ireland Asset Services and International & Advisory Services. All intangible assets are held in the UK & Ireland Asset Services segment, and 
it is this CGU which is assessed for impairment testing. In the prior year there were two CGUs, being Tools and Equipment.
Goodwill arising on business combinations after 1 April 2004 has been allocated to the CGUs that are expected to benefi t from that business 
combination.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to CGUs are determined by value-in-use calculations. The value-in-use 
calculations use cash fl ow projections based on fi ve-year fi nancial forecasts approved by management. The key assumptions for these forecasts 
are those regarding revenue growth, net margin and the level of capital expenditure required to support trading, which management 
estimates based on past experience adjusted for current market trends and expectations of future changes in the market. To prepare value-
in-use calculations, the Group uses cash fl ow projections for a 15-year period. The projections are made up of the 2010/11 budget, 
a subsequent four-year period using the Group’s business plan, and a further ten years’ income. The fi nal ten years’ income is extrapolated at 
an estimated average long-term nominal growth rate, estimated at 2.5% (2009: 2.5%) being an estimate of infl ation. The resulting forecast cash 
fl ows are discounted back to present value, using the Group’s pre-tax discount rate. The discount rate assumptions use an estimate of the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital. The pre-tax discount rate has been adjusted for Company and market-specifi c risks. The pre-tax 
discount rate used to discount cash fl ow forecasts is 12.6% (2009: 13.9% for both Tools and Equipment CGUs).
In the year to 31 March 2009 deterioration in the markets in which the Group operates, notably the construction markets, resulted in the Group 
revising its expectations about the level of activity sustainable in the long term. An impairment loss was calculated on a value-in-use basis, 
consisting of a £48.0m write-down in goodwill and £12.9m write-down of other acquired intangibles. The total impairment loss was attributed 
to the UK & Ireland Asset Services segment. Following this there was no diff erence between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount 
of the goodwill and intangibles balances at the balance sheet date. 
At 31 March 2010, the recoverable amount calculated using the discounted forecast cash fl ows results in a surplus over carrying value of £51.9m. 
Impairment calculations are sensitive to changes in key assumptions of revenue growth and discount rate. An increase of 1% in the pre-tax 
discount rate, with all other assumptions held constant, would reduce discounted cash fl ows by £17 .3m, leaving headroom against carrying 
value at £34.6m. A decrease of 1% in the forecast revenue growth, with all the other assumptions held constant, would reduce discounted cash 
fl ows by £19.8m. At 31 March 2009, an increase of 1% in the discount rate, with other assumptions held constant, would have given rise to an 
additional impairment charge of £5.4m for the Tools CGU and £4.0m for the Equipment CGU. A 1% decrease in the forecast revenue growth, 
with other assumptions held constant, would have given rise to an additional impairment charge of £5.3m in the Tools CGU and £2.4m in the 
Equipment CGU.
 
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  89
12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
     Land and Hire  
      buildings equipment Other Total
     £m £m £m £m
Cost     
At 1 April 2008     24.8 569.8 49.8 644.4
Additions     5.2 59.7 10.2 75.1
Arising on acquisition of businesses     – 0.9 – 0.9
Disposals     (2.0) (23.8) (1.7) (27.5)
Transfers to inventory     – (92.3) – (92.3)
At 31 March 2009     28.0 514.3 58.3 600.6
Additions     2.6 33.5 7.7 43.8
Disposals     (3.9) (49.1) (9.6) (62.6)
Transfers to inventory     – (27.5) – (27.5)
At 31 March 2010     26.7 471.2 56.4 554.3
Depreciation
At 1 April 2008     12.6 235.6 23.3 271.5
Charged in year     2.8 63.5 9.6 75.9
Impairment (note 3)     – 8.8 – 8.8
Disposals     (0.4) (15.8) (1.4) (17.6)
Transfers to inventory     – (61.2) – (61.2)
At 31 March 2009     15.0 230.9 31.5 277 .4
Charged in year     2.8 50.0 7.4 60.2
Disposals     (3.9) (42.5) (9.1) (55.5)
Impairment     0.7 – – 0.7
Transfers to inventory     – (14.1) – (14.1)
      14.6 224.3 29.8 268.7
Net book value
At 31 March 2010     12.1 246.9 26.6 285.6
At 31 March 2009     13.0 283.4 26.8 323.2
At 31 March 2008     12.2 334.2 26.5 372.9
                                
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
       2010 2009
       £m £m
Freehold properties       0.5 0.4
Long leasehold properties       0.6 0.7
Short leasehold properties       11.0 11.9
        12.1 13.0
                
At 31 March 2010, the net carrying amount of leased hire equipment was £0.4m (2009: £0.5m).
An impairment review has been completed during the year using the basis set out in note 1 1. Financial statements 90  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
13 INVESTMENTS – COMPANY 
      Investments
      in subsidiary Other 
      undertakings investments Total
      £m £m £m
Cost    
At 31 March 2008      111.7 0.1 111.8
Additions      1.3 – 1.3
At 31 March 2009      113.0 0.1 113.1
Additions      0.2 – 0.2
At 31 March 2010      113.2 0.1 113.3
Provisions
At 1 April 2008      (0.1) – (0.1)
Impairment      (18.7) – (18.7)
At 31 March 2009      (18.8) – (18.8)
Impairment      – – –
At 31 March 2010      (18.8) – (18.8)
Net book value
At 31 March 2010      94.4 0.1 94.5
At 31 March 2009      94.2 0.1 94.3
At 31 March 2008      111.6 0.1 111.7
Following the impairment testing performed in accordance with IAS 36 (see note 1 1), the Company’s carrying value of investment in subsidiary 
undertakings has been reviewed and no impairment has been made (2009: £18.7m).
The Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
        Ordinary
       Principal share capital
       activity held
Speedy Asset Services Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire Centres (Northern) Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire Centres (Southern) Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire Centres (Western) Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire Centres Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire (Scotland) Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire (Ireland) Limited*       Hire services 100%
Waterford Hire Services Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire Direct Limited*       Hire services 100%
Speedy Lifting Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy LGH Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Space Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Power Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy LCH Generators Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Pumps Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Survey Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Engineering Services Limited       Hire services 100%
Speedy Support Services Limited       Provision of group services 100%
Speedy Transport Limited       Provision of group services 100%
Allen Investments Limited       Property management 100%
Speedy Asset Leasing Limited       Leasing services 100%
Speedy International Asset Services (Holdings) Limited      Hire services 100%
Speedy International Asset Services Equipment Rental LLC     Hire and associated services 49%
* Indirect holding via a 100% subsidiary undertaking.
The Company holds voting rights in each subsidiary undertaking in the same proportion to its holdings in the ordinary share capital of the 
respective subsidiaries. All subsidiary undertakings, with the exception of the companies listed below, are incorporated and operate in the 
United Kingdom. 
Speedy Hire (Ireland) Limited and Waterford Hire Services Limited are incorporated and operate in the Republic of Ireland.
Speedy International Asset Services Equipment Rental LLC is incorporated and operates in the United Arab Emirates.
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  91
14 INVENTORIES
        Group
       2010 2009
       £m £m
Finished goods and goods for resale       11.3 12.2
Hire assets held for sale       – –
        11.3 12.2
                
The amount of inventory expensed in the year amounted to £45.3m (2009: £63.7m), included within cost of sales. No provision in respect of 
writedown in inventory is held at the year end or prior year end. 
 
15 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
      Group  Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009
     £m £m £m £m
Trade receivables     90.4 98.8 – –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings     – – 348.4 317.5
Other receivables     5.8 0.7 3.1 3.3
Prepayments and accrued income     7.2 4.9 2.2 1.8
      103.4 104.4 353.7 322.6
                                
16 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
      Group  Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009
     £m £m £m £m
Trade payables     43.3 36.8 0.4 0.7
Amounts owed to Group undertakings     – – 81.5 13.8
Other payables     5.2 8.0 – –
Accruals     22.4 19.3 2.7 2.6
      70.9 64.1 84.6 17.1
                                
17 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group holds and uses fi nancial instruments to fi nance its operations and to manage its interest rate and liquidity risks. The Group primarily 
fi nances its operations using share capital, retained profi ts and borrowings. A full description of the Group’s approach to managing these risks 
is set out below.
The Group does not engage in trading or speculative activities using derivative fi nancial instruments. A Group off set arrangement exists for 
cash balances to take advantage of the most rewarding short-term investment opportunities.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
The fair values of fi nancial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows:
     2010 2010 2009 2009
     Carrying  Fair Carrying Fair
     amount value amount value
     £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables     101.1 101.1 99.5 99.5
Cash     12.5 12.5 11.0 11.0
Secured bank borrowings     (131.1) (131.1) (258.6) (258.6)
Finance lease liabilities     (0.7) (0.7) (0.8) (0.8)
Interest rate swaps, caps and collars, used for hedging    (3.2) (3.2) (5.7) (5.7)
Trade and other payables     (48.5) (48.5) (44.8) (44.8)
      (69.9) (69.9) (199.4) (199.4)
Unrecognised gain/(loss)      –  –
                  
Financial statements 92  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
17 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
BASIS FOR DETERMINING FAIR VALUES
The following summarises the principal methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair value of fi nancial instruments refl ected in 
the table above:
a) Derivatives: Broker quotes are used for all interest rate swaps, caps and collars.
b) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:  Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash fl ows.
c) Trade and other receivables/payables: For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is 
deemed to refl ect the fair value. All other receivables/payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
The main risks arising from the Group’s fi nancial instruments are credit, interest rate, foreign currency, and liquidity risk. The Board reviews 
and agrees the policies for managing each of these risks on an annual basis.
INTEREST RATES USED FOR DETERMINING FAIR VALUE 
The interest rate used to discount estimated cash fl ows, where applicable, has been estimated at 12.6% (2009: 13.9%).
FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY
The Group and Company’s fi nancial instruments relate to cash fl ow hedges which are carried at fair value in both the current and prior year. 
The valuation is based on inputs other than quoted prices but which are directly observable (i.e. as prices) (classifi ed as Level 2 in accordance 
with IFRS 7).
CREDIT RISK
Credit risk is the risk of fi nancial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a fi nancial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, 
and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers.
The exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a 
certain amount.
At the balance sheet date there were no signifi cant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the 
carrying amount of each fi nancial asset, including derivative fi nancial instruments, in the balance sheet. No individual customer accounts for 
more than 10% of the Group’s sales transactions, and the Group’s exposure to outstanding indebtedness follows this profi le. No collateral is 
held as security in respect of amounts outstanding; however, in a number of instances, deposits are held against the value of hire equipment 
provided. The extent of deposit taken is assessed on a case-by-case basis, and is not considered signifi cant in comparison to the overall 
amounts receivable from customers.
Transactions involving derivative fi nancial instruments are undertaken with counterparties within the syndicate of banks which provide 
the Group’s term loan revolving credit facility. Given their high credit ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet 
its obligations. 
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that is based on historical experience of dealing with customers with the same risk profi le. 
 
There are £45.6m (2009: £52.2m) of trade receivables that are past due at the balance sheet date that have not been provided against. There is 
no indication as at 31 March 2010 that debtors will not meet their payment obligations in respect of trade receivables recognised in the balance 
sheet that are past due and un-provided. The ageing of trade receivables (net of impairment provision) at the year end was as follows:
        Group
       2010 2009
       £m £m
Not past due       44.8 46.6
Past due 0–30 days       21.0 23.4
Past due 31–120 days       17 .5 18.5
More than 120 days past due       7. 1 10.3
        90.4 98.8
                
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
        Group
       2010 2009
       £m £m
At 1 April       9.4 10.0
Impairment loss charged to the income statement      2.9 9.4
Written off  in the year       (5.6) (10.0)
At 31 March       6.7 9.4
                
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  93
17 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
LIQUIDITY RISK
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its fi nancial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing 
liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have suffi  cient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed 
conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
The Group uses both short- and long-term cash forecasts to assist in monitoring cash fl ow requirements. Typically, the Group uses short-term 
forecasting to ensure that it has suffi  cient cash on demand to meet operational expenses and to service fi nancing obligations for a period of 12 
weeks. Longer-term forecasts are performed on a regular basis to assess compliance with bank covenants on existing facilities, ensuring that 
activities can be managed within reason to ensure covenant breaches are avoided. 
At 31 March 2010, the Group had available loan facilities amounting to £260m (2009: £300m), as detailed in note 18. Of these facilities £128m 
remained unutilised at 31 March 2010.
The Group monitors available facilities against forward requirements on a regular basis and, where necessary, obtains additional sources of 
fi nancing to provide the Group with the appropriate level of headroom against the required borrowing. The Group has obtained additional 
bank and equity funding in recent years as the business has grown, and maintains close contact with its syndicate of banks.
 
This analysis is based on the undiscounted contractual maturities on the Group’s fi nancial liabilities including estimated interest that will accrue, 
except where repayment is entitled and before its contractual maturity. 
       Undiscounted cash fl ows – 31 March 2010
     2011 2012 2013 Total
At 31 March 2010     £m £m £m £m
Term loan      39.7 29.8 – 69.5
Revolving credit      – – 61.6 61.6
Finance leases     0.3 0.3 0.1 0.7
      40.0 30.1 61.7 131.8
Interest payments     8.1 4.5 1.1 13.7
      48.1 34.6 62.8 145.5
       Undiscounted cash fl ows – 31 March 2009
    2010 2011 2012 2013 Total
At 31 March 2009    £m £m £m £m £m
Term loan     19.9 39.6 30.0 – 89.5
Revolving credit     – – – 169.1 169.1
Finance leases    0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.8
     20.1 39.8 30.2 169.3 259.4
Interest payments    20.5 17.1 13.2 3.0 53.8
     40.6 56.9 43.4 172.3 313.2
MARKET RISK
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will aff ect the Group’s income or the value 
of its holdings of fi nancial instruments. Generally, the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to manage volatility in profi t.
Currency risk >
The Group is exposed to currency risk on the translation of the results of its subsidiaries which are resident in the Republic of Ireland, Speedy 
Hire (Ireland) Limited and Waterford Hire Services Limited, and in the United Arab Emirates, Speedy International Asset Services Equipment 
Rental LLC. It is the Group’s policy to review the net investment in all companies on a regular basis, and to hedge against potential 
exposures to movements in foreign currency where considered appropriate. At 31 March 2010, Speedy Hire (Ireland) Limited had net 
liabilities of £4.3m (2009: £3.6m), Waterford Hire Services Limited had net assets of £1.5m (2009: £1.5m), and Speedy International Asset 
Services Equipment Rental LLC had net assets of £0.5m (2009: £nil), and no hedging instruments are in place to cover potential movements 
in foreign currency.
Financial statements 94  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
17 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
MARKET RISK CONTINUED
Interest rate risk >
The Group is exposed to a risk of a change in cash fl ows due to changes in interest rates as a result of its use of variable rate borrowings. 
The Group’s policy is to review regularly the terms of its borrowing facilities, to assess and manage the long-term borrowing commitment 
accordingly, and to put in place interest rate hedges to reduce the Group’s exposure to signifi cant fl uctuations in interest rates. The Group 
adopts a policy of ensuring that between 40% and 70% of its borrowings are covered by some sort of interest rate hedge. As a 
consequence of the rights issue proceeds being used to pay down debt the Group had approximately 90% of its net debt covered by 
interest rate hedges. 
The principal derivative fi nancial instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps, caps and collars. The notional contract amount and 
the related fair value of the Group’s fi nancial instruments can be analysed as follows:
     2010 2010 2009 2009
     Fair Notional Fair Notional
     value  amount value amount
Group and Company     £m £m £m £m
Designated as cash fl ow hedges
Fixed interest rate swaps     (1.9) 50.0 (2.6) 50.0
Interest rate collars     (1.0) 40.0 (2.5) 70.0
Interest rate caps     (0.3) 20.0 (0.6) 20.0
      (3.2) 110.0 (5.7) 140.0
                                
Future cash fl ows associated with the above instruments are dependent upon movements in LIBOR over the contractual period. Interest is 
paid or received under the instruments on a quarterly or monthly basis, depending on the individual instrument, referenced to the relevant 
prevailing UK LIBOR rates.
Of the total £1 10m notional amount, £50m expires in the six months to September 2010, a further £40m in the six months to March 201 1, and 
the remaining £20m expires in between one and two years. The instruments are estimated to incur undiscounted cash outfl ows of £2.5m 
within one year, and £0.2m after one to two years.
The weighted average interest rate of the fi xed interest rate swaps is 5.026% (2009: 5.026%) and the instruments are for a weighted average 
period of 1 1 months (2009: 23 months). The maximum contractual period is 15 months.
Collar instruments bear interest rates between 4.300% and 6.500% (2009: between 4.300% and 6.500%), for a weighted average period of 
seven months (2009: 13 months). The maximum contractual period is ten months.
Capped rate instruments bear a weighted average maximum interest rate of 5.790% (2009: 5.790%) for a weighted average period of ten months 
(2009: 22 months). The maximum contractual period is 15 months.
 
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
In managing interest rate and currency risk the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fl uctuation on the Group’s earnings. Over the 
longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
At 31 March 2010 it is estimated that a general increase of 1% point in interest rates would decrease the Group’s profi t before tax by approximately 
£0.5m. Interest rate swaps, caps and collars have been included in this calculation.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group requires capital for, amongst other things, purchasing hire equipment to replace the existing asset base that has reached the end of 
its useful life, and for growth, including growth by establishing new rental locations, completing acquisitions and refi nancing existing debts in 
the longer term. The Group defi nes Gross Capital as net debt (cash less borrowings) plus shareholders’ funds, and seeks to ensure an acceptable 
return on Gross Capital. The Group has obtained additional bank borrowings and equity in recent years as the business has grown. The Board 
seeks to maintain a balance between debt and equity funding such that it maintains a sound capital position relevant for the prevailing 
economic environment.
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confi dence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the demographic spread of shareholders in order to ensure that the most 
attractive mix of capital growth and income return is made available to investors.
The Group encourages participation in ownership of Speedy Hire Plc shares by employees at all levels within the Group, and has developed this 
objective through the introduction of long-term incentive plans and SAYE Schemes.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are 
subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  95
18 BORROWINGS
      Group  Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009
     £m £m £m £m
Current borrowings
Bank overdraft     – – 2.1 7.6
Term loan     – – – –
Finance leases     0.2 0.2 – –
      0.2 0.2 2.1 7.6
Non-current borrowings
Maturing between two and fi ve years
Term loan     69.5 89.5 69.5 89.5
Revolving credit facility     61.6 169.1 61.6 169.1
Finance leases     0.5 0.6 – –
Total non-current borrowings     131.6 259.2 131. 1 258.6
Total borrowings     131.8 259.4 133.2 266.2
Less: cash at bank and in hand     (12.5) (11.0) – (0.1)
Net debt     11 9.3 248.4 133.2 266.1
The term loan is considered to expire after more than one year as the scheduled amortisation of the term loan facility can be off set by 
a corresponding increase in the revolving credit facility.
 
Both the overdraft and syndicated loan facility are secured by a fi xed and fl oating charge over all the assets of the Group and are rated 
pari passu. 
The term and revolving loan facility was originally entered into in June 2007 , and was amended and restated in June 2008 and March 2009. 
At 31 March 2010, the current facility is subdivided into:
i)  A secured overdraft facility, provided by Barclays PLC which secures by cross-guarantees and debentures the bank deposits and overdrafts of 
the Parent and certain subsidiary companies up to a maximum of £5m. 
ii) A syndicated multi-currency term and revolving facility, which is subdivided into:
 i) A term loan ‘A facility’ of £70m (2009: £90m); and
 ii) A revolving credit ‘B facility’ (including overdraft) of £190m (2009: £210m) repayable on the fi fth anniversary of the issue date.
The total B facility is for £190m, but is reduced to the extent that ancillary facilities are provided.
The term loan A facility reduces by £40m in the year to March 201 1, and £30m in the year to March 2012. The revolving credit B facility reduces 
by £20m in the year to March 2012. Reductions in the term loan can be off set by additional drawing from headroom on the revolving 
credit facility.
The revolving credit facility can be drawn for various periods specifi ed by the Company, up to the maturity date, with interest being calculated 
for the drawn period by reference to the London Inter Bank Off er Rate (LIBOR) applicable to the period drawn, plus a margin which during the 
year ranged from 250 to 400 basis points (2009: 67 .5 to 400 basis points). At 31 March 2010, the margin was 250 basis points. 
The eff ective interest rate applicable to cash deposits during the year was 0.2% (2009: 3.50%). The eff ective interest rates on bank overdraft and 
term loans and revolving credit facilities were 3.00% and 4.07% (2009: 3.79% and 5.04%) respectively.
The Group’s bank overdrafts are secured by cross-guarantees and debentures given by Group companies in favour of Barclays Bank PLC. 
The bank loans are secured by a fi xed and fl oating charge over all the assets of the Group. 
The Group’s borrowings are presented as non-current as the unamortised facility at 31 March 201 1 is greater than the outstanding borrowings 
at 31 March 2010, and repayments can therefore be made from undrawn facility rather than by direct payment.
     At  Non-cash  At  31 March
     1 April 2009 movement Cash fl ow 2010
Analysis of consolidated net debt     £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand     1 1.0 (0.5) 2.0 12.5
Borrowings     (259.4) – 127.6 (131.8)
      (248.4) (0.5) 129.6 (1 19.3)
                                
Financial statements 96  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
19 PROVISIONS
        Onerous
        property
        contracts
Group        £m
At 1 April 2008        2.2
Created in the year        7.6
Provision utilised in the year        (1.7)
Unwinding of discount        (0.2)
At 31 March 2009        7.9
Created in the year        3.9
Provision utilised in the year        (4.8)
Unwinding of discount        0.3
At 31 March 2010        7.3
Of the £7.3m, £4.8m (2009: £4.1m) is due within one year and £2.5m (2009: £3.8m) is due after one year. The key assumption underlying the 
calculation of the provision relates to the assumed sublet period. The provision is calculated based on a gross liability to the earlier of three 
years and the sublet, or break clause, and includes estimated dilapidations at current market rates. The total liability is discounted at 12.6% 
(2009: 13.9%). If leases on properties which are forecast to be exited in 2012 are not exited until 2013, the increase required in the discounted 
provision would amount to £0.4m, after taking account of leases that expire during the additional year.
 
20 DEFERRED TAX
    Property,    
    plant and Intangible Share-based 
    equipment assets payments Other items Total
Group    £m £m £m £m £m
1 April 2008    33.7 5.5 (0.7) (1.2) 37 .3
Recognised in income    (1 1.2) (2.1) 0.5 (0.4) (13.2)
Recognised in equity    – – 0.2 – 0.2
At 31 March 2009    22.5 3.4 – (1.6) 24.3
Recognised in income    (5.4) (1.5) – (0.4) (7 .3)
Recognised in equity    – – – – –
At 31 March 2010    17 .1 1.9 – (2.0) 17.0
The Group has trading losses carried forward at 31 March 2010 amounting to approximately £3.7m (2009: £3.2m). A deferred tax asset of £0.2m 
(2009: £0.1m) has been recognised in respect of those losses.
The Group also has capital losses carried forward at 31 March 2010 amounting to approximately £7 .5m (2009: £4.3m). No deferred tax asset 
has been recognised in respect of these losses.
       Other items Total
Company       £m £m
1 April 2008        (0.2) (0.2)
Recognised in income       0.1 0.1
At 31 March 2009       (0.1) (0.1)
Recognised in income       (0.1) (0.1)
Recognised in equity       – –
At 31 March 2010       (0.2) (0.2)
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  97
21 SHARE CAPITAL 
       2010 2009
       £m £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid   
517 .2m (2009: 50.9m) ordinary shares of 5 pence each      25.9 2.5
During the year, 458,658,900 ordinary shares of 5 pence were issued on exercise of the rights issue for a cash consideration of £99.7m, net 
of £5.8m issue costs.
An Employee Benefi ts Trust was established in 2004 (the ‘Trust’). The Trust holds shares issued by the Company in connection with the 
Performance Plan and Co-Investment Plan. During the year the Company allotted 7 ,594,666 (2009: nil) shares to the Trust held jointly with the 
participating employees as part of the ExSOP award arrangements. No shares were transferred to employees during the year (2009: 106,693). 
At 31 March 2010, the Trust held 10,410,896 shares (including 7 ,594,666 jointly owned shares (2009: 281,673).
The movement in issued share capital was as follows:
       Number
       million £m
As at 1 April 2008       50.8 2.5
Employee Benefi ts Trust allotments       0.1 –
At 31 March 2009       50.9 2.5
Employee Benefi ts Trust allotments       7.6 0.5
Placing of ordinary shares       458.7 22.9
At 31 March 2010       517.2 25.9
                
22 ADJUSTMENT ARISING FROM AMENDMENTS TO ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
The Group has adopted the following changes in accounting standards for the year ending 31 March 2010:
IAS 1 Presentation of fi nancial statements: A revised presentation
The Group’s fi nancial statements now include a statement of comprehensive income and statement of movements in equity as primary 
statements. These have replaced the statement of recognised gains and losses and the reconciliation of equity, which was previously included 
in the notes to the accounts. There have also been minor changes to the descriptions of some items.
IFRS 7 Improving disclosures on fi nancial instruments
The IASB issued amendments to enhance disclosures about fair value measurements of fi nancial instruments and over liquidity risk. 
 
IFRS 2 Share-based payment: Vesting conditions and cancellations
The principal eff ect of this amendment to IFRS 2 is that when an award to an employee under a share option scheme lapses due to 
cancellation of the scheme then the full cost of the award will be expensed in the period in which the option lapses. The amendment also 
stipulates that an individual ceasing to pay contributions is classed as a cancellation. Under the previous interpretation the lapsing of the 
award through employee cancellation would have resulted in the fair value of the option charged to date being reversed in the income 
statement. This interpretation is required to be applied fully retrospectively. 
As a result of the amendment, the profi t after tax for the year ended 31 March 2009 was £0.5m lower than previously reported. There is no 
impact on reported net assets.
IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment (and consequential amendment to IAS 7 Statement of cash fl ows)
In accordance with revisions to IAS 16, assets that have previously been hired are transferred to inventory at estimated realisable value when 
a decision has been taken to dispose of them. Proceeds on disposal are then recognised as revenue. Previously, the proceeds were accounted 
for as a component of profi t or loss on the disposal of assets. A consequential amendment to IAS 7 states that cash fl ows arising from purchase, 
rental and sale of those assets should be classifi ed as cash fl ows from operating activities. Proceeds from the sale of other assets continue to 
be included in profi t/(loss) on disposal, in accordance with the previous accounting treatment.
The adoption of the revised standard has resulted in revenue and cost of sales for the year ended 31 March 2009 increasing by £6.6m, with no 
impact on reported profi t after taxation or net assets. In addition, cash fl ows relating to the sale and purchase of hire assets have been included 
in operating cash fl ows, having previously been disclosed as investing cash fl ows.
 
Financial statements 98  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
23 SHARE INCENTIVES
At 31 March 2010, options and awards over 19,036,681 shares (2009: 1,610,332 shares, unadjusted for rights issue) were outstanding under 
employee share schemes. The Group operates three share incentive schemes. During the year no options were exercised by employees 
(2009: 145,865 options, unadjusted for rights issue). 
In 2009, the options exercised comprised 93,013 nil cost options in respect of the Co-Investment and Performance Share Plans and 52,852 
at 383 pence in respect of the Sharesave schemes. At the date of exercise of the Co-Investment and Performance Share Plans awards, the share 
price was 551 pence. The Sharesave awards were exercised between April and July 2008 when the Group’s share price ranged between 
818.5 pence and 401.25 pence. The weighted average share price for the exercise period was 594 pence.
Following the rights issue, adjustments were made to refl ect the dilutive eff ect of the issue on outstanding awards. The calculations were made 
in accordance with HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) recommendations. The adjustment was made using the theoretical ex-rights price 
calculation (‘TERP’) as agreed with HMRC. All outstanding awards made under the Company’s share plans were multiplied by a TERP factor 
of 3.68421 and the respective option prices and market prices at allocation were multiplied by a factor of 0.27143.
As at 31 March 2010 options to acquire 5,014,731 (2009: 328,755) Speedy Hire Plc shares were outstanding under the Speedy Hire Sharesave 
Scheme. These options are exercisable by employees of the Group at prices between 29 and 255 pence (2009: 624 and 940 pence) at dates 
between February 2010 and April 2013 (2009: February 2009 and July 201 1). At 31 March 2010, options to acquire 6,427 ,284 (2009: 1,281,577), and 
awards over 7 ,594,666 shares were outstanding under the Performance and Co-Investment Plans. These options were exercisable at eff ectively 
nil cost between June 2010 and December 2012. Awards granted under the Performance Plan as ExSOP Awards involve the acquisition of 
shares jointly by the participant and the trustee of the Company’s employee trust on terms that, to the extent certain performance conditions 
are satisfi ed, the participant can benefi t from any growth of the shares in excess of a hurdle. Initial Value Awards entitle the holder to a value (in 
shares or cash) equal to the number of ExSOP shares (if any) in respect of which the performance condition is met multiplied by the share value 
on the award date or, if lower, the share value when the ExSOP award crystallises.
The number and weighted average exercise price (‘WAEP’) of share options and awards under all the share incentive schemes are as follows:
     2010  2009
     WAEP 2010 WAEP  2009
     pence Number pence Number
Outstanding at 1 April     624 1,610,332 378 1,457,100
Rights adjustment     – 4,322,131 – –
      39 5,932,463 378 1,457,100
Granted     9 15,645,660 – 842,901
Exercised     – – 139 (145,865)
Lapsed     74 (2,541,442) 547 (543,804)
Outstanding at 31 March     10 19,036,681 145 1,610,332
Exercisable at 31 March     255 75,583 624 97,339
Options and awards outstanding at 31 March 2010 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows:
       2010 2009
       years years
Exercisable at nil pence       2.2 1.8
Exercisable at 29 pence       2.5 –
Exercisable at 183 pence       0.8 1.8
Exercisable at 233 pence       – 0.8
Exercisable at 255 pence       0.4 1.4
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted and shares awarded is measured by reference to the fair value of those 
instruments. The pricing models and inputs used for the outstanding options (on a weighted average basis where appropriate) are as follows:
              Speedy Hire Share Save Plan
    September  December  September  December  December
    2009  2007  2007  2006  2005
Pricing model used    Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic
Exercise price    29p 183p 255p 233p 169p
Share price volatility    85.7% 25.5% 22.9% 22.9% 25.0%
Option life    3.25 years 3.25 years 3.25 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield    3.1% 2.1% 1.5% 1.3% 1.6%
Risk free interest rate    2.1% 4.5% 5.3% 5.1% 4.2%
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  99
23 SHARE INCENTIVES CONTINUED
        Co-Investment Plan
      July July July
      2008  2007 2006
Pricing model used      Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic
Exercise price      Nil Nil Nil
Share price volatility      – – –
Option life      3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield      3.7% 1.4% 1.6%
Risk-free interest rate      5.2% 5.8% 4.2%
               Performance Plan
     September  July July July
     2009 2008  2007 2006
Pricing model used     Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic
Exercise price     Nil Nil Nil Nil
Share price volatility     88.0% 29.3% 23.6% 22.4%
Option life     3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield     3.1% 3.7% 1.4% 1.6%
Risk-free interest rate     2.1% 5.2% 5.8% 4.2%
24 ACQUISITIONS
There were no acquisitions during the current year.
All acquisitions in the prior year have been accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. An assessment has been made 
of the fair value to the Group of the assets and liabilities acquired on all acquisitions.
The Group acquired the trade and assets of the Carillion Accommodation Services (CAS) business from Carillion Plc in May 2008, for a total 
consideration of £12.6m, comprising cash and acquisition costs. CAS hires and sells portable and modular accommodation, servicing both the 
Carillion group’s internal accommodation requirements and those of a number of external customers. CAS’s accommodation business operates 
from three UK depots and has 23 employees, all of whom transferred to Speedy as part of the transaction. CAS has been integrated within 
Speedy’s Accommodation Division, which specialises in the hire of accommodation and storage units.
The Group also acquired the trade and assets of Apollo Hire Centres from Connaught Plc in August 2008 for a consideration of £0.7m. 
The initial fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired in total from the two acquisitions are as follows:
  
      Book value Fair value 
      at acquisition adjustment Fair value
      £m £m £m
Intangible assets      – 8.2 8.2
Hire equipment assets      0.9 – 0.9
       0.9 8.2 9.1
Goodwill capitalised        4.2
Total consideration        13.3
Satisfi ed by:
 cash consideration        12.7
 costs of acquisition        0.6
         13.3
           
The customer list intangible has been valued using the ‘excess earnings’ method, and is based on income forecast to be generated over the 
next ten years. The valuation assumes that the customer attrition rate will be 10% per annum, based on management estimates and historical 
rates recorded by the Company. Capital asset charges have been applied using risk-adjusted weighted average costs of capital in respect 
of fi xed assets, working capital and the workforce. Other assumptions used in the valuation include an assumed growth in income from 
customers of 2.5% per annum. The customer list intangible is being amortised over fi ve years, which is considered to be the period over which 
the majority of the benefi ts are expected to arise. The non-compete intangible has been valued using the incremental income method.
In addition, the Group acquired the remaining minority interest in Speedy Asset Leasing Limited in April 2008 for a cash consideration of £1.3m.
Goodwill has been recognised on the acquisitions as a result of their operational eff ectiveness in their marketplaces.
Disclosure of revenue and profi t for the acquisitions as if they were completed at the beginning of the year is impractical, due to their being 
fully integrated into the existing business.
 
Financial statements 100  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Financial statements
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
C ONTINUED
25 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Group has given warranties (including taxation warranties and indemnities) to the purchasers of fi ve businesses disposed of over the last 
1 1 years. These warranties and indemnities expire at various dates up to 12 years from the date of disposal.
In the normal course of business, the Company and certain subsidiaries have given performance bonds issued on behalf of Group companies 
and parental guarantees have been given in support of the contractual obligations of Group companies on both a joint and a several basis.
26 COMMITMENTS
The Group had contracted capital commitments amounting to £2.7m (2009: £0.3m) at the end of the fi nancial year for which no provision has 
been made. 
The total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases is as follows:
      Land and buildings Other
     2010 2009 2010 2009
     £m £m £m £m
Total future minimum lease payments    
 – not later than one year     16.2 19.1 11.2 12.6
 – later than one year and not later than fi ve years    50.8 54.2 12.0 12.5
 – later than fi ve years     39.2 49.0 0.1 0.1
      106.2 122.3 23.3 25.2
                                
27 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
DIVIDENDS
The Directors have proposed a dividend of 0.2 pence per share as a fi nal dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010. No charge in 
respect of the proposed dividend has been made in the income statement for the year, and there were no tax consequences. The total amount 
payable if the dividend is approved at the AGM is as follows:
       2010 2009
       £000 £000
0.2 pence (2009: 6.4 pps) on 517 .2m (2009: 50.9m) ordinary shares     1.0 3.2
28 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
KEY MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION
The Group’s key management personnel are the Executive and Non-Executive Directors as identifi ed in the Remuneration Report.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefi ts to Executive Directors, and contributes to approved pension schemes 
on their behalf. Executive Directors also participate in the Group’s share option schemes. 
Non-Executive Directors receive a fee for their services to the Speedy Hire Plc Board.
Full details of key management personnel compensation and interests in the share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2010 are given in 
the Remuneration Report.
COMPANY
The Company has entered into transactions with its subsidiary undertakings primarily in respect of the provision of fi nance and the provision 
of share options to subsidiary employees.
Recharges are made to subsidiary undertakings for Group loans based on funding provided at an interest rate linked to the prevailing base rate. 
No recharges are made in respect of balances due to or from otherwise dormant subsidiaries. The cost of providing employees of subsidiary 
companies with share options is recharged to the relevant company based on the accounting charge suff ered by the Company in respect of 
those options.
The amount outstanding from subsidiary undertakings to the Company at 31 March 2010 totalled £348.4m (2009: £317 .5m). Amounts owed 
to subsidiary undertakings by the Company at 31 March 2010 totalled £81.5m (2009: £13.8m).
The Company has had no expense in respect of bad or doubtful debts of subsidiary undertakings in the year (2009: £nil). 
 
Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  10 1
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT     
    2010 2009 2008 2007 2006*
    £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue    351.1 482.7 465.9 336.0 254.3
Cost of sales    (142.7) (194.7) (167.5) (119.2) (81.8)
Gross profi t    208.4 288.0 298.4 216.8 172.5
Other operating income    – – – – 0.1
Distribution costs    (37 .8) (50.5) (49.8) (43.2) (23.5)
Administrative expenses    (1 79.2) (288.2) (201.8) (127.7) (112.5)
Analysis of operating profi t
Operating profi t before amortisation and exceptional items  8.0 49.2 64.0 50.0 38.1
Exceptional items    (1 1.1 ) (90.7) (10.0) – –
Amortisation    (5.5) (9.2) (7.2) (4.1) (1.5)
Operating (loss)/profi t    (8.6) (50.7) 46.8 45.9 36.6
Net fi nancial expense    (14.2) (20.4) (16.3) (9.5) (5.9)
(Loss)/profi t before taxation    (22.8) (71.1) 30.5 36.4 30.7
Taxation    4.5 16.0 (6.1) (9.8) (8.4)
(Loss)/profi t for the fi nancial year    (18.3) (55.1) 24.4 26.6 22.3
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET     
    2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
    £m £m £m £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets     
Intangible assets    65.7 71.2 128.9 71.3 23.9
Property, plant and equipment    285.6 323.2 372.9 295.7 241.4
     351.3 394.4 501.8 367.0 265.3
Current assets
Inventories    11.3 12.2 16.2 10.9 6.9
Trade and other receivables    103.4 104.4 143.6 101.2 72.6
Tax receivable    – 6.9 – – –
Other fi nancial assets    – – – 0.7 –
Cash    12.5 11.0 4.4 10.3 6.4
     127 .2 134.5 164.2 123.1 85.9
Total assets    478.5 528.9 666.0 490.1 351.2
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities     
Borrowings    (0.2) (0.2) – – –
Trade and other payables    (70.9) (64.1) (120.0) (91.8) (69.5)
Other fi nancial liabilities    (3.2) (5.7) (0.5) – –
Provisions    (4.8) (4.1) (1.0) – –
Income tax    (1.7) – (5.9) (6.0) (6.7)
     (80.8) (74.1) (127.4) (97.8) (76.2)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings    (131.6) (259.2) (260.0) (186.5) (109.4)
Provisions    (2.5) (3.8) (1.2) – –
Deferred tax liabilities    (1 7 .0) (24.3) (37.3) (34.7) (24.3)
     (151.1 ) (287.3) (298.5) (221.2) (133.7)
Total liabilities    (231.9) (361.4) (425.9) (319.0) (209.9)
Net assets    246.6 167.5 240.1 171.1 141.3
*Not restated for the adoption of amendments to IAS 16, see note 22. 
FIVE- YEAR SUMMARY
Financial statements 102  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Investor information
SHAREHOLDER INFORMA TION
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday 20 July 2010 
at 1 1.00am at Mere Court Hotel and Conference Centre, Warrington 
Road, Mere, Knutsford, Cheshire WA16 0RW.
Details of the business of the AGM and the resolutions to be proposed 
will be sent to shareholders.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors’ remuneration 
report and the re-election of David Wallis, Ishbel Macpherson and 
Claudio Veritiero to the Board.
Other resolutions will include proposals to renew, for a further year, 
the Directors’ general authority to allot shares in the Company, to 
allot a limited number of shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis 
and to buy back its own shares, and resolutions to amend the articles 
of association.
SHARE PRICE INFORMATION/PERFORMANCE
The latest share price is available at www.speedyhire.plc.uk. 
By selecting ‘Our shares’ under the investor information section, 
shareholders can check the value of their shareholding online or 
review share charts illustrating annual share price performance trends.
Shareholders can download copies of our Annual Report and 
Accounts and Interim Accounts from www.speedyhire.plc.uk.
Shareholders within the UK can also use Teletext and the FT Cityline 
service telephone 09058 171 690 (please note, this is charged at 
premium rate).
SHAREHOLDERS ANALYSED BY NUMBER OF SHARES HELD 
(AS AT 18 MAY 2010)
 Total  Total Percentage
 number  Percentage number of issued 
Balance ranges of holdings of holders of shares capital
1-1,000 746 28.15 366,615 0.07
1,001-5,000 820 30.94 2,305,627 0.45
5,001-10,000 318 12.00 2,520,391 0.49
10,001-50,000 453 17.10 10,577,108 2.05
50,001-100,000 77 2.91 5,599,504 1.08
100,001-500,000 132 4.98 30,821,356 5.96
500,001-1,000,000 34 1.28 24,610,041 4.76
1,000,001 and above 70 2.64 440,415,024 85.14
Total 2,650 100 517,215,666 100
SHAREHOLDERS ANALYSED BY TYPE OF HOLDING 
(AS AT 18 MAY 2010)
 Number  Percentage Number Percentage
Holder of holdings of holdings of shares of shares
Directors* 9 0.34 5,729,502 1.12
Private individuals 1,865 70.38 17 ,018,198 3.29
Nominee accounts 693 26.04 477 ,286,278 92.28
Institutions and 
investment companies 61 2.30 12,795,219 2.47
Other organisations 25 0.94 4,386,469 0.84
Total 2,650 100 517,215,666 100
* Figures includes David Galloway who resigned on 31 May 2009.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
Speedy off ers shareholders the opportunity to receive electronic 
notifi cation of the Company’s latest press releases via email. To take 
advantage of this service you will need to register online. To register, 
log on to www.speedyhire.plc.uk, click on the investor section of 
the website and register for news.
ENQUIRIES ON SHAREHOLDINGS
Any administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings in Speedy, 
such as dividend payment instructions or a change of address, 
should be notifi ed direct to the registrar (see details on page 103). 
Your correspondence should state Speedy Hire Plc and the registered 
name and address of the shareholder. For further details of the 
shareholder services off ered by our registrars, visit www.shareview.co.uk.
CONTACT DETAILS
We are happy to answer queries from current and potential 
shareholders. Similarly, please let us know if you wish to receive 
past, present or future copies of the Annual Report and Accounts. 
Please contact us by telephone, email, fax or via the website.
Speedy Hire Plc
Chase House
16 The Parks
Newton-le-Willows
Merseyside
WA12 0JQ
Telephone 01942 720000
Facsimile 01942 402870
Email plc.admin@speedyhire.com
www.speedyhire.plc.uk
Investor information ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0 SPEEDY HIRE PLC  103
REGISTERED OFFICE AND ADVISERS
REGISTERED OFFICE
SPEEDY HIRE PLC
Chase House
16 The Parks
Newton-le-Willows
Merseyside
WA12 0JQ
Telephone 01942 720000
Facsimile 01942 402870
Email plc.admin@speedyhire.com
www.speedyhire.plc.uk
Registered number: 927680
FINANCIAL ADVISERS
NM ROTHSCHILD & SONS LIMITED
1 King William Street
London
EC4N 7AR
STOCKBROKERS
KBC PEEL HUNT
1 1 1 Old Broad Street
London
EC2A 1PH
ORIEL SECURITIES LIMITED
125 Wood Street
London
EC2V 7AN
LEGAL ADVISERS
PINSENT MASONS LLP
1 Park Row
Leeds
LS1 5AB
AUDITORS
KPMG AUDIT PLC
St James Square
Manchester
M2 6DS
BANKERS
BARCLAYS COMMERCIAL BANK
1st Floor
3 Hardman Street
Spinningfi elds
Manchester
M3 3HF
THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC
Corporate Banking
1 Spinningfi elds Square
Manchester
M3 3AP
PUBLIC RELATIONS – FINANCIAL
HUDSON SANDLER
29 Cloth Fair
London
EC1A 7NN
PUBLIC RELATIONS – TRADE
CITYPRESS
2nd Floor
Bank House
Faulkner Street
Manchester
M1 4EH
REGISTRARS AND TRANSFER OFFICE
EQUINITI LIMITED
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 BDA
INSURANCE BROKERS
MARSH UK LIMITED
1 City Road East
Manchester
M15 4PN
Investor information 104  SPEEDY HIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 20 1 0
Investor information
AWA RD S
AWARDS
2010
Hire Association Europe – Environmental Initiative – Winner 
Hire Association Europe – Excellence in Training – 
High Commendation
The Environment and Energy Awards – Best Sustainability 
Communications Campaign Award – Highly Commended
Green Organisation – Green Hero
2009
Green Apple Award for Environmental Best Practice
Business in the Community – Re-accreditation of ‘Big Tick Award’ 
for Responsible Marketing
British Safety Council – International Safety Award
Hire Association Europe – Catalogue of the Year
COINS – Supplier of the Year
2008
Hire Association Europe – Hire Company of the Year (over fi ve outlets)
Hire Association Europe – Best Contribution to Environmental Issues
BSIF Safety Awards – Service Excellence
National Business Awards – Finalist: Business of the Year
Institute of Directors – North West Director of the Year 
(Steve Corcoran)
European Rental Association – European Rental Person of the Year 
(Steve Corcoran)
Business in the Community – Re-accreditation of ‘Big Tick Award’ 
for Responsible Marketing
Business in the Community – Silver ranking in the Top 100 Companies 
Corporate Responsibility (CR) Index 2008
2007
CorpComms Awards – Annual Report 2007
National Business Awards – Winner, Marketing Strategy of the Year
Business in the Community – ‘Big Tick Award’ for Responsible 
Marketing
Hire Association Europe – Best Contribution to Health and Safety 
and/or Environmental Issues
Contract Journal – Plant Hire Company of the Year
The Observer’s Good Company Guide – Number One Ethical 
Investment Choice
PLC Awards – Best Investor Communications Strategy 2007
Business in the Community – Silver ranking in the Top 100 Companies 
Corporate Responsibility (CR) Index 2007
Investor information Overview
02 Speedy at a glance
04 Speedy figures 
06 Efficiencies and savings
08 Customer intimacy
10 Wins and revenues
12 Partnerships and opportunities 
13 Markets and diversification 
14 Our people
16 Safety 
17 Speedy spirit
Business review
18 Chairman’s statement
20 Chief Executive’s review 
24 Principal risks and uncertainties
25 Stratton report
30 Our performance 
36 Group financial review 
40 Corporate responsibility
Governance
46 Board of Directors
48 Directors’ report 
51 Corporate governance
56 Remuneration report
64 Audit Committee report 
65 Nomination Committee report 
66 Independent auditors’ report
Financial statements
68 Consolidated income statement
69  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
70 Consolidated balance sheet
71 Company balance sheet
72 Consolidated cash flow statement
73 Company cash flow statement
74  Consolidated statement of changes in equity
75  Company statement of changes in equity
76 Notes to the financial statements
 1 01 Five-year summary
Investor information
 1 02 Shareholder information
 1 03 Registered office and advisers
 1 04  Awards
IBC  Accreditations and memberships
Speedy content S
Overview Governance Business review Financial statements Investor information
Accredit Ation S
i So A ccredit Ation S
i So 9001*
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
i So 14001
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
i So 18001
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
i So 17020
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
*Partial accreditation only.
i ndu Stry S upplier A ccredit Ation S
Achilles Link-up – rail supplier qualification and verification scheme
Achilles UVDB – utilities pre-qualification scheme
Achilles Building Confidence – construction pre-qualification scheme
F-Pal – oil and gas industry pre-qualification scheme
Constructionline – UK register of pre-qualified construction services
CHAS – The Contractors Health and Safety Scheme
SAFEcontractor – the contractor accreditation scheme for business
SafeHire – HAE Hire and Rental certification scheme
MeM ber Ship S
p rofe SSion Al body A nd tr Ade ASSoci Ation Me MberS hip HAE: Hire Association of Europe
PASMA: Prefabricated Access Suppliers and Manufacturers Association
LEEA: Lifting Equipment Engineers Association
OPERC: Off-Highway Plant and Equipment Research Centre
ERA: European Rental Association
BSC: British Safety Council (International Asset Services)
CBI: Confederation of British Industry (Steve Corcoran member  
of Construction Council)
FTSE4Good
BITC: Business in the Community
CPA: Contractors Plant Association
British Water Authority
Federation of Communication Services
MPBA: Modular and Portable Building Association
a ccred It a t IOns and mem Bersh Ips
Investor information
Printing and paper: this report has been printed in the UK by The Colourhouse. Our printers 
are accredited with the ISO14001 and hold full FSC chain of custody, they are also carbon 
neutral. All inks used are vegetable-based. The paper used is Heaven 42 which is fully 
recyclable and biodegradable and is an FSC mixed sources accredited material, using an 
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process and partly bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free 
(TCF) process. 
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it  
on to other interested readers, return it to Speedy Hire Plc or recycle it. Thank you.
This annual report is available at www.speedyhire.plc.uk
Designed and produced by The College  www.thecollege.uk.com
Cert no. XXX-XXX-000 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.speedyhire.plc.uk
Speedy Hire Plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2010
