 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Seeing the benefits
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.speedyhire.plc.uk Overview
01 Seeing the benefits 
14 Speedy at a glance 
16 Speedy figures
18 Understanding our markets
Business review
20 Chairman’s statement 
22 Chief Executive’s review 
26 Principal risks and uncertainties 
28 UK & Ireland Asset Services 
30  International & Advisory Services
32 Group financial review 
36 Corporate responsibility 
Governance
44 Board of Directors 
46 Directors’ report 
49 Corporate governance
54 Remuneration report
64 Audit Committee report 
65 Nomination Committee report
66 Independent auditor’s report 
Financial statements
68 Consolidated income statement 
69 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
70 Consolidated balance sheet
71 Consolidated cash flow statement
72 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
98 Company balance sheet 
99 Company cash flow statement
100 Company statement of changes in equity
101 Notes to the Company financial statements
105 Five-year summary
Investor information
106 Shareholder information
107 Registered office and advisers
108 Awards
IBC Accreditations and memberships
Speedy contents
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Investor information
Accreditations and memberships
ISO Accreditations
ISO 9001
Speedy Asset Services Limited
†
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
ISO 14001
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
ISO 18001
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
ISO 17020
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Industry supplier accreditations
Achilles Link-up – rail supplier qualification and verification scheme
Achilles UVDB – utilities pre-qualification scheme
Achilles Building Confidence – construction pre-qualification scheme
Constructionline – UK register of pre-qualified construction services
CHAS – The Contractors Health and Safety Scheme
SAFEcontractor – the contractor accreditation scheme for business
SafeHire – HAE Hire and Rental certification scheme
Professional body and trade association memberships
HAE: Hire Association of Europe
PASMA: Prefabricated Access Suppliers and 
Manufacturers Association
LEEA: Lifting Equipment Engineers Association
OPERC: Off-Highway Plant and Equipment Research Centre
ERA: European Rental Association
BSC: British Safety Council (International Asset Services)
CBI: Confederation of British Industry (Steve Corcoran member 
of Construction Council)
FTSE4Good
BITC: Business in the Community
CPA: Contractors Plant Association
British Water Authority
Federation of Communication Services
MPBA: Modular and Portable Building Association
RoSPA: The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents
* Partial accreditation only.
†
 All UK locations accredited.
Printing and paper: this report has been printed in the UK by The Colourhouse. Our printers 
are accredited with the ISO14001 and hold full FSC chain of custody, they are also carbon 
neutral. All inks used are vegetable-based. The paper used is Heaven 42 which is fully 
recyclable and biodegradable and is an FSC mixed sources accredited material, using an 
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process and partly bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free 
(TCF) process. 
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it  
on to other interested readers, return it to Speedy Hire Plc or recycle it. Thank you.
This annual report is available at www.speedyhire.plc.uk
Designed and produced by The College  www.thecollege.uk.com Overview 01 
We are now seeing the benefits of  
our operating rigour and disciplined 
action, which have demonstrated our 
ability to work through challenging 
economic cycles.
It has been a difficult period and the outlook remains challenging 
in 2011.
At Speedy we are building a long-term service based proposition 
which will provide a sustainable platform in hire and value added 
services to drive our performance every day, every quarter and 
every year. 
Steady, sustained recovery is underway. We are well positioned  
to take advantage of the eventual upturn in trading conditions.  
We have a solid base on which to build our business and this  
report aims to define and explain the factors that are important  
in our pursuit of growth and future success.
Ready for the future
  Managing capital 
expenditure on  
our assets
 Focusing on cash and costs
Consolidating our  
No.1 position
  Managing our network
  Developing our service 
offering
Building relationships 
with major customers
  Providing a stable income 
stream
  Access to subcontractor 
market
Seeing the benefits
Overview
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
£110m
reduction in costs from peak 
costs during 2008
£113.9m
net debt down a further £5.4m  
on last year
40%
by NBV of the UK’s itemised hire  
fleet is less than three years old
Ready
for the future
02 Overview / Seeing the benefits
Seeing the benefits
Cost: continual drive for 
efficiencies & savings
We continue to focus on right-sizing our 
cost base and have been streamlining our 
senior management and depot structure, 
seeking efficiencies wherever possible.
Cash flow: maintaining  
a stable financial base
Our cash generation has remained strong 
and is a big contributor to paying down 
debt. As a result net debt continues to fall, 
contributing to a strong balance sheet.
Asset management: the value 
of a diverse fleet
Hire fleet investment has increased and 
as a result there has only been a slight 
increase in the average age of the hire fleet. 
Hire fleet investment has been consistently 
proportional to revenue. We have invested 
in new equipment using the funds from the 
disposal of under utilised older assets. Hire fleet cost (LHS) Hire fleet NBV (LHS) Revenue (RHS)
H2 FY11* H1 FY11 H2 FY10 H1 FY10 H2 FY09 H1 FY09 H2 FY08 H1 FY08 H2 FY07 H1 FY07
0
700
0
500
Hire fleet (£m)
Revenue (£m)
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Managing capital expenditure  
Overview / Seeing the benefits 03 
* Adjusted to include Accommodation assets in hire fleet at net book value before exceptional write down
Hire fleet
Net debt and Overheads*
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
H2 FY11 H1 FY11 H2 FY10 H1 FY10 H2 FY09 H1 FY09 H2 FY08 H1 FY08 H2 FY07 H1 FY07
Net debt Overheads
Peak annualised overheads estimated at c£137m for the half year ✗ Peak debt of £303m in July 2008 ✗
*  Overheads are shown for Group less new businesses (International & Advisory) and are before amortisation and exceptional costs
7
7
Overview Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
N o. 1
Consolidating our
Position
Seeing the benefits
04 Overview / Seeing the benefits
Developing our service offering 
The core of our business is providing safe 
and compliant equipment for hire but 
we now support this with comprehensive 
safety and skills training, advisory services 
and test, repair, inspection  
and maintenance services.
Transforming the market
Sustainable seems to be the word in 2011 
with both customers and suppliers looking 
to build stable working relationships.
 
With Government budget cuts, it’s likely 
in 2011 that the private sector will fund 
a larger percentage of construction 
projects, changing, even transforming, 
parts of the market.
Outperforming the market
The tools, lifting & survey business 
performed 1.6% better than the market 
when comparing Q3 v Q4 in 2010. 
We have also seen considerable growth in 
International which established a strong 
foothold overseas. This combined with our 
Training & Advisory Services division has 
seen an increase in revenue of over 280%.  Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Consolidating our networks
Overview / Seeing the benefits 05 
In order to extend our service 
capability we have embarked upon 
a depot network plan that will see 
us change the format of our national 
network of depots over the course of 
the next few years. This involves the 
creation of more multi-service centres 
(MSC’s) to expand on the first, which 
opened in Warrington; the creation 
of more superstores to add to those 
now operational in Stoke, Edinburgh 
and Bristol, and a consolidation of our 
local depots into an express format. 
Multi-Service Centres
Size: 6-10 acres
Service: Full service 24/7
Market Sectors: Construction, 
Industrial, Infrastructure
Customer Base: Heavy 
Construction, Mainstream 
Construction, Civil Engineering
Superstores
Size: 25,000 sq. ft.
Service: Rapid response
Market Sectors: Clean trades,  
Fit Out
Customer Base: Electrician/ 
Electrical Engineers, Dry Liners/ 
Ceiling Fixers, Fit-Out Contractors, 
Shop/Store Fitters, Service/ 
Maintenance Engineers.
Express Depot
Size: 5,000 sq. ft.
Service: Principally customer collect
Market Sectors: Local trades, 
Local Industry
Customer Base: Local trades/ 
builders, Local industry, 
Service Maintenance Engineers
Overview major 
customers
Building relationships with
Seeing the benefits
06 Overview / Seeing the benefits
Going for long term contracts
Whilst hire rates may be lower, the average 
duration of hire is twice as long with major 
contractors and, with higher volumes 
generally, this results in yielding higher 
revenue per contract.
Value in supply chain
Major contractors will increasingly win 
more of the projects in the market and  
will be key to accessing the marketplace  
by having framework agreements that 
then cascade to their subcontractors.
Stable income stream
As major contractors increasingly 
move towards winning work in the  
more sustainable and regulated  
market areas to secure their own  
revenue streams, this in return  
provides a more stable revenue  
stream for Speedy.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 New contracts
Overview / Seeing the benefits 07 
Galliford Try Group
Galliford Try Group awarded Speedy a five-
year first call supplier agreement in 2010 worth 
approximately £20m over the term to supply 
core products through a dedicated desk in 
Speedy Direct. 
Mears
A preferred supplier agreement was signed  
with Mears in February 2011. This is a two-year 
deal worth approximately £1.5m over the course 
of the agreement. Speedy provide tools, lifting 
and survey equipment as well as power and 
powered access products. 
Interserve
In January 2011, we were delighted to sign 
a 24-month renewal of a preferred supplier 
agreement with Interserve, worth £4.5m to the 
Group over the course of the contract. Speedy 
will provide a comprehensive package of 
equipment and tools on both a regional and 
national scale. 
Wilmott Dixon Group 
In 2010 we signed a preferred supplier  
renewal with Wilmott Dixon Group  
worth approximately £3.5m over the  
24 month term.
Overview
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Winning 
08 Overview / Seeing the benefits
new business and targeting value markets
Energy
Decommissioning plans for a four year 
investment of approximately £12 billion. 
New build is estimated to be over 
£32 billion making the Nuclear sector 
a key market for future growth.
Major investment in future offshore  
wind and onshore wind farms over 
the next five years of £90 billion make 
the renewable energy market more 
substantial with major projects already 
scheduled and under way for 2011/12.
Recycling
With the closure of 300 UK landfill sites 
over the next decade, in order to cope 
with these closures the Government 
and private investors are investing an 
estimated £10-20 billion over the next  
10 years to support the sector.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview / Seeing the benefits 09 
new business and targeting value markets
Transport
Long-term investment in rail with a 
projected spend of £7.8 billion until 2014 
excluding High Speed 2 (HS2) (£30bn) 
& Crossrail (currently £16bn) ensures 
that this sector remains promising 
in 2011 and beyond. In addition, the 
Highways Agency has plans to invest 
£10 billion over the next five years on 
road maintenance.
Water
Major investment in the water market 
to maintain and improve the current 
UK infrastructure is planned, with AMP5 
worth £22bn (excluding capital works) 
over 2010-15, making this a key market 
for sustainable spend. 
Overview Managing  
our assets
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
10 Overview / Seeing the benefits The restructuring of our UK business into one 
company has provided greater utilisation of our assets. 
We now have improved visibility of where equipment 
is located and can maximise usage across our entire 
depot network. We have made great steps forward in 
moving equipment through our workshops at a faster 
rate, giving increased availability for our customers. In 
addition, the consolidation of our depot network has 
enabled specialisation and rationalisation of our kit.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview / Seeing the benefits 11 
Overview Motivated  
employees
We have carried out our People Matters Survey  
for the fourth time now and have measured 
Engagement for the last two surveys. Through our 
efforts in improving employee communication and 
feedback, plus a greater emphasis on ‘job chats’ we 
have leapt forward in improving our engagement. 
The lynchpin of motivated employees is our line 
management. We are investing across all levels with 
management, Leadership and Senior Leadership 
Development programmes and introducing people 
measures more clearly as part of the Speedy 
Compass (Scorecard).
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
12 Overview / Seeing the benefits
employee engagement index
(2011 versus 2010)
+
 7 %  Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview / Seeing the benefits 13 
Overview 14 Overview / Speedy at a glance
Speedy at a glance
Speedy story
Speedy is a leading service provider 
offering equipment for both hire and 
sale, and associated services, to 
construction, infrastructure, industrial 
and related industries. 
 
Founded in 1977, we are the UK’s  
largest provider of hire equipment and 
have grown our turnover to over £300m 
with over 100,000 customers, over 4,000 
employees and a national network of 
over 325 depots, workshops and offices.
 
Our customers include organisations 
such as AMEC, Balfour Beatty, Carillion, 
ExxonMobil and Thames Water plus 
many thousands of smaller customers 
who are just as important to us. 
 
Our mission
To be an international organisation 
providing multiple services; one  
that understands our customers in 
depth and is ready to adapt to their 
changing needs and markets  
at any time. We will do this through 
superior knowledge, integrated  
systems and operational effectiveness.
Our strategy remains unchanged
Tool and  
equipment  
hire
Quality
Network Availability
Range
UK
Continue to build solid 
relationships to increase 
our circa 10% market share 
in the UK hire market.
International
Work closely with key 
clients and identify ways 
in which we can support 
them in their activities 
overseas, on a ‘follow  
the customer’ principle.
Sales
Provide a comprehensive 
range of consumable items 
and personal protective 
equipment for sale as well 
as advising customers on 
hire, lease or purchase of 
their core equipment.
Services
Extend our core business  
offering with consultancy, 
assurance and training 
services, providing an 
enhanced portfolio  
of solutions.
Sales
Services
International
UK
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview / Speedy at a glance 15 
We are committed to providing the most 
effective fulfillment model in the UK. Our 
business is characterised by our people,  
who combine their extensive product  
and technical knowledge with a real 
commitment to service excellence.
During the past 12 months we have aligned 
ourselves to our Customers and the Markets 
they operate within. This has given us a 
depth of knowledge that ensures that our 
service offering is fully aligned to the sectors 
that our clients serve.
 
Service performance measures are a key  
tool for evaluating our effectiveness and 
driving continuous improvement. Our IT 
infrastructure provides our employees with 
real time measures of service and through 
the ‘My Speedy Extranet’ we provide visibility 
and transparency to our clients in relation 
to our performance.
 
These and other measures underpin  
our objective of delivering true asset 
management to our clients. This ensures  
that whether a customer wishes to hire, 
lease or buy an asset, we can deliver a 
solution that is precisely tailored to their 
unique needs.
International Asset Services
We support our customers in delivering 
major overseas projects in the oil & gas 
and infrastructure sectors by providing 
a managed site support service, which 
combines our core expertise in equipment 
hire with asset management, training and 
logistics services. A key part of our service 
is helping our customers to make more 
efficient use of assets, whilst ensuring safe 
delivery and managing risk effectively.
Training & Advisory Services
We work closely with our customers to 
provide service solutions that manage 
risk and reduce costs, whilst ensuring 
compliance in an environment of 
ever increasing legislation. We are proud 
to build on Speedy’s long established core 
brand values of safety, compliance  
and innovation and support our customers 
with a comprehensive safety and  skills 
training service and a growing advisory 
services offering which now includes health 
and safety, lean site, sustainability and 
environmental assurance.
Speedy divisions
UK & Ireland Asset Services
International & Advisory Services
£343.5m
Revenue
£10.7m
Revenue
Founded in 1977, we are the UK’s largest 
provider of hire equipment and have grown 
our turnover to over £300m with over 
100,000 customers, over 4,000 employees 
and a national network of over 325 depots, 
workshops and offices.
Overview
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16 Overview / Speedy figures
Speedy figures
Highlights
Adjusted loss before tax* reduced from £6.2m in > >
2010 to £0.7m, demonstrating an improving year 
on year trend 
Second half adjusted profit before tax* of £9.2m, > >
compared to first half loss of £9.9m
Revenue up 0.9% to £354.2m (2010: £351.1m) (up > >
3.6% when adjusted for fleet equipment sales 
and the disposed Accommodation Hire operation)
EBITA* up 3.8% at £8.3m (2010: £8.0m), following > >
a first half EBITA* loss of £4.6m (second half profit 
of £12.9m)
Loss before tax (post amortisation and > >
exceptional items) of £27.0m (2010: loss £22.8m) 
£10.9m increase in net capex, with net debt > >
reduced by £5.4m to £113.9m (2010: £119.3m) 
Sale of older/under-utilised equipment has raised > >
£16.2m (2010: £22.6m) for reinvestment into new 
hire fleet
Post year-end sale of the loss-making > >
Accommodation Hire operation for £34.9m  
(7.6x FY11 EBITDA pre allocations, recharges  
and exceptional items)
Net debt/EBITDA* remains strong at 1.79x  > >
(2010: 1.75x) (pro-forma 1.3x when adjusted  
for Accommodation Hire disposal)
Final dividend proposed of 0.2 pence per share > >
(2010: 0.2 pence per share)
Financial KPIs
2010-11 2009-10 2008-9 2007-8 2006-7
336.0
465.9
482.7
351.1 354.2
EBITDA* as a % of revenue
Revenue £m
Operating profit* £m   
EBITDA* £m
2010-11 2009-10 2008-9 2007-8 2006-7
29.9
28.2
25.9
19.4
17.9
*  Pre-amortisation and exceptional items
2010-11 2009-10 2008-9 2007-8 2006-7
100.3
131.6
125.1
68.2
63.4
*  Pre-amortisation and exceptional items
2010-11 2009-10 2008-9 2007-8 2006-7
50.0
64.0
49.2
8.0 8.3
*  Pre-amortisation and exceptional items
* Pre-amortisation and exceptional items
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview / Speedy figures 17 
Speedy have had publicly reported non-financial KPI’s 
in place since 2007, initially set for three years to 2010. 
This year we are pleased to report our first year 
performance against our new five-year targets 
to 2015. Below are our top five non-financial KPI’s. 
For a full list visit www.speedyhire.plc.uk/overview
Marketplace > > 
Number of products in the GO range:  
target to have 50 products in the range 
Target not achieved: 30 products  
in the range
Our People > > 
Employee engagement: target to increase 
baseline figure of 54% to reach 58%
Target achieved: 61%
The Environment > > 
CO
2
e per capita: reduce from 8.9 tonnes per 
capita base line to 8 tonnes per capita
Target achieved: 7 .95 tonnes per capita
Health & Safety > > 
Reduction in Major Accident Frequency 
Rate (MAFR): reduce from base line of 0.14 to 0.13
Target achieved: MAFR at 0.11
Our Community > > 
Number of prison workshop rehabilitation 
training places provided: target to provide  
200 places
Target achieved: 200 places provided
Non-financial KPIs
Net book value of Property, Plant & Equipment* £m
Group operating margin* %  
Return on capital employed* %  
Earnings per share* pence
3
3
3
3
7
2010-11 2009-10 2008-9 2007-8 2006-7
295.7
372.9
323.2
285.6
219.9
*  PPE has reduced in 2010/11 principally as a consequence of the sale of 
accommodation assets referred to on page 46
2010-11 2009-10 2008-9 2007-8 2006-7
17.64
19.87
13.00
-1.41 -0.02
*  Pre-amortisation and exceptional items, restated for rights issue 
where applicable
2010-11 2009-10 2008-9 2007-8 2006-7
16.9
15.2
10.9
2.0 2.3
*  Pre-amortisation and exceptional items
2010-11 2009-10 2008-9 2007-8 2006-7
14.9
13.7
10.2
2.3 2.3
*  Pre-amortisation and exceptional items
Overview
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 18 Overview / Understanding our markets
Understanding  
our markets
£114bn
+4.6%
+9.7%
In 2010 we saw our own 
customers working closely  
with their competitors; sharing 
technology, reducing risks and 
costs and even forming new  
joint ventures to secure projects.
 
With construction output in 2009 being down 13.7%, the 
small recovery in 2010 of +4.6% means the market is still 
suppressed from the pre-recession levels. With large cuts 
in public spending as part of the Government’s spending 
review, the outlook for 2011 remains challenging but not 
without opportunities.
  The UK construction industry in 2010 showed promising > >
growth in the first three quarters before the seasonal 
decline in quarter four.
  During 2010, billions of pounds were saved on effective > >
supply chain management, from resource to waste 
efficiency which improved the delivery time on 
construction projects.
Construction output for 2010 
is £113,754 billion.
Total construction output  
was up in 2010 +4.6%  
compared to 2009.
All new work was up +9.7% 
compared to 2009.
2010* 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
71,029
125,983
113,754
76,153
85,215
95,095
104,350
109,084
115,776
124,354
108,764
All new work
Repair & maintenance
64%
36%
2010 output % Construction output £m
Source: ONS data
Private/Public sectors 2010 (total) % Seasonality £m
Private
Public
Infrastructure
The UK construction industry output
24,000
25,000
26,000
27,000
28,000
29,000
30,000
31,000
32,000
33,000
2009 2010
Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4
* 2010 revised
55%
28%
17%
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview / Understanding our markets 19 
We’ve seen dramatic changes  
in the top 50 construction 
companies, with the larger 
construction companies now 
winning the majority of projects; 
order books for the next 12 
months are already promising. 
 
For 2011, we’ll start to see 
changes in the supply chain, 
as customers acquire suppliers, 
assets or even their own 
competitors. Through acquisitions 
they will strengthen their market 
share or enter new markets for 
strategic gain.
  New work in 2010 showed > >
investment from the Public Sector, 
with New Housing increasing  
by +46.4%.
  Private funded projects saw  > >
a slight decline compared to  
2009 of -0.1%.
  Housing Repair & Maintenance > >
saw an increase of 4.3% in the 
Public Sector and 7.0% in the 
Private Sector; overall this sector 
increased by 6.1%.
  This section of the market  > >
was funded 65% by the Private 
Sector in 2010, previously 64%  
in 2009.
Government spending review
Public vs private spending
46.4%
Spent on new housing public
Private
Public
Private
Public
Public/Private spending (in Housing Repair  
& Maintenance) %
Public Private
2010 2009
7,343
13,023
7,662
13,936
2009 %
Source: ONS data
Private
Public
Infrastructure
2010 %
Private
Public
Infrastructure
Housing Repair & Maintenance  
£m 
New housing public +46.4%
New housing private +15.7%
Infrastructure +25.0%
New work public +20.6%
Private industrial +5.8%
Private commercial -8.5%
Total +9.7%
35%
65%
57%
17%
26%
Big spenders v. 2009
62%
15%
23%
Overview
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20 Business review / Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s 
statement
“ We have established a solid 
platform from which to build 
and, whilst we remain alert 
to the continuing uncertainty 
in the economy, we expect 
to make further progress 
in 2011/12.” 
 
Ishbel Macpherson 
Non-Executive Chairman
Overview
Whilst it has been another challenging year for our sector,  
I am pleased to report that the business has been stabilised 
through continued cost management, improvement in pricing 
and an ongoing investment programme in our depot network, 
IT trading platform, hire fleet and services. Each of these has 
contributed to the establishment of a solid base from which  
to return the business to growth.
Notwithstanding exceptional costs of £20.8m, which contributed 
to an overall loss before tax of £27.0m, we saw the benefits of these 
actions in 2010/11 in the reversal of the first half losses to end the 
year at a broadly breakeven position (profit before tax, amortisation 
and exceptional items). The year on year revenue comparatives 
improved throughout the course of the year, with particular progress 
made in recovering UK hire rates following the declines over the last 
few years. Our loss before tax (pre-amortisation and exceptional 
items) was £0.7m, compared to a loss of £6.2m in 2009/10 and 
a loss of £9.9m in the first half of 2010/11. Our ongoing drive to keep 
tight control over costs, whilst working to improve revenues, has 
resulted in a further reduction in like-for-like operating costs of 2.9% 
year on year. Our EBITDA margin (pre-amortisation and exceptional 
items) improved during the course of the year, having been 14.0% 
in the first half and 21.7% in the second half. We also managed the 
business so as to maximise cash generation, with the result that 
year end net debt was £5.4m lower than at the previous year end, 
despite a 52% increase in net capex to £31.7m. 
The sale of our loss-making Accommodation Hire operation for 
£34.9m in cash and the unwinding of its retained working capital, 
estimated to be approximately £3.6m, will also serve to reduce  
debt further. Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Chairman’s statement 21 
Strategic progress
These results, and particularly the recovery in the second half, 
where the EBITA margin (pre-exceptional items) increased by 
9.9 percentage points compared to the first half, are a reflection 
of the successful implementation of the Group’s strategy of 
developing close, long-term strategic partnerships with major 
customers and industrial groups. This has allowed us to gain access 
to their supply chains at low cost, and offer broader complementary 
activities in testing, inspection, repair, maintenance, asset 
management, training and advisory services, both in the UK 
and increasingly, internationally. 
Having taken decisive action in 2009 in response to the global 
financial crisis and realigned the cost base, the focus in 2010/11 has 
been on strengthening the balance sheet to prepare the business 
for growth in line with this strategy as the economy recovers. 
During 2010/11 we continued to invest in our network, our IT 
infrastructure, our assets and in our complementary non-hire 
services (e.g. testing, training and sales) which differentiate the 
business and thereby provides it with a platform to broaden its 
offerings to a wider range of customer segments. Our strategy will 
continue to underpin the Group throughout 2011/12 as we maintain 
our focus on cash, costs and customers, whilst recovering growth 
in our business.
Our priority remains to restore our UK business to full health, 
investing to refresh the fleet and in the improvement of the  
efficiency of our property portfolio. We will also continue to 
develop our fledgling businesses, principally International 
and Training & Advisory Services, at a measured pace.
Funding
The Group’s bank facility, which is a revolving credit facility  
of £210m, matures in June 2012. In preparation for this, the Group  
is in advanced discussions with its existing bank group, along with 
other lenders, regarding its refinancing requirements and expects  
to secure replacement funding in the near future. 
Dividend
The Company paid an interim dividend of 0.2p per ordinary 
share on 28 January 2011, consistent with the interim dividend  
paid in 2009/10.
We remain committed to a progressive dividend policy as markets 
recover, but remain cautious in our approach to cash in the interim. 
The Board is therefore recommending an unchanged final dividend 
of 0.2 pence per share. This represents a cash cost of c.£1m. 
If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, this will 
bring the total for the year to 0.4 pence per share. 
Governance and board changes
Since the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1993, our 
Board and executive governance structures have developed and 
improved. We are fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and firmly believe that good governance reduces risk and 
adds value to the business.
The Board has undergone a number of changes in the past year 
and further changes will take place in the forthcoming year. 
Justin Read, the Group Finance Director, has resigned to join the 
Board of SEGRO plc, as its Group Finance Director. Justin will be 
leaving on 26 August 2011. A recruitment process for a new Group 
Finance Director will commence immediately and an announcement 
will be made once this process has been concluded. 
The Board would like to express its gratitude to Justin for his 
invaluable contribution to the Group over the last three years  
and to wish Justin every success in his future career.
David Wallis retired at the end of December 2010, having served 
as Chairman of the Company for over 10 years. Claudio Veritiero, 
MD of Asset Services, left the Group in October 2010 as part of our 
cost reduction programme. Michael Averill was appointed as Senior 
Independent Director on 1 January 2011, at the same time as I 
became Chairman. Further changes amongst the Non-Executive 
Directors will take place this year as Peter Atkinson will retire at the 
forthcoming AGM, having served six years on the Board. The Board 
has commenced a search for a new Non-Executive Director.
We are most grateful to David, Claudio and Peter for their invaluable 
contributions and wish them well for the future. 
Employees
2010/11 saw another year of tremendous commitment from our 
people. The quality of our people continues to be a core strength 
of our business. Our recovery through this year is down to the 
performance of Steve Corcoran, his team and all the employees 
who continue to build the business. I would like to thank them  
all, on behalf of the Board, for their skill, dedication, hard work 
and loyalty throughout this period of upheaval and difficult 
economic conditions. 
Outlook
In conclusion, whilst we acknowledge that our business has 
been through a very difficult and unrewarding period for our 
shareholders, management has aggressively taken action with 
regard to cash, costs and capex to ensure that the Group has not 
only survived the short term challenges to its future, but that it is 
now far stronger as a business and is very well placed for the future. 
Whilst April’s trading was affected by the impact of the late Easter 
and the subsequent Royal Wedding public holiday, the new financial 
year has begun satisfactorily. Although we remain alert to the 
continuing uncertainty in the economy, which we believe will 
continue for some time to come in the construction sector in 
particular, we are confident that the actions we have taken give  
us a solid platform from which to build and that we will continue 
to make progress in 2011/12. Our leading market position, our 
advanced systems, our strong cash flow and our clear market 
approach, position the Group strongly to take full advantage of  
the market upturn when economic conditions eventually improve.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 11.00am on 13 July 2011 at Mere Court Hotel 
& Conference Centre, Knutsford, Cheshire. I look forward to seeing 
you there.
Ishbel Macpherson
Non-Executive Chairman
Business review 22 Business review / Chief Executive’s review
Chief Executive’s 
review
“ With revenues up, rates and 
margins improving and costs 
down, we are well set to deliver 
sustainable growth.” 
 
Steve Corcoran 
Chief Executive
Overview
The financial year which closed 31 March 2011 signalled the 
end of the most tumultuous period in the Group’s history, with the 
business recording a profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional 
items of £9.2m in the second half, reversing a £9.9m loss in the first 
half. When the financial crisis broke in September 2008 our business 
was on a significant growth curve, having reported 22.3% revenue 
growth in the first half of 2008/09, and was still in the process of 
integrating Hewden Tools which we had acquired in the prior year. 
The subsequent sharp contraction in construction activity left us with 
effectively two businesses to restructure as well as an integration 
to complete. Since that time through aggressive and determined 
action we have reduced our headcount by 29%, our vehicle fleet 
by a similar amount and removed 33% of our operational sites. 
It was this determined action that gave us the confidence to 
announce at this year’s interims that, after a two year period 
of disappointing results, we were confident that the business 
had turned the corner. Our second half performance has 
supported that claim. Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Chief Executive’s review 23 
Our performance in 2010/11
I am pleased to report that we have reversed our first half losses 
in the second half of the year, to end the year at a broadly break 
even position (profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional items), 
in line with our expectations. Whilst it was a challenging target 
to turn around a £9.9m first half loss (loss before tax, amortisation 
and exceptional items), it was satisfying to have delivered on that 
expectation with a second half performance which delivered  
a 9.9 percentage point improvement in operating margin (pre-
amortisation and exceptional items) and a 54.6% increase in our 
EBITDA performance (pre-exceptional items) over the six months, 
at a time when our principal market, construction, continued  
to be in decline. The achievement is even more encouraging 
when considering that the performance of our Accommodation 
Hire operation continued to decline year on year and one of our 
principal clients, Connaught Plc, fell into administration. It is 
pleasing to note that after a period of eighteen months of 
aggressive self-help, in which we merged eleven trading entities 
into one, established a single UK based Shared Services Centre, 
completed the move of the entire Group onto a single IT platform 
and took the robust action against costs as outlined above 
(which have collectively contributed to an annualised reduction 
in our operating costs of approximately £110m since June 2008), 
that we saw the benefits of those initiatives come through in the 
second half. 
Looking ahead into the current year and beyond, in the UK we are 
benefitting from improving hire rates (closing the year up 10% year 
on year), increasing demand and a more efficient cost base. 
Having sold the loss making Accommodation Hire operation, 
we are confident that we have secured a strong platform that will 
provide for a sustainable recovery. In addition, we have diversified 
our business with the continued development of the new 
International operation, based in the UAE, the specialist Engineering 
operation to target activity in the Industrial and Rail markets and the 
Training & Advisory operation to assist clients with their risk 
management, especially in the use and application of rented plant 
and machinery. Whilst these operations are at an early stage in 
their development, we are encouraged by their progress and are 
confident that they will provide a meaningful contribution and 
differentiation in the future.
Operating network
Our strategy provides for a reduction in the number of operational 
outlets as we consolidate a number of operations that exist in the 
same or adjacent towns and cities into fewer, larger sites. This will 
support us in the development of a three tier operating model of:
regional Multi Service Centre’s (MSC’s), which will act as regional > >
distribution centres as well as hosting our main workshop 
services and specialist hire facilities (light plant, fencing & safety 
decking); 
Superstores, which will provide a tools, lifting and survey > >
capability under one roof to serve the major conurbations; we 
will retain the integrity of independent specialist skills but realise 
greater efficiency from our transport, administration and 
maintenance capabilities; and
Local Tool Hire, where customer needs tend to be more > >
unplanned and reactive. In order to support our local, regional 
and national customers, and those more transient customers 
engaged in service, maintenance and FM activities, it is 
important that we offer full geographic coverage and be close 
to their operations, especially in areas of specific industrial 
or economic activity e.g. Grangemouth, Sellafield, Scunthorpe 
and Fawley. 
In pursuit of this strategy, during the year we reduced the overall 
number of outlets from which we operate from 363 to 327, and 
opened our ninth Superstore. We have a further eight Superstores 
in various stages of internal planning or development.
IT trading platform
We have rigorously maintained our commitment to increasing both 
our investment in, and use of, technology. After a year of further IT 
investment (£2.6m), 2010/11 was the first full year in which we 
benefitted from the transfer of all business activities onto a single IT 
trading platform. When combined with the consolidation of the UK 
Hire operations into one trading entity, we now have full 
transparency of all our assets, customers and trading activities. 
The benefits from this investment are already evident, with greater 
visibility over our hire fleet availability, its location and operational 
status helping to drive improvements in utilisation (Q4 utilisation in 
the UK was up 12% year on year) and thereby reduce capex needs. 
With the availability of improved information and reporting, we are 
able to analyse better our performance, as well as to identify older 
or under-utilised assets. These can then be disposed of and the 
cash proceeds (£16.2m in 2010/11) made available to be re-cycled 
for re-investment into new assets in areas of greater demand. This 
capability has enabled us to replenish the fleet, whilst reducing the 
need for traditional levels of additional debt or capital. 
We are confident that our extensive investment in IT, which  
was maintained throughout the downturn, will provide the platform 
to drive margin growth, improve return on capital employed and 
enhance our overall customer service (which already enjoys a 92.7% 
recommendation score). The advancements in our systems also 
provide flexibility to adopt new services and activities in support 
of our clients’ risk management, as well as enhancing our 
international growth capability. 
Disposal of Accommodation Hire operation
Since the year end, we have announced the disposal of our 
Accommodation Hire operation for £34.9m (retaining the working 
capital estimated to be £3.6m) to Elliott Group, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Algeco Scotsman which is the world’s leading provider 
of rented, temporary accommodation. As a part of the disposal both 
parties have entered into a three year exclusive partnering 
agreement which will see us support each other in the provision 
of our respective fleet services. Elliott will become the provider 
of accommodation services and toilet hire to Speedy throughout 
the UK, with Speedy supporting Elliott’s requirements in the 
provision of tools and equipment, such as power generation, 
lighting and compaction equipment. In addition, we will also 
further expand our service based revenues through the provision 
of engineering support to maintain Elliott’s c.1,650 strong generator 
fleet for an initial period of three years from May 2011. The disposal 
is a sensible move with clear commercial benefit to the Group  
as it removes our only established, non market leading and loss 
making operation from the business, whilst enabling two market 
leaders to offer their respective customers access to a more 
comprehensive offering. 
Business review Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
24 Business review / Chief Executive’s review
Chief Executive’s review  
continued
Contractual revenue stream with major businesses  
and their downstream contractors
Despite the challenging market conditions that have persisted, the 
business has continued in its objective to secure closer relationships 
with the UK’s major construction, engineering and infrastructure 
groups. We are convinced that this has proven to be the right 
strategy evidenced by the fact that:
we have broadened our customer base into non-construction > >
markets such that non-construction now accounts for around 
53% of Group revenue. In construction, 58.5% of our revenues 
are secured with the major contractors directly;
at a time of heightened financial uncertainty, larger clients offer > >
far greater debt security and, more importantly, workload 
security; 
with the conditions facing UK construction forecast to remain > >
difficult, spending on infrastructure, especially in markets 
associated with water, waste, energy and transport, are 
expected to be more resilient and these activities tend to be the 
domain of the major contractors and specialist trades; 
work in these markets is more visible, sustainable and securely > >
funded; 
the trust of major clients gives access to and influence over their > >
sub-contractor base; and
forecasts suggest there will be further consolidation in our end > >
markets, with the major contractors taking more market share. 
Stronger relationships with them ensure that we are able to gain 
market share from this consolidation process.
Our improved knowledge and understanding of end markets  
has also enabled us to secure work directly with the end users 
themselves. For example, in the water sector we have won hire 
contracts with Thames Water and Wessex Water and services 
contracts from United Utilities and Severn Trent Water. In the energy 
sector, we have also secured significant new business awards from 
Murco, Chevron and Exxon for integrated site based supply. 
Outside of infrastructure we have also successfully targeted large 
capital projects. These projects are subject to extensive financial 
and commercial due diligence, which provides us with confidence 
that the funding structures are secure and the projects themselves 
more sustainable. With large capital commitments in highly 
complex engineering and construction programmes, these projects 
require careful planning and highly skilled project management. 
They therefore also tend to be the domain of the major contractors. 
Our success in understanding these issues is evidenced by our 
award this month of the integrated on-site facilities with Brookfield 
Multiplex at the new £750m Glasgow South hospital. 
Cash and finance
Our business is a strong generator of cash and the capacity to use 
this to pay down debt has been one of the great achievements 
during the recent difficult years. 
We entered the downturn with peak net debt at July 2008 of 
£303.2m and we finished the 2010/11 year with net debt of £113.9m 
(before receipts from the disposal of the Accommodation Hire 
operation). Since the start of the recession we have reduced debt 
by almost £190m. Whilst approximately £100m of this was with the 
support of our shareholders through a Rights Issue in July 2009, 
we have paid off a further £90m through funds internally 
generated, despite total cash costs of £26.8m associated with 
bank facility amendment fees, property closures, redundancy costs 
and other activities associated with our restructuring programme. 
This equates to a total cash generation through the period 
of £116.8m. 
At the end of the financial year we have net debt to EBITDA at less 
than two times and net debt to net tangible fixed assets at only 
0.52x. We have a strong balance sheet, which leaves us well placed 
as we move forward to capitalise on the strength of our cash 
generation to fund further capital investment as trading conditions 
continue to improve.
Strategy
Our strategy is to develop a service led capability; one that is built 
around customer intimacy by gaining a real understanding of our 
customers and their markets. As we know them better, we are more 
able to develop services that are specifically designed for them and 
support the requirements they have to maintain their own 
differentiation to their clients. Success is evident in that for the year 
ended 31 March 2011 over 28% of our revenues have been derived 
from non-rental services. These activities are less dependent upon 
capital and provide far greater engagement with our customers, 
whilst providing clear differentiation from those peers who continue 
to operate a vanilla hire offering. It is our firm view that, without the 
addition of value added service capabilities, hire in isolation will 
continue to see price erosion and eventually become a commodity 
based activity. Service is valued, the provision of a product  
or an asset is not!
To not have a value added offering also fails to understand why 
customers have turned to hire in the first place. Our customers 
hire to mitigate three risks:
capital risk: the capital cost to purchase equipment and to > >
replace equipment, together with the balance sheet impact 
of owning the equipment;
operating risk: the risk associated with the costs involved > >
in financing land/property rental to operate a plant fleet,  
the cost of spares and parts in maintaining equipment and the 
logistics costs associated with transporting, storing and moving 
equipment; all of these are costs that have to be recovered 
in customers’ tendering/bidding processes but yet are not 
core activities; and
legislative risk: the increasing risks associated with legislative > >
compliance, especially in areas of Health and Safety and, 
increasingly, environmental management and sustainability.  Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Chief Executive’s review 25 
However, hiring alone will not remove these risks. For example, 
if hired equipment is given to someone who is inadequately trained 
or who uses it in an inappropriate manner then the customer runs 
the risk of injury to people or damage to the machinery or property 
exposing the customer to additional compliance or financial risk. 
Equally, legislative risk resides if the wrong equipment is specified  
or is hired where it is not suitable for use in an activity exposed  
to safety or environmental risk. Customers take more comfort from 
having access to the experts. We can give guidance on the most 
suitable product applicable, mitigating risks to the company, 
individuals and the brand. 
It is an appreciation and understanding of issues like these and the 
drivers for hire, that has led us to establish our Training & Advisory 
service, our test, repair, inspection and maintenance capability and 
our consumable and equipment sales offering. This ensures that 
our customers have access to the support mechanisms and the 
range of service requirements to enable them better to manage 
the risks associated with plant and machinery in their own 
operations. By developing these services we also enhance 
the capability to shift our business from a rented asset provider  
to a plant services outsourcer.
This move is not a radical shift from what we do, but an evolutionary 
extension of what we have traditionally provided, both in support 
of our own business and also in an ad-hoc way to our clients. Now 
encompassed in our service business, they are being increasingly 
recognised by customers as a real value add extension in our 
offering and, as such, a clear business differentiation. When 
accompanied with the benefits afforded from our industry leading 
IT capability, we are increasingly able to offer our clients 
a compelling proposition. It is of particular relevance to those  
clients who are large, regular users of hired equipment and they 
therefore value what we do. 
Our business is now in a strong position, although it has 
been through a very difficult period which has not provided our 
shareholders a satisfactory return in recent times. We are confident 
that the aggressive action taken to right-size the business has 
provided us with a secure platform from which to rebuild. Our 
decisions, whilst having to be appropriate for the environment in 
which we found ourselves, have always been accompanied with 
a clear view for the needs of the business over the longer term. 
Our prime focus has been on ensuring that we had a strong and 
healthy balance sheet throughout the downturn, even if that was 
at the expense of short term profitability. This action was driven  
by a clear focus on the 3 C’s of cash, costs and customers. This has 
ensured that the Group has not only survived the severe short term 
challenges to its future, but has emerged far stronger and is now 
very positively positioned for future growth. 
Current trading and prospects
As a result of the aggressive and determined action taken by 
management in pursuit of our strategy, Group revenue (excluding 
fleet equipment sales) has improved year on year by 3.6% after 
adjusting for the drag effect of the Accommodation Hire operation. 
The improvement was 3.2% for the core UK Tools, Lifting and Survey 
operations. Our Power business, which was loss making in the 
earlier part of 2010/11, traded profitably in the second half and, with 
the fledgling operations in International, Engineering (a part of UK 
Asset Services) and Training & Advisory also progressively moving 
towards profitability, we are confident that our recovery is well under 
way. However, we are not complacent since 2011/12 will not be 
without its challenges:
the construction market is forecast to remain difficult, with output > >
expected to fall a further 0.8% this year;
the 1% increase in National Insurance contributions which came > >
into effect in April 2011 will add to our operating cost as we 
remain very much a people business, employing almost 3,800 
people in the UK;
fuel costs remain persistently high and are forecast to remain > >
so for the foreseeable future; every penny increase in fuel per 
litre increases our costs by c.£80,000 annually;
local authorities are expected to increase the business rates > >
to offset spending cuts and other financial challenges; with 
over 300 outlets in the UK, business rates cost us £4.0m 
in 2010/11; and
the April period was down year on year (as expected) as a result > >
of a late Easter, followed by an additional public holiday for the 
Royal Wedding leading into the May Day bank holiday; these 
combined to reduce the number of charging days in the period 
and resulted in many customers taking an extended break. 
We are confident in our ability to deal with these issues with  
a renewed vigour in the Group. Having successfully restructured  
the business we are now very firmly focussed on looking forward, 
whilst maintaining a tight control over the 3 C’s of Cash, Costs and 
Customers. Capex investment will be progressively increased and 
will continue to be supported through the disposal of underutilised 
or older assets such that net investment will remain lower than that 
traditionally seen. 
Finally, it is important to recognise the continued commitment  
of the dedicated people throughout the business. Our people  
have responded magnificently throughout these difficult times  
and I am pleased to acknowledge their hard work. With trading 
improving, rates recovering and return on capital increasing, 
we look forward with increasing confidence. However, this more 
positive outlook is tempered with an acknowledgement that in the 
short term there will continue to be challenges as our business and 
the country as a whole emerge from recession. 
Steve Corcoran 
Chief Executive
Business review Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
26 Business review / Principal risks and uncertainties
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Group Board is fully committed to a programme of continual 
improvement, which includes identifying, evaluating and managing 
significant risks facing the business and has developed a set of 
processes to allow it to do so. Ten key risk areas have been 
identified, the successful management of which is seen as essential 
to the Group’s ability to achieve its corporate goals. A revised risk KPI 
dashboard has been agreed and will be reviewed by the Board 
every quarter. Additionally, the Internal Audit Plan is aligned to the 
key risks. The text below summarises (in alphabetical order) the 
risks that were identified as key, together with a short description 
of monitoring/mitigation.
Risk description Mitigation
1. Attracting and maintaining key staff 
Lack of staff with appropriate skills hinders our ability to win, mobilise and  
deliver our business. 
Speedy offers competitive benefits packages and provides training at all levels, 
including a training academy. Skill and resource requirements for meeting the 
Group’s objectives have been identified and action taken to address any gaps. 
Speedy also offers career development and succession plans.
2. Business continuity 
Any interruption to the Group’s IT systems or infrastructure could have a 
material adverse effect on the Group’s business, communication, capabilities, 
management of projects and overall financial performance and reporting.
Responsibility for the integrity of the Group’s IT systems rests with the Director  
of Information Technology. Preventative controls and back-up and recovery 
procedures are in place for key systems and all buildings. Changes to Group 
systems are considered as part of wider change management programmes and 
implemented in phases wherever possible. The Group has critical incident plans 
for all its UK and international operations. Insurance cover is reviewed at regular 
intervals to ensure we are covered in the event of a business continuity event.
3. Data and management information 
To achieve its strategic aims, the business needs to measure and analyse 
performance in every business area and across all products and services. 
Leveraging revenue-generating opportunities, exceeding customer 
expectations, effective decision-making and keeping costs down all require 
effective systems, MI and KPIs. 
The Group has IT systems throughout all business areas, which are the 
responsibility of the Director of Information Technology. The ‘One Speedy’ project, 
which has been running since mid-2009, continues to deliver material data and 
information benefits and will continue to do so. Ongoing investment is planned  
to use technology further to improve asset management, data management and 
customer management information.
4. External influences 
A downturn in construction/industrial activity, or a decline in the desirability 
of hiring tools and equipment to fulfil such activity, may reduce the prices that  
the Group can charge for its services and may reduce activity levels. 
Government expenditure is important across the wider construction industry in 
the UK. Any reduction in Government expenditure which is not offset by an 
increase in private sector expenditure could adversely affect the Group. 
The Group continually monitors and assesses market capacity by reference  
to a number of external sources, together with internal data which reports 
customer, product and geographical demand. It operates a flexible model 
that can react to prevailing market conditions.
The Group assesses changes in Government spending as part of its wider  
market analysis. The impact on the Group of any such reduction in expenditure  
is assessed as part of the ongoing financial and operational budgeting and 
forecasting process. Our strategy is to develop a broader spectrum of services 
across different markets and to ensure that we are well positioned with clients 
who are likely to benefit from those areas in which increased activity is forecast.
5. Failure/insolvency of major customer 
Whilst no single customer accounts for more that 7% of revenue or receivables,  
in the event of the loss of a major customer the revenue generated by the 
Group could be reduced with a corresponding impact on the Group’s market 
position and the Group could experience bad debts in respect of business 
already transacted. 
Credit control processes are in place to monitor the potential for credit defaults 
and exposures. This is reported on a regular basis to the executive management 
team and, where necessary, issues are escalated to resolve payment issues 
as soon as practicable. Visibility of exposures to individual customer groups 
is improving through the implementation of the business information and credit 
management systems. Given the diversified customer base, the Group does 
not maintain credit insurance and management of the risk of debt default 
is managed as part of the day-to-day operations of the business. Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Principal risks and uncertainties 27 
Risk description Mitigation
6. Finance
Should the Group be unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, it may not  
be able to take advantage of strategic opportunities, or it may be required to 
reduce or delay capital expenditure, resulting in the ageing of the fleet and/or 
availability issues. This could disadvantage the Group relative to its competitors 
and may adversely impact its ability to command acceptable levels of pricing. 
The Group’s Treasury Policy sets out objectives regarding the nature, amount and 
maturity of committed funding facilities that should be in place to support the 
Group’s activities.
In line with the policy, the Group’s capital requirements and potential sources  
of finance are reviewed at Board level on a regular basis in order that its 
requirements can be adequately planned for. Close relationships are maintained 
with the Group’s bankers in order to ensure that the Group enjoys a broad 
degree of support. Short lead times for purchasing hire equipment are 
maintained in order to manage capital requirements.
7. Increase in competition 
The equipment rental industry is extremely competitive and highly fragmented. 
Many of the markets in which the Group operates are served by numerous 
competitors, ranging from national equipment rental companies to local 
independents. Some of the Group’s principal competitors may have greater 
financial resources, be more geographically diversified in particular regions, 
have greater brand recognition in certain market sectors and may be better 
able to withstand adverse market conditions within the industry.
The Group monitors its competitive position closely, with a view to ensuring that  
it is able to offer its customers the best solution to their requirements. Capital 
expenditure requirements are assessed as part of the budgeting process, and 
throughout the year via regular forecasts. Day-to-day capital expenditure 
requirements are assessed on a needs basis, with limited long-term future 
ordering commitments. The Group monitors the performance of its major 
accounts against market forecasts and individual expectations with a view  
to ensuring that the opportunities for the Group are maximised. Market share  
is regularly measured and our competitors’ activities are reported on and  
reacted to where appropriate.
8. International 
A part of the Group’s growth strategy relies on the development of our 
international business. Speedy’s ‘follow the customer’ international approach 
requires that these customers identify profitable and consistent project 
workflow. Additionally, some of our current and target markets are politically 
volatile. There are also challenges inherent in controlling operations in 
countries that are a long distance from the UK.
Speedy’s international partners are all well-established, multi-national 
businesses with years of experience of operating abroad. We have a dedicated 
international business that co-ordinates all foreign activities to ensure that local 
cultural, political and legal requirements are complied with. We have plans in 
place to manage the extraction of staff from our international operations when 
the need arises.
9. Planning and change management 
To address the material reduction in the size of the hire market since 2008, the 
Group is executing a strategy that delivers growth and profit though leveraging 
core competencies better than our competitors, developing new and better 
ways of operating and entering new markets (for example, the Middle East) 
where different risks to those faced in the UK and Ireland will emerge. If the 
strategy is wrong or not executed effectively, or the changes undermine our 
ability to plan and forecast, the Group may not achieve its objectives.
In-depth and ongoing reviews of business strategy have been undertaken by  
the Board and its advisors in determining strategy. The change programme has 
been communicated to all employees to explain the Group’s strategy, and plans 
to deliver the strategy are compared to actual performance. Significant projects 
are subject to careful evaluation and monitoring at Board level, with risks being 
subject to ongoing reporting around appropriate mitigation strategies. In 2010  
we expanded our programme management office, and created the role  
of Strategic Programme Director.
10. Safety 
The Group operates in an industry where safety is a critical consideration. 
Failure to meet customers’ safety expectations or regulatory requirements 
increases the risk of legal, financial and brand damage. This requires an 
uncompromising attitude to safety.
The Group is recognised for its industry-leading position promoting enhanced 
health and safety compliance, together with a commitment to product 
innovation. The Group’s systems and health and safety and environment teams 
measure and promote employee understanding of and compliance with 
procedures that affect safety. Also customer account managers address any 
service and safety issues arising in respect of those customers.
Business review Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
28 Business review / Our performance
“ Our strategy is built on 
developing intimate and  
long-term relationships with  
our customers. This strategy 
is underpinned by our focus 
on consistency of service,  
quality of equipment and  
legal and safety compliance.“
David Graham 
Managing Director, UK Asset Services
Our division is structured to incorporate specialist disciplines, 
grouped into four key service lines:
UK Hire: our largest operation, comprising product specialist > >
depots offering small tools, lifting and materials handling 
equipment, light plant, power generation, compressors, pumps, 
surveying and specialist safety and communication equipment. 
Sales teams are organised along market sector lines;
Engineering Services: this operation was created in 2009 and > >
provides three distinct service offerings: 
test, repair, inspection and maintenance services; > −
major industrial / petrochemical on-site and shutdown > −
services; and latterly
the development of our specialist rail activities; and > −
Procure (Resale): responsible for the Groups’ sales of personal > >
protection equipment, consumables and, increasingly, 
equipment sales. Our markets are served in three ways, a resale 
operation through our depot network, direct bulk distribution to 
our clients and, increasingly, through Internet sales.
The division also includes our operations in Ireland, which 
comprises five depots offering the full range of Speedy products  
into the Irish markets. 
Strategy
Our strategy is based on developing strong relationships with 
our customers, focused on fulfilling their equipment and site 
infrastructure needs through a range of hire and asset 
management services. 
Our aim is to maximise profitability and returns and to broaden 
our service offering, so that we are able to support the entire asset 
cycle. In order for UK Asset Services to reach ‘preferred’ or ‘strategic 
partner’ status, customers demand that we provide quality, 
consistency and added value to their businesses. Investment 
in fleet, the UK’s largest operational network and an expanding 
range of services are ensuring we are well placed to meet 
these requirements.
Our plan is simple:
be customer intimate: know our customers and their markets; > >
give our customers the best service: align our offering > >
and service capability to our customers’ needs;
add value through innovation: extend into other areas  > >
of our customers’ value chain; and
safety and sustainability: at the core of our offer. > >
Priorities for 2011/12
Market conditions in 2010/11 were difficult and challenging, 
however, despite this we stabilised our business and have created 
a solid platform from which to move forward. Importantly, we have 
underpinned our future through extensive IT development leading 
to completion of the full roll out of Axapta (Speedy’s IT platform). 
Other developments include enhanced service measurement tools 
and reporting, simplified and shortened reporting lines and the 
reorganisation of the sales operation to become market and sector 
focussed. All of this is now supported by a central asset function 
that ensures asset quality, coordinates fleet replacement and fleet 
disposals and is tasked with optimising utilisation.
UK & Ireland  
Asset Services
What we do
We deliver asset management for our customers, 
with tailored services and a continued commitment 
to relationship management. This means that, 
whether a customer wants to hire, lease or  
buy an asset, we can advise them and support 
their needs. Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Our performance 29 
Large major contractors
Balfour Beatty Plc: one-year group wide preferred supplier > >
agreement.
BAM Nuttall: three-year preferred supplier agreement. > >
Galliford Try: five-year preferred supplier agreement. > >
Wilmott Dixon Group: renewal of two-year preferred supplier > >
agreement.
Sector clients
Thames Water: five-year framework agreement. > >
Welsh Water: five-year exclusive supplier agreement. > >
Sector specialists
J Murphy: two-year renewal of preferred supplier agreement > >
(water/utilities).
McNicholas Construction Services: two-year renewal of preferred > >
supplier agreement (water/utilities).
Barratt Group: two-year preferred supplier agreement (housing). > >
East Ayrshire Council: two-year framework agreement (public). > >
Tesco: two-year framework agreement (commercial). > >
Industrial
Rowecord Engineering: two-year preferred supplier agreement. > >
Doosan Babcock: one-year preferred supplier agreement. > >
Babcock International Group: three-year preferred supplier > >
agreement.
After a weak first half, our second half recovery was primarily driven 
by the performance of our Tools, Lifting and Survey operations.
Whilst turnover was broadly flat in the second half versus the first 
half, the key performance improvements came on the back of gross 
profit improvements of 9.5% and robust cost controls, with 
overheads falling by £5.9m.
Hire fleet efficiency has improved as a result of improving utilisation 
and the planned disposal programme. This programme resulted in 
sales of £7.5m of slow moving/obsolete equipment which 
generated a gain over net book values.
The Accommodation Hire operation proved to be a considerable 
drag on our trading performance and, whilst the second half saw 
some reduction in its losses, market rates and volumes remained 
depressed.
In contrast, the Power operation, which had a poor first half, did 
start to recover strongly in the second half, with several major 
industrial shut downs (which had been delayed or postponed) 
re-commencing and with an increasing number of off-shore oil 
and energy projects.
These and the other actions we have taken represent significant 
steps toward the completion of the delivery of the benefits of One 
Speedy (a consistent approach to our customers in the delivery of 
service excellence).
In the following 12 months our priorities and initiatives include:
the delivery of improved trading performance, financial returns > >
and asset efficiency combined with strong profit to cash 
conversion;
consolidating our leading approach to providing tailored support > >
and on-site facilities to major projects; 
delivering our transition to a market and sector based model for > >
client relationship management, ensuring we are well placed to 
benefit from the more robust markets in infrastructure, transport, 
energy, waste and utilities;
growing our new Sales offer (Procure) through web-based sales > >
and an enhanced in-branch proposition;
expanding our Industrial, Engineering and Rail operations, by > >
securing additional long-term asset management contracts;
increasing yield through the application of service measurement, > >
financial control and improved reporting;
delivering a further improvement in our safety record, reducing > >
accidents in the workplace and risk for all our stakeholders;
continuing to focus on sustainability and expanding our ‘Getting > >
Greener from the Ground Up’ programme, to support our clients’ 
carbon reduction programmes; and
delivering ‘My Speedy’ (client extranet facility providing real time > >
information reducing administration and transaction costs 
through the whole supply chain).
Our markets
Our key markets in the UK and Ireland are construction, 
infrastructure, utilities, and major industrial groups. 
Commercial construction rentals are geared towards contractors 
conducting new-build and repair and renovation work, who hire 
a wide range of equipment. Industrial rentals are geared towards 
businesses conducting routine plant maintenance as well as special 
projects that require power and welding equipment, lifting and 
material handling equipment and safety products. 
Alongside our core market of construction, the sectors that we will 
focus on in 2011/12 are those where we see both robustness and 
growth namely, infrastructure, transport, energy, waste and utilities. 
This focus will be reflected in the assets we add to our fleet, 
the service offering we provide and the allocation of our 
human resources.
How we performed
During the period we secured a range of major long-term contract 
awards, renewals and extensions across a number of sectors by 
focusing on:
the largest general contractors who generally have activity and > >
large order books across all robust and growth sectors and 
provide us with low cost access to their sub-contractors;
sector clients who put in place long term framework supplier > >
arrangements covering all of their operating and capital 
investment programmes; and
sector specific contractors and subcontractors’ who tend > >
to specialise in more highly regulated sectors.
Business review Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
30 Business review / Our performance
International & 
Advisory Services
What we do
We support our customers in delivering major 
overseas projects and facilities management 
contracts by providing a managed site support 
service, which combines our core expertise in 
equipment hire with asset management, site 
infrastructure and logistics services.
Priorities for 2011/12
Our first priority is to remain focused on delivering the targets and 
KPIs in our contracts with strategic customers, including Al Futtaim 
Carillion and Costain, and to extend our reach to support their 
businesses as they win projects across the wider region. Our 
second priority is to sign further, long-term strategic service 
agreements with a select group of both existing and new 
customers.
Our markets
We are focusing on two key markets: oil and gas and government-
backed infrastructure and industrial projects. The oil and gas  
market is global and Speedy has a long track record of supporting 
customers on projects from Europe to East Asia. Our base in the 
Middle East not only provides greater access to the oil and gas 
industry in the region, but provides a base from which we can 
extend our range of services to oil and gas projects in Central and 
East Asia. The infrastructure and industrial sector is more focused 
on the Middle East region and we believe that the recent political 
issues in a number of countries are only likely to accelerate 
long-term plans to invest in infrastructure as governments seek 
to address structural shortages in water, power and transport and 
push on with social programmes with new hospitals, schools and 
universities. Furthermore, governments across the region are 
pursuing a strategy of industrial diversification with major 
investment programmes underway. 
How we performed
Our focus this year has been implementing the key change 
programmes that are the cornerstone of our five-year, exclusive 
strategic services agreement with Al Futtaim Carillion and we have 
already delivered tangible savings to them. We also signed a similar 
three-year, exclusive outsourcing contract with Costain who has 
been established in Abu Dhabi’s oil and gas industry for over 35 
years, and we have won a number of high-profile projects in the oil 
and gas sector across the region supporting Baker Hughes, QMENA 
and other long-established customers of Speedy. Turnover was 
lower than expected at £8.4m, largely due to delayed starts on a 
number of major customer projects and, whilst we have maintained 
our investment in building a team that can deliver our strategy, we 
have also exercised tight control over our costs to minimise our 
start-up losses with an EBITA loss of £1.9m. Steady revenue growth 
throughout the year reduced second half losses to £0.5m 
(compared to a loss of £1.4m in the first half). A healthy pipeline 
of visible opportunities provides us with optimism for continued 
growth in 2011/12. 
International Asset Services
We help our customers manage risk on major overseas projects 
and contracts by delivering the highest safety and quality 
standards, often in challenging environments, and by tracking and 
controlling assets through our in-house management information 
and control systems. We also work with our customers to help them 
make more efficient and effective use of assets. On major contracts, 
we will implant experienced teams into our customers’ operations 
to work in partnership with their management teams to apply our 
expertise and innovation in driving measurable efficiency savings.
Strategy
Our ultimate vision is to be able to support our customers on any 
major project, anywhere in the world. By following our existing 
customers into new markets, we can then reach out to new 
customers who will benefit from our services.
We are implementing the first phases of our strategy by investing in 
the Middle East where there is a high concentration of our existing 
customers engaged on key projects in the oil and gas, infrastructure 
and industrial sectors. Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Our performance 31 
“ Our ultimate vision for our international business is to 
support our customers on any major project, anywhere 
in the world. In addition, our key priorities are to develop 
and grow our advisory services in conjunction with 
strengthening our training offering.” 
 
Mike McGrath 
Managing Director, International Asset Services 
Priorities for 2011/12
Our short-term priority is to develop and grow our new advisory 
services in conjunction with strengthening and growing our existing 
training offering. 
We are introducing new advisory services including fire risk 
assessments, water and air testing, to both traditional and new 
markets. New initiatives for 2011/12 such as eLearning will help  
us to grow our training services and attract a wider portfolio 
of customers. 
Our markets
Whilst our focus remains firmly on the delivery of training and 
advisory services to customers within the Group’s traditional 
markets, we have expanded our customer base into non-traditional 
markets such as property management companies this year, and 
we now look to grow our commercial relationships in new sectors 
including airport authorities and local and central Government 
in 2011/12.
How we performed
In the past year we focused on expanding our training offering 
to include over 200 accredited or certified courses, in addition to 
developing bespoke courses to suit our customers’ individual needs. 
We offer courses from over 100 nationwide training locations and 
our training services now include National Vocation Qualification 
(NVQ) training.
We have established new advisory offerings including Health and 
safety risk assessments and asbestos surveys. Our customer base 
now includes property management companies and consultants for 
long term construction projects. Half of our revenue for the 2010/11 
financial year has been generated from new advisory services. 
Training & Advisory Services
We are proud to build on Speedy’s long established core brand 
values of safety, skills, compliance and innovation. Our focus is on 
understanding our customer’s business and providing solutions for 
critical operational issues, including compliance. We are improving 
the range of training and advisory services that we offer. These now 
include health and safety, lean site, sustainability, environmental 
assurance and waste assurance. 
Our primary activity in the year has been the delivery of cost 
effective, high quality training services to Speedy customers  
and the establishment and growth of new advisory services.
Strategy
We will deliver a comprehensive range of solutions-orientated 
assurance services, addressing financial risk and compliance, to 
existing Group customers and to new customers in both traditional 
and non traditional sectors in the UK and international markets. Our 
services will broaden and strengthen the Speedy brand and extend 
customer brand awareness to a wider range of industries. 
What we do
For many years, Speedy has worked closely  
with its customers to ensure a safe working 
environment by providing compliant quality 
equipment for hire. We now support this with a 
comprehensive safety and skills training service 
and a growing advisory services offering. 
Business review 32 Business review / Group financial review
Group financial 
review
“ Despite the £10.9m increase 
in capex, net debt has fallen  
from £119.3m at the beginning  
of the year to £113.9m 
at 31 March 2011.” 
 
 Justin Read 
Group Finance Director
Group financial performance
Revenue in the year to 31 March 2011 of £354.2m was 0.9% above 
the prior year period (2010: £351.1m), notwithstanding the impact of 
the loss of a significant contract with Network Rail in December 2010 
and the collapse of Connaught PLC, a major customer, in September 
2010. Included in turnover are planned fleet equipment sales 
totalling £5.6m (2010: £8.5m); excluding these disposals, revenue 
was up 1.8%.
Gross margin improved to 61.3% (2010: 59.4%) and the Group 
reported EBITA (before exceptional costs) of £8.3m (2010: £8.0m), 
after deducting depreciation charges of £55.1m (2010: £60.2m).
The Group’s loss before taxation, amortisation and exceptional 
items was £0.7m (2010: loss £6.2m). The loss after taxation, 
amortisation and exceptional items was £19.3m (2010: loss £18.3m).  Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Group financial review 33 
Revenue in the UK & Ireland Asset Services division totalled 
£343.5m (of which £5.9m relates to the Irish operations), which was 
1.1% down on the prior year. Despite this £3.9m drop in turnover, the 
division increased profits at the operating level, with EBITA (before 
exceptional costs) of £18.9m (2010: £15.0m), after absorbing a £1.7m 
charge (2010: nil) in connection with the collapse of Connaught PLC. 
The UK & Ireland Asset Services operating profit margin (before 
amortisation and exceptional costs) rose to 5.4% from 4.2% in 2010.
Turnover in the fledgling International & Advisory Services segment 
almost tripled, rising to £10.7m compared to £3.7m in the prior year. 
£8.4m of the turnover relates to the International Asset Services 
division (2010: £2.4m). The Training & Advisory Services division 
reported turnover of £2.3m in the year (2010: £1.3m), largely derived 
from servicing the training requirements of some of the Group’s 
major customers, in line with our strategy. The operating loss 
(before amortisation and exceptional items) of this segment 
amounted to £3.1m (2010: profit £0.5m), reflecting incremental 
overhead of £6.8m going in to support the growth of these two  
new businesses.
The figures for the segments reported above are stated before 
corporate costs. These costs amounted to £7.5m (before exceptional 
costs) in the year (2010: £7.5m), equivalent to 2.1% of gross revenue 
(2010: 2.1%), despite a £1.1m increase in share option charges for 
future awards. 
First half/second half financial performance
In the six months to 30 September 2010, the Group’s loss before 
taxation, amortisation and exceptional items was £9.9m (2010: 
loss £4.8m). The equivalent figure for the second half of the year 
was a profit of £9.2m (2010: loss £1.4m), notwithstanding turnover 
that was 0.2% lower. At the UK & Ireland Asset Services EBITA level 
(before exceptional items) the first half/second half swing was 
a positive £15.9m.
The overall Group EBITA margin (before exceptional items) in the 
second half rose to 7.3% from (2.6)% in the first half and 2.3%  
in the prior year period. Although the first half performance 
was hampered by the £1.7m charge taken in connection with 
the collapse of Connaught PLC, underlying performance in the 
second half has benefitted from improved cost management 
and better pricing.
Additionally, net interest expense (before exceptional items) was 
£1.6m lower in the second half as compared with the first half. This 
largely reflects the run-off of relatively expensive hedges between 
September 2010 and February 2011, as well as the move to a lower 
interest margin in November 2010 and lower average net debt in the 
second half.
Interest and hedging
Net interest expense (before exceptional items) totalled £9.0m 
(2010: £14.2m), of which £3.7m was incurred in the second half 
of the year. 
Borrowings under the Group’s bank facility are priced on the basis 
of LIBOR plus a margin, while the unutilised commitment is charged 
at 50% of the applicable margin. During the year, the margin 
payable on the majority of outstanding debt fluctuated between 
2.5% and 3.0% depending on the Group’s performance with respect 
to thresholds contained within the facility agreement’s leverage 
covenant. The current applicable margin is 3.0%. A small portion 
of outstanding debt attracts a margin of 7.0%. This relates to 
borrowings linked to the Group’s International operations.
The Group utilises interest rate hedges to manage fluctuations 
in LIBOR. Typically, it aims to hedge between 40% and 70% of net 
debt. At the year end, hedges with a notional value of £60m 
(2010: £110m) were in place, equivalent to approximately 53%  
of net debt outstanding. The fair value of these hedges was a 
liability of £0.6m at year end and they have varying maturity dates 
out to February 2014. The incremental interest cost arising from 
these hedges amounted to £2.7m during the year (2010: £3.7m). 
Exceptional items
Exceptional items totalled £20.8m before taxation (2010: £11.1m). 
These costs fall into three areas. Firstly, those relating to 
restructuring and cost-saving initiatives that were undertaken 
during the year. These totalled £5.5m (2010: £11.1m) and were 
principally in respect of the creation of onerous lease provisions 
for closed depots and redundancies. Secondly, certain items 
relating to the April 2011 disposal of the Group’s Accommodation 
Hire operation; at 31 March 2011 these assets were shown in the 
balance sheet as being held for sale and were written down to their 
fair value net of costs to sell. This treatment created an exceptional 
item totalling £13.8m (2010: nil). Finally, exceptional financial 
expense of £1.5m (2010: nil), which relates to additional 
amortisation of bank and advisor fees incurred in connection 
with the bank facility amendment process that was completed 
in June 2010. 
The cash cost before taxation of these exceptional items was  
£5.2m (of which £2.4m was spent in 2011). The total future tax 
benefit arising from these exceptional items is anticipated  
to be £5.6m (2010: £2.7m).
Business review Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
34 Business review / Group financial review
Group financial review  
continued
Taxation
The Group’s income statement shows a tax credit for the year 
of £7.7m (2010 credit: £4.5m), substantially all of which represents 
a reduction in the Group’s deferred tax liability held on the balance 
sheet at the year end. Of this amount, £2.1m relates to a pre-
exceptional tax credit based on an effective tax rate of 33.3% 
(2010 credit: 15.4%). The balance represents a credit of £5.6m 
in respect of the exceptional items referred to above.
Cash tax in the year ending 31 March 2011 amounted to a net 
payment of £1.3m (2010: net refund of £5.9m) in relation to tax 
liabilities of prior accounting periods.
Shares, earnings per share and dividends
At the year ending 31 March 2011, 517.2m shares were outstanding, 
of which 10.3m were held in the Employee Benefits Trust (including 
7.6m jointly owned shares). 
The basic loss per share before amortisation and exceptional items 
was 0.02 pence (2010: loss 1.41 pence). After amortisation and 
exceptional costs, it was 3.81 pence (2010: loss 4.37 pence).
The Board remains committed to the payment of dividends when 
prudent to do so. Subsequent to the year end, it has recommended 
a final dividend of 0.2 pence per share (2010: 0.2 pence) which 
represents a total cash cost of approximately £1.0m. This gives 
a total dividend for the year, on a UK GAAP basis, of 0.4 pence 
per share (2010: 0.4 pence). If approved by shareholders, the 
final dividend will be paid on 17 August 2011 to all shareholders 
on the register on 17 June 2011. 
Capital expenditure and disposals
Total capital expenditure during the year amounted to £47.9m, 
of which £43.0m (2010: £33.5m) related to equipment for hire 
(including £5.0m in the International Asset Services division) and  
the balance principally to investments in the Group’s depot network 
(3 new Superstores were opened in the year) and IT (Group-wide 
investment in PDA’s). This compares to £43.8m in 2010, an increase 
of 9.4%. With disposal proceeds of £16.2m (2010: £23.0m), overall 
net capital expenditure totalled £31.7m (2010: £20.8m) and net 
capex investment in hire fleet rose 147.9%. The disposal of 
damaged, older or surplus hire fleet during the year generated 
profit of £5.0m (2010: £2.7m), underlining the appropriateness 
of the carrying value of the Group’s fixed assets. 
A consequence of the increase in hire fleet investment is that there 
has been only a slight increase in the average age of the Group’s 
hire fleet. At 31 March 2011 the average age was estimated at 4.7 
years (2010: 4.2 years). Based on net book value, approximately 
40% of the uniquely identifiable fleet is less than three years old. 
Additionally, over the next three years it is anticipated that only 
approximately £120m will be required to replace existing hire 
fleet passing through their useful economic lives. 
Cash flow and net debt
Cash generation has remained positive, with net cash flow 
generated from operating activities amounting to £12.3m in the year 
(2010: £43.5m). The principal reasons for the year on year reduction 
were a £14.6m increase in net investment in hire equipment, a 
£9.1m decrease in trade and other payables (consistent with the 
objective to improve supplier payment experience) and a £7.2m 
swing from tax receipt to tax paid.
Free cash flow (i.e. before acquisitions, dividends and financing 
activities) amounted to £7.4m (2010: £33.7m). There were no 
acquisitions during the year (2010: nil) and dividend payments 
amounted to £2.1m (2010: £4.3m).
Accordingly, despite the increase in capex, net debt has fallen from 
£119.3m at the beginning of the year to £113.9m at 31 March 2011, 
a £5.4m decrease. 
Gearing (net debt divided by shareholders’ funds) has remained 
broadly stable at 49.7% (48.4% at 31 March 2010). Similarly, net 
debt to EBITDA (before exceptional items) was also stable  
at 1.79x (2010: 1.75x). 
Balance sheet
Net assets at 31 March 2011 totalled £229.4m, a £17.2m decrease 
on the £246.6m reported at 31 March 2010, principally reflecting 
the write down of the Accommodation Hire assets which were sold 
on 30 April 2011. Net assets per share amount to 44.3 pence 
(32.7 pence based on tangible assets). Net property, plant and 
equipment was £219.9m at 31 March 2011, of which equipment for 
hire represents approximately 84.4%. Net debt/net property, plant 
and equipment of 0.52x at 31 March 2011 (2010: 0.42x) underlines 
the strong asset backing within the business.
Gross trade debtors totalled £97.8m at 31 March 2011 (2010: 
£101.0m). Bad debt and credit note provisions totalled £7.2m at 
31 March 2011 (£10.6m at 31 March 2010), equivalent to 7.4% of the 
debtor book (10.5% at 31 March 2010), a reduction which reflects the 
improvement in debtor weeks (calculated on a count-back basis) to 
9.8 weeks at year-end compared to 11.1 weeks at 31 March 2010. Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
150
Speedy Hire Plc FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts)
0
50
0
Volume (m)
Price (pence)
Mar Jan Nov Sept Jul May
Business review / Group financial review 35 
Capital structure and treasury
Speedy’s long-term funding is provided through a combination 
of shareholders’ funds and bank debt.
Shareholders’ funds totalled £229.4m at 31 March 2011 (2010: 
£246.6m). The year on year decline of £17.2m largely results from 
a £17.6m reduction in retained earnings, which itself principally 
reflects the loss for the year, including the Accommodation Hire 
assets’ write-down, and the dividends paid during the year.
Bank funding for the Group is via a committed bank facility provided 
by seven relationship banks. At 31 March 2011 the amount of the 
facility was £210m and headroom under the facility amounted  
to approximately £96m (£140.5m at 31 March 2010 including 
£12.5m of cash). The facility is a revolving credit facility which 
matures in June 2012. The facility includes quarterly interest, fixed 
charge, leverage and cash flow cover tests. Speedy was compliant 
with these tests throughout the year.
Discussions regarding the refinancing of the Group’s bank facility 
are progressing well. Based on bank responses received so far, 
the Board is confident that it can secure a replacement term facility 
at an amount and on blended pricing similar to its existing facility. 
Heads of terms have been agreed and independent due diligence 
completed. Documentation of the new facility is in process and 
completion is expected shortly.
The Group will continue to maintain a tight focus on cash 
generation, recognising however the need to invest in order 
to maintain the quality of its UK hire fleet. Additionally, prudent 
investment will be provided to help support growth of the Group’s 
International operations.
Return on capital
Return on capital (based on EBITA before exceptional items) totalled 
2.3% in the year ended 31 March 2011. This compares to 2.0% in the 
prior year period. The principal reason for the increase was that, 
despite EBITA (before exceptional items) remaining broadly stable, 
average gross capital employed was £36.3m lower at £354.6m 
(2010: £390.9m).
Sale of accommodation hire operation
On 30 April 2011, the Group completed the sale of the business and 
fixed assets of its Accommodation Hire operation (formerly known 
as ‘Speedy Space’) for £34.9m. Working capital in the operation at 
the date of sale totalling approximately £3.6m was retained for the 
benefit of Speedy. 
In preparation for the sale, at 31 March 2011 the fixed assets of the 
Accommodation Hire operation were transferred to assets held for 
sale and were written down to fair value less costs to sell. This has 
resulted in an exceptional loss of £13.8m being included within the 
results for the year to 31 March 2011. This represents the significant 
portion of the overall exceptional loss that is anticipated to arise 
as a result of the disposal. 
This operation was a part of the UK & Ireland Asset Services 
division and its financial results are contained within the division’s 
segmental results. During the year the Accommodation Hire 
operation contributed turnover of £35.5m (2010: £40.6m), EBITDA 
(before recharges, allocations and exceptional items) of £4.6m 
(£6.8m) and made a contribution loss (before recharges, allocations 
and exceptional items) of £4.5m (2010: loss £2.1m). The pro-forma 
impact of this disposal on Group margins for the year to 31 March 
2011 is to increase the Group’s EBITA margin (before exceptional 
items) from 2.3% to 4.0% and its ROCE margin (before exceptional 
items) from 2.3% to 4.2%.
 Justin Read 
Group Finance Director
One-year share price record compared to FTSE 250
Business review Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate responsibility
One Plan
…for responsible business practice
Over the last six years Speedy has established a pro-active 
approach to our wider responsibilities, which has been well 
received by our customers and wider stakeholders and has 
attracted national recognition. This year we are looking to raise 
the bar once again.
 
In 2011 we are launching One Plan. Our goal is to become  
one of the most respected support services businesses. 
We are working with our employees, our customers and our 
suppliers to ensure that sustainability sits at the heart of everything 
that they and we do. This means a commitment to reducing 
carbon, increasing efficiencies, trading safely and ethically and 
ultimately helping our customers become the organisations they 
aspire to be.
We’re doing this because we understand the world has to change 
to meet a new set of social, economic and climate challenges.
At Speedy, we are ready to play our part.
36 Business review / Corporate responsibility Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Corporate responsibility 37 
2011
Speedy is delighted to announce  
that it has achieved Silver in Business  
in the Community’s 2011 Corporate 
Responsibility Index (CRI), the UK’s 
leading voluntary benchmark of 
corporate responsibility. Achieving 
Silver means that Speedy conducts 
effective stakeholder engagement 
and has the right processes in place 
in order to identify and manage 
risks and opportunities. 
Business review Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate responsibility 
continued
Our Marketplace 
In terms of our responsibilities, Speedy sees the marketplace  
as the place where all the key areas that we can influence converge. 
In this respect, it is of huge significance to how we conduct our 
business and the impacts we can have by supporting our 
customers in their approach to the corporate responsibility agenda, 
in advocating responsible business practice throughout our supply 
chain, and in marketing and selling our services to the highest 
ethical standards. Our approach is one of partnership and we look 
to engage with key stakeholders in our industry from the Major 
Contractors Group to the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) and 
from the Carbon Disclosure Project to charitable and community 
based organisations. Some of these relationships are covered 
under separate headings later in this section but the three main 
aspects of customers, suppliers and wider stakeholders are 
outlined below.
Our customers
Supporting our customers, not only with equipment and services 
of the highest quality, but also with a responsible approach to the 
environment and wider social impacts, is becoming a clear 
differentiator for the Group. Our GO (Green Option) initiative has the 
objective of reducing our customers’ energy usage and production 
of waste, therefore providing them with carbon and cost efficiencies. 
Expert assessment of our product ranges allows us to supply our 
customers with greener options for key areas of their operations 
from space and power to lighting and general site design. Our 
transport logistics are regularly monitored and our depot network 
and structure reviewed to assess where the greatest efficiencies lie.
One Plan
…for responsible business practice
38 Business review / Corporate responsibility Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Corporate responsibility 39 
Customer Excellence indicators have been established and 
implemented by our Business and Customer Excellence Team 
and are reviewed regularly at Board meetings. The feedback 
culminates in a Customer Nett Promoter score i.e. the proportion 
of our customers who would recommend Speedy to others. 
That score has been over 90% for the last 12 months and  
we are seeking to increase it further.
Investment in our GO product range, national awards for 
our responsible approach to marketing, and a passion for 
customer service excellence are providing the foundation  
for our customer relationships.
Our suppliers
Our message to our suppliers has been consistent and clear, 
innovate, innovate, innovate. Improved environmental performance, 
products safer in design and use, a creative approach to delivery 
patterns, product packaging and more sustainable supply chain 
activity are huge factors in building customer relations and sales. 
We are delighted to have some of the best suppliers in our industry 
working for us and through our Supplier Excellence Programme 
(SEP) Speedy is looking to an ever increasing partnership approach 
to the challenges and opportunities which are inherent in our 
industry.
Our SEP in particular looks to support our suppliers’ environmental 
and corporate responsibility programmes and drive commercial, 
environmental and social excellence in partnership with our  
supply chain.
Stakeholder engagement
Creating an environment where our industry, our customers and 
suppliers can thrive, is not something we can achieve in isolation. 
Neither is it something we can achieve simply by engaging with 
our customer base and supply partners. Open dialogue with our 
employees, communities, investors and wider industry stakeholders 
is a crucial part of ensuring our corporate responsibility agenda 
remains relevant and focused. 
Therefore all the key aspects of corporate responsibility have been 
designed and delivered in collaboration with our customers and 
suppliers. Our award winning Safety from the Ground Up campaign, 
launched in 2005, set the trend. Designed in collaboration with our 
customers, suppliers and wider stakeholders, in particular the HSE, 
it formed the basis of our ‘From the Ground Up’ communication 
process, addressing key industry issues at site level. A similar 
approach supported the design and introduction of our GO  
product range.
Regular communications with the investment community, our  
award winning web site and pro-active communications with our 
charity and community partners also help to shape our business 
and aspirations for the future.
Speedy’s approach to corporate responsibility looks to engage  
and collaborate with our stakeholders at every opportunity. 
We are very proud to have received 
a prestigious ‘Big Tick’ award from 
Business in the Community. Out of 
hundreds of entries, we were among 
a small cadre of businesses to receive 
the coveted National Big Tick for our 
’Lighting the path to innovation’ 
programme in the Responsible Supply 
Chain category.
Business review Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Our People
Our commitment to our people is simple and transparent. We aim 
to keep them safe and healthy, engaged and motivated and 
recognised and rewarded. 
Training
We have invested over £8 million in training our people over the last 
four years alone and we have created a reporting structure that is 
simple and effective, supporting the ‘can do’ culture of innovation 
and service excellence that we have built the business on.
Training covers all aspects of our operations from inductions 
and health and safety, to technical training and customer 
service excellence. Speedy’s ‘What Good Looks Like’ programme 
has established great clarity in ‘what a good job looks like’, 
developing a structure to train our people to exceed customer 
expectations and provide a transparent path to progressing through 
the organisation.
Communications
Regular communication with our people is a central element 
of keeping everyone involved, informed and we hope, inspired! 
Our intranet and email communications provide a quick and 
effective communication tool. This is supported by Up To Speed, our 
bi-monthly employee newsletter, which covers all aspects of our 
performance from commercial excellence to updates on our 
environmental and social key performance indicators.
People Matters
Annually we use our People Matters survey to take the 
‘temperature’ of the business and we were delighted this year that 
the percentage of our people returning the survey hit its best ever 
figure at over 80%. We believe that a series of articles in Up 
To Speed over the last 12 months documenting the Group’s actions 
against feedback from the previous People Matters survey (Under 
the heading ‘You said – We did’) has been a contributing factor 
in achieving this. It is vital that we engage regularly and effectively 
with our people who are the heartbeat of our operations and 
equally importantly listen to what our people say and act 
accordingly where appropriate.
Spot Rewards
The introduction of ‘Spot Rewards’ to recognise those employees 
who have gone above and beyond the call of duty has also been 
a resounding success. These are rewards given to our people, 
directly by their line managers, to recognise exceptional 
performance and provide reward ‘on the spot’, allowing managers 
to recognise employee efforts and rewarding our people as 
appropriate throughout the year. Over £75,000 worth of once in a 
lifetime experiences have already been awarded to employees who 
have served our customers, communities or colleagues beyond our 
normal high standards.
The Group is committed to making the statement ‘our people are at 
the heart of our organisation’ a reality in the day to day running of 
our operations. Spot Rewards are just one of a number of ways in 
which we look to recognise and reward the passion our people 
bring to the business.
Corporate responsibility  
continued
One Plan
…for responsible business practice
40 Business review / Corporate responsibility Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Corporate responsibility 41 
The Environment
No responsible business can ignore the environmental challenges 
we all face and we are approaching this as an opportunity rather 
than a threat. Using internal environmental management to 
champion cost efficiencies and excellence in energy use, improve 
waste management and monitoring our use of that increasingly 
valuable commodity, water, have all helped to establish the internal 
environmental agenda as important and achievable.
Our responsibilities roadmap, made up of 40 Key Performance 
Indicators, helps the Group to measure performance in all areas 
of our approach to Corporate Responsibility and none is more 
important than our approach to the environment. Current targets, 
covered annually in our Corporate Responsibility Report, include 
reducing carbon emissions on a per capita basis, a five year target 
for nil waste to landfill and operating with a duty of care to the 
ecology that surrounds our depot network.
We report on our carbon footprint annually and are increasingly 
asking our suppliers to do likewise as a way of monitoring progress 
and improvement. Our carbon footprint shows quite clearly that 
our biggest challenge is based on our transport emissions and 
we are looking at ways of improving this through the provision 
of lower emission company vehicles, Group incentives to choose 
the lowest emission car in any given category (our Star Car 
programme), and a pro-active approach to new technologies. 
We were, for example, one of the first hire companies to introduce 
electric vehicles in major cities.
The environmental challenges we all face are not easy, we know 
we do not have all the answers, but we are committed to a process 
of continuous improvement.
GO (Green Option) Product Range
Our biggest external contribution to climate change is our  
GO product range. At its core the initiative has the simple objective 
of supplying our customers with expert advice and guidance on the 
environmental performance of key product ranges such as power 
and lighting. These ratings are set against average performance for 
similar products and allow our customers to make informed hire 
and purchase decisions. To add value to the process our customers 
are also sent a monthly statement outlining the carbon savings 
attached to their previous hires.
Wider benefits attached to the programme include our suppliers 
becoming increasingly aware of our requirements for improved 
energy efficiency, reduced waste and resource efficiency in the 
procurement decisions that we make, driving environmental 
awareness and excellence into our supplier base.
As sponsors of Innovation at this year’s Executive Hire Show and 
previously of the show’s Green Zone and also running an internal 
awards process for green innovation in our supply chain, we are 
keen to recognise and reward those making most progress 
on environmental excellence.
Business review Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Health & Safety
Our vision for health and safety, like many of our customers  
is one of zero harm. To make that vision a reality we realise  
will take a huge amount of effort and dedication. When we set 
about a more comprehensive approach to health and safety 
in 2004 we committed not only to making health and safety part 
of the DNA of the Group but also to basing our activity on extensive 
research, engaging with a variety of external stakeholders and 
supporting our customers and the wider industry in general 
to improve on health and safety performance. 
Our excellence in health and safety management is based on the 
following key elements;
Knowledge, Experience and Expertise
Our Safety, Health, Environment and Quality (SHEQ) Team is made 
up of 23 talented individuals with in excess of 200 years of H&S 
experience between them. The minimum requirement to form part 
of the team is the Nebosh General Certificate, however all our senior 
SHEQ Managers have, or have committed to achieving, the NVQ 
Level 4 Nebosh qualification and two members of the Team 
including the SHEQ Director, hold the Nebosh Diploma (NVQ6/7) 
which is equivalent to a degree qualification.
This just forms the foundation of our approach and a programme 
of ongoing training and development provide the team with fresh 
skills and competencies both in health and safety and general 
management skills.
We believe our health and safety policy and management system  
to be the most comprehensive in the industry.
Influencing behaviours
Internal – Proud as the Group is of its Health and Safety Team, 
we realise that the excellence we strive for in health and safety 
management can only be achieved if health and safety forms 
part of every individual’s responsibility within the Group. From 
the Company induction to driver training, from depot meetings 
to senior management development, health and safety is integral 
to everything we do. Internally our programme is called ‘Safety 
Starts Here’ and it has been crucial in achieving continuous 
improvement in our health and safety performance.
External – Speedy’s multi-award winning ‘Safety from the Ground 
Up’ communications programme continues to target areas 
of industry-wide concern and focus on getting safety messages 
to where they are most needed, on-site. Toolbox Talks, the 
communication process to get safety messages simply and 
effectively to people working in the industry, remain an important 
key performance indicator for the Group.
So far, Safety from the Ground Up has covered safety concerns 
including working from height, hand arm vibration and dust. Issues 
which have affected in excess of one million construction workers 
over the last 10 years.
 
Corporate responsibility  
continued
42 Business review / Corporate responsibility
One Plan
…for responsible business practice Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Business review / Corporate responsibility 43 
Our Community
Alongside our commitment to commercial, environmental and 
health and safety excellence sits our commitment to social 
excellence. Our communities are made up of our people, our 
customers and our potential customers. We want our brand 
to reflect the passion and commitment we bring to delivering 
excellence in all aspects of our operations.
Employee engagement
Through our internal charities committee we help to provide 
a structure for our people to ‘give something back’. We have been 
delighted at how this has progressed over a short period of time. 
Whether through activity such as Dragon Boat Racing, which we 
turned into a family fun day with over 200 of our people attending 
a fun event at Salford Quays and raising over £12,000 for Help for 
Heros, or smaller one off requests such as our support for Wellchild, 
Speedy is always up for a challenge! A recent Wellchild request for 
support resulted in over 50 Speedy employees volunteering for  
an activity requiring only five people!
The Lighthouse Club
The Lighthouse Club is the construction industry charity, which 
provides support for construction workers and their families. 
Corporately we have supported The Lighthouse Club for many 
years, producing their quarterly newsletter from internal resources, 
recycling our mobile phones through their fundraising programme 
and looking to build support for their excellent activities into our day 
to day operations.
Looking ahead
The diverse activity that helps to deliver our commitment 
to corporate responsibility is now being brought together 
under one heading – One Plan.
One Plan to continually add value for our customers, One Plan 
to innovate and to provide options for a more sustainable future, 
One Plan to support our people, their training needs and future 
development and One Plan to assure our investors and wider 
communities that our future growth will be safe, responsible 
and sustainable wherever and whenever we operate.
Last year at our national conference we were delighted to give 
space and prominence to The Lighthouse Club resulting in over 
100 new members for the Lighthouse Club in one day alone.
Our commitment to The Lighthouse Club is an ongoing one.
The Rehabilitation agenda
Speedy has a reputation for tackling big issues head on, as our 
catalogue says, when others say enough we say bring it on!
The Group is keen to support young people, education and sport 
and a range of activities look to engage our people in these areas. 
However, few issues have such a negative impact on all our 
communities as crime and the fear of crime. Added to this is the 
great waste of potential talent in prisons across the UK and the  
high percentage of re-offending.
In partnership with Her Majesty’s Prison Service, Speedy runs 
a small, well resourced programme training prisoners in electrical 
tool maintenance. The programme is accredited and verified 
by external training partners up to NVQ Level 2, and we hope 
that the prison partnerships we hold with four prisons are helping  
to provide relevant training and opportunities for those prisoners 
due for release.
Business review Board of Directors
Ishbel Macpherson
Non-Executive Chairman  
Ishbel Macpherson joined the 
Board in July 2007 and became 
the Senior Independent Director 
and Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee in March 2008. 
Ishbel was appointed to the 
roles of Non-Executive 
Chairman and Chair of the 
Nomination Committee on 
1 January 2011, at which time  
she ceased to be Senior 
Independent Director and Chair 
of the Remuneration Committee. 
Ishbel is an investment banker 
of over 20 years’ standing who 
has specialised in UK mid-
market corporate finance. 
Ishbel was Head of UK Emerging 
Companies Corporate Finance 
at Dresdner Kleinwort 
Wasserstein from 1999 to 2005 
and is presently a Non-Executive 
Director of GAME Group plc, 
Hydrogen Group plc, May 
Gurney Integrated Services plc 
and Dignity plc.
 
Steve Corcoran
Chief Executive 
Steve Corcoran was 
appointed Chief Executive  
of the Company in April 2005 
and was previously the Chief 
Operating Officer from April 
2001. Having joined the 
Company in 1987 when the 
business had 13 outlets, he has 
been progressively promoted 
‘through the ranks’. He has over 
25 years’ experience in the hire 
industry and is a member of the 
CPA Council, the industry’s 
principal trade body, and 
Vice Chairman of the CBI 
North West. 
Justin Read
Group Finance Director 
Justin Read joined the Board 
in April 2008. Prior to joining 
Speedy, he worked for 13 years 
at Hanson PLC, the international 
building materials company. 
At the time of leaving Hanson, 
he held the dual roles 
of Managing Director, Hanson 
Continental Europe and Head 
of Corporate Development. 
Previously he held a number 
of other senior roles within 
Hanson, including Deputy 
Finance Director, Head of Risk 
Management and Treasury, 
and Group Treasurer. He 
had also been responsible 
for Hanson’s corporate 
communications and 
investor relations.
Mike McGrath
Managing Director,  
International Asset Services
Mike McGrath became 
Managing Director, 
International Asset Services  
in 2009. He previously held 
the role of Group Commercial 
Director from 2006 to 2009, 
and was Company Secretary 
on a part-time basis from 2001 
to 2006. Mike has been involved 
in structuring a number 
of the major outsourcing 
arrangements with the Group’s 
larger customers and was 
responsible for advising Speedy 
in relation to the majority  
of its acquisitions over the  
last 18 years. Mike was formerly 
a partner at Pinsent Masons. 
44 Governance / Board of Directors Michael Averill
Non-Executive Director and 
Senior Independent Director
Michael Averill joined the Board 
on 1 May 2008. He was 
appointed Senior Independent 
Director and Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee  
on 1 January 2011. Previously he 
held the position of Group Chief 
Executive of Shanks Group plc 
for 13 years until September 
2007. Michael is also Chairman 
of Enviroco Limited. Previously 
he was Chairman of JBM 
International Limited and 
a Non-Executive Director of Care 
UK plc, TDG plc and the Waste 
and Resources Action 
Programme (WRAP).
Peter Atkinson
Non-Executive Director 
Peter Atkinson joined the Board 
in June 2005. Peter is currently 
Chief Executive of Macfarlane 
Group plc, a position which he 
has held since October 2003. 
Prior to this he held a number 
of senior positions within 
Brambles Industries plc, 
GKN plc, SC Johnson Wax  
and Procter & Gamble.
James Morley
Non-Executive Director 
James Morley joined the Board 
on 2 April 2009 and became 
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee on 8 May 2009.  
He is a Chartered Accountant 
with some 26 years’ experience  
as a board member at both 
listed and private companies. 
Most recently, James was 
Chief Operating Officer 
of Primary Insurance Group. 
He currently holds Non-Executive 
Directorships at Clarkson 
plc, Costain Group plc, The 
Innovation Group plc and BMS 
Associates. Previously James 
was also a Non-Executive 
Director of the Bankers 
Investment Trust, WS Atkins and 
The Trade Indemnity Group. 
Suzana Koncarevic
General Counsel and  
Company Secretary
Suzana Koncarevic joined  
the Company in April 2009. 
Suzana has a corporate and 
commercial law background 
and was formerly a senior 
legal adviser at United  
Utilities Group PLC for five years. 
Prior to that Suzana was a 
corporate lawyer at Herbert 
Smith in London and at DLA 
Phillips Fox in Sydney, Australia.
Governance / Board of Directors 45
Governance 46 Governance / Directors’ report
Directors’ report
Principal activity
The Company is a public limited company incorporated in England, 
registered number 927680, with its registered office at Chase 
House, 16 The Parks, Newton-le-Willows, Merseyside, WA12 0JQ.
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of equipment  
for hire and sale, and associated services to construction, 
infrastructure, industrial and related industries. The principal activity 
of the Company is that of a holding company. A fuller description 
of the business activities is contained within the Business Review  
on pages 20 to 43.
Business review
The Chairman’s Statement on pages 20 and 21, the Chief Executive’s 
Review on pages 22 to 25, the Business Review on pages 20 to 43 
and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 26 and 27 
provide a detailed review of the Group’s activities, likely future 
developments and principal risks and uncertainties. All the 
information detailed in these pages is incorporated by reference 
into this report and is deemed to form part of this report.
Results and dividends
The consolidated loss after taxation for the year was £19.3m (2010: 
loss £18.3m). This is after a taxation credit of £7.7m (2010: credit 
£4.5m) representing an effective rate of 33.3% (2010: 15.4%) pre 
exceptional items. An interim dividend of 0.2 pence per share was 
paid during the year. The Directors propose that a final dividend  
of 0.2 pence per share be paid, making a total dividend distribution 
in respect of the year of 0.4 pence per share (2010: 0.4 pence).
Post-balance sheet events
The following significant events has taken place since the balance 
sheet date which does not require adjustment to the financial 
statements, but is important in understanding the Company’s 
current position: the disposal of the accommodation hire operation 
to Elliott Group Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Algeco 
Scotsman, for £34.9m. 
Related party transactions
Except for Director service contracts, the Company did not have any 
material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature with, and 
did not make loans to, related parties in the periods in which any 
Director is or was materially interested.
Buy-back of shares
At the Annual General Meeting held on 20 July 2010, a special 
resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make 
purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10%  
of its ordinary shares. 
As at 17 May 2011, no shares had been purchased under this 
authority. Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority  
at the forthcoming AGM in July 2011.
Employment of disabled persons
The Group recognises its responsibilities towards disabled persons 
and gives full and fair consideration to applicants in positions 
suited to their own particular abilities where appropriate 
openings exist. Where employees become disabled in the course 
of their employment, every effort is made to provide them with 
continuing employment.
Equal opportunities
In the recruitment of employees and their subsequent career 
development, individuals are considered having regard to their 
aptitudes and abilities irrespective of race, sex, marital status,  
age, religion or disability.
Employee involvement
The Group aims to achieve a shared commitment from all 
employees to the success of the businesses in which they 
are employed. 
The Board believes in the financial effectiveness of incentive 
bonuses. It is the Group’s policy that every employee should be in 
some form of incentive scheme as soon as practicable after joining 
the Group and concluding the relevant probationary period. Details 
of such incentive schemes, including annual bonus arrangements 
for Executive Directors, are summarised in the Remuneration 
Committee’s report on page 54.
Payments to suppliers
It is the Group’s policy to make suppliers aware of the terms and 
conditions upon which the Group will trade with them and to abide 
by those terms. Codes or standards on payment practice are 
followed where appropriate. The Group had 85 days of purchases 
outstanding at the end of the financial year (Company: 29 days).
Financial instruments
The Group holds and uses financial instruments to finance its 
operations and manage its interest rate and liquidity risks. Full 
details of the Group’s arrangements are contained in note 33  
of the Financial Statements.
Going concern
As detailed in note 1 of the Financial Statements (Basis of 
preparation), the Directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Political and charitable donations
The Group made charitable donations amounting to £51,000 (2010: 
£50,000) during the year. The Company did not make any charitable 
donations (2010: £35,000). In accordance with the policy of the 
Group, no political donations were made during the year.
Principal beneficiaries include The Lighthouse Club and CRASH 
in the construction sector and wider partnerships with Habitat for 
Humanity and Learning for Life. The Group’s charities committee 
meets quarterly to assess applications and make 
recommendations. Membership comes from across the Group’s UK 
operations and the committee also helps to instigate and support 
employee fundraising activity, ‘in-kind’ support through our depot 
network and community engagement.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance / Directors’ report 47 
Substantial shareholders
As at 17 May 2011, the Company had been notified, in accordance 
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following holders 
of shares with 3% or more of the total voting rights in the issued 
share capital of the Company.
Shareholder
Percentage of 
voting rights
Schroder Investment Management 13.03
Hermes Pensions Management 10.34
Fidelity Investments 9.81
JO Hambro Capital Management 8.03
Legal & General Investment Management 3.58
NMas1 3.20
Directors
The Directors who served during the year and the interests  
of Directors in the share capital of the Company are set out  
on pages 49 and 61.
Justin Read, Michael Averill and Peter Atkinson are retiring 
by rotation at the AGM and Justin Read and Michael Averill 
are offering themselves for re-election. Peter Atkinson will retire 
from the Group Board on the day of the AGM. The Board has 
commenced a search for a replacement Non-Executive Director. 
Justin Read will be stepping down on 26 August 2011, but is still 
required to be re-elected in order to serve as a Director until that 
date.  The Board commenced a search for Justin’s replacement 
immediately following his resignation.
The Group Board unanimously supports the re-election of Justin 
Read and Michael Averill.
No Director had any interest, either during or at the end of the year, 
in any disclosable contracts or arrangements, other than a contract 
of service, with the Company or any subsidiary company. No 
Director had any interest in the shares of any subsidiary company 
during the year.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she 
ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the annual 
report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and parent company Financial Statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company Financial Statements 
on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and 
of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group 
and parent company Financial Statements, the Directors are 
required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply > >
them consistently;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable > >
and prudent;
state whether they have been prepared in accordance  > >
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis > >
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply 
with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility 
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that 
comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities pursuant to disclosure 
and transparency rules 4.1.12
The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
(i) the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
(ii) the Business Review includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken  
as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face.
The names and functions of the Directors of the Company are set 
out on pages 44 and 45 of the Annual Report.
Governance
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 48 Governance / Directors’ report
Directors’ report continued
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc were reappointed at the AGM of the Company 
held on 20 July 2010 and their appointment expires at the 
conclusion of this year’s AGM. KPMG Audit Plc offer themselves, 
and are recommended by the Board, for re-appointment under 
the provisions of Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Takeover directive information
Where not provided elsewhere in this report, the additional 
information required for shareholders as a result of the 
implementation of the Takeover Directive into English law  
is set out below.
Share capital
As at 31 March 2011, the Company’s share capital comprised a 
single class of ordinary shares of 5 pence each. As at 31 March 2011 
the authorised share capital of the Company was £35,000,000 
comprising 700,000,000 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, and the 
issued share capital was £25,860,783 comprising 517,215,666 
ordinary shares of 5 pence each. There are no special rights 
or obligations attaching to the ordinary shares.
Restrictions on share transfers
The Company’s articles of association provide that the Company 
may refuse to transfer shares in the following customary 
circumstances:
where the share is not a fully paid share; > >
where the share transfer has not been duly stamped with the > >
correct amount of stamp duty;
where the transfer is in favour of more than four joint transferees; > >
where the share is a certificated share and is not accompanied > >
by the relevant share certificate(s) and such other evidence as 
the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the 
transferor; or 
in certain circumstances where the shareholder in question  > >
has been issued with a notice under Section 793 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
These restrictions are in addition to any which are applicable  
to all UK listed companies imposed by law or regulation.
Shares with special rights
There are no shares in the Company with special rights with regard 
to control of the Company.
Restrictions on voting rights
The notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting 
rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to 
resolutions to be passed at the AGM. All proxy votes are counted 
and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each 
resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the 
Company’s website after the meeting.
Agreements which may result in restrictions on share transfers
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders which may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities and/or on voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The Company’s articles of association provide that all Directors must 
stand for election at the first AGM after having been appointed 
by the Board.
Each Director must also stand for re-election at the third AGM 
following their last election or re-election. If the number of Directors 
standing for re-election is less than one-third of the current Board 
(which excludes any Directors appointed by the Board who are 
standing for election for the first time) then additional Directors must 
also stand for re-election in order that at least one-third is standing.
Articles of association
The Company’s articles of association may be amended by special 
resolution of the Company’s shareholders. 
Directors’ powers
At the AGM to be held on 13 July 2011, shareholders will be asked 
to renew the Directors’ power to allot shares and buy back shares in 
the Company and to renew the disapplication of pre-emption rights.
Change of control – significant agreements
There are no significant agreements to which the Company  
is a party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change 
of control following a takeover bid other than in relation to 
(i) employee share schemes and (ii) the Company’s borrowings, 
which would become repayable on a takeover being completed.
Shares in the Company are held in the Speedy Hire Employee 
Benefits Trust for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the 
Company’s Performance Plan and Co-Investment Plan. Unless 
otherwise directed by the Company, the Trustees of the Trust abstain 
from voting on any shares held in the Trust in respect of which the 
beneficial interest has not vested in any beneficiary. In relation 
to shares held in the Trust where the beneficial interest has vested 
in a beneficiary, the beneficiary can direct the Trustees how to vote.
Compensation for loss of office
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors 
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy 
or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Directors’ indemnities
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has 
indemnified each of the Directors who held office during the year.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s AGM will be held at Mere Court Hotel and 
Conference Centre, Warrington Road, Mere, Knutsford, Cheshire 
WA16 0RW at 11.00am on Wednesday, 13 July 2011. A formal notice 
of meeting, an explanatory circular and a form of proxy will be sent 
separately to shareholders.
By order of the Board on 17 May 2011.
Suzana Koncarevic
Company Secretary
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance / Corporate governance 49 
Corporate governance
Highlights
Following the retirement of David Wallis as Chairman  > >
of the Board and Chairman of the Nomination Committee  
on 31 December 2010, the appointment of Ishbel Macpherson  
as Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee (previously Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee) on 1 January 2011 
and the appointment of Michael Averill as Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
on 1 January 2011.
Ongoing review of the effectiveness of the Board’s operation. > >
Continued full compliance with the Group Board’s Combined > >
Code Compliance Statement.
Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement, including > >
terms of reference of the Board and each Committee, available 
on the Company’s website.
Combined Code compliance
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance. The Board first reported its compliance with the new 
Combined Code in 2004 and since then has continued to comply 
in full with the Combined Code and to develop further its approach 
to corporate governance and the effective management of risk 
in the context of a rapidly growing business.
The following paragraphs explain how the Company has applied 
the principles of good governance and the code of best practice 
set out in the last edition of the Combined Code.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2011, the Company has been 
in compliance with the provisions set out in the Combined Code.
Directors
The Board
In the year ended 31 March 2011, the Board met nine times, including 
an off-site meeting solely to discuss strategy. The Board also meets 
as required on an ad hoc basis to deal with urgent business, 
including the consideration and approval of transactions. The table 
below lists the Directors’ attendance at the Board meetings and 
Committee meetings during the year ended 31 March 2011.
Board and Committee attendance
Board
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Executive Directors
Steve Corcoran 9 – – –
Mike McGrath 9 – – –
Justin Read 9 – – –
Claudio Veritiero 
(resigned on  
31 October 2010) 4 – – –
Non-Executive Directors
Michael Averill 9 5 5 6
Peter Atkinson 9 5 5 6
Ishbel Macpherson 9 5 5 6
James Morley 9 5 5 6
David Wallis  
(retired on 31 Dec 2010) 6 – 5 3
The Executive Directors of the Company may attend meetings  
of the Committees at the invitation of the Chairman of the  
respective Committee. 
The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for 
decision by it. This schedule, which forms part of a Corporate 
Governance Code Compliance Statement formally adopted by the 
Board, is available for inspection at the Company’s registered office 
and on the Company’s website.
The Combined Code Compliance Statement was last revised 
on 22 May 2009 and has now been replaced with a Corporate 
Governance Code Compliance Statement from the commencement 
of the 2010/11 financial year. The matters reserved for specific 
approval by the Board can be subdivided into a number of key 
areas including but not limited to:
financial reporting (including the approval of interim and > >
final Financial Statements, interim management statements 
and dividends);
the Group’s finance, banking and capital structure > >
arrangements;
Group strategy and transactions; > >
Stock Exchange/Listing Authority matters (including the issue > >
of shares, the approval of circulars and communications  
to the market);
approval of the policies and framework in relation to > >
remuneration across the Group (following appropriate 
recommendations from the Remuneration Committee);
approval of the Group’s risk management and control  > >
framework (following appropriate recommendations  
from the Audit Committee);
the constitution of the Board itself, including its various > >
Committees, and succession planning (following appropriate 
recommendations from the Nomination Committee); and 
approving the Group’s policies in relation to, inter alia, the > >
environment, health and safety and corporate responsibility.
Matters requiring Board and Committee approval are generally  
the subject of a proposal by the Executive Directors submitted  
to the Board, together with supporting information, as part of the 
Board or Committee papers circulated prior to the relevant 
meeting. The implementation of matters approved by the Board, 
particularly in relation to matters such as significant acquisitions 
or other material projects, sometimes includes the establishment  
of a sub-committee comprising at least one Non-Executive Director.
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are held by Ishbel 
Macpherson and Steve Corcoran respectively. In addition to the 
Chairman, the Board includes three independent Non-Executive 
Directors: Peter Atkinson, Michael Averill and James Morley. 
Together they bring a strong and independent Non-Executive 
element to the Board. The Senior Independent Director 
is Michael Averill.
Governance
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 50 Governance / Corporate governance
Corporate governance continued
The Audit Committee is chaired by James Morley. Its other members 
are Peter Atkinson and Michael Averill. In accordance with the Smith 
Guidance on Audit Committees, the Chairman, Ishbel Macpherson, 
is not a member of the Audit Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Michael Averill. Its other 
members are Peter Atkinson and James Morley.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Ishbel Macpherson. 
Its other members are Peter Atkinson, Michael Averill and 
James Morley.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors meet at least  
twice a year without the Executive Directors present. In addition,  
the Chairman regularly briefs the other Non-Executive Directors 
on relevant developments regarding the Company and Group 
as necessary. The Senior Independent Director, Michael Averill, and 
the other Non-Executive Directors meet at least annually without the 
Chairman present to appraise the Chairman’s performance as part 
of the overall Board annual appraisal process.
The minutes of all meetings of the Board and each Committee are 
taken by the General Counsel and Company Secretary, Suzana 
Koncarevic. In addition to constituting a record of decisions taken, 
the minutes reflect questions raised by the Directors relating to the 
Company’s businesses and, in particular, issues raised from the 
reports included in the Board or Committee papers circulated prior 
to the relevant meeting. Any unresolved concerns are recorded 
in the minutes.
On resignation, concerns (if any) raised by an outgoing  
Non-Executive Director are circulated by the Chairman  
to the remaining members of the Board.
Appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ insurance cover is arranged and 
maintained via the Company’s insurance brokers, Jardine Lloyd 
Thompson Ltd, and its terms are reviewed annually.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies 
to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of directors 
where the articles of association contain a provision to that effect. 
The Company’s articles of association give the Board authority 
to authorise matters which may result in the Directors breaching 
their duty to avoid a conflict of interest. Directors who have 
an interest in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must 
declare that interest and abstain from voting. Only Directors who 
have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve 
a conflict of interest and, in taking that decision, the Directors must 
act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely 
to promote the success of the Company. The Directors are able 
to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they feel 
this is appropriate. Any conflicts considered by the Board and any 
authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in the 
register of conflicts which are reviewed annually by the Board. The 
Board considers that its procedures to approve conflicts of interest 
and potential conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Chairman and Chief Executive
A statement as to the division of the responsibilities of the Chairman 
and Chief Executive is included in the Combined Code Compliance 
Statement formally adopted by the Board and referred to above.  
The Board considers that the Chairman on her appointment met the 
independence criteria set out in paragraph A.3.1 of the Combined 
Code. The Board has an established policy that the Chief Executive 
should not go on to become Chairman.
Board balance and independence
Currently there are, in addition to the Chairman, three Non-Executive 
Directors on the Board out of a total of seven Directors and their 
respective experience, details of which are set out on pages 
44 and 45, clearly indicates that they are of sufficient calibre and 
number for their views to carry appropriate weight in the Board’s 
decisions. The Senior Independent Director, Michael Averill, 
is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact 
through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive  
or Group Finance Director fail to resolve or for which such contact 
is inappropriate.
The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are 
independent, on the basis of the criteria specified in paragraph  
A.3.1 of the Combined Code and, generally, are free from any 
business or other relationship which could materially interfere 
with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Two members of the Board are also Non-Executive Directors 
of companies which are customers of or suppliers to the Group. 
Ishbel Macpherson is a Non-Executive Director of May Gurney 
Integrated Services plc, a customer of the Group. James Morley 
is a Non-Executive Director of Costain Group plc, which  
is a customer of the Group.
The Group’s trading with each of these companies is conducted 
entirely on arm’s length terms and in the ordinary and normal 
course of the Group’s business. Additionally, the Board considers 
that, in each case, the sums involved are de minimis. These 
potential conflicts of interest have been approved by the Board 
in accordance with both Board procedures and the procedures 
established under the Companies Act 2006. In order to ensure that 
there can be no possible suggestion of a conflict of interest, it has 
been resolved by the Board that, in the event that the Board should 
ever be required to discuss or make decisions in relation to the 
Group’s relationships with these companies, the affected Directors 
would not take part in, or receive, any material information in 
relation to those discussions. None of these Directors has been 
involved in any commercial negotiations between the Group and 
the other companies.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance / Corporate governance 51 
Appointments to the Board
The Board has established a Nomination Committee. Its terms 
of reference are also included in the Combined Code Compliance 
Statement referred to above. The Committee meets formally as 
necessary, but at least twice a year, and met five times during this 
financial year. The principal functions of the Nomination Committee 
are to consider and review the structure and composition of the 
Board and membership of Board Committees. It also considers 
candidates for Board nomination including job description, 
re-election to the Board for those candidates retiring by rotation 
and succession planning generally. A specification for the role 
of Chairman, including anticipated time commitment, is included 
as part of the written statement of division of responsibilities 
between Chairman and Chief Executive which was revised and 
updated in May 2009. Details of the Chairman’s other material 
commitments are set out on page 44 and are disclosed to the 
Board in advance and included in a register of the same 
maintained by the Company Secretary.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all the Non-Executive 
Directors, and those of the Chairman, are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours. 
Each letter of appointment specifies the anticipated level of time 
commitment including, where relevant, additional responsibilities 
derived from involvement with the Audit, Remuneration or 
Nomination Committees. Details of other material commitments  
are disclosed to the Board and a register of the same is maintained 
by the Company Secretary.
None of the Directors is a Non-Executive Director or Chairman  
of a FTSE 100 company. 
A more detailed summary of the work of the Nomination Committee 
during the year is contained in the separate report of the Committee 
on page 65.
Information and professional development
Before each scheduled Board meeting, all Directors receive 
appropriate information regarding the Group, comprising  
a financial report and briefings from senior executives. The Chief 
Executive and Group Finance Director also brief Directors on results, 
key issues and strategy. During Board meetings, the Non-Executives 
regularly make further enquiries of the Executive Directors and seek 
further information which is provided either at the relevant meeting 
or subsequently.
An information pack on market data, including information and 
activities in relation to competitors and the construction industry 
generally is compiled for each Board meeting. This information 
is drawn from a number of respected sources and provides 
a current updated summary of trends in the Group’s market.
The Board also recognises the importance of ongoing training  
and education, particularly regarding new laws and regulations 
which relate to or affect the Group. Such training and education 
is obtained by the Directors individually through the Company, 
through other companies of which they are Directors or through 
associated professional firms.
All the Non-Executive Directors have, during the course of the year, 
attended briefings and seminars relevant to their role, including 
updates on best practice in audit and remuneration issues and 
economic affairs in general, as well as bringing knowledge and 
information gathered from their other business interests.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary meet on a regular basis 
to discuss corporate governance and other issues including, inter 
alia, information flows, induction and training programmes for 
Directors and operational management.
Procedures are in place to enable Directors to take independent 
professional advice, if necessary, at the Company’s expense,  
in the furtherance of their duties. The procedure to enable such 
advice to be obtained is included in the Company’s Combined  
Code Compliance Statement.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, whose role is to ensure that all procedures are followed 
and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The 
appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter 
specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Performance evaluation
During the financial year ended 31 March 2006, the Chairman and 
Company Secretary engaged the services of specialist performance 
consultants Linstock to carry out a detailed independent review 
of the Board’s processes and procedures, and in the past five 
years the Chairman has undertaken an internal review of the 
Board’s processes and procedures. 
Re-election
Under the Company’s articles of association, all Directors are 
subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM following 
appointment and all Directors are subject to retirement by rotation 
provisions requiring re-election at intervals of no more than three 
years. Biographical details of all the Directors, including those 
subject to re-election, are included in this report in order to enable 
shareholders to take an informed decision on any re-election 
resolution. The letters of appointment of each of the Non-Executive 
Directors and the Chairman confirm that appointments are for 
specified terms and that re-appointment is not automatic. Peter 
Atkinson commenced a second three-year term in 2008. Ishbel 
Macpherson and Michael Averill commenced their first three-year 
terms in 2008. James Morley commenced his first three year term  
in 2009. 
Governance
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 52 Governance / Corporate governance
Corporate governance continued
Directors’ remuneration
Level and make-up of remuneration
The performance-related elements of the remuneration of the 
Executive Directors form a significant proportion of their potential 
total remuneration packages. The performance-related elements 
of the schemes in which the Executive Directors are entitled to 
participate are set out in more detail in the Remuneration Report. 
The Remuneration Committee, with the advice of Hewitt New Bridge 
Street (HNBS), reviews on a regular basis the Company’s 
remuneration policy including the design of performance-related 
remuneration schemes. Such performance-related elements have 
been designed with a view to aligning the interests of the Executive 
Directors with those of shareholders and to incentivise performance 
at the highest level. The Board’s policy is that no executive share 
options should be offered at a discount, save as permitted by the 
Listing Rules.
Levels of remuneration payable to Non-Executive Directors are 
regularly benchmarked, with the assistance of external advisers, 
against companies of a similar size. The levels of remuneration 
also reflect the time, commitment and responsibilities of each role 
including, where relevant, Chairmanship of Board Committees.  
It is the policy of the Board that remuneration for Non-Executive 
Directors should not include share options or any other share-based 
incentives. No current Executive Director serves as a Non-Executive 
Director elsewhere.
The service contracts of all Executive Directors provide for 
termination by the Company on one year’s notice.
Procedure
The Board has constituted a Remuneration Committee which met 
six times during the year. Its terms of reference are included in the 
Combined Code Compliance Statement and are fully compatible 
with the provisions of paragraph B.2.1 of the Combined Code. The 
Remuneration Committee consists of the Non-Executive Directors, 
excluding the Chairman, who are independent of management and 
free from any business or other relationship which could materially 
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. The 
Chief Executive occasionally attends by invitation but is not present 
for discussions relating to his own remuneration. The Remuneration 
Committee has appointed HNBS to advise it in relation to the design 
of appropriate Executive remuneration structures. HNBS has 
no other connection with the Company.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include setting 
remuneration policy, ensuring that remuneration (including pension 
rights and compensation payments) and the terms of service of the 
Executive Directors are appropriate and that Executive Directors are 
fairly rewarded for the contribution which they make to the Group’s 
overall performance. It is also responsible for the allocation of 
shares under long-term incentive arrangements approved by 
shareholders and in accordance with agreed criteria. In addition, 
it monitors current best practice in remuneration and related issues.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is dealt with  
by a Committee of the Board specifically established for this 
purpose comprising the Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director without the presence of the Non-Executive Directors. 
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is usually the 
subject of regular benchmarking reviews with the assistance 
of HNBS, however, no such benchmarking exercise was necessary 
in 2010 as there were no salary increases.
The Board’s policy is that all new long-term incentive schemes 
(as defined in the Listing Rules) and significant changes to existing 
schemes should be specifically approved by shareholders, while 
recognising that the Remuneration Committee must have 
appropriate flexibility to alter the operation of these arrangements 
to reflect changing circumstances.
A more detailed summary of the work of the Remuneration 
Committee during the year is contained in the separate report  
of the Committee on page 54.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
The Directors’ Report and Auditors’ Report appear on pages  
46 to 48 and 66 respectively and comply with the provisions 
of paragraphs C.1.1 and C.1.2 of the Combined Code.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Company’s schemes of internal 
control and for reviewing the effectiveness of such systems.
The Board, via the Audit Committee, conducts a review, at least 
annually, of the Group’s systems of internal control. Such a review 
examines all material controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance controls and risk management systems, and 
accords with the recommendations contained in the Turnbull 
Guidance. A formal report is prepared by KPMG Audit Plc (KPMG) 
highlighting matters identified in the course of its statutory audit 
work and reviewed by the Audit Committee in the presence of 
KPMG and, by invitation, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance 
Director and the head of the Group’s internal audit function. 
The Committee also considers formal reports prepared and 
presented by the internal audit function. The findings and 
recommendations of the Committee are then reported to the 
Board for detailed consideration.
Audit committee and auditors
The Board has established an Audit Committee which met five times 
during the year. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are 
set out in full in the Combined Code Compliance Statement. Such 
terms of reference are compatible with the provisions of paragraph 
C.3 of the Combined Code. The Board is satisfied that the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee, James Morley, has appropriate recent and 
relevant financial experience.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance / Corporate governance 53 
In addition to its work in relation to the Group’s systems of internal 
control set out above, the Committee is also responsible for 
reviewing the integrity of the Company’s accounts, including the 
annual and interim results, and recommending their approval to the 
Board. The Committee’s work also includes reviewing the adequacy 
of the Group’s ‘whistle-blowing’ procedures.
The Committee meets on a regular basis with the external auditors 
and internal audit function, without the Executive Directors being 
present, to review and discuss issues arising from internal and 
external audits and to agree the scope and planning  
of future work.
The effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function is one of the 
matters reviewed in conjunction with KPMG.
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making 
a recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and 
removal of the external auditors. The policy of the Audit Committee 
is to ensure auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded 
at all times. The use of the Company’s auditors for non-audit 
services must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee where 
the total anticipated costs of any particular project exceed £30,000, 
taking into account factors such as cost, speed and efficiency 
of delivery in determining whether to approve their appointment. 
During the year the Company used two additional firms for 
non-audit-related services. Accordingly, the Audit Committee 
considers that the Company’s auditors are independent.
A more detailed description of the work of the Audit Committee 
during the year is contained in the separate report of the Committee 
on page 64.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Chairman routinely attends brokers’ and analysts’  
presentations in relation to the Company’s interim and full-year 
results. The Chairman, with assistance from the Company’s brokers, 
collates feedback from such presentations and reports the findings 
to the next meeting of the Board. The Chairman is also available 
to discuss matters with major shareholders in relation to, inter alia, 
strategy and corporate governance issues. The Senior Independent 
Director, Michael Averill, is available to attend meetings with major 
shareholders in order to understand their issues and concerns 
should the normal communication channels with the Chairman, 
Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director be ineffective 
or inappropriate.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Company’s AGM procedures indicate, as a matter of course,  
the level of proxies lodged on each resolution and the balance 
for and against each resolution and votes withheld after each has 
been dealt with on a show of hands. It is also the Company’s policy 
to propose a separate resolution at the AGM on each substantive 
separate issue, including in relation to the Report and Accounts and 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
All Committee Chairs are available at the AGM.
The Company’s standard procedure is to ensure that the notice 
of AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 
20 working days before the meeting in compliance with paragraph 
D.2.4 of the Combined Code.
Responsible investment disclosure guidelines
Environmental, social and governance risks are considered  
by the Board as part of the ongoing process of risk assessment.  
The impact of risk is evaluated not only in financial terms but also 
according to its effects on employees, operational efficiency and 
stakeholder relations. For further details regarding the steps which 
the Board takes through the risk management process in managing 
and mitigating risk, please see page 53.
Pages 26, 27 and 36 to 43 of the Business Review outline the 
Company’s approach to risk, corporate responsibility and 
sustainability. For more detail concerning the opportunity which 
the Board sees in sustainable growth through sound corporate 
responsibility, please refer to the Speedy Corporate Responsibility 
Report which is due to be published in September 2011. This report 
will refer to the KPI targets (running through to 31 March 2012) which 
have been established for monitoring progress against the Group’s 
environmental, community and workplace strategies, together 
with an evaluation of performance from previous financial years.
Risk management controls
In 2010, the Group’s Head of Internal Audit carried out a full review  
of enterprise-wide risks to business objectives, so that the Group 
Board could update its understanding of how well risks were 
mitigated by the control environment. Risks were identified  
in a series of workshops held in every key part of the Group and 
were followed by discussions between the Head of Internal Audit 
and specialists who could advise on the quality of controls to 
mitigate the risks identified in the workshops. Physical evidence 
of the quality of these controls was sought where appropriate. 
The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) programme was continuous 
throughout 2010 and the latest findings were submitted to the 
Group Board in May 2011.
The results of this work identified that the Group needs to focus  
on a number of key risk areas, as detailed on pages 26 and 27, 
under the heading ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’, in order to 
maximise its chances of achieving its strategic aims. Each member 
of the executive team has at least one risk template to manage, 
which describes the nature of the risk, the events that need to be 
prevented, the KPIs that measure the probability of these events 
occurring, the current controls, and a prioritised action plan with 
names and dates. The updated templates are presented regularly 
to the Group Board.
The Internal Audit Plan is informed by the ERM programme findings 
and the findings from these audits feed into the above process 
of the Group Board review of business risks and controls.
Governance
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 54 Governance / Remuneration report
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and 
approved by the Board for the financial year ended 31 March 2011. 
It has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
This report provides the Company’s statement of how it has applied 
the principles of good governance relating to Directors’ 
remuneration and is intended to communicate the Company’s 
policies and practices on executive remuneration. This report will 
be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM. 
Information relating to the emoluments and pension contributions 
of the Directors on pages 60 to 61 and Executive Directors’ interests 
in the Company’s Performance Plan, Co-Investment Plan and UK 
SAYE Scheme on page 62 has been audited.
Reflecting the Board’s commitment to maintaining high standards  
of corporate governance, the Remuneration Committee has 
complied during the year with the remuneration requirements  
of the Combined Code.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises three Non-Executive 
Directors: Michael Averill (Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee from 1 January 2011), James Morley and Peter Atkinson. 
Each of James Morley, Peter Atkinson and Michael Averill is 
considered by the Board to be independent. Biographies of the 
members of the Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 
44 and 45. Ishbel Macpherson was Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee from 1 April 2010 until her appointment as Group 
Chairman on 1 January 2011.
At the invitation of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
the Chairman and the Chief Executive may attend meetings of the 
Remuneration Committee, except when their own remuneration 
is under consideration. No Director is involved in determining his 
or her own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts as the 
secretary to the Remuneration Committee. The members of the 
Remuneration Committee can, where they judge it necessary 
to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense.
The Remuneration Committee’s duties include:
to make recommendations to the Board on the Company’s > >
framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, 
Executive Directors, Group Company Secretary and senior 
executives;
to review and determine, on behalf of the Board, the executive > >
remuneration and incentive packages to ensure such packages 
are fair and reasonable;
to review and approve Directors’ expenses; > >
to determine the basis on which the employment of executives  > >
is terminated;
to design the Company’s share incentive schemes and other > >
performance-related pay schemes, and to operate and 
administer such schemes;
to determine whether awards made under performance-related > >
and share incentive schemes should be made, the overall 
amount of the awards, the individual awards to executives 
and the performance targets to be used;
to ensure that no Director is involved in any decisions  > >
as to their own remuneration; and 
to review regularly the ongoing appropriateness and > >
effectiveness of all remuneration policies.
The Remuneration Committee met on six occasions during the year. 
Details of the attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are 
set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 49. The 
Committee reviewed the following matters at those meetings:
design of executive remuneration structure for the financial > >
year 2011/12;
Sharesave scheme awards to be made in the financial > >
year 2010/11;
Directors’ shareholding guidelines and progress of achievement > >
in relation to each director;
Directors’ expenses in the financial year 2010/11; > >
Group wide remuneration update in relation to pay, bonus  > >
and other reward arrangements;
interim and final progress of employee share plan performance > >
measures against targets and consequent approval of any 
vesting of awards;
progress of bonus achievement for 2010/11 executive bonus; > >
25 year long service awards for the financial year 2010/11; > >
the amount of the termination payment made to  > >
Claudio Veritiero;
terms of reference for, and effectiveness of, the > >
Remuneration Committee
ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness of remuneration  > >
and benefits policies;
performance of external remuneration advisers; > >
remuneration policy for high potential employees, other  > >
potential successors and for developing future leaders; and
use of equity for employee share plans in relation to head > >
room limits.
The Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference are published  
on Speedy’s website at www.speedyhire.plc.uk and are available  
in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
Advisers
During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice from 
Hewitt New Bridge Street (HNBS, a brand of Aon Hewitt Limited), 
who are independent remuneration consultants, in connection with 
remuneration matters including the provision of general guidance 
on market and best practice and the development of the Group’s 
performance-related remuneration policy. HNBS has no other 
connection or relationship with the Group. HNBS and Aon Hewitt 
have provided no other services to the Group during the financial 
year ended 31 March 2011. 
Remuneration report
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance / Remuneration report 55 
The Committee also sought advice from the Company’s legal 
advisers, Pinsent Masons LLP, in connection with the operation 
of the Performance Plans, Co-Investment Plans and SAYE Schemes 
described later in this report.
Remuneration policy and objectives
The remuneration policy with respect to the Executive Directors has 
been designed to ensure that pay practices at Speedy remain 
appropriate for both the Company and its shareholders. 
The principal objectives of the policy are to attract and retain the 
best talent to deliver Speedy’s strategy and to drive shareholder 
value within a framework of good corporate governance and the 
Company’s risk profile.
The key principles of this policy are:
between lower quartile and median salaries, but with the > >
potential to earn upper quartile rewards for sustained 
exceptional performance provided stretching and demanding 
performance conditions are met;
a reward structure that balances short-term and long-term > >
performance; and
competitive incentive arrangements that are underpinned by > >
a balance of financial and operational performance metrics 
to provide both a focus on business performance and alignment 
with the interests of shareholders.
The Committee acknowledges that the principle with respect 
to lower to median quartile salaries for Executive Directors has 
become more difficult to maintain given the reduction of the 
Company’s market capitalisation in recent years. However, 
to counter-balance this effect, Executive Directors’ salaries have 
not increased since 2008.
There is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from 
taking into account performance on environmental, social and 
governance issues. The Committee notes with approval the 
continued effort being made by the Company in motivating 
responsible behaviour in relation to these issues by encouraging 
reduced energy consumption and providing incentives to choose 
more efficient Company vehicles. In addition, the Committee seeks 
to ensure that the Company’s pay policies do not encourage 
inappropriate operational risk-taking. 
The Committee believes that it is incumbent upon it to ensure 
that the remuneration policy as it applies to the senior executives 
is effectively delivered in a manner that takes full account of the 
Company’s specific and developing circumstances. This has proved 
a particular challenge for the Committee this year, against a 
backdrop of the continuing difficult economic climate. Additionally, 
in determining the remuneration arrangements of the Executive 
Directors, the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration 
not only the performance of the Executive Directors but also pay 
and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, through 
regular interaction with the Company’s HR function and senior 
operational executives.
As a result, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the 
remuneration of Executive Directors will provide an appropriate 
balance between fixed and performance-related pay elements. 
The chart below illustrates the average mix between the fixed (i.e. 
salary, benefits and pension) and variable (i.e. bonus, Performance 
Shares and Co-Investment Plan shares) elements of remuneration 
of the Executive Directors at an on-target and maximum 
performance. The Remuneration Committee will continue to review 
the remuneration policy to ensure it takes due account of best 
remuneration practice and is aligned to shareholders’ interests. 
 
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Fixed pay Bonus Long-term incentives
Stretch
Target
Governance
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 56 Governance / Remuneration report
Components of remuneration
The main components of the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors consist of the following elements:
Purpose Delivery Detailed policy
Basic salary Reflect the value of the > >
individual and his or her role, 
skills, experience and 
performance
Cash > >
Monthly > >
Pensionable > >
Normally reviewed annually  > >
on or around 1 April and 
benchmarked against 
comparable companies
No increases were made > >
in April 2009 or April 2010
Executives have been given > >
the opportunity to earn 
increases in base salary for 
2011/12 if certain targets are 
met, see below.
Annual bonus Incentivise delivery of specific > >
Group, divisional and 
personal annual goals
Deferred share element > >
aids retention and alignment 
with shareholders
Annual payment (subject > >
to performance)
Cash up to 50% of salary, > >
rest in shares 
Performance-related > >
Non-pensionable > >
For 2011/12 payments > >
based on Group profit 
before tax performance 
and project-based KPIs
Bonus potential of up to 100% > >
of salary 
Any bonus above 50% > >
of salary paid in shares  
linked to Co-Investment Plan
Long-term incentives Encourage long-term > >
value creation
Encourage co-investment > >
Align executives’ interests > >
with those of shareholders
Retention > >
Share-based > >
Annual awards > >
Shares may be released  > >
after three years
Performance-related > >
Non-pensionable > >
Performance Plan
70% of salary maximum  > >
for 2011/12, vesting based  
on comparative TSR targets 
(with an underpin)
Co-Investment Plan
Matching shares, based on > >
investment of bonus, up to 2:1
Vesting based on real > >
EPS growth
No awards were made in the > >
past three years and there 
will be no award in 2011
Benefits To provide competitive > >
benefits
Retention > >
Ongoing > > Car allowance, medical > >
insurance and life assurance
Pension To provide competitive > >
post-retirement benefits
Ongoing > >
Payable on retirement > >
10%-20% of basic salary > >
depending on length 
of service
Executive Directors have  > >
been offered cash in lieu  
of pension
Share ownership guidelines To align the interests > >
of Executive Directors 
with shareholders
Ongoing > > Must build a shareholding > >
of 100% of salary
Remuneration report continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance / Remuneration report 57 
Base salary
Base salary for each Executive Director is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee, taking account of the Director’s 
performance, experience and responsibilities. The Remuneration 
Committee has regard to salary levels paid by UK listed companies: 
(i) which operate within the same broad business space as Speedy 
and with which Speedy competes for key talent; and (ii) market 
capitalisation and geographic operations. This approach ensures 
that the best available benchmark data for each Director’s specific 
position is obtained. Comparative pay data is used carefully 
recognising the risk of an upward ratchet in remuneration caused 
by over reliance on such data. When determining Executive 
Directors’ base salaries, the Remuneration Committee also has 
regard to economic factors, remuneration trends and the general 
level of salary increases awarded throughout the Group.
Recognising the commitment of the Executive Directors to deliver the 
Company’s strategy but the importance of actually delivering it, the 
Remuneration Committee has approved a possible staggered pay 
rise for the Executive Directors linked to the achievement of Group 
profit targets which will take effect in the 2011/12 financial year. 
Three increases of 1% of annual salary may be made in July 2011, 
October 2011 and January 2012, if certain targets are achieved  
by the Group. If all targets are met the maximum amount paid 
to each director in 2011/12 would be equivalent to a 1.5% pay 
increase. If this maximum annual increase is achieved, the  
Executive Directors’ salaries at the end of 2011/12 would be: 
Steve Corcoran – £350,302; Justin Read – £257,575; Mike McGrath 
– £225,666. No pay rises will take place if the targets are not 
achieved by the Group. Other Group employees are participating 
in a similar staggered pay rise linked to achievement of Group 
budget but with an additional 1% of annual salary paid in April 2011. 
If all targets are met the maximum amount paid to employees 
in 2011/12 would be equivalent to a 2.5% pay increase. As 
Justin Read has resigned with effect from 26 August 2011,  
he will not receive a pay rise.
Performance-related annual bonus
The Committee‘s general policy is that every employee in the 
Group is brought within some form of incentive scheme as soon 
as practicable after joining the Group. Although, as previously 
reported, no annual bonus opportunity was earned by the Executive 
Directors or other senior employees in 2009/10.
Following a review of incentive arrangements, the Remuneration 
Committee determined that an incentive to deliver against 
short-term operational drivers of the business was appropriate for 
2010/11. However, the maximum bonus opportunity was reduced 
from 120% of salary to 100% of salary.
For 2010/11, the bonus was based on adjusted profit before tax 
targets (70%) and a range of key strategic objectives (30%). The 
threshold level of performance was not achieved and so no bonus 
was earned for the year.
For 2011/12, the maximum bonus opportunity remains at 100% 
of salary. The bonus opportunity will be split as follows: (i) 85%  
of the bonus will be payable by reference to performance against  
a challenging range of adjusted profit before tax targets; and  
(ii) 15% will be payable for performance against key strategic 
objectives relating to revenue, overhead, Group net debt, 
working capital, e-commerce capability, gross profit margin, 
and strategic development.
Outstanding performance will be required for a maximum bonus 
to become payable, with no bonus payable unless a number 
of financial (i.e. adjusted profit before tax) and non-financial 
thresholds are achieved. A claw back provision will be applied 
for specified circumstances.
As in previous years, if a bonus is earned, any bonus earned over 
50% of salary will be subject to a compulsory deferral into shares, 
with such shares subject to a corresponding matching award under 
the Co-Investment Plan (see page 62).
As Justin Read has resigned with effect from 26 August 2011,  
he will not receive a bonus. Non-Executive Directors also  
do not receive a bonus.
Long-term incentive plan
In line with the overall remuneration policy of the Remuneration 
Committee, the objectives of the Company’s share-based long-term 
incentive arrangements (which were approved by shareholders in 
2004 and 2009) are:
to support the Company’s strong performance culture and > >
provide exceptional rewards for exceptional performance;
to provide a competitive total compensation package; > >
to link rewards to Group performance so that the interests of > >
executives are fully aligned with Speedy’s shareholders; and
to create an expectation of ownership on the part of executives > >
in accordance with shareholding guidelines established by the 
Committee, requiring Executive Directors to build up and retain 
shares in the Company of a value equivalent to 100% of 
basic salary.
The two main share-based long-term incentive plans operated 
for senior Executives are (i) the Performance Plan and (ii) the 
Co-Investment Plan. As set out on page 60, the Performance Plan 
measures Speedy’s TSR performance and the Co-Investment Plan 
Speedy’s EPS performance. The Remuneration Committee considers 
that the combination of these measures will encourage shareholder 
value creation and improved financial performance. 
Benefits under the Performance Plan and the Co-Investment Plan 
are non-pensionable.
Governance
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58 Governance / Remuneration report
Remuneration report continued
Performance Plan
The key features of the Performance Plan are as follows:
for 2011/12, awards of 70% of salary will be granted to the > >
Executive Directors (with the exception of Justin Read who has 
resigned with effect from 26 August 2011 and, accordingly, will 
not receive any awards);
the normal maximum award that can be made each year is over > >
shares worth up to 100% of salary. However, in 2010/11 and 
2011/12 the Committee has agreed the maximum award 
is capped at 70% of salary;
2011 awards will vest subject to (i) TSR performance measured > >
over a three year period beginning with the date of the grant  
and (ii) continued employment;
20% of each award will vest if Speedy ranks at the median > >
compared to the FTSE 250 (excluding investments trusts) 
measured over the three year performance period, with full 
vesting at the upper quartile (and straight line vesting between 
these points);
an underpin also applies to the primary TSR measure, under > >
which the Committee may reduce the number of shares that 
provisionally vest by reference to performance against the 
relative TSR condition if this performance is not considered to be 
truly representative of the Company’s underlying performance 
over the relevant period. When considering the Company’s 
underlying performance, the Committee will take account of 
performance against a range of targets including operating cash 
flow, profit against targets, working capital management and 
share price progression; and
see page 63 for details of performance conditions applying > >
to earlier awards.
As stated above, the Committee has recently reviewed the Executive 
Directors’ incentive pay policy, encompassing a review of long-term 
incentive provision. Following this review, it has been deemed that 
Performance Plan awards will be made in the forthcoming year, 
subject to a maximum 70% of salary individual limit. The vesting 
of the awards will be subject to continued employment and the 
satisfaction of a TSR-based performance condition with the same 
structure as that outlined previously for the awards made last year.
TSR has been used again as the primary performance measure for 
the Performance Plan awards as it is currently considered a robust 
measure of Speedy’s long-term performance. The Committee will 
ensure that appropriate independent verification is sought as to the 
extent to which these performance conditions are satisfied. 
The 2006, 2007 and 2008 Performance Plan awards have not 
vested due to performance below the threshold levels. 
Co-Investment Plan
The key features of the Co-Investment Plan are as follows:
Executive Directors are required to defer any annual bonus over > >
50% of basic salary in Speedy shares (they can choose to defer 
and invest the rest of their bonus);
deferral is for three years; > >
matching shares are awarded by the Committee which vest > >
at the end of the three-year deferral period if (i) pre-determined 
performance criteria are satisfied, (ii) the deferred shares are 
retained and (iii) the individual remains employed by Speedy. 
The maximum matching, which is only awarded for exceptional 
performance, could be on a 2:1, or 200% basis, by reference 
to the gross amount of bonus deferred; and
performance is based on EPS growth over the deferral period. > >
For the last awards made, to obtain the maximum match, EPS 
growth of greater than Consumer Price Index (CPI) plus 12.5% per 
annum, calculated on a compound basis, was required. A match 
of 1:1 is earned if EPS growth is greater than CPI plus 7.5% per 
annum, also calculated on a compound basis (with no awards 
vesting if EPS growth equals CPI plus 7.5% per annum and 
straight-line vesting between 7.5% and 12.5% per annum).
As there was no annual bonus payable to the Executive Directors 
in 2008/09 or 2009/10, there has been no Co-Investment Plan 
award in 2009 or 2010. As no bonus was earned for 2010/11, 
there will also be no award in 2011.
The 2006, 2007 and 2008 Co-Investment Plan awards have not 
vested due to performance below criteria threshold levels.
Dilution
The Performance Plan, Co-Investment Plan and SAYE share 
option schemes provide that overall dilution through the issuance 
of new shares for employee share schemes should not exceed 
an amount equivalent to 10% of the Company’s issued share capital 
over a 10 year period. Within this 10% limit, dilution through the 
Performance Plan and Co-Investment Plan is limited to an amount 
equivalent to 5% of the Company’s issued share capital over 
a 10 year period. Both limits are in line with institutional 
shareholder guidelines.
The Committee monitors the position prior to making awards under 
these schemes to ensure that the Company remains within this limit. 
As at the date of this Report, 3.13% of the 5% limit and 5.02% of the 
10% limit has been used.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance / Remuneration report 59 
Share Ownership Guidelines
Executive Directors must build and maintain a shareholding  
of 100% of salary. Steve Corcoran and Mike McGrath are meeting 
this requirement in full. Justin Read has shares with a value equal 
to approximately 90% of his salary.
Benefits in kind
The Group operates a policy whereby Executive Directors and senior 
management are offered a car or cash alternative, as appropriate, 
health insurance and life cover and pension contributions or cash  
in lieu of pension contributions (further details of which are set out 
on page 61). Justin Read also received a housing allowance.
The Group does not operate a defined benefit pension scheme 
and has no plans to introduce such a scheme.
Total shareholder return (TSR)
The graph below shows Speedy’s performance, measured by 
TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE Small Cap Index 
(excluding investment trusts), also measured by TSR. The graph 
illustrates the movement of Speedy’s TSR, assuming dividends are 
reinvested on the ex-dividend date, against that of the comparator 
index for the five-year period to 31 March 2011. The FTSE Small Cap 
Index (excluding investment trusts) has been used as it is an index 
in which Speedy is a constituent. However, the chart also shows the 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) as this provides 
consistency with previous years and the performance measurement 
of the Group’s executive share incentive plans. 
Service contracts
It is the Committee’s general policy that the service contracts 
of Executive Directors (none of which are for a fixed term) should 
provide for termination of employment by giving 12 months’ notice 
or by making a payment of an amount equal to 12 months’ basic 
salary and pension contributions in lieu of notice together with any 
accrued bonus entitlement. It is the Company’s ongoing policy for 
bonus to not be included in any new joiner’s termination payments. 
It is also the Committee’s general policy that no Executive Director 
should be entitled to a notice period or payment on termination of 
employment in excess of the levels set out in their service contracts. 
In determining amounts payable on termination, the Committee 
also considers, where it is able to do so, appropriate adjustments 
to take into account accelerated receipt and the Executive Director’s 
duty to mitigate his loss.
The service contracts of Steve Corcoran, Mike McGrath and Justin 
Read contain express provisions relating to their duty to mitigate 
their loss and for accelerated receipt in the event of termination. 
Claudio Veritiero resigned as an Executive Director on 31 October 
2010 and received a termination payment in accordance with the 
provisions of his service agreement, the amount of which is set 
out below on page 60.
Subject to the above, no Executive Director has the benefit of 
provisions in his service contract for the payment of pre-determined 
compensation in the event of termination of employment.
The execution dates of the service contracts of the Executive 
Directors are set out below:
Contract date
S Corcoran 7 January 2002
M McGrath 10 March 2006
J Read 1 April 2008
Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the 
Executive Directors. The policy of the Board is that the remuneration 
of the Non-Executive Directors should be consistent with the levels 
of remuneration paid by companies of a similar size with due 
regard to their expected time commitment and responsibility 
in performing their duties. The levels of Non-Executive Director 
remuneration are the subject of benchmarking exercises, carried 
out with the assistance of HNBS, typically at least every two years. 
No such benchmarking exercise was considered necessary this 
year and therefore the Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration levels 
are unchanged from those paid last year. Non-Executive Directors 
receive an annual fee and are reimbursed expenses incurred 
in performing their duties. They do not receive any performance-
related bonuses, pension contributions, share awards or other 
forms of benefit.
0
160
31 March 
2011
31 March 
2010
31 March 
2009
31 March 
2008
31 March 
2007
31 March 
2006
Speedy Hire Plc FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Index
FTSE SmallCap (excluding investment trusts) Index
Value (£)
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2011, of £100 invested in Speedy 
Hire Plc on 31 March 2006 compared with the values of £100 invested in the 
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Index or the FTSE SmallCap (excluding 
investment trusts). The other points plotted are the values at intervening 
financial year-ends.
Governance
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 60 Governance / Remuneration report
Remuneration report continued
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts 
of service but their terms are set out in letters of appointment.  
David Wallis retired as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman  
on 31 December 2010. 
Peter Atkinson commenced a second three-year term in July 2008. 
Ishbel Macpherson commenced her second three year term 
in July 2010. Michael Averill commenced his first three-year term  
in July 2008. James Morley commenced his first three year term  
in July 2009. 
Appointments are subject to earlier termination by three months’ 
notice on either side in the case of each of Peter Atkinson, Ishbel 
Macpherson, Michael Averill and James Morley. The letters of 
appointment, copies of which are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office during normal business hours, specify 
an anticipated time commitment of 50 days per annum in relation 
to Ishbel Macpherson, 21 days per annum in the case of Michael 
Averill and James Morley, and 19 days per annum in the case 
of Peter Atkinson.
The execution dates of the appointment letters of the Non-Executive 
Directors are set out below:
Appointment letter date
P Atkinson 3 May 2005
M Averill 16 May 2008
I Macpherson 17 July 2007
J Morley 31 March 2009
Emoluments of the Directors
The emoluments of the Directors of Speedy for the year under 
review were as follows:
Aggregate emoluments (audited)
2011
£000
2010
£000
Salaries and fees 1,175 1,275
Benefits 49 54
Termination Payments 266 –
Annual performance-related bonuses – –
Pension contributions 159 155
Total 1,649 1,484
A payment of £18,000 was also made to the widow of a former 
Director (2010: £18,000).
Payments to Executive Directors (audited)
Base salaries for Executive Directors and remuneration levels for Non-Executive Directors were not increased in the year.
Salaries and fees Pension contributions
Salary
£000
Benefits
£000
Termination
£000
Bonus
£000
Total
2011
Total 
2010
2011
£000
2010
£000
S Corcoran 340 15 – – 355 351 68 68
M McGrath 220 3 – – 223 230 31 29
C Veritiero (resigned 31 October 2010) 118 7 266 – 391 213 30 30
J Read 250 24 – – 274 273 30 28
Total 928 49 266 – 1,243 1,067 159 155
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance / Remuneration report 61 
Pensions
The Committee reviews the pension arrangements for the Executive 
Directors to ensure that the benefits provided are consistent with 
those provided by similar companies and take account of changes 
in relevant legislation.
The Company does not offer a defined benefit pension scheme. 
Instead, it makes contributions to an approved pension scheme 
of the Executive Director’s choice. Pensions contributions range 
between 10% and 20% of basic salary depending on length 
of service. Executive Directors are also offered cash in lieu  
of a pension contribution.
The amount of pension contributions (or cash in lieu) made 
in respect of each Executive Director is set out on page 60.
Save as set out on page 60, there are no other pension 
arrangements for the Executive Directors.
Individual emoluments of Non-Executive Directors (audited) 
2011
£000
2010
£000
D Wallis (resigned on 31 December 2010) 79 105
P Atkinson 34 34
I Macpherson 57 41
M Averill 36 34
J Morley 41 41
Total 247 255
Directors’ interests in shares and options (audited)
Interests in shares 
The interests of the Directors of Speedy Hire Plc in the issued share 
capital of Speedy Hire Plc at the beginning and end of the year, 
or date of appointment where appropriate, are shown below:
Speedy Hire Plc  
ordinary shares
31 March 
2011
31 March 
2010 
*
S Corcoran 2,186,423 2,186,423
M McGrath 1,291,500 1,291,500
C Veritiero (resigned on 31 October 2010) 199,608
**
986,245
D Wallis (resigned on 31 December 2010) 187,069
***
187,069
P Atkinson 42,800 42,800
I Macpherson 216,940 216,940
J Read 1,204,864 1,201,307
M Averill 87,010 50,000
J Morley 165,000 158,236
* Post rights issue.
** As at 31 October 2010.
*** As at 31 December 2010.
This table includes joint ownership interests in ExSOP awards which 
are included in the table on page 62.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the 
share capital of Speedy Hire Plc since 31 March 2011. 
Governance
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 62 Governance / Remuneration report
Directors’ interests in share options, performance plan and co-investment plan awards
The options under the SAYE Scheme were granted for nil consideration.
The market price of Speedy ordinary shares at 31 March 2011 was 28.75 pence and the range during the year was  
19.25 pence to 36.25 pence per share.
The price of an ordinary share on 24 June 2010, when the Performance Plan awards were made, was 26.5 pence.
Details of the Executive Directors’ interests in the UK SAYE Scheme, Performance Plan and Co-Investment Plan are as follows:
Interest at 
1 April 2010
1
Options/awards
lapsed during 
the year
Options/awards
granted during
the year
Interest at 
31 March 2011
2
Exercise price
(pence)
Expected date from 
which exercisable/
vested
S Corcoran
Save As You Earn 2010 – – 26,400 26,400 21 Feb 2014 – July 2014
Performance Plan 2007
3
96,273 (96,273) – – nil n/a
Performance Plan 2008
4,5
181,809 – – 181,809 nil Jun 2011
Performance Plan 2009
6
1,323,697 – – 1,323,697 n/a Sep 2012
Performance Plan 2010
7,5
– – 769,977 769,977 nil Jun 2013
Co-Investment Plan 2007
8
80,812 (80,812) – – nil n/a
Co-Investment Plan 2008
5,9
342,486 – – 342,486 nil Jun 2011
S Corcoran Total 2,025,077 (177,085) 796,377 2,644,369
M McGrath
Save As You Earn 2009 9,012 – – 9,012 29 Nov 2012 – Apr 2013
Save As You Earn 2010 – – 19,028 19,028 21 Feb 2014 – July 2014
Performance Plan 2007
3
62,204 (62,204) – – nil n/a
Performance Plan 2008
4,5
117,641 – – 117,641 nil Jun 2011
Performance Plan 2009
6,5
856,510 – – 856,510 n/a Sep 2012
Performance Plan 2010
7
– – 498,220 498,220 nil Jun 2013
Co-Investment Plan 2007
8
114,196 (114,196) – – nil n/a
Co-Investment Plan 2008
5,9
257,467 – – 257,467 nil Jun 2011
M McGrath Total 1,417,030 (176,400) 517,248 1,757,878
J Read
Save As You Earn 2009 9,012 – – 9,012 29 Nov 2012 – Apr 2013
Save As You Earn 2010 – – 19,028 19,028 21 Feb 2014 – July 2014
Performance Plan 2008
4,5
133,684 – – 133,684 nil Jun 2011
Performance Plan 2009
6
973,307 – – 973,307 n/a Sep 2012
Performance Plan 2010
7,5
– – 566,159 566,159 nil Jun 2013
Co-Investment Plan 2008
5,9
284,728 – – 284,728 nil Jun 2011
J Read Total 1,400,731 – 585,187 1,985,918
C Veritiero
10
Save As You Earn 2009 9,012 – – 9,012 29 Nov 2010 – Apr 2011
Performance Plan 2008
4,5
102,934 – – 102,934 nil Jun 2011
Performance Plan 2009
6
788,378 – – 788,378 n/a Sep 2012
Performance Plan 2010
7,5
– – 458,589 458,589 nil Jun 2013
Co-Investment Plan 2007
8
27,431 (27,431) – – nil n/a
Co-Investment Plan 2008
5,9
208,425 – – 208,425 nil Jun 2011
C Veritiero Total 1,136,180 (27,431) 458,589 1,567,338
Total 5,979,018 (380,916) 2,357,401 7,955,503
No options were exercised during the year.
Remuneration report continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance / Remuneration report 63 
1
 The interests at 1 April 2010 are stated after adjustment, where relevant,  
for the 2009 rights issue.
2
 Or date of cessation as a Director of the Company, if earlier.
3
 Neither the TSR nor the EPS target was met and the awards lapsed. 
4
 The 2008 Performance Plan awards were subject to a combination of TSR 
and EPS performance targets. 50% of the award was based on comparative 
TSR against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). 20% of this portion 
of the award will vest at median, with straight-line vesting to upper quartile 
performance at which point this portion of the award will vest in full. The 
balance of the award was based on EPS growth targets. 20% of this portion 
of the award will vest for the achievement of a threshold level of EPS growth, 
being at least CPI plus 7.5% per annum, calculated on a compound basis, with 
the entire portion of this award vesting if EPS growth is at least CPI plus 15% 
per annum, also on a compound basis (with straight-line vesting in between). 
Neither the TSR nor the EPS targets were met and so these awards will lapse.
5
 Performance Plan awards (other than those granted in 2009 – see note 6) and 
Co Investment Plan matching awards were options to acquire shares for an 
aggregate £1 exercise price for all the award shares. No consideration was 
paid for the grant of these options. 
6
 The 2009 Performance Plan awards were in the form ExSOP awards which 
involve the acquisition of shares jointly by the participant and the trustee  
of the Company’s employee trust. ExSOP awards were subject to the same 
performance condition as the 2011 Performance Plan awards as detailed on 
page 58. To the extent the performance condition is satisfied, the participant 
can benefit from any growth of the shares in excess of a hurdle. Initial Value 
Awards entitle the holder to a value (in shares or cash) equal to the number 
of ExSOP shares (if any) in respect of which the performance condition is met 
multiplied by the share value on the award date or, if lower, the share value 
when the ExSOP award crystallises. 
7
 The 2010 Performance Plan awards were subject to the same performance 
condition as the 2011 Performance Plan awards as detailed on page 58.
8
 The EPS target was not met and the awards lapsed. 
9
 The 2008 Co Investment Plan awards were subject to performance targets 
based on EPS growth over the deferral period. To obtain maximum matching, 
EPS growth is required to be greater than CPI plus 12.5% per annum, calculated 
on a compound basis. A 1:1 match is earned if EPS growth is greater than CPI 
plus 7.5% per annum, also calculated on a compound basis, (with no awards 
vesting if EPS growth equals CPI plus 7.5% per annum and straight-line vesting 
in between 7.5% and 12.5% per annum). The EPS target was not met and so 
these awards will lapse.
10
 Claudio Veritiero’s award details are as at 31 October 2010, being the date 
of his departure. 
SAYE Scheme
Options may be granted over shares in Speedy under the Speedy 
Sharesave Scheme (the ‘UK SAYE Scheme’), in which all eligible 
employees (including Executive Directors) are entitled to participate. 
At the end of a three-year period, participants have the right, 
if they choose, to use funds accumulated under the savings contract 
linked to the SAYE Scheme to purchase shares in Speedy  
at up to a 20% discount to the price of Speedy’s shares at the  
date employees are invited to join the Scheme. 
In November 2007 the Committee established an Irish Revenue-
approved Irish Sharesave Scheme (the ‘Irish SAYE Scheme’) to 
enable Irish employees of the Group to participate in a comparable 
tax-favoured manner to their English counterparts, for which 
shareholder approval was obtained at the 2008 AGM. The 
Committee is keen to encourage ownership of Speedy’s shares 
by employees at all levels in the Group and grants are made under 
the SAYE Schemes on a regular, normally annual, basis. A grant 
was made under both the UK and the Irish SAYE Schemes in 
December 2010. 
492 employees participated in the 2010 grant and as at 31 March 
2011 there were, in aggregate, 1314 live accounts spread across 1009 
participants in the UK and Irish SAYE Schemes. As all-employee 
schemes, no performance targets are attached to options granted 
under the SAYE Schemes. 
Long-term service awards
Consistent with the Speedy approach of recognising the contribution 
of its employees at all levels in the business, the Group operates 
a long-term service award scheme under which employees serving 
10, 20 and 25 years receive a range of additional benefits, including 
additional days of annual holiday entitlement (and including the 
employee’s birthday for reaching 20 years’ service). Employees 
serving 20 years receive an additional £1,000 in basic salary and 
those serving 25 years a further increase of £1,000 and an award 
of shares in the Company to the value of £1,000. Members of the 
20- and 25-year clubs attend an annual luncheon hosted by the 
Chief Executive.
These benefits are popular amongst employees and Speedy 
believes that they fulfil a business need by encouraging and 
rewarding the loyalty and motivation of long-serving employees 
and by rewarding those employees with higher levels of experience.
This report was approved by the Board on 17 May 2011.
Michael Averill
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Governance
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 64 Governance / Audit Committee report
Audit Committee report
The Audit Committee presents a separate report in relation to the 
financial year ended 31 March 2011.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors, 
James Morley (Chairman of the Audit Committee), Peter Atkinson 
and Michael Averill, all of whom are considered by the Board  
to be independent. Biographies of each of the members of the  
Audit Committee are set out on pages 44 and 45. James Morley  
is a chartered accountant with over 26 years’ experience as a Board 
member at both listed and private companies. He currently holds  
Non-Executive Directorships at Clarkson plc, Costain Group plc,  
The Innovation Group plc and BMS Associates. Previously James 
was also a Non-Executive Director of the Bankers Investment Trust, 
WS Atkins and Trade Indemnity Group. The Board is satisfied that 
James Morley has recent and relevant financial experience.
Operation of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee met on five occasions during the year. Details 
of the attendance at Audit Committee meetings are set out in the 
Corporate Governance Report on page 49. 
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, together 
with representatives from the external auditors and the Head 
of Internal Audit, are invited to attend all meetings of the Committee 
by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The external auditors and 
the Head of Internal Audit regularly meet privately with the Audit 
Committee to advise them of any matters which they consider 
should be brought to the Audit Committee’s attention without the 
Executive Directors present. The external auditors and the Head 
of Internal Audit may also request a meeting with the Audit 
Committee if they consider it necessary.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee. 
The members of the Audit Committee can, where they judge it 
necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense.
The Audit Committee’s duties include, inter alia:
monitoring the integrity of the Group’s Financial Statements and > >
formal announcements relating to the Group’s performance;
monitoring the effectiveness of the external process including > >
the appointment, cost and independence of the external 
auditors;
reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and the internal > >
audit function;
approving the appointment or replacement of the Head > >
of Internal Audit; and
reviewing the Board’s process for reviewing and managing > >
significant risk in the business.
The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line with an annual 
programme of business. The Audit Committee agrees the scope 
of the external audit work and discusses the results of the full-year 
audit and half-year review each year with the external auditors and 
the Group Finance Director and Chief Executive.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published 
on Speedy’s website at www.speedyhire.plc.uk and are available 
in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the Group’s 
whistle-blowing procedures to ensure arrangements are in place 
to enable employees to raise concerns about possible malpractice 
or wrongdoing by the Group or any of its employees on a 
confidential basis. This includes arrangements to investigate 
proportionately and independently such matters and for 
appropriate follow-up action.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The Audit Committee undertook a review of the effectiveness of, 
and the framework for, the Group’s system of internal control and 
risk management, including financial, operational and compliance 
controls, during the year. In addition to this review, the external 
auditors provided the Audit Committee with reports of the results 
of their controls testing as part of the external audit. 
Review of the work of the external auditors
Subject to the annual appointment of the external auditors 
by shareholders, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the 
relationship between the Group and the external auditors. 
This review includes an assessment of their performance,  
cost-effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate 
relationship is maintained between the Group and the external 
auditors. The Group has implemented a policy to control the 
provision of non-audit services by the external auditors in order 
to ensure that their objectivity and independence are safeguarded. 
This policy requires that the provision of any non-audit services 
in excess of £30,000 by the external auditors are subject to prior 
approval by the Audit Committee. During the year non-audit 
services were provided to the Group by both the external auditors 
and other accounting, or consulting, firms and the Group anticipates 
that this will continue in 2011. A full breakdown of the audit and 
non-audit related fees is set out in note 4 to the Group Financial 
Statements on page 81.
The Audit Committee considered the external auditors’  
performance during their period in office and reviewed the level 
of fees charged and considered them appropriate given the size 
of the Group. The Audit Committee is satisfied that the level and 
scope of non-audit services undertaken by the external auditors 
do not impair their independence and objectivity. Having 
considered the results of the Audit Committee’s work, the Board 
is recommending the re-appointment of the external auditors.
This report was approved by the Board on 17 May 2011.
James Morley
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance / Nomination Committee report 65 
Nomination Committee report
The Nomination Committee presents a separate report in relation  
to the financial year ended 31 March 2011.
Composition of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the four Non-Executive 
Directors: Ishbel Macpherson (the Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee from 1 January 2011), Peter Atkinson, Michael Averill 
and James Morley, all of whom are considered by the Board  
to be independent. Biographies of the members of the Nomination 
Committee are set out on pages 44 and 45. David Wallis was 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from 1 April 2010 until  
his retirement from Group Board on 31 December 2011.
Operation of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee met on five occasions during the year. 
Details of the attendance at Nomination Committee meetings are 
set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 49.
The Nomination Committee’s duties include, inter alia:
reviewing the size and composition of the Board and > >
membership of Board Committees;
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience > >
of the Board;
ensuring that succession planning is in place for the Board; > >
ensuring that there is a formal and transparent procedure for the > >
appointment of new Executive and Non-Executive Directors to 
the Board and making recommendations to the Board on such 
appointments; and
the re-appointment of Directors following their retirement > >
by rotation.
During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the balance  
of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board together with the 
size, structure and composition of the Board, and reviewed the 
succession plans for the Board including the making of relevant 
recommendations to the Group Board in relation to the successor  
to David Wallis, the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director 
following the retirement of Peter Atkinson at the forthcoming AGM 
and the re-election of Justin Read and Michael Averill as referred 
to in the Directors’ Report on page 49. 
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, 
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will normally chair 
the Nomination Committee instead of the Chairman. As Ishbel 
Macpherson was a potential successor to David Wallis, Michael 
Averill chaired those meetings in which the Chairman’s succession 
was discussed.
The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the 
Board. The process in relation to the appointment of a new Group 
Finance Director and Non-Executive Director to replace Justin Read 
and Peter Atkinson respectively involves the Nomination Committee 
interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed by an external 
search company or existing Board members. Careful consideration 
is being given to ensure any potential appointees have enough 
time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained. When 
the Nomination Committee has identified a suitable candidate, 
the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will make 
a recommendation to the Board with the Board making 
the final decision.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, the 
Chief Executive may attend meetings of the Nomination Committee. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination 
Committee. The members of the Nomination Committee can, where 
they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are published 
on Speedy’s website at www.speedyhire.plc.uk and are available 
in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
This report was approved by the Board on 17 May 2011.
Ishbel Macpherson
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Governance
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 66 Governance / Independent auditor’s report
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Speedy Hire Plc
We have audited the financial statements of Speedy Hire plc for the 
year ended 31 March 2011 set out on pages 68 to 104. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company 
financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions  
of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 47, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an 
opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements 
is provided on the APB’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm. 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of > >
the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 
2011 and of the group’s loss for the year then ended;
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in > >
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
the parent company financial statements have been properly > >
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006; and 
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with > >
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited > >
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006;
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial > >
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set  > >
out on pages 49 to 53 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting 
processes and about share capital structures is consistent 
with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you  
if, in our opinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent > >
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
the parent company financial statements and the part  > >
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law > >
are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations > >
we require for our audit; or
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared > >
by the company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
the directors’ statement, set out on page 46, in relation to going > >
concern;
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 49 to > >
53 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board > >
on directors’ remuneration. 
M Newsholme (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
St James Square
Manchester
United Kingdom
M2 6DS 
17 May 2011 
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial statements
Financial statements
68 Consolidated income statement 
69 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
70 Consolidated balance sheet
71 Consolidated cash flow statement
72 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
98 Company balance sheet 
99 Company cash flow statement
100 Company statement of changes in equity
101 Notes to the Company financial statements
105 Five-year summary
Investor information
106 Shareholder information
107 Registered office and advisers
108 Awards
109 Accreditations and memberships
Financial statements Investor information
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements 67  Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 March 2011
Note
Before 
exceptional 
items
2011
£m
Exceptional
items
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Before
exceptional
items
2010
£m
Exceptional
items
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Revenue 2 354.2 – 354.2 351.1 – 351.1
Cost of sales (136.9) – (136.9) (142.7) – (142.7)
Gross profit 217.3 – 217.3 208.4 – 208.4
Distribution costs (35.2) – (35.2) (37.8) – (37.8)
Administrative expenses (179.3) (19.3) (198.6) (168.1) (11.1) (179.2)
Analysis of operating (loss)/profit
Operating profit before amortisation 
and exceptional items 8.3 – 8.3 8.0 – 8.0
Amortisation (5.5) – (5.5) (5.5) – (5.5)
Exceptional restructuring costs 3 – (5.5) (5.5) – (11.1) (11.1)
Exceptional write down 
of accommodation assets 3 – (13.8) (13.8) – – –
Operating (loss)/profit 4 2.8 (19.3) (16.5) 2.5 (11.1) (8.6)
Financial expense 3,7 (9.0) (1.5) (10.5) (14.2) – (14.2)
Loss before taxation (6.2) (20.8) (27.0) (11.7) (11.1) (22.8)
Taxation 3,8 2.1 5.6 7.7 1.8 2.7 4.5
Loss for the financial year (4.1) (15.2) (19.3) (9.9) (8.4) (18.3)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (19.3) (18.3)
Pence Pence
Earnings per share
– Basic 9 (3.81) (4.37)
– Diluted 9 (3.81) (4.37)
Non-GAAP performance measures
EBITDA before exceptional costs 11 63.4 68.2
Profit before tax, amortisation  
and exceptional costs 11 (0.7) (6.2)
     
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
68 Financial statements / Consolidated income statement  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 March 2011
2011
£m
2010
£m
Loss for the financial year (19.3) (18.3)
Other comprehensive income:
Effective portion of change in fair value of cash flow hedges 2.5 2.6
Tax on items taken directly to equity 0.2 –
Exchange difference on retranslation of foreign operations 0.6 (0.5)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax 3.3 2.1
Total comprehensive income for the financial year (16.0) (16.2)
Attributable to equity holders of the parent (16.0) (16.2)
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 69  Consolidated balance sheet
At 31 March 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 60.2 65.7
Property, plant & equipment
Hire equipment 13 185.7 246.9
Non-hire equipment 13 34.2 38.7
219.9 285.6
280.1 351.3
Current assets
Inventories 14 10.2 11.3
Trade and other receivables 15 97.7 103.4
Assets classified as held for sale 16 33.4 –
Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 12.5
141.5 127.2
Total assets 421.6 478.5
  
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings 19 (1.1) (0.2)
Other financial liabilities 18 (0.6) (3.2)
Trade and other payables 17 (63.3) (70.9)
Provisions 20 (3.5) (4.8)
Income tax (0.3) (1.7)
(68.8) (80.8)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 (113.0) (131.6)
Provisions 20 (1.2) (2.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (9.2) (17.0)
(123.4) (151.1)
Total liabilities (192.2) (231.9)
Net assets 229.4 246.6
  
EQUITY
Share capital 22 25.9 25.9
Share premium account 190.2 190.2
Merger reserve 1.0 3.7
Hedging reserve (0.9) (3.4)
Translation reserve 0.1 (0.5)
Retained earnings 13.1 30.7
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 229.4 246.6
       
The financial statements on pages 68 to 97 were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Steve Corcoran     Justin Read
Director      Director
Company registered number: 927680
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
70 Financial statements / Consolidated balance sheet  Consolidated cash flow statement
At 31 March 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cash generated from operations before changes in hire fleet 24 49.7 62.9
Purchase of hire equipment (41.8) (33.6)
Proceeds from sale of hire equipment 16.2 22.6
Cash generated from operations 24.1 51.9
Net financial expense (10.5) (14.3)
Tax (paid)/received (1.3) 5.9
Net cash flow from operating activities 12.3 43.5
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of other property, plant & equipment (4.9) (10.2)
Disposal of other property, plant & equipment – 0.4
Net cash flow from investing activities (4.9) (9.8)
Net cash flow before financing activities 7.4 33.7
Cash flow from financing activities
Finance lease payments (0.1) (0.1)
Repayment of bank loans (18.4) (127.5)
Proceeds from rights issue – 105.5
Rights issue costs – (5.8)
Dividends paid (2.1) (4.3)
Net cash flow from financing activities (20.6) (32.2)
(Decrease)/increase in cash (13.2) 1.5
Cash at the start of the financial year 12.5 11.0
Cash at the end of the financial year (0.7) 12.5
Analysis of cash
Cash 0.2 12.5
Bank overdraft (0.9) –
(0.7) 12.5
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Consolidated cash flow statement 71  Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 March 2011
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 31 March 2009 2.5 111.0 3.7 (6.0) – 56.3 167.5
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 2.6 (0.5) (18.3) (16.2)
Dividends – – – – – (4.3) (4.3)
Equity settled share-based payments – – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Issue of ordinary shares 22.9 76.8 – – – – 99.7
Employee Benefits Trust allotments 0.5 2.4 – – – (2.9) –
At 31 March 2010 25.9 190.2 3.7 (3.4) (0.5) 30.7 246.6
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 2.5 0.6 (19.1) (16.0)
Dividends – – – – – (2.1) (2.1)
Equity settled share-based payments – – – – – 0.9 0.9
Transfer to retained earnings* – – (2.7) – – 2.7 –
At 31 March 2011 25.9 190.2 1.0 (0.9) 0.1 13.1 229.4
              
*  Transfer to retained earnings relates to the realised element of the merger reserve. The transfer is being made retrospectively in relation to the disposal of a business 
which occurred a number of years ago.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
72 Financial statements / Consolidated statement of changes in equity  Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1 Accounting policies
Speedy Hire Plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended 31 March 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’). The consolidated and Parent 
Company financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2011.
Statement of compliance
Both the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS’). 
Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are held at fair value. 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
As highlighted in note 18 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through operating cash 
flows, supplemented as necessary by borrowings.
The Directors have prepared cash flow projections for the period to June 2012 which show that the Group is capable of continuing 
to operate within its existing loan facilities and can meet the covenant tests set out within its bank facility agreement. The key 
assumptions on which the projections are based include an assessment of the impact of future market conditions on projected 
revenues and an assessment of the net capital investment required to support the expected level of revenues.
The Group has initiated discussions to ensure new debt facilities are available to the Group beyond maturity of the current facility  
in June 2012. These discussions are progressing well and the Directors anticipate that new facilities will be secured on acceptable 
terms shortly. 
Further information on the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position is set out in the Chief Executive’s Review above. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Group Financial Review above. In addition, note 18 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Whilst the Directors consider that there is a degree of subjectivity involved in their assumptions, on the basis of the above the Directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and 
financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included 
in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-Group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
Adoption of new accounting standards 
The following amendments to existing standards and IFRICs have been adopted. The changes have had no material impact on the 
financial statements.
 IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2008) requires some significant changes to the way business combinations are accounted for.  > >
All costs associated with business combinations are expensed directly to the Income Statement. Additionally any changes  
to contingent consideration classified as debt must now be dealt with through the Income Statement subsequent to acquisition. 
 FRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions. The amendments clarify the scope of IFRS 2, as well as the accounting  > >
for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions in the separate (or individual) financial statements of an entity receiving the 
goods or services when another group entity or shareholder has the obligation to settle the award.
 Improvements to IFRSs: in April 2009 the International Accounting Standards Board issued its second omnibus of amendments  > >
to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording. The adoption of these amendments, which 
are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, did not have any impact on the reporting of the financial 
position or performance of the Group. 
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 73  Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Accounting standards not yet effective
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 March 2011, 
and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these will have an effect on the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group. The key changes are as follows:
IAS 24 (revised in 2009) – Related Party Disclosures. Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. > >
IFRIC 19 – Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments. Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010. > >
Improvements to IFRSs (issued May 2010). Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011. > >
Amendments to IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures. Effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 July 2011. > >
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments. Effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013. > >
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the hire. 
Revenue arising from the sale of ex-hire fleet assets and consumable stock is recognised in the income statement when the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer. Transfer occurs when the product or asset is received  
at the customer’s location.
Property, plant & equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged to the income statement so as to write off the cost of the assets over the 
estimated useful lives after taking account of estimated residual values. Residual values are reassessed annually. Land is not depreciated. 
Hire equipment assets are depreciated so as to write them down to their residual value over their normal working lives which range from 
three to 15 years depending on the category of the asset. 
The principal rates and methods of depreciation used are as follows:
Hire equipment > >
Tools and general equipment – between three and seven years straight-line
Access equipment – five to ten years straight line
Surveying equipment – five years straight-line
Power equipment – between five and ten years straight-line
Accommodation and storage units – between eight and 15 years straight-line
Non-hire assets > >
Freehold buildings, and long leasehold improvements – over the shorter of the lease period and 50 years straight-line
Short leasehold property improvements – over the period of the lease
Fixtures and fittings and office equipment (excluding IT) – 25%-45% per annum reducing balance
IT equipment and software –  between three and five years straight line, or over the period 
of software licence (if shorter)
Motor vehicles – 25% per annum reducing balance
Planned disposals of hire equipment are transferred, at net book value, to inventory prior to sale.
Start-up expenses and lease incentives
Legal and start-up expenses incurred in respect of new hire depots are written off as incurred. 
Premiums paid or incentives received (including rent free periods extending beyond a depot’s opening date) on the acquisition of trading 
locations are written off over the period of the lease. 
Leases
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. These assets 
are included in the balance sheet at the lower of the fair value or present value of minimum lease payments at inception and are 
depreciated accordingly. The capital element of the corresponding financing commitments is included in the balance sheet. 
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
74 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  1 Accounting policies continued
Lease payments in respect of finance leases are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. 
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease 
incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Financing income and costs
Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, and gains and losses on financial instruments that are recognised  
in the income statement.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest rate.
Interest payable on borrowings includes a charge in respect of attributable transaction costs, which are recognised in the income 
statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis. The interest expense component of finance lease payments 
is recognised in the income statement using the lease’s implicit interest rate.
Income tax
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity in which case  
it is recognised in equity. Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for 
the year, using tax rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences 
are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities affecting neither accounting nor 
taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
IAS 12, ‘Income Taxes’ does not require all temporary differences to be provided for, in particular, the Group does not provide for deferred 
tax on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of the distribution and the temporary difference 
created is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the 
related tax benefit will be realised. 
Segment reporting
The Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that internally is provided to the Group Board, which 
is the Group’s ‘chief operating decision maker’. 
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur 
expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s 
operating results are reviewed regularly by the Group Board to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess 
its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. 
Segment results that are reported to the Group Board include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can 
be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets (primarily the Company’s headquarters) 
and head office expenses.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets 
other than goodwill. 
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 75  Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Intangible assets
As part of its transition to IFRS, the Group elected to restate only those business combinations that occurred on or after 1 April 2004. 
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Group’s previous accounting 
framework, UK GAAP, less subsequent impairments.
Goodwill > >
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. In respect of acquisitions since 1 April 2004 and before 
1 April 2010, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities acquired. 
From 1 April 2010 the Group has applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2008) in accounting for business combinations. The change 
in accounting policy has been applied prospectively and has had no impact. For acquisitions on or after 1 April 2010, the Group 
measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus the recognised amount of any 
non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity 
interest in the acquiree; less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss. The consideration transferred does 
not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss. 
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in 
connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value 
at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within 
equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, and is included as an intangible asset. It is allocated  
to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment and at each reporting date to the extent that there are any  
indicators of impairment. 
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Other intangible assets > >
Intangible assets other than goodwill that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses (note 12). 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Amortisation > >
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of identified 
intangible assets. Intangible assets excluding goodwill are amortised from the date that they are available for use. For a number of its 
acquisitions, the Group has identified intangible assets in respect of sole supply contracts, customer lists, brands and non-compete 
agreements. The values of these intangibles are recognised as part of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
acquired. The useful lives are estimated as follows:
Sole supply contracts – over the unexpired period of the contracts, up to five years
Customer lists – over the period of agreement, up to ten years
Brand – over the period of use in the business, up to four years
Non-compete agreements – over the period of the agreement, up to five years.
Impairments 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventory and deferred tax, are reviewed at each reporting date 
to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated, 
being the higher of net realisable value and value in use, and if there is an impairment loss then this loss is recognised such that the 
carrying amount is reduced accordingly.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (or group of units) on a pro rata basis.
Own shares held by Employee Benefits Trust
Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee Benefits Trust are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore reflected  
on the Parent Company and Group financial statements. In particular, the Trust’s purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly 
to equity.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
76 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  1 Accounting policies continued
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value using FIFO, or in the case of ex hire equipment assets at the lower of cost 
less accumulated depreciation and impairment at the date of transfer to inventory or net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials 
and, where appropriate, overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition. Net realisable 
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Assets classified as held for sale
Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather 
than through continuing use, are classified as held for sale. Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets, or components  
of a disposal group, are remeasured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter, generally the assets, or disposal 
group, are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. Any impairment loss on a disposal group first 
is allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, 
financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets which continue to be measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting 
policies. Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised 
in profit or loss. Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from financing activities. In accordance 
with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes; however derivatives that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments and the movement in fair value is recognised in the 
income statement.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred. Subsequent  
to initial recognition, changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument designated as a cash flow hedge are recognised 
directly in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised 
in profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument expires, no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, is sold, is terminated or is exercised, then hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast 
transaction occurs. When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount 
of the asset when it is recognised. In other cases the amount recognised in equity is transferred to profit or loss in the same period that the 
hedged items affects profit or loss. 
Intra-group financial instruments
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group,  
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company treats the 
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment 
under the guarantee.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount less impairment losses.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and overnight deposits.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being 
recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Translation of foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange gains 
and losses arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the income statement.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results 
of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange during the period. Exchange 
differences resulting from the translation of the results and balances of overseas subsidiary undertakings are charged or credited  
directly to the foreign currency translation reserve. Such translation differences become recognised in the income statement in the  
period in which the subsidiary undertaking is disposed.
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 77  1 Accounting policies continued
Employee benefits
Pension schemes > >
The Group offers a stakeholder pension arrangement to employees and in addition makes contributions to personal pension schemes 
for certain employees. Obligations for contributions to these defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the 
income statement as incurred.
Share-based payment transactions > >
The Group operates a number of schemes which allow certain employees to acquire shares in the Company, including the 
Performance Plan, the Co-investment Plan, and the all employee Sharesave Schemes. The fair value of options granted is recognised  
as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period 
during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured, using 
an appropriate option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to total 
shareholder return not achieving the threshold for vesting. For share-based payment awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant 
date fair value of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions and there is no true-up for differences between 
expected and actual outcomes.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event,  
the obligation can be measured reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those material items which, by virtue of their size or incidence, are presented separately in the income statement 
to give a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance. Transactions which may give rise to exceptional items include the 
restructuring of business activities.
Significant judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense. The estimates 
and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not 
readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The judgements and estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future 
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
In relation to the Group’s property, plant and equipment (note 13), useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been 
established using historical experience and an assessment of the nature of the assets involved. Assets are assessed on an ongoing  
basis to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to potential impairment of the carrying value of such assets. 
The Group has a number of properties which are leased but no longer occupied. The future cost of these ongoing lease obligations 
is provided for by way of an onerous property contract provision (see note 20). In determining the level of provision required, the Group 
assesses the likelihood of mitigating future lease costs as a result of break clauses in leases, or the likelihood of sub-letting the property 
to third parties. In doing so, the Group obtains external professional advice where the amounts involved are material.
Goodwill is reviewed annually to assess the requirement for impairment. Other intangible assets are assessed on an ongoing basis 
to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to the conclusion that the carrying value of such assets is not supportable. 
Impairment testing on goodwill is carried out in accordance with the analyses described in note 12. Such calculations require judgement 
relating to the appropriate discount factors and long term growth prevalent in particular markets as well as short-term business 
performance. The Directors draw upon experience as well as external resources in making these judgements in the year to 31 March 2011, 
an impairment review was undertaken in respect of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, using the basis and key 
assumptions set out in note 12.
Upon acquisition of a business, its identifiable assets and liabilities are assessed to determine their fair value. The values attributed 
to assets and liabilities as part of this process are, where appropriate, based on market values identified for equivalent assets, together 
with management’s experience and assessments. Where possible, for example in respect of the acquisition of hire assets, comparison 
is made to the carrying value of assets of a similar condition and age in the existing business.
In addition, judgement is applied in relation to the classification of assets held for sale.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
78 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  2 Segmental analysis
The segmental disclosure presented in the financial statements reflects the format of reports reviewed by the Chief Operating  
Decision-Maker (CODM).
UK and Ireland Asset Services are managed separately at below CODM level but have been aggregated into one operating segment as 
they have similar economic characteristics including the nature of the products and services, the type or class of customer for their 
products and services and the methods used to distribute their products or provide their services.
The International and Advisory Services segment contains the ‘International Asset Services’ and ‘Training and Advisory’ divisions which 
commenced trading in April 2009 but are not currently material to the Group’s operations. These represent all other segments.
For the year ended 31 March 2011
UK & Ireland
Asset Services
£m
International
& Advisory 
Services
£m
Corporate
items
£m
Total
£m
Segmental revenue 349.1 11.0 – 360.1
Intra-group revenue (5.6) (0.3) – (5.9)
Revenue 343.5 10.7 – 354.2
Segment result:
EBITDA before exceptional items 69.8 (0.8) (5.6) 63.4
Amortisation (5.5) – – (5.5)
Depreciation (50.9) (2.3) (1.9) (55.1)
Exceptional restructuring costs (4.6) (0.2) (0.7) (5.5)
Exceptional write down of accommodation assets (13.8) – – (13.8)
Operating loss (5.0) (3.3) (8.2) (16.5)
Net financial expense (10.5)
Loss before tax (27.0)
Taxation 7.7
Loss for the financial year (19.3)
Intangible assets 60.2 – – 60.2
Hire equipment 171.7 14.0 – 185.7
Non-hire equipment 34.0 0.2 – 34.2
Current assets 99.5 4.1 4.3 107.9
Assets held for sale 33.4 – – 33.4
Cash – – 0.2 0.2
Total assets 398.8 18.3 4.5 421.6
Liabilities (59.4) (2.6) (7.1) (69.1)
Bank overdraft – – (0.9) (0.9)
Corporate borrowings – – (112.7) (112.7)
Taxation liabilities – – (9.5) (9.5)
Total liabilities (59.4) (2.6) (130.2) (192.2)
Capital expenditure 38.2 5.2 4.5 47.9
Within the International and Advisory Services Segment, revenue, operating loss and net assets of the International operations are 
£8.4m, £(1.9)m and £15.2m respectively (2010: £2.4m, £0.5m and £10.4m respectively). 
UK and Ireland Asset Services deliver asset management, with tailored services and a continued commitment to relationship 
management. International Asset Services deliver major overseas projects and facilities management contracts by providing  
a managed site support service. Training & Advisory Services offers a comprehensive safety and skills training service and  
a growing advisory services offering. 
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 79  2 Segmental analysis continued
For the year ended 31 March 2010 
UK & Ireland 
Asset Services 
£m
International
& Advisory 
Services
£m
Corporate
items
£m
Total 
£m
Segmental revenue 353.4 3.7 – 357.1
Intra-group revenue (6.0) – – (6.0)
Revenue 347.4 3.7 – 351.1
EBITDA before exceptional restructuring costs 72.0 1.0 (4.8) 68.2
Amortisation (5.5) – – (5.5)
Depreciation (57.0) (0.5) (2.7) (60.2)
Exceptional restructuring costs (7.3) – (3.8) (11.1)
Operating profit/(loss) 2.2 0.5 (11.3) (8.6)
Net financial expense (14.2)
Loss before tax (22.8)
Taxation 4.5
Loss for the financial year (18.3)
Intangible assets 65.7 – – 65.7
Hire equipment 237.4 9.5 – 246.9
Non-hire equipment 38.7 – – 38.7
Current assets 106.0 1.8 6.9 114.7
Cash – – 12.5 12.5
Total assets 447.8 11.3 19.4 478.5
Liabilities (65.5) (0.9) (15.7) (82.1)
Corporate borrowings – – (131.1) (131.1)
Taxation liabilities – – (18.7) (18.7)
Total liabilities (65.5) (0.9) (165.5) (231.9)
Capital expenditure 26.4 7.8 9.6 43.8
Intra-group transactions are undertaken on an arm’s length basis. 
Corporate costs comprise certain central activities and costs, which are not directly related to the activities of the operating segments.
The financing of the Group’s activities is undertaken at head office level and consequently net financing costs cannot be analysed 
segmentally. The unallocated net assets comprise principally working capital balances held by the Support Services function and are  
not directly attributable to the activities of the operating segments, together with net corporate borrowings and taxation liabilities. 
Geographical information
In presenting geographical information, revenue is based on the geographical location of customers. Assets are based on the 
geographical location of the assets. 
2011
Revenues
£m
2011
Non-current 
assets
£m
2010
Revenues
£m
2010
Non-current 
assets
£m
UK 339.9 261.1 342.9 335.3
Ireland 5.9 4.8 5.8 6.5
Middle East and North Africa 8.4 14.2 2.4 9.5
354.2 280.1 351.1 351.3
Major customer
No one customer represents more than 10% of revenue, reported profit or combined assets of all reporting segments.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
80 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  3 Exceptional items
For the year ended 31 March 2011
In advance of the disposal of the accommodation hire assets from UK Asset Services on 30 April 2011, the assets were transferred to the 
‘assets held for sale’ category, and were written down to fair value less costs to sell, incurring an exceptional charge of £13.8m. 
Restructuring and cost saving initiatives resulted in a number of non-recurring items of expense. These included costs in relation 
to property closures and provision for vacant property (£2.5m) and writing off related fixtures and fittings (£0.1m), and redundancy 
and related costs (£2.9m).
In June 2010 the Group successfully completed amendments to enhance its banking facility in order to provide greater flexibility for future 
capital investment, particularly with regard to the International operations. Management have assessed the impact of this modification 
in line with the guidance contained within IAS 39 and have concluded that it does not represent a significant modification. As part of this 
process, the Group incurred fees and transaction costs of £3.5m. These costs have been capitalised and are being amortised using the 
effective interest rate method. This has resulted in £1.5m having been treated as exceptional finance costs in the year. 
The resulting tax credit in relation to exceptional items amounted to £5.6m, of which £1.7m related to current tax and £3.9m related 
to deferred tax.
For the year ended 31 March 2010
As part of the Group’s restructuring and cost-saving initiatives, a number of non-recurring items of expense were incurred. Items included 
costs related to the creation of a new Shared Services Centre (£0.6m), provisions in respect of further property closures including provision 
for vacant property (£3.9m) and writing off related fixtures & fittings (£0.7m), redundancy and related costs (£3.9m) and re-organisation 
costs associated with depot and back office restructuring (£2.0m). 
The resulting tax credit in relation to exceptional items amounted to £2.7m, of which £2.5m related to current tax and £0.2m related 
to deferred tax.
4 Operating (loss)/profit
Operating (loss)/profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
2011
£m
2010
£m
Amortisation of intangible assets 5.5 5.5
Depreciation:
of owned property, plant and equipment 55.0 60.1
of property, plant and equipment held under hire-purchase and finance leases 0.1 0.1
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (5.0) (2.5)
Impairment of other property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.7
Operating lease rentals
of plant and equipment 1.6 1.6
of land and buildings 13.9 14.6
of vehicles 11.3 12.6
Auditors’ remuneration
audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1
amounts receivable by auditors in respect of:
audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
other non-audit services 0.7 0.4
Non-audit services in 2011 relate to debt advisory services, £0.5m (which are being amortised over the remaining life of the facility) and 
consultancy work in relation to pricing in the UK, £0.2m (which have been written off in the year). Non-audit services in 2010 relate to work 
associated with the rights issue in July 2009 and the costs have been applied against the share premium arising on the rights issue.
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 81  5 Employees
The average number of people employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was as follows:
Number of employees
2011 2010
UK & Ireland Asset Services 3,613 3,714
International & Advisory Services 190 41
Central 321 512
4,124 4,267
    
The aggregate payroll costs of these employees were as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Wages and salaries 104.2 105.0
Social security costs 9.5 9.9
Other pension costs 0.8 0.7
Share-based payments 1.0 (0.1)
115.5 115.5
6 Directors’ remuneration
2011
£000
2010
£000
Directors’ emoluments
Basic remuneration, including benefits 1,224 1,329
Performance-related bonuses – –
Payments to former Directors 18 18
Termination payments 266 –
Company pension contributions to personal pension plans 159 155
1,667 1,502
Emolument of the highest paid Director
Basic remuneration, including benefits 355 352
Performance-related bonuses – –
Company pension contributions to personal pension plans 68 68
423 420
   
Further analysis of Directors’ remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Report.
All of the Directors’ remuneration is paid by Speedy Support Services Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Speedy Hire Plc. 
7 Financial expense
2011
£m
2010
£m
Financial expense
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (5.7) (9.9)
Hedge interest payable (2.7) (3.7)
Amortisation of bank fees in connection with refinancing in June 2010 (1.5) –
Other finance costs (0.6) (0.6)
(10.5) (14.2)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
82 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  8 Taxation
2011
£m
2010
£m
Tax charged/(credited) in the income statement
Current tax
UK corporation tax on profits for the period at 28% (2010: 28%) – –
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.1) 2.8
Total current tax (0.1) 2.8
Deferred tax
UK deferred tax at 26% (2010: 28%) (note 21) (5.4) (4.9)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1.5) (2.4)
Impact of rate change (0.7) –
Total deferred tax (7.6) (7.3)
Total tax credit (7.7) (4.5)
Tax charged/(credited) in equity
Deferred tax
Net loss on revaluation of cashflow hedges (0.2) –
    
The tax credit in the income statement for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2010: 28%)  
and is explained as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Loss before tax (27.0) (22.8)
Accounting loss multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax at 28% (2010: 28%) (7.6) (6.4)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.4 1.9
Non-taxable income (0.5) (0.7)
Share-based payments 0.2 0.1
Unrecognised tax losses 0.3 0.2
Overseas tax losses arising not subject to tax 0.7 –
Adjustment to deferred taxation relating to future changes in corporation tax rates (0.7) –
Adjustment to tax in respect of prior years (1.5) 0.4
Tax credit for the year reported in the income statement (7.7) (4.5)
Tax charged/(credited) in equity (note 21)
Deferred tax charge (0.2) –
    
There are no unrecognised deferred tax liabilities (2010: £nil).
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 83  9 (Loss)/earnings per share
The calculation of basic (loss)/earnings per share is based on the loss attributable to equity holders of the Parent of £19.3m (2010: loss 
£18.3m) and the weighted average number of 5 pence ordinary shares in issue during the year ended 31 March 2011 calculated as follows:
2011 2010 
Loss (£m)
Loss for the year after tax – basic earnings (19.3) (18.3)
Intangible amortisation charge (after tax) 4.0 4.0
Exceptional items (after tax) 15.2 8.4
Adjusted (loss)/earnings (after tax) (0.1) (5.9)
Weighted average number of shares in issue (million)
At the beginning of the year 419.1 186.5
Change in weighted average number of ordinary shares 87.8 232.4
Exercise of share options – 0.2
At the end of the year – basic number of shares 506.9 419.1
Share options – –
Employee share scheme – –
At the end of the year – diluted number of shares 506.9 419.1
(Loss)/earnings per share (pence)
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (3.81) (4.37)
Amortisation 0.79 0.96
Exceptional costs 3.00 2.00
Adjusted (loss)/earnings per share (0.02) (1.41)
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (3.81) (4.37)
Share options – –
Employee share scheme – –
Diluted loss per share (3.81) (4.37)
Adjusted (loss)/earnings per share (0.02) (1.41)
Share options – –
Employee share schemes – –
Adjusted diluted (loss)/earnings per share (0.02) (1.41)
    
Total number of shares outstanding at 31 March 2011 amounted to 517,215,666, including 10,274,626 shares held in the Employee Benefit 
Trust, which are excluded in calculating earnings per share. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
84 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  10 Dividends 
The aggregate amount of dividend comprises:
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009 final dividend (6.4 pence on 50.7m shares) – 3.2
2010 interim dividend (0.2 pence on 517.2m shares) – 1.1
2010 final dividend (0.2 pence on 517.2m shares) 1.1 –
2011 interim dividend (0.2 pence on 517.2m shares) 1.0 –
2.1 4.3
    
Subsequent to the end of the year and not included in the results for the year, the Directors recommended a final dividend of 0.2 pence 
(2010: 0.2 pence) per share, bringing the total amount payable in respect of the 2011 year to 0.4 pence (2010: 0.4 pence), to be paid  
on 17 August 2011 to shareholders on the register on 17 June 2011. 
The Employee Benefit Trust established to hold shares for the Performance Plan and Co-Investment Plan has waived its right to the interim 
and final proposed dividends. At 31 March 2011, the trust held 10,294,626 ordinary shares (2010: 10,410,896), including 7,594,666 jointly 
owned shares (2010: 7,594,666). 
11 Non-GAAP performance measures
The Group believes that the measures below provide valuable additional information for users of the financial statements in assessing the 
Group’s performance. The Group uses these measures for planning, budgeting and reporting purposes and for its internal assessment 
of the operating performance of the individual divisions within the Group. 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Operating loss (16.5) (8.6)
Add back: amortisation 5.5 5.5
Add back: exceptional items 19.3 11.1
Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional costs 8.3 8.0
Add back: depreciation 55.1 60.2
EBITDA before exceptional costs 63.4 68.2
Profit before tax (27.0) (22.8)
Add back: amortisation 5.5 5.5
Add back: exceptional items 20.8 11.1
Profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional costs (0.7) (6.2)
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 85  12 Intangible fixed assets
Goodwill
£m
Customer
lists
£m
Non-compete 
agreements
£m
Brand
£m
Supply 
agreements
£m
Total
£m
Cost 
At 1 April 2009, 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2011 93.5 36.2 4.9 4.1 17.9 156.6
Amortisation
At 1 April 2009 49.2 15.4 3.0 3.5 14.3 85.4
Charged in year – 3.0 0.8 0.6 1.1 5.5
At 31 March 2010 49.2 18.4 3.8 4.1 15.4 90.9
Charged in year – 3.4 1.1 – 1.0 5.5
At 31 March 2011 49.2 21.8 4.9 4.1 16.4 96.4
Net book value
At 31 March 2011 44.3 14.4 – – 1.5 60.2
At 31 March 2010 44.3 17.8 1.1 – 2.5 65.7
At 31 March 2009 44.3 20.8 1.9 0.6 3.6 71.2
            
All goodwill has arisen from business combinations. On transition to IFRS, the balance of goodwill as measured under UK GAAP was 
allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs). These are independent sources of income streams, and represent the lowest level within the 
Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes. As explained in note 2, the Group’s reportable business 
segments comprise UK & Ireland Asset Services and International & Advisory Services. All intangible assets are held in the UK (part of the 
UK and Ireland Asset Services segment) and it is this CGU which is assessed for impairment testing.
Goodwill arising on business combinations after 1 April 2004 has been allocated to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that 
business combination. 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to CGUs are determined by value in use calculations. The value  
in use calculations use cash flow projections based on five-year financial forecasts approved by management. The key assumptions for 
these forecasts are those regarding revenue growth, net margin and the level of capital expenditure required to support trading, which 
management estimates based on past experience adjusted for current market trends and expectations of future changes in the market.  
To prepare value in use calculations, the Group uses cash flow projections for a fifteen year period. The projections are made up of the 
2011–2012 budget, a subsequent four year period using the Group’s business plan, and a further ten years income. The final ten years’ 
income is extrapolated at an estimated average long-term nominal growth rate, estimated at 2.5% (2010: 2.5%) being an estimate of 
inflation. The resulting forecast cash flows are discounted back to present value, using the Group’s pre-tax discount rate. The discount rate 
assumptions use an estimate of the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. The pre-tax discount rate has been adjusted for Company 
and market specific risks. The pre-tax discount rate used to discount cash flow forecasts is 12.3% (2010: 12.6%).
At 31 March 2011, the recoverable amount calculated using the discounted forecast cash flows results in a surplus over carrying value  
of £78.0m (2010: £51.9m). Impairment calculations are sensitive to changes in key assumptions of revenue growth and discount rate. 
An increase of 1% in the pre-tax discount rate, with all other assumptions held constant, would reduce discounted cash flows by £16.2m, 
leaving headroom against carrying value at £61.8m. A decrease of 1% in the forecast revenue growth, with all the other assumptions held  
constant, would reduce discounted cash flows by £10.4m. At 31 March 2010, an increase of 1% in the discount rate, with other  
assumptions held constant, would have reduced headroom against carrying value to £34.6m. A 1% decrease in the forecast 
revenue growth, with other assumptions held constant, would have reduced headroom against carrying value to £32.1m.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
86 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  13 Property, plant & equipment
Land and
buildings
£m
Hire
equipment
£m
Other
£m
Total 
£m
Cost 
At 1 April 2009 28.0 514.3 58.3 600.6
Additions 2.6 33.5 7.7 43.8
Disposals (3.9) (49.1) (9.6) (62.6)
Transfers to inventory – (27.5) – (27.5)
At 31 March 2010 26.7 471.2 56.4 554.3
Additions 2.0 43.0 2.9 47.9
Disposals – (31.5) – (31.5)
Transfers to inventory – (12.1) – (12.1)
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.7) (107.3) (1.5) (109.5)
At 31 March 2011 28.0 363.3 57.8 449.1
Depreciation
At 1 April 2009 15.0 230.9 31.5 277.4
Charged in year 2.8 50.0 7.4 60.2
Impairment (note 3) 0.7 – – 0.7
Disposals (3.9) (42.5) (9.1) (55.5)
Transfers to inventory – (14.1) – (14.1)
At 31 March 2010 14.6 224.3 29.8 268.7
Charged in year 2.5 46.0 6.6 55.1
Disposals – (23.9) – (23.9)
Impairment (note 3) 0.1 – – 0.1
Transfers to inventory – (8.5) – (8.5)
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.6) (60.3) (1.4) (62.3)
At 31 March 2011 16.6 177.6 35.0 229.2
Net book value
At 31 March 2011 11.4 185.7 22.8 219.9
At 31 March 2010 12.1 246.9 26.6 285.6
At 31 March 2009 13.0 283.4 26.8 323.2
    
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Freehold properties 0.3 0.5
Long leasehold properties 0.5 0.6
Short leasehold properties 10.6 11.0
11.4 12.1
    
At 31 March 2011, the net carrying amount of leased hire equipment was £0.2m (2010: £0.4m).
An impairment review has been completed during the year using the basis set out in note 12.
14 Inventories
2011
£m
2010
£m
Finished goods and goods for resale 10.2 11.3
    
The amount of inventory expensed in the year amounted to £46.5m (2010: £45.3m), included within cost of sales. No provision in respect  
of writedown in inventory is held at the year end or prior year end. 
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 87  15 Trade and other receivables
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade receivables 90.6 90.4
Other receivables 4.7 5.8
Prepayments and accrued income 2.4 7.2
97.7 103.4
      
There are £40.0m (2010: £45.6m) of trade receivables that are past due at the balance sheet date that have not been provided against. 
There is no indication as at 31 March 2011 that debtors will not meet their payment obligations in respect of trade receivables recognised 
in the balance sheet that are past due and un-provided. The ageing of trade receivables (net of impairment provision) at the year end 
was as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Not past due 50.6 44.8
Past due 0-30 days 23.9 21.0
Past due 31-120 days 12.9 17.5
More than 120 days past due 3.2 7.1
90.6 90.4
    
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 April 6.7 9.4
Impairment provision charged to the income statement 7.6 2.9
Written off in the year (10.2) (5.6)
At 31 March 4.1 6.7
    
16 Assets held for sale
On 30 April 2011, the Group completed the sale of its accommodation hire assets to Elliott Group Ltd, a subsidiary of Algeco Scotsman,  
for a total cash consideration of £34.9m. These assets are included within the ‘assets held for sale’ category as at the balance sheet date, 
at fair value less costs to sell. A £13.8m exceptional loss was recognised in the income statement (note 3).
17 Trade and other payables
2011 
£m
2010
£m
Trade payables 23.2 43.3
Other payables 6.8 5.2
Accruals 33.3 22.4
63.3 70.9
      
18 Financial instruments
The Group holds and uses financial instruments to finance its operations and to manage its interest rate and liquidity risks. The Group 
primarily finances its operations using share capital, retained profits and borrowings. A full description of the Group’s approach 
to managing these risks is set out below.
The Group does not engage in trading or speculative activities using derivative financial instruments. A Group offset arrangement exists 
in order to minimise the interest costs on outstanding debt.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
88 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  18 Financial instruments continued
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows:
2011
Carrying
amount
£m
2011
Fair value
£m
2010
Carrying
amount
£m
2010
Fair value
£m
Trade and other receivables 95.3 95.3 101.1 101.1
Cash 0.2 0.2 12.5 12.5
Bank overdraft (1.1) (1.1) – –
Secured bank borrowings (112.7) (112.7) (131.1) (131.1)
Finance lease liabilities (0.5) (0.5) (0.7) (0.7)
Interest rate swaps, caps and collars, used for hedging (0.6) (0.6) (3.2) (3.2)
Trade and other payables (30.0) (30.0) (48.5) (48.5)
(49.4) (49.4) (69.9) (69.9)
Unrecognised gain/(loss) – –
Basis for determining fair values
The following summarises the principal methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair value of financial instruments reflected  
in the table above:
(a) Derivatives: Broker quotes are used for all interest rate swaps, caps and collars.
(b) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
(c) Trade and other receivables/payables: For receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is 
deemed to reflect the fair value. All other receivables/payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are credit, interest rate, foreign currency, and liquidity risk. The Board reviews 
and agrees the policies for managing each of these risks on an annual basis.
Interest rates used for determining fair value 
The interest rate used to discount estimated cash flows, where applicable, has been estimated at 12.3% (2010: 12.6%).
Fair value hierarchy
The Group and Company’s financial instruments relate to cash flow hedges which are carried at fair value in both the current and prior 
year. The valuation is based on inputs other than quoted prices but which are directly observable (ie; as prices) (classified as Level 2 
in accordance with IFRS 7).
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers.
The exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over 
a certain amount.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented  
by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet. No individual customer 
accounts for more than 10% of the Group’s sales transactions, and the Group’s exposure to outstanding indebtedness follows this profile. 
No collateral is held as security in respect of amounts outstanding; however, in a number of instances, deposits are held against the value 
of hire equipment provided. The extent of deposit taken is assessed on a case-by-case basis, and is not considered significant 
in comparison to the overall amounts receivable from customers.
Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are undertaken with counterparties within the syndicate of banks which provide  
the Group’s term loan revolving credit facility. Given their high credit ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to fail  
to meet its obligations. 
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that is based on historical experience of dealing with customers within the same  
risk profile. 
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 89  18 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing 
liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and 
stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
The Group uses both short and long-term cash forecasts to assist in monitoring cash flow requirements. Typically, the Group uses  
short-term forecasting to ensure that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet operational expenses and to service financing obligations 
for a period of 12 weeks. Longer-term forecasts are performed on a regular basis to assess compliance with bank covenants on existing 
facilities, ensuring that activities can be managed within reason to ensure covenant breaches are avoided. 
At 31 March 2011, the Group had available loan facilities amounting to £210m (2010: £260m), as detailed in note 19. Of these facilities 
£96m remained unutilised at 31 March 2011 (2010: £128m). Details of the repayment profile of the drawn facilities at the year end, 
is included in note 19.
The Group monitors available facilities against forward requirements on a regular basis and where necessary, obtains additional sources 
of financing to provide the Group with the appropriate level of headroom against the required borrowing. The Group has obtained 
additional bank and equity funding in recent years as the business has grown, and maintains close contact with its syndicate of banks.
This analysis is based on the undiscounted contractual maturities on the Group’s financial liabilities including estimated interest that will 
accrue, except where repayment is entitled and before its contractual maturity. 
Undiscounted cash flows – 31 March 2011
At 31 March 2011
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
Total
£m
Revolving credit – 112.7 – 112.7
Finance leases 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.5
0.2 112.9 0.1 113.2
Interest payments 6.4 1.6 – 8.0
6.6 114.5 0.1 121.2
         
Undiscounted cash flows – 31 March 2010
At 31 March 2010
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
Total
£m
Term loan 39.7 29.8 – 69.5
Revolving credit – – 61.6 61.6
Finance leases 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.7
40.0 30.1 61.7 131.8
Interest payments 8.1 4.5 1.1 13.7
48.1 34.6 62.8 145.5
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates will affect the Group’s income or the 
value of its holdings of financial instruments. Generally, the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to manage volatility in profit.
Currency risk > >
The Group is exposed to currency risk on the translation of the results of its subsidiaries which are resident in the Republic of Ireland 
(Speedy Hire (Ireland) Limited and Waterford Hire Services Limited) and in the United Arab Emirates (Speedy International Asset Services 
Equipment Rental LLC). It is the Group’s policy to review the net investment in all companies on a regular basis, and to hedge against 
potential exposures to movements in foreign currency where considered appropriate. At 31 March 2011, Speedy Hire (Ireland) Limited 
had net liabilities of £4.2m (2010: £4.3m), Waterford Hire Services Limited had net assets of £1.5m (2010: £1.5m), and Speedy 
International Asset Services Equipment Rental LLC had net liabilities of £2.2m (2010: assets £0.5), and no hedging instruments are in 
place to cover potential movements in foreign currency.
Interest rate risk > >
The Group is exposed to a risk of a change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates as a result of its use of variable rate 
borrowings. The Group’s policy is to review regularly the terms of its borrowing facilities, and to assess and manage the long-term 
borrowing commitment accordingly, and to put in place interest rate hedges to reduce the Group’s exposure to significant fluctuations in 
interest rates. The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that between 40% and 70% of its borrowings are covered by some sort of interest 
rate hedge.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
90 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  18 Financial instruments continued
The principal derivative financial instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps, caps and collars. The notional contract amount 
and the related fair value of the Group’s financial instruments can be analysed as follows:
Group and Company
2011
Fair Value
£m
2011
Notional
Amount
£m
2010
Fair Value
£m
2010
Notional
Amount
£m
Designated as cash flow hedges
Fixed interest rate swaps (0.6) 52.5 (1.9) 50.0
Interest rate collars – – (1.0) 40.0
Interest rate caps – 7.5 (0.3) 20.0
(0.6) 60.0 (3.2) 110.0
        
Future cash flows associated with the above instruments are dependent upon movements in LIBOR over the contractual period. Interest 
is paid or received under the instruments on a quarterly or monthly basis, depending on the individual instrument, referenced to the 
relevant prevailing UK LIBOR rates.
The weighted average interest rate of the fixed interest rate swaps is 2.780% (2010: 5.026%) and the instruments are for a weighted 
average period of 19 months (2010: 11 months). The maximum contractual period is 34 months.
No collar instruments were in place in the current year. In the prior year, collar instruments bear interest rates between 4.300% 
and 6.500%, for a weighted average period of seven months. 
Capped rate instruments bear a weighted average interest rate of 5.013% (2010: 6.245%) for a weighted average period of seven months 
(2010: 10 months). The maximum contractual period is 12 months.
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risk, the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuation on the Group’s earnings. Over 
the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
At 31 March 2011 it is estimated that a general increase of 1% point in interest rates would decrease the Group’s profit before tax 
by approximately £0.9m. Interest rate swaps, caps and collars have been included in this calculation.
Capital management
The Group requires capital for, amongst other things, purchasing hire equipment to replace the existing asset base that has reached 
the end of its useful life, and for growth, including growth by establishing new rental locations, completing acquisitions and refinancing 
existing debts in the longer term. The Group defines Gross Capital as net debt (cash less borrowings) plus shareholders’ funds, and seeks 
to ensure an acceptable return on Gross Capital. The Group has obtained additional bank borrowings and equity in recent years as the 
business has grown. The Board seeks to maintain a balance between debt and equity funding such that it maintains a sound capital 
position relevant for the prevailing economic environment.
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders in order to ensure that the 
most attractive mix of capital growth and income return is made available to investors.
The Group encourages participation in ownership of Speedy Hire Plc shares by employees at all levels within the Group, and has 
developed this objective through the introduction of long term incentive plans and SAYE Schemes.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to Capital Management during the year. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries 
are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 91  19 Borrowings
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current borrowings
Bank overdraft 0.9 –
Finance leases 0.2 0.2
1.1 0.2
Non-current borrowings
Maturing between one and two years
Revolving credit facility 112.7 –
Maturing between two and five years
Term loan – 69.5
Revolving credit facility – 61.6
Finance leases 0.3 0.5
Total non-current borrowings 113.0 131.6
Total borrowings 114.1 131.8
Less: cash at bank and in hand (0.2) (12.5)
Net debt 113.9 119.3
Both the overdraft and syndicated loan facility are secured by a fixed and floating charge over all the assets of the Group and are rated  
pari passu. 
The term and revolving loan facility was originally entered into in June 2007, and was amended and restated in June 2008, March 2009 
and June 2010, with all facilities maturing in June 2012. At 31 March 2011, the current facility is sub-divided into:
(i) a secured overdraft facility, provided by Barclays Bank Plc, up to a maximum of £5m; 
(ii) syndicated multi-currency revolving facilities, made up of:
(a) A revolving credit ‘A facility’ of £21.2m; and
(b) A revolving credit ‘B facility’ (including overdraft) of £188.8m.
The total B facility is for £188.8m, but is reduced to the extent that ancillary facilities are provided.
The revolving credit ‘A facility’ increased by £18.5m on 1 April 2011. The revolving credit ‘B facility’ reduced by £18.5m on 1 April 2011.
The revolving credit facilities can be drawn for various periods specified by the Company, up to the maturity date, with interest being 
calculated for the drawn period by reference to the London Inter Bank Offer Rate applicable to the period drawn, plus a margin which 
during the year ranged from 250 to 300 basis points (2010: 250 to 400 basis points) for facility B and 700 basis points on facility A.  
At 31 March 2011, the margin for facility B was 250 basis points. 
The effective interest rate applicable to cash deposits during the year was 0.4% (2010: 0.2%). The effective interest rates (before exceptional 
finance costs) on bank overdraft and revolving credit facilities were 2.7% and 3.4% (2010: 3.0% and 4.1%) respectively.
The Group’s bank overdrafts are secured by cross guarantees and debentures given by Group companies in favour of Barclays Bank PLC. 
The bank loans are secured by a fixed and floating charge over all the assets of the Group. 
Analysis of consolidated net debt
At 31 March
2010
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Cash flow
£m
At 31 March
2011
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 12.5 – (12.3) 0.2
Borrowings (131.8) – 17.7 (114.1)
(119.3) – 5.4 (113.9)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
92 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  20 Provisions
Onerous
property
contracts
£m
At 1 April 2009 7.9
Created in the year 3.9
Provision utilised in the year (4.8)
Unwinding of discount 0.3
At 31 March 2010 7.3
Created in the year 2.5
Provision utilised in the year (5.0)
Unwinding of discount (0.1)
At 31 March 2011 4.7
     
Of the £4.7m, £3.5m (2010: £4.8m) is due within one year and £1.2m (2010: £2.5m) is due after one year. The key assumption underlying 
the calculation of the provision relates to the assumed sublet period. The provision is calculated based on a gross liability to the earlier 
of three years and the estimated date of sublet, or break clause, and includes estimated dilapidations at current market rates. The total 
liability is discounted at 12.3% (2010: 12.6%). If leases on properties which are forecast to be exited in 2014 are not exited until 2015, the 
increase required in the discounted provision would amount to £0.1m, after taking account of leases that expire during the additional year.
21 Deferred tax
Property,
plant & 
equipment
£m
Intangible
assets
£m
Share-based
 payments
£m
Other items
£m
Total
£m
At 1 April 2009 22.5 3.4 – (1.6) 24.3
Recognised in income (5.4) (1.5) – (0.4) (7.3)
At 31 March 2010 17.1 1.9 – (2.0) 17.0
Recognised in income (8.5) (0.4) (0.1) 1.4 (7.6)
Recognised in equity – – – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 March 2011 8.6 1.5 (0.1) (0.8) 9.2
          
The Group has trading losses carried forward at 31 March 2011 amounting to approximately £4.9m (2010: £3.7m). A deferred tax asset 
of £nil (2010: £0.2m) has been recognised in respect of those losses.
The Group also has capital losses carried forward at 31 March 2011 amounting to approximately £5.8m (2010: £7.5m). No deferred tax asset 
has been recognised in respect of these losses.
In his budget in March 2011, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced budget changes, which, if enacted in the proposed manner, 
will have a significant impact on the Group’s future tax position. However, as at 31 March 2011, the tax changes announced in the Budget, 
reducing the main rate of corporation tax from 26% to 23%, was not substantively enacted and as such, in accordance with IAS 12, the 
changes have not been reflected in the Group’s financial statements as at 31 March 2011.
The budget proposed a decrease in the rate of corporation tax from 26% to 23% by 1% each year from April 2012. The effect of the reduction 
in the tax rate to 23% on the Group’s deferred tax liability would be to reduce the deferred tax liability by £1.5m, which would substantively 
be recognised in the income statement. 
The tax change will also impact the amount of future cash tax payments to be made by the Group. 
The effect on the Group of these proposed changes to the UK tax system will be reflected in the Group’s financial statements in future 
years, as appropriate, if the proposals are substantively enacted. 
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 93  22 Share capital 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
517.2 million (2010: 517.2 million) ordinary shares of 5 pence each 25.9 25.9
     
There were no changes to share capital during the year. During 2010, 458,658,900 ordinary shares of 5p were issued on exercise of the 
rights issue for a cash consideration of £99.7m, net of £5.8m issue costs.
An Employee Benefits Trust was established in 2004 (the ‘Trust’). The Trust holds shares issued by the Company in connection with the 
Performance Plan and Co-investment Plan. No shares were allotted to the Trust during the year. The Company allocated 7,594,666 shares 
to the Trust in 2010 which are held jointly with the participating employees as part of the ExSOP award arrangements. No shares were 
transferred to employees during the year (2010: nil). At 31 March 2011, the Trust held 10,294,626 (2010: 10,410,896) shares – including 
7,594,666 jointly owned shares.
The movement in issued share capital was as follows:
Number
million £m
As at 1 April 2009 50.9 2.5
Employee Benefits Trust allotments 7.6 0.5
Placing of ordinary shares 458.7 22.9
At 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2011 517.2 25.9
23 Share incentives
At 31 March 2011, options and awards over 26,883,206 shares (2010: 19,036,681) were outstanding under employee share schemes. 
The Group operates three share incentive schemes. During the year no options were exercised by employees (2010: nil). 
As at 31 March 2011 options to acquire 8,339,678 (2010: 5,014,731) Speedy Hire Plc shares were outstanding under the Speedy Hire 
Sharesave Scheme. These options are exercisable by employees of the Group at prices between 17 and 183 pence (2010: 29 and 
255 pence) at dates between December 2010 and June 2014 (2010: February 2010 and April 2013). At 31 March 2011, options to acquire 
11,164,241 (2010: 6,427,284), and awards over 7,379,287 (2010: 7,594,666) shares were outstanding under the Performance and  
Co-Investment Plans. These options were exercisable at effectively nil cost between March 2011 and September 2013 (2010: June 2011 
and December 2012). Awards granted under the Performance Plan as ExSOP awards involve the acquisition of shares jointly by the 
participant and the trustee of the Company’s employee trust on terms that, to the extent certain performance conditions are satisfied, 
the participant can benefit from any growth of the shares in excess of a hurdle. Initial Value Awards entitle the holder to a value (in shares 
or cash) equal to the number of ExSOP shares (if any) in respect of which the performance condition is met multiplied by the share value 
on the award date or, if lower, the share value when the ExSOP award crystallises.
The number and weighted average exercise price (‘WAEP’) of share options and awards under all the share incentive schemes  
are as follows:
2011 
WAEP 
pence
2011 
Number
2010 
WAEP 
pence
2010 
Number
Outstanding at 1 April 10 19,036,681 145 1,610,332
Rights adjustment – – – 4,322,131
10 19,036,681 39 5,932,463
Granted 8 10,606,221 9 15,645,660
Exercised – – – –
Lapsed 28 (2,759,696) 74 (2,541,442)
Outstanding at 31 March 7 26,883,206 10 19,036,681
Exercisable at 31 March 183 85,094 233 75,583
        
Options and awards outstanding at 31 March 2011 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows:
2011
years
2010
years
Exercisable at nil pence 1.8 2.2
Exercisable at 17 pence 2.8 –
Exercisable at 29 pence 1.5 2.5
Exercisable at 183 pence – 0.8
Exercisable at 255 pence – 0.4
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
94 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  23 Share incentives continued
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted and shares awarded is measured by reference to the fair value 
of those instruments. The pricing models and inputs used for the outstanding options (on a weighted average basis where appropriate) 
are as follows:
Speedy Hire Share Save Plan
December 
2010
September 
2009
December 
2007
September 
2007
December 
2006
Pricing model used Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic
Exercise price 21p 29p 183p 255p 233p
Share price volatility 88.2% 85.7% 25.5% 22.9% 22.9%
Option life 3.25 years 3.25 years 3.25 years 3.25 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 1.4% 3.1% 2.1% 1.5% 1.3%
Risk free interest rate 1.4% 2.1% 4.5% 5.3% 5.1%
Co-investment Plan
July 
2008
July 
2007
July 
2006
Pricing model used Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic
Exercise price Nil Nil Nil
Share price volatility – – –
Option life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 3.7% 1.4% 1.6%
Risk-free interest rate 5.2% 5.8% 4.2%
Performance Plan
July 
2010
September 
2009
July 
2008
July 
2007
July 
2006
Pricing model used Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic
Exercise price Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil
Share price volatility 94.0% 88.0% 29.3% 23.6% 22.4%
Option life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 1.5% 3.1% 3.7% 1.4% 1.6%
Risk-free interest rate 1.2% 2.1% 5.2% 5.8% 4.2%
24 Note to the cash flow statement – cash from operating activities
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Loss before tax (27.0) (22.8)
Financial expense, net 10.5 14.2
Exceptional write down of accommodation assets 13.8 –
Amortisation 5.5 5.5
Depreciation 55.1 60.2
Profit on disposal of hire equipment (5.0) (2.7)
Loss on disposal of other property, plant and equipment – 0.2
Exceptional writedown of other property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.7
Decrease in inventories 1.1 0.9
Decrease in trade and other receivables 6.4 0.9
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (9.1) 6.5
Movement in provisions (2.6) (0.6)
Equity-settled share-based payments 0.9 (0.1)
Cash from operating activities 49.7 62.9
     
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 95  25 Contingent liabilities
At the balance sheet date, the Group has given warranties (including taxation warranties and indemnities) to the purchasers of five 
businesses disposed of over the last twelve years. These warranties and indemnities expire at various dates up to 12 years from the date  
of disposal.
In the normal course of business, the Company and certain subsidiaries have given performance bonds issued on behalf of group 
companies and parental guarantees have been given in support of the contractual obligations of group companies on both a joint  
and a several basis.
26 Commitments
The Group had contracted capital commitments amounting to £2.0m (2010: £2.7m) at the end of the financial year for which no provision 
has been made. 
The total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases is as follows:
Land & buildings Other
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Total future minimum lease payments
– not later than one year 16.4 16.2 9.4 11.2
– later than one year and not later than five years 51.7 50.8 10.3 12.0
– later than five years 35.7 39.2 – 0.1
103.8 106.2 19.7 23.3
27 Post balance sheet events
Dividends
The Directors have proposed a dividend of 0.2 pence per share as a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011. No charge  
in respect of the proposed dividend has been made in the income statement for the year, and there were no tax consequences. The total 
amount payable if the dividend is approved at the AGM is as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
0.2 pence (2010: 0.2 pence) on 517.2m (2010: 517.2m) ordinary shares 1.0 1.0
    
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
96 Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements  27 Post balance sheet events continued
Disposal of Accommodation Hire operation 
On 30 April 2011, the Group completed the sale of its accommodation hire assets to Elliott Group Ltd, a subsidiary of Algeco Scotsman,  
for a total cash consideration of £34.9m. These assets are included within the ‘assets held for sale’ category as at the balance sheet date, 
together with a £13.8m exceptional loss in the income statement. The disposal will deliver a pro-forma increase in Speedy’s operating 
margin and return on capital, and delivers a reduction in Group borrowings. Working capital in the operation at the date of sale totalling 
approximately £3.6m was retained for the benefit of Speedy.
The Accommodation Hire operation was reported within the UK & Ireland Asset Services segment. The pro-forma income statement, 
adjusting for the disposal of the Accommodation Hire operation, is as follows:
Group 
2011 
£m
Disposal
2,3
 
2011 
£m
Pro-forma 
2011 
£m
Group 
2010 
£m
Disposal
2,3
 
2010 
£m
Pro-forma 
2010 
£m
Revenue 354.2 35.5 318.7 351.1 40.6 310.5
                                                                                    
EBITDA
1
63.4 4.6 58.8 68.2 6.8 61.4
EBITDA
1 
margin 17.9% 13.0% 18.4% 19.4% 16.7% 19.8%
                                                                                    
Operating profit
1
8.3 (4.5) 12.8 8.0 (2.1) 10.1
Operating profit
1
 margin 2.3% (12.7%) 4.0% 2.3% (5.2%) 3.3%
                                                                                          
1
 before amortisation and exceptional costs 
2
 disposal of the Accommodation Hire operation
3
  the EBITDA
1
 and Operating profit
1
 of the Accommodation Hire operation are the contribution before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items and contribution 
before amortisation and exceptional items respectively and are stated before allocations and recharges
28 Related party disclosures
Key management remuneration
The Group’s key management personnel are the Executive and Non-Executive Directors as identified in the Remuneration report.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Executive Directors, and contributes to approved pension 
schemes on their behalf. Executive Directors also participate in the Group’s share option schemes. 
Non-Executive Directors receive a fee for their services to the Speedy Hire Plc Board.
Full details of key management personnel compensation and interests in the share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2011 are given  
in the Remuneration Report.
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the consolidated financial statements 97  Company balance sheet
At 31 March 2011
Note
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Investments 30 94.5 94.5
Deferred tax asset 35 0.3 0.2
94.8 94.7
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 31 412.0 353.7
Tax receivable – 1.0
412.0 354.7
Total assets 506.8 449.4
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Bank borrowings 34 (6.6) (2.1)
Trade & other payables 32 (150.1) (84.6)
Other financial liabilities 33 (0.6) (3.2)
Income tax (0.2) –
(157.5) (89.9)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 34 (112.7) (131.1)
Total liabilities (270.2) (221.0)
Net assets 236.6 228.4
EQUITY
Share capital 36 25.9 25.9
Share premium account 190.2 190.2
Merger reserve 2.3 8.6
Hedging reserve (0.9) (3.4)
Retained earnings 19.1 7.1
Total equity 236.6 228.4
       
The Company financial statements on pages 98 to 104 were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Steve Corcoran     Justin Read
Director      Director
Company registered number: 927680
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
98 Financial statements / Company balance sheet  Note
2011 
£m
2010
£m
Cash generated from operations 40 16.2 33.4
Interest received 11.7 13.3
Interest paid (10.6) (14.9)
Tax received (1.3) 5.9
Net cash flow from operating activities 16.0 37.7
Cash flow from investing activities 
Acquisition of minority interest – (0.2)
– (0.2)
Net cash flow before financing activities 16.0 37.5
Cash flow from financing activities
Repayment of bank loans (18.4) (135.1)
Proceeds from rights issue – 105.5
Rights issue costs – (5.8)
Dividends paid (2.1) (4.3)
Net cash flow from financing activities (20.5) (39.7)
Decrease in cash (4.5) (2.2)
Cash at the start of the financial year (2.1) 0.1
Cash at the end of the financial year (6.6) (2.1)
Analysis of cash
Cash – –
Bank overdraft (6.6) (2.1)
(6.6) (2.1)
Company cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 March 2011
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Company cash flow statement 99  Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 March 2011
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Hedging
 reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
At 31 March 2009 2.5 111.0 8.6 (6.0) 12.9 129.0
Profit for the financial year – – – – 1.5 1.5
Effective portion of change in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – 2.6 – 2.6
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 2.6 1.5 4.1
Dividends – – – – (4.3) (4.3)
Equity settled share-based payments – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Issue of ordinary shares 22.9 76.8 – – – 99.7
Employee Benefits Trust allotments 0.5 2.4 – – (2.9) –
At 31 March 2010 25.9 190.2 8.6 (3.4) 7.1 228.4
Profit for the financial year – – – – 6.7 6.7
Effective portion of change in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – 2.5 – 2.5
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – – 0.2 0.2
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 2.5 6.9 9.4
Dividends – – – – (2.1) (2.1)
Equity settled share-based payments – – – – 0.9 0.9
Transfer to retained earnings* – – (6.3) – 6.3 –
At 31 March 2011 25.9 190.2 2.3 (0.9) 19.1 236.6
*  Transfer to retained earnings relates to the known realised element of the merger reserve. The transfer is being made retrospectively in relation to the disposal  
of a business which occurred a number of years ago.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
100 Financial statements / Company statement of changes in equity  29 Accounting policies
The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 1, supplemented as 
below. The Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income 
statement or statement of comprehensive income and related notes that form part of the approved financial statements. 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any provisions for permanent diminution in value. Dividends received and 
receivable are credited to the company’s profit and loss account to the extent that they represent a realised profit for the company. 
The Company does not have any employees. Directors are paid by other group companies.
30 Investments 
Investments 
in subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m
Other 
investments 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2009 113.0 0.1 113.1
Additions 0.2 – 0.2
At 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2011 113.2 0.1 113.3
Provisions
At 1 April 2009, 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2011 (18.8) – (18.8)
Net book value
At 31 March 2011 94.4 0.1 94.5
At 31 March 2010 94.4 0.1 94.5
At 31 March 2009 94.2 0.1 94.3
Notes to the Company financial statements 
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the Company financial statements 101  30 Investments continued
Following the impairment testing performed in accordance with IAS 36 (see note 12), the Company’s carrying value of investment 
in subsidiary undertakings has been reviewed and no impairment has been made (2010: £nil).
The Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Incorporation and operation Principal activity
Ordinary Share capital 
Held
Speedy Asset Services Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire Centres (Northern) Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire Centres (Southern) Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire Centres (Western) Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire Centres Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire (Scotland) Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire (Ireland) Limited UK Hire Services 100%
Speedy Hire (Ireland) Limited* Republic of Ireland Hire Services 100%
Waterford Hire Services Limited Republic of Ireland Hire services 100%
Speedy Hire Direct Limited* UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Lifting Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy LGH Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Space Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Power Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy LCH Generators Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Pumps Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy Survey Limited UK Hire Services 100%
Speedy Engineering Services Limited UK Hire Services 100%
Speedy Support Services Limited UK Provision of group services 100%
Speedy Transport Limited UK Provision of group services 100%
Allen Investments Limited UK Property management 100%
Speedy Asset Leasing Limited UK Leasing services 100%
Speedy International Asset Services (Holdings) Limited UK Hire services 100%
Speedy International Asset Services Equipment Rental LLC** UAE Hire and associated services 49%
Speedy International Leasing Limited UK Leasing services 100%
Speedy International Asset Services Oman Hire services 70%
Speedy International Asset Services Egypt Hire services 100%
* Indirect holding via a 100% subsidiary undertaking.
**  Although the Group holds less than half of the voting rights, it is able to govern the financial and operating policies of the company, the Group therefore consolidates 
the company.
A full list of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings can be found in the Annual Return filed at Companies House.
The Company holds voting rights in each subsidiary undertaking in the same proportion to its holdings in the ordinary share capital  
of the respective subsidiaries. 
Notes to the Company financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
102 Financial statements / Notes to the Company financial statements  31 Trade and other receivables
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 409.5 348.4
Other receivables 2.5 3.1
Prepayments and accrued income – 2.2
412.0 353.7
     
32 Trade and other payables
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Trade payables – 0.4
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 149.0 81.5
Accruals 1.1 2.7
150.1 84.6
      
33 Financial instruments
The Company financial instruments are stated in accordance with note 18.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows:
2011 
Carrying 
amount 
£m
2011 
Fair value 
£m
2010 
Carrying 
amount 
£m
2010 
Fair value 
£m
Trade and other receivables 412.0 412.0 351.5 351.5
Bank overdraft (6.6) (6.6) (2.1) (2.1)
Secured bank borrowings (112.7) (112.7) (131.1) (131.1)
Interest rate swaps, caps and collars, used for hedging (0.6) (0.6) (3.2) (3.2)
Trade and other payables (149.0) (149.0) (81.9) (81.9)
(143.1) (143.1) (133.2) (133.2)
Unrecognised gain/(loss) – –
34 Borrowings
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Current borrowings
Bank overdraft 6.6 2.1
6.6 2.1
Non-current borrowings
Maturing between one and two years
Revolving credit facility 112.7 –
Maturing between two and five years
Term loan – 69.5
Revolving credit facility – 61.6
Total non-current borrowings 112.7 131.1
Total borrowings 119.3 133.2
Less: cash at bank and in hand – –
Net debt 119.3 133.2
The Company borrowings are stated in accordance with note 19.
Both the overdraft and syndicated loan facility are secured by a fixed and floating charge over all the assets of the Group and are  
rated pari passu. 
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Notes to the Company financial statements 103  35 Deferred tax
Company
Total 
£m
At 1 April 2009 (0.1)
Recognised in income (0.1)
At 31 March 2010 (0.2)
Recognised in income 0.1
Recognised in equity (0.2)
At 31 March 2011 (0.3)
36 Share capital and share incentives
The Company share capital and share incentives are stated in accordance with note 22 and 23.
37 Contingent liabilities and commitments
The Company contingent liabilities and commitments are stated in accordance with note 25 and 26.
38 Post balance sheet events
The Company post balance sheet events are stated in accordance with note 27.
39 Related party disclosures
The Company related party disclosures are stated in accordance with note 28.
40 Note to the Company cash flow statement
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit/(loss) before tax 6.5 (2.3)
Financial income (11.7) (13.3)
Financial expense 10.6 14.8
Increase in trade and other receivables (58.3) (31.1)
Increase in trade and other payables 68.2 65.4
Equity-settled share-based payments 0.9 (0.1)
16.2 33.4
Notes to the Company financial statements
continued
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
104 Financial statements / Notes to the Company financial statements  2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
Income statement
Revenue 354.2 351.1 482.7 465.9 336.0
Gross profit 217.3 208.4 288.0 298.4 216.8
Analysis of operating (loss)/profit
Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional costs 8.3 8.0 49.2 64.0 50.0
Amortisation (5.5) (5.5) (9.2) (7.2) (4.1)
Exceptional costs (19.3) (11.1) (90.7) (10.0) –
Operating (loss)/profit (16.5) (8.6) (50.7) 46.8 45.9
Net financial expense (9.0) (14.2) (15.8) (15.9) (9.5)
Net financial expense – exceptional (1.5) – (4.6) (0.4) –
Total net financial expense (10.5) (14.2) (20.4) (16.3) (9.5)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (27.0) (22.8) (71.1) 30.5 36.4
Non-GAAP performance measures
EBITDA before exceptional items 63.4 68.2 125.1 131.6 100.3
Adjusted profit before tax, exceptional costs and amortisation (0.7) (6.2) 33.4 48.1 40.5
Balance sheet
Hire equipment – original cost 363.3 471.2 514.3 571.7 438.3
Hire equipment – net book value 185.7 246.9 283.4 336.1 270.4
Total equity 229.4 246.6 167.5 240.1 171.1
Cash flow
Cash flow generated from operations
3
49.7 62.9 98.1 159.7 148.4
Free cash flow 7.4 33.7 31.4 13.3 (4.5)
Purchase of hire equipment 41.8 33.6 58.6 85.9 82.3
Profit/(loss) on disposal of hire equipment
1
5.0 2.7 6.0 9.7 7.0
In pence 
Dividend per share
2
 (UK GAAP) 0.4 0.4 3.5 5.4 4.6
Adjusted earnings per share
1,2
(0.0) (1.4) 13.0 19.9 17.6
Net assets per share 0.4 0.5 0.9 1.3 1.0
In percent
Gearing 49.7 48.4 148.3 106.5 103.0
Return on capital (operating)
1
2.3 2.0 10.9 15.2 16.9
EBITDA margin
1
17.9 19.4 25.9 28.2 29.9
In ratios
Net debt/EBITDA
1
1.8 1.7 2.0 1.9 1.8
Net debt/Net tangible fixed assets 0.5 0.4 0.8 0.7 0.6
In numbers
Employee numbers 4,124 4,267 5,109 4,692 3,573
Depot numbers 327 324 399 488 357
1
 before amortisation and exceptional items
2
 adjusted for rights issue
3
 before changes in hire fleet
Five-year summary
Financial statements
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements / Five-year summary 105  Shareholder information
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 13 July 2011 
at 11.00am at Mere Court Hotel and Conference Centre, Warrington 
Road, Mere, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 0RW.
Details of the business of the AGM and the resolutions  
to be proposed will be sent to shareholders.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors’ remuneration 
report and the re-election of Justin Read and Michael Averill to  
the Board.
Other resolutions will include proposals to renew, for a further year, 
the Directors’ general authority to allot shares in the Company, 
to allot a limited number of shares for cash on a non pre-emptive 
basis and to buy back its own shares, and resolutions to amend the 
articles of association.
Share price information/performance
The latest share price is available at www.speedyhire.plc.uk. 
By selecting ‘Our Shares’ under the investor information section, 
shareholders can check the value of their shareholding online 
or review share charts illustrating annual share price 
performance trends.
Shareholders can download copies of our Annual Report and 
Accounts and Interim Accounts from www.speedyhire.plc.uk.
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP)
You can choose to reinvest dividends received to purchase 
further shares in the Company through a DRIP. A DRIP application 
form is available from our registrar, whose contact details are 
0871-384-2268 and from overseas +44 (0)121-415-7173. Please 
note that calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT 
landline, other providers’ costs may vary. Lines are open 8.30am 
to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Alternatively you can write to our 
registrar at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, 
West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Electronic communications 
You can elect to receive shareholder communications electronically 
by writing to our registrar, Equiniti at Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. This will save on printing and 
distribution costs, creating environmental benefits. When you 
register, you will be sent a notification to say when shareholder 
communications are available on our website and you will be 
provided with a link to that information.
Enquiries on shareholdings
Any administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings  
in Speedy, such as dividend payment instructions or a change 
of address, should be notified direct to the registrar, Equiniti, at 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. 
Your correspondence should state Speedy Hire Plc and the 
registered name and address of the shareholder. For further 
details of the shareholder services offered by our registrars, 
visit  www.shareview.co.uk. 
Forward looking statements
This Annual Report includes statements that are forward looking in 
nature. Forward looking statements involve known and unknown 
risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors which may 
cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Group 
to be materially different from any future results, performance or 
achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking 
statements. Except as required by the Listing Rules, the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules and applicable law, the Company 
undertakes no obligation to update, revise or change any forward 
looking statements to reflect events or developments occurring on 
or after the date of this Annual Report.
Contact details
We are happy to answer queries from current and potential 
shareholders. Similarly, please let is know if you wish to receive 
past, present or future copies of the Annual Report and Accounts. 
Please contact us by telephone, email, fax or via the website.
Speedy Hire Plc
Chase House
16 The Parks
Newton-le-Willows
Merseyside
WA12 0JQ
Telephone 01942 720000
Facsimile 01942 402870
Email plc.admin@speedyhire.com
www.speedyhire.plc.uk
106 Investor information / Shareholder information
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Registered office and advisers
Registered office
Speedy Hire Plc
Chase House
16 The Parks
Newton-le-Willows
Merseyside
WA12 0JQ
Telephone 01942 720000
Facsimile  01942 402870
Email plc.admin@speedyhire.com
www.speedyhire.plc.uk
Registered number: 927680
Company Secretary
Suzana Koncarevic
Financial advisers
NM Rothschild & Sons Limited
1 King William Street
London
EC4N 7AR
Stockbrokers
Evolution Securities Limited
100 Wood Street
London 
EC2V 7AN
Legal advisers
Pinsent Masons LLP
1 Park Row
Leeds
LS1 5AB
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
St James Square
Manchester
M2 6DS
Bankers
Barclays Commercial Bank
1st Floor
3 Hardman Street
Spinningfields
Manchester
M3 3AP
The Royal Bank Of Scotland PLC
Corporate Banking
1 Spinningfields Square
Manchester
M3 3AP
Public relations – financial
Hudson Sandler
29 Cloth Fair
London
EC1A 7NN
Public relations – trade
Citypress
2nd Floor
Bank House
Faulkner Street
Manchester
M1 4EH
Registrars and transfer office
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer House
Lancing 
West Sussex
BN99 BDA
Insurance brokers
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Ltd
St James House
7 Charlotte Street
Manchester
M1 4DZ
Investor information
Investor information / Registered office and advisers 107 
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Awards
2011
Business in the Community – CR Index – Silver ranking
Business in the Community – ‘Big Tick Award’ for Responsible  
Supply Chain
Hire Association Europe – Excellence in Training – Winner
Hire Association Europe – Hire Achiever of the Year – 
Highly commended
RoSPA (Health and Safety) – Silver Achievement Award
2010
Hire Association Europe – Environmental Initiative – Winner
Hire Association Europe – Excellence in Training – High commended
The Environment and Energy Awards – The Environment Product/
Service Award – Highly commended
Environment & Energy Awards – Best Sustainability Communications 
Campaign Award – Highly commended
Green Organisation – Green Apple Award and Green Hero 
Investor Relations Society Best Practice Awards – Best Corporate 
Website (Small Cap & AIM)
COINS – Innovator of the Year
Builder & Engineer Awards – Energy Efficient Project of the Year
Builder & Engineer Awards – Supplier of the Year
National Business Awards – Finalist: The Orange Innovation Award
2009
Green Apple Award for Environmental Best Practice
Business in the Community – Re-accreditation of ‘Big Tick Award’  
for Responsible Marketing
British Safety Council – International Safety Award
Hire Association Europe – Catalogue of the Year
COINS – Supplier of the Year
2008
Hire Association Europe – Hire Company of the Year (over 
five outlets)
Hire Association Europe – Best Contribution to Environmental Issues
BSIF Safety Awards – Service Excellence
National Business Awards – Finalist: Business of the Year
Institute of Directors – North West Director of the Year  
(Steve Corcoran)
European Rental Association – European Rental Person of the Year 
(Steve Corcoran)
Business in the Community – Re-accreditation of ‘Big Tick Award’ 
for Responsible Marketing
Business in the Community – CR Index – Silver ranking
108 Investor information / Awards
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview
01 Seeing the benefits 
14 Speedy at a glance 
16 Speedy figures
18 Understanding our markets
Business review
20 Chairman’s statement 
22 Chief Executive’s review 
26 Principal risks and uncertainties 
28 UK & Ireland Asset Services 
30  International & Advisory Services
32 Group financial review 
36 Corporate responsibility 
Governance
44 Board of Directors 
46 Directors’ report 
49 Corporate governance
54 Remuneration report
64 Audit Committee report 
65 Nomination Committee report
66 Independent auditor’s report 
Financial statements
68 Consolidated income statement 
69 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
70 Consolidated balance sheet
71 Consolidated cash flow statement
72 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
98 Company balance sheet 
99 Company cash flow statement
100 Company statement of changes in equity
101 Notes to the Company financial statements
105 Five-year summary
Investor information
106 Shareholder information
107 Registered office and advisers
108 Awards
IBC Accreditations and memberships
Speedy contents
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Investor information
Accreditations and memberships
ISO Accreditations
ISO 9001
Speedy Asset Services Limited
†
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
ISO 14001
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
ISO 18001
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Speedy Engineering Services Limited
ISO 17020
Speedy Asset Services Limited*
Industry supplier accreditations
Achilles Link-up – rail supplier qualification and verification scheme
Achilles UVDB – utilities pre-qualification scheme
Achilles Building Confidence – construction pre-qualification scheme
Constructionline – UK register of pre-qualified construction services
CHAS – The Contractors Health and Safety Scheme
SAFEcontractor – the contractor accreditation scheme for business
SafeHire – HAE Hire and Rental certification scheme
Professional body and trade association memberships
HAE: Hire Association of Europe
PASMA: Prefabricated Access Suppliers and 
Manufacturers Association
LEEA: Lifting Equipment Engineers Association
OPERC: Off-Highway Plant and Equipment Research Centre
ERA: European Rental Association
BSC: British Safety Council (International Asset Services)
CBI: Confederation of British Industry (Steve Corcoran member 
of Construction Council)
FTSE4Good
BITC: Business in the Community
CPA: Contractors Plant Association
British Water Authority
Federation of Communication Services
MPBA: Modular and Portable Building Association
RoSPA: The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents
* Partial accreditation only.
†
 All UK locations accredited.
Printing and paper: this report has been printed in the UK by The Colourhouse. Our printers 
are accredited with the ISO14001 and hold full FSC chain of custody, they are also carbon 
neutral. All inks used are vegetable-based. The paper used is Heaven 42 which is fully 
recyclable and biodegradable and is an FSC mixed sources accredited material, using an 
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process and partly bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free 
(TCF) process. 
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it  
on to other interested readers, return it to Speedy Hire Plc or recycle it. Thank you.
This annual report is available at www.speedyhire.plc.uk
Designed and produced by The College  www.thecollege.uk.com Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Seeing the benefits
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.speedyhire.plc.uk
