 INSPIRED
INNOVATION
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Contents
1 Our business at a glance
2 Summary of results
3 Chairman’s statement
4 Chief Executive’s overview
6 Operating review
9 Financial review
12 Board of directors
13 Corporate social responsibility statement
15 Report of the directors
16 Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the ﬁnancial statements
17 Directors’ statement on corporate governance
20 Report on directors’ remuneration
27 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Spirent plc
28 Consolidated income statement
29 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
30 Consolidated balance sheet
31 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
32 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
95 Independent auditors’ report to the shareholders of Spirent plc
96 Company balance sheet
97 Notes to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements
114 Principal divisions, subsidiaries and associates
115 Financial history
118 Shareholder information
119 Glossary
120 Contact details
Spirent is a leading communications technology company focused on delivering
innovative systems and services to meet the needs of customers worldwide. We are 
a global provider of performance analysis and service assurance solutions that enable
the development and deployment of next-generation networking technologies such as
broadband services, Internet telephony, 3G wireless and web applications and security
testing. The Systems group develops power control systems for specialist electrical
vehicles in the mobility and industrial markets.
Spirent plc is a public limited company registered in England. Its Ordinary shares are
traded on the London Stock Exchange and, in the form of American Depositary
Shares, on the New York Stock Exchange.
This report is the Annual Report of Spirent plc for the year to 31 December 2005
and complies with UK regulations.The Annual Report is available on Spirent’s website
at www.spirent.com.
A separate Annual Report on Form 20-F is being prepared to meet US regulations
and will be ﬁled with the US Securities and Exchange Commission by 30 June 2006. Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 1
Our business at a glance
WE HELP THE WORLD COMMUNICATE 
FASTER, BETTER AND MORE EFFICIENTLY
PERFORMANCE ANAL YSIS
Spirent’s performance analysis solutions include instruments and systems that measure and analyse
the performance of network equipment, particularly the devices that route voice and data messages
to their destination. Our solutions accelerate the proﬁtable development and deployment of network
equipment and services by emulating real-world conditions in the lab and assuring end-to-end
performance of large-scale networks. These solutions lower development costs and minimise risks
while improving interoperability and scalability.
SERVICE ASSURANCE
Our service assurance solutions include remote test, fault and service management systems that 
help service providers diagnose problems and determine the action required to ﬁx them. Spirent’s
service assurance solutions make sure revenue-generating services are provided or repaired efﬁciently
and effectively. Customers using Spirent’s service assurance solutions beneﬁt through reduced
operating costs, improved operations performance metrics and improved customer experience.
SYSTEMS
PG Drives Technology is a leading supplier of sophisticated electronic control systems for specialist
electrically powered vehicles in the mobility and industrial markets. These include medical vehicles
such as powered wheelchairs and mobility scooters as well as small industrial vehicles such as ﬂoor
cleaning vehicles and aerial access platforms. Our systems allow the user to control the direction and
speed of the vehicle as well as other vehicle functions, including seating or platform position, lights,
turn indicators and vehicle diagnostics. 2 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Summary of results
£ million 2005 2004 Change %
Continuing Group
Revenue 259.3 287.2 (10)
Operating proﬁt
1
11.5 22.9 (50)
Adjusted proﬁt before tax
2
4.9 15.4 (68)
Reported (loss)/proﬁt before tax (41.7) 11.2 –
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (pence) (3.97) 0.98 –
Total Group
Adjusted earnings per share
3
(pence) 2.30 3.14 (27)
The HellermannTyton Division has been treated as a discontinued operation in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. The table above and the text
below relate to continuing operations only, unless otherwise stated.
Strategic progress
• The disposal of the HellermannTyton Division for 
£288.9 million, announced on 15 December 2005, was
completed on 15 February 2006. Proceeds are being used to
repay debt, substantially fund the pension scheme, buy back
up to £50 million of shares and make selective acquisitions.
• We have transformed Spirent into a focused
communications company with a signiﬁcantly improved
ﬁnancial position.
• The acquisitions of SwissQual and QuadTex in 2006 will
enhance Spirent’s market presence and enable our entry
into new and growing markets.
Overview of results
• We took ﬁrm actions to address the losses in Service
Assurance that negatively impacted the ﬁrst half, which
resulted in recovery in the second half.
Performance Analysis
• Overall revenues and operating proﬁt
1
were slightly ahead
of 2004.
• Activity levels in the fourth quarter recovered somewhat
following a weaker third quarter.
• Our wireless activities had a record year, with sales growing
by 17 per cent.
• Launch of the new uniﬁed platform, Spirent TestCenter™,
has resulted in competitive wins with new and existing
customers in the second half. Further progress will be 
made through the addition of greater functionality and
automation over the next 18 months.
Service Assurance
• The division stabilised in the second half reporting a
signiﬁcantly reduced operating loss
1
of £0.6 million 
(ﬁrst half operating loss
1
£9.0 million).
• We are concentrating on the development of new 
solutions for triple play and advanced business services.
Systems
• The group grew revenue by 20 per cent to £37.7 million 
and operating proﬁt
1
by 29 per cent to £4.4 million.
Notes
1 Before material one-time items, goodwill impairment and share-based payment.
2 Before material one-time items, goodwill impairment, share-based payment, proﬁt on the disposal of operations and costs associated with the part prepayment of loan notes.
3 Adjusted earnings per share is based on adjusted earnings as set out in note 13 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. In 2005 Spirent was transformed into a focused communications
business. In the first half of the year, we carried out major
restructuring within the Service Assurance division. In December
we announced the proposed disposal of the HellermannTyton
Division and our share of its associated companies to funds
controlled by Doughty Hanson & Co Limited. We believe the
consideration of approximately £288.9 million, at a cash
free/debt free equivalent value represents fair value for the
business and reflects its strong performance under our
management. As a result of this sale, the Group’s financial
position has been signiﬁcantly strengthened.
Following approval by shareholders at an Extraordinary General
Meeting held on 24 January 2006, the disposal was completed
on 15 February 2006.As previously indicated, the proceeds have
been used to repay the outstanding loan notes of £71.5 million
together with the make whole amount of £7.4 million and
associated swap break fees of £2.3 million. In addition, a special
contribution of £47.0 million has been made to substantially
fund the UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme and the Board intends
to return up to £50 million to shareholders through an on-
market share repurchase programme over the coming year.
To reﬂect the transformation of the Group, a proposal will be
made at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to rename
Spirent plc as Spirent Communications plc.
James Wyness will retire from the Board with effect from the
date of the 2006 Annual General Meeting and we would like to
thank him for his valuable contribution during his long service
as a non-executive director. Marcus Beresford will assume the
responsibilities of the senior independent director on Mr Wyness’
retirement.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our employees
for their contribution during this year of transformation.We wish
the employees of HellermannTyton success under their new
ownership and thank them for their contribution over many years.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 3
Chairman’s statement
In 2005 Spirent was transformed into a 
focused communications business.
John Weston CBE
Chairman
Operating profit/(loss) and return on sales are used by the Group as key measures of
operating performance and are stated in the text before the effect of material one-time
items, goodwill impairment and share-based payment so that period-on-period comparisons
are not distorted.
The HellermannTyton Division for the purposes of these results has been presented as a
discontinued operation and our financial results are presented and discussed for the
continuing Spirent Group, unless otherwise stated. 4 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Chief Executive’s overview
Introduction and strategy
Since joining Spirent as Chief Executive I have set out to transform
the Group into a focused communications company. During 2005
we have been busy reshaping and restructuring the business
culminating in the disposal of HellermannTyton, as well as starting
in 2006 to make selective acquisitions.
The decision to focus on communications reﬂects our view that
the sector offers Spirent the best top and bottom line growth
opportunities in the mid and long term, leveraging our leading
market positions in our key product segments.
We are therefore continuing to invest in organic growth
opportunities through research and development and sales and
marketing activities and the launch of new products such as the
Spirent TestCenter™.
We will also continue to make selective acquisitions. These
acquisitions will be a good strategic ﬁt with our existing activities
as well as expanding our customer base, broadening our
geographic coverage or enabling entry into new markets. The
principal strategic drivers for acquisition are to expand our market
position and our competitive offering into markets where we
see strong growth opportunities.This will ensure that we remain
a core supplier to our customers, whilst at the same time
accelerating our development plans to keep ahead of competition.
We will shortly establish our operational headquarters in Sunnyvale,
California, in the centre of Silicon Valley where we have the
highest concentration of customers. I will relocate in the spring,
but we will maintain a small corporate headquarters in the UK.
Results overview
The Group’s 2005 results were principally affected by the
operating losses incurred by the Service Assurance division,
which were described in detail at the time of the interim results
in August 2005. These losses were substantially reduced in the
second half as a result of the actions we took in the ﬁrst half.
Material one-time items of £8.4 million have been expensed in
the year. Of this, £3.9 million is in relation to restructuring
actions in the Service Assurance division and £1.4 million for
inventory write-downs again in this division. Other material one-
time items of £3.1 million have been taken in relation to supply
chain initiatives and other restructuring actions within the
Group. This was reported in our interim results.
In the first half we took a goodwill impairment charge of 
£37.0 million due to the drop in activity in the Service Assurance
division.
Performance Analysis
Revenue and operating proﬁt in the Performance Analysis division
for 2005 were slightly up on 2004. In this division several of our
end markets were weaker than had been anticipated earlier in
the year, particularly so in the third quarter, although activity in
the fourth quarter did recover somewhat. In addition, we are in
a product transition phase as we progressively introduce new and
improved products and solutions. Encouragingly, sales to some
of our largest customers in the equipment manufacturing sector
grew by more than 30 per cent and the division’s wireless and
position location test activities experienced their best year ever.
Service Assurance
Revenue in the Service Assurance division was down 43 per cent
compared with 2004 and as a result the division reported an
operating loss of £9.6 million of which £9.0 million was incurred
in the ﬁrst half. In the ﬁrst quarter of 2005 our major customers,
the US service providers, had delayed the release of their full
Since joining Spirent as Chief Executive I have set out to transform the Group
into a focused communications company. During 2005 we have been busy
reshaping and restructuring the business culminating in the disposal of
HellermannTyton, as well as starting in 2006 to make selective acquisitions.
Anders Gustafsson
Chief Executive capital spending budgets partly due to merger activity, with a larger
proportion of these budgets shifting towards next-generation
rather than existing networks.As these trends became apparent
we undertook signiﬁcant restructuring actions in the division,
including changing senior management, reducing headcount by
around 260 (approximately 40 per cent of the total workforce),
which resulted in a much reduced loss for the second half of
£0.6 million. During 2005 we have refocused our product
development efforts to generate new solutions for triple play
and advanced business services; this will continue through 2006.
Systems
Our Systems group grew revenue and operating profit by 
20 per cent and 29 per cent respectively, beneﬁting from the
launch of two new wheelchair control systems.
Acquisitions in 2006
On 23 January 2006, we announced the acquisition of 
SwissQual Holding AG (“SwissQual”) for an initial consideration
of £27.7 million paid in cash, with up to a further £12.4 million
payable depending on revenue growth and various technical and
ﬁnancial milestones. SwissQual provides world class products
and talent in the development of voice and video solutions that
analyse, recognise and improve the quality of experience for
users of wireless applications and services.
We also announced on 13 February 2006 the acquisition of
QuadTex Systems, Inc (“QuadTex”) for an initial consideration of
£4.2 million with a further consideration of up to £0.9 million.
QuadTex is a fast growing US based provider of innovative and
leading test tools for internet protocol multimedia subsystems
(“IMS”) and voice over IP (“VoIP”) testing.
SwissQual and QuadTex will enhance Spirent’s product offerings,
capabilities and customer base in the wireless, triple play (voice,
video, data) and IMS markets.
Outlook
The disposal of the HellermannTyton Division has transformed
Spirent into a focused communications company, as well as
having signiﬁcantly improved our ﬁnancial position. Spirent is well
placed to grow organically from its established market-leading
positions.We also have the potential to expand through selective
acquisitions, such as SwissQual and QuadTex, announced in 2006.
The variable market conditions seen in 2005 have continued
through the beginning of the ﬁrst quarter, which is usually our
quietest.As 2006 progresses, the year will be a period of product
transition as the increased capability of our new products and
solutions will enable us to gain market share. As a result, we
anticipate that the Group’s performance for 2006 will show
recovery over last year, with a more pronounced seasonal increase
in activity in the second half.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 5
Operating profit/(loss) and return on sales are used by the Group as key measures of
operating performance and are stated in the text before the effect of material one-time
items, goodwill impairment and share-based payment so that period-on-period comparisons
are not distorted.
The HellermannTyton Division for the purposes of these results has been presented as a
discontinued operation and our financial results are presented and discussed for the
continuing Spirent Group, unless otherwise stated. 6 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Communications
£ million 2005 2004 Change %
Revenue
Performance Analysis 178.8 176.8 1
Service Assurance 42.8 74.7 (43)
Communications group 221.6 251.5 (12)
Operating proﬁt/(loss)
Performance Analysis 22.0 21.7 1
Service Assurance (9.6) 2.5 –
Communications group 12.4 24.2 (49)
Return on sales (%)
Performance Analysis 12.3 12.3
Service Assurance – 3.3
Communications group 5.6 9.6
Our Communications group, Spirent Communications, works behind the
scenes to help the world communicate faster, better and more efﬁciently.
The world’s leading communications companies use Spirent solutions to
conduct performance analysis tests in labs on their latest technologies. As
new communications services are introduced Spirent provides the tools to
facilitate troubleshooting and improve the quality of these new networks
and services.
Revenue and operating profit in the Performance Analysis division was
slightly up. In this division we experienced variability in terms of end
customer demand principally in the third quarter and in the broadband test
activities, with the division’s wireless and position location test activities
experiencing good growth.
In 2005 the operating loss in the Service Assurance division, although
substantially reduced in the second half year, affected the performance of
the Communications group as a whole.
Indeed, revenue in the Service Assurance division was down 43 per cent
compared with 2004 and the division reported an operating loss of 
£9.6 million. The reduced revenues were principally a result of the decline
in leased line monitoring and the delay in installation of next-generation
assurance solutions. Firm and signiﬁcant actions were taken in this division
in the ﬁrst half year to reduce the rate of loss.
Performance Analysis
Our Performance Analysis division addresses the needs of service providers,
equipment manufacturers, large enterprises and government to test the
equipment developed and deployed for telecommunications networks.
Our solutions test the performance, functionality and conformance of
telecoms devices.We provide effective and efﬁcient test and measurement
capabilities to meet the needs of voice, video, data and mobile testing to
reduce risk in deploying new products in the next-generation ﬁxed line and
wireless networks. We achieve this by simulating real-world conditions in
the laboratories of our customers, subjecting the equipment under test to
impairment and stress to establish their true capability.The increasing scale
and complexity of devices combined with the necessity to increase the
efﬁciency of our customers’ engineers, drives demand for more innovative
test solutions. Our emphasis on customer support and professional services
are important differentiators, giving Spirent Communications a leading
reputation in the market and distinct competitive advantage.
Revenue and operating proﬁt in the Performance Analysis division grew by
1 per cent in 2005. We invested £42.1 million, representing 24 per cent of
sales (2004 £43.2 million and 24 per cent), into product development to
increase the capabilities of our existing products and develop innovative
products for launch in 2005 and 2006.
The market proved to be volatile and highly competitive during 2005.At the
interim stage we reported that market conditions were variable due to lower
spending by the US government and certain US service providers. As
expected the variable conditions continued through the second half year.
As announced in December, revenue for the third quarter was lower than
previously expected, although this was partly offset by improved trading in
the fourth quarter.We experienced slower demand in 2005 due to activity
levels with US service providers being markedly lower, a result of the impact
of merger activity in the sector, and the fact that other customers were
absorbing the high levels of equipment they purchased in 2004. In addition
there was a notable slowdown in the demand for ATM test equipment,
whilst the US government also shifted its spending to other priorities. Finally,
some major equipment manufacturers continue to work their way through
strategic reviews, resulting in further cutting back of their research and
development programmes.
In contrast, more favourable conditions were seen in the demand for:
security testing across all market segments, high speed Ethernet devices,
Gig E and 10 Gig E, requirements for increased scale and the emerging 
needs for triple play testing and video quality testing. The transition of
access and metro networks to Ethernet, saw expansion in demand,
particularly in the ﬁrst half year.Wireless infrastructure testing has expanded
from functional test to performance test, stimulating demand for our
products. The emergence of IMS is also creating new opportunities for
Spirent Communications.
Operating review Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 7
Despite the strength of demand for Ethernet test equipment aggressive
actions by competition resulted in some loss of market share in this sector.
We have responded by establishing a major customer support team, to offer
both additional services and to launch new leading-edge product solutions
during the second half year. Internally we are progressing our initiatives to
increase our own product development efficiency and effectiveness to
improve our product realisation process.The launch of Spirent TestCenter™,
our uniﬁed platform for Ethernet testing, has resulted in key competitive
wins with major existing as well as new customers. Our development plans
for Spirent TestCenter™ throughout the next 18 months will deliver increased
functionality, scale, ease of use and automation, making it an industry
leading platform.
Total revenues from our top 20 customers grew year-on-year and account
for approximately 40 per cent of revenues; growth rates for a number of
these accounts exceeded 30 per cent. No one customer represented more
than 10 per cent of the total divisional revenues. Our revenues by customer
type maintained a similar proﬁle. Sales to network equipment manufacturers
represented 49 per cent of the total; sales to service providers of 17 per cent;
government accounted for 8 per cent (down compared to 2004). The
remainder includes chip manufacturers and enterprise customers.
On a geographic basis there was growth in revenue in Europe for all test
solutions, but notably for VoIP, web applications and wireless handset test
systems. The US market was ﬂat, for the reasons described above. Activity
in the Asia Pacific region grew, building on a remarkable growth rate,
particularly in China in 2004.We maintained revenue levels in Japan, despite
difﬁcult market conditions.We enjoyed strong growth in the Indian market.
Our wireless and positioning test products had a record year and sales now
represent 27 per cent of the division’s turnover. All product lines achieved
strong growth: CDMA, W-CDMA and GPS. We gained market share in the
important W-CDMA performance test market and made further strong
progress in the sale of GPS emulation systems. Revenues grew in the most
important markets in Asia, namely China, Korea and Japan and we also made
good progress in Europe. We have established and opened wireless service
centres in China, Korea, Japan and UK, offering higher levels of customer
service and support. We speciﬁed, developed and launched a new HSDPA-
capable network emulator for the W-CDMA market. Spirent’s navigation
and positioning test division has been selected to supply key test equipment
to support the joint EU and European Space Agency Galileo project. Galileo
is a major new global navigation system. Spirent is a leader in navigation
and positioning test.
As we look forward into 2006 and the future, we feel increased conﬁdence
that our Performance Analysis solutions, in the form of new products such
as Spirent TestCenter™ and our wireless handset test solutions, offer  leading-
edge test capabilities.We expect to see the beneﬁt from market growth as
our customers increase their investment in latest technologies. 2006 will 
be a period of product transition as the increased capability of our new
products enable us to gain market share against a background of continued
variable market conditions.
Service Assurance
Our Service Assurance division is focused on the development of network
monitoring systems to enable telecom service providers to test and assure
broadband leased line, DSL and IP services.
Our products include operations support systems software, remote test
probes, network access systems and consulting and technical services. We
also supply portable systems for fault identification and test of copper
telephone lines in the ﬁeld. Our systems help service providers reduce their
operational costs by automating and centralising their network testing and
service assurance processes, reducing the need for expensive engineering
intervention and facilitating faster responses to customers’ problems.
Our product solutions are based on a solid business case which offers
carriers increased operational efﬁciencies whilst ensuring the quality of the
voice, video and data services they provide.
The global telecoms sector continues to migrate from legacy networks
towards IP-based networks and services, which will result in substantial new
investment. The shift in carriers’ capital expenditure has been slower than
expected for service assurance solutions for the deployment of triple play
services.We believe that the service assurance market opportunity will develop
once the build out has taken place and these new services are launched.
Following a very tough ﬁrst six months of 2005, when we reported a fall in
the division’s revenues of over half and an operating loss of £9.0 million, we
achieved stability during the second half, having realised the substantial
cost savings announced in the ﬁrst half.We have developed a new strategy
for growth to meet the needs of service providers for their new triple play
networks and services. In addition, we have developed a new generation of
handheld test equipment, which will enable ﬁeld test engineers to access
the power of the central ofﬁce test and monitoring systems in the ﬁeld.
The revenue proﬁle by customer has remained comparable with 2004, with
over half of the activity being with US Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers.
The provision of leased line assurance products accounted for approximately
70 per cent of sales throughout the year, whilst the provision of service
maintenance and support accounted for 15 per cent. The second half
operating loss of £0.6 million reduced signiﬁcantly from the ﬁrst half loss 8 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
of £9.0 million.This was due to higher revenue of £2.4 million, a gross proﬁt
improvement from a favourable product mix as we shipped software at
higher margins in the second half, and the realisation of cost savings.
Sales opportunities for this division were constrained in 2005 partly as a
result of the major acquisitions made by our customers, which has delayed
the sourcing of service assurance solutions as they integrated their
businesses. In the long term, this industry consolidation is likely to be
beneficial as we aim to extend our embedded solutions and sell new
solutions for triple play, ﬁeld test and advanced business services into these
enlarged customers. In addition, sales decreased due to a rapid shift in
technology, whilst customers were not yet ready to install next-generation
assurance solutions.
We were awarded our ﬁrst triple play contract with TELUS, a major Canadian
telecoms company, our ﬁrst customer win outside the US for DSL and for
advanced broadband service assurance solutions.
We have concentrated on developing new solutions for triple play and
advanced business services.Whilst we remain cautious about the timing of
the full scale deployment of advanced services by carriers worldwide, we
believe that, due to the actions taken in 2005, we are well placed to serve
the market requirements as they develop.
Systems
£ million 2005 2004 Change %
Revenue 37.7 31.3 20
Operating proﬁt 4.4 3.4 29
Return on sales (%) 11.7 10.9
Figures in the above table relate to PG Drives Technology only. Divested businesses
contributed £4.4 million of revenue and £0.6 million of operating proﬁt in 2004.
The Systems group comprises PG Drives Technology, a leading supplier of
control systems for electrically powered medical and small industrial
vehicles. Revenue and operating proﬁt were up 20 per cent and 29 per cent,
respectively. Return on sales increased to 11.7 per cent compared with 
10.9 per cent in 2004.
During 2005 we launched two new wheelchair control systems: the VR2,
low cost, mainstream wheelchair control system, and the R-net, a highly
sophisticated wheelchair system, designed for the rehab market that can
incorporate a wide variety of input and output devices to suit many different
disabilities. Due to the competitiveness of these systems and of our
established VSI, S-Drive and TRIO+ products, we were successful in
increasing customer penetration in both the mobility and industrial vehicles
markets during the year.This was achieved in spite of continuing constraints
in US government healthcare funding for powered wheelchairs. We also
moved some more of our production to China to reduce the logistical 
costs of supporting our activities in the Asia Paciﬁc region. In 2006 we are
planning further new product launches that will enable us to strengthen our
position in both our addressed markets.
Discontinued operations
Network Products
£ million 2005 2004 Change %
Revenue 205.5 187.8 9
Operating proﬁt 25.3 21.3 19
Return on sales (%) 12.3 11.3
Discontinued operations relate to the HellermannTyton Division, comprising
the Network Products group and the investment in associated companies.
We announced in December that we had entered into an agreement to
dispose of the HellermannTyton Division to funds controlled by Doughty
Hanson & Co Limited and this disposal was completed on 15 February 2006.
The Network Products group delivered a strong performance in 2005, with
revenue of £205.5 million, up 9 per cent compared with 2004. Operating
proﬁt of £25.3 million was ahead by 19 per cent over 2004, and return on
sales improved to 12.3 per cent from 11.3 per cent.
Organic growth was achieved in all regions and also through the associated
company in Japan. The business continued to increase its automotive sales
despite ﬂattening production levels by the European car manufacturers,
and to achieve strong growth through its initiatives in North America in
automatic application systems, particularly in automotive and through the
success of its pre-terminated structured cabling system, RapidNet.
Profit after tax from discontinued operations was £13.2 million after
charging £6.7 million of costs related to the disposal of this business,
compared with £17.3 million in 2004.
Operating review continued
Operating profit/(loss) and return on sales are used by the Group as key measures of
operating performance and are stated in the text before the effect of material one-time
items, goodwill impairment and share-based payment so that period-on-period comparisons
are not distorted.
The HellermannTyton Division for the purposes of these results has been presented as a
discontinued operation and our financial results are presented and discussed for the
continuing Spirent Group, unless otherwise stated. Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 9
Reporting format
The format of the consolidated results for the Spirent Group has been
signiﬁcantly altered in this year’s report as a result of two factors: ﬁrst the
conversion from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”)
to International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”); second, the
reclassiﬁcation of the results of the HellermannTyton Division comprising
the Network Products group and the investment in associated companies
to discontinued operations.The table below sets out revenue and operating
proﬁt for the total Group for 2005 and 2004.
First half Second half
£ million 2005 2005 2005 2004 Change %
Revenue
Continuing 126.5 132.8 259.3 287.2 (10)
Discontinued 103.9 101.6 205.5 187.8 9
Total 230.4 234.4 464.8 475.0 (2)
Operating proﬁt
Continuing 1.8 9.7 11.5 22.9 (50)
Discontinued 12.3 13.0 25.3 21.3 19
Total 14.1 22.7 36.8 44.2 (17)
Return on sales (%)
Continuing 1.4 7.3 4.4 8.0
Discontinued 11.8 12.8 12.3 11.3
Total 6.1 9.7 7.9 9.3
As our results are reported for the first time in accordance with IFRS,
comparative data has been restated. All amounts referred to below relate
to continuing operations unless otherwise stated.
Results
Reported revenue from continuing businesses for 2005 of £259.3 million
was down 10 per cent and operating profit of £11.5 million was down 
50 per cent compared with 2004. Return on sales for the continuing Group
reduced to 4.4 per cent from 8.0 per cent in 2004.
Revenue by market grew in the Asia Paciﬁc region by 4 per cent but was down
in Europe and North America, having been affected by the performance of
the Service Assurance division in both regions.
Operating proﬁt was impacted by the weakness in the Service Assurance
division in the ﬁrst half, this division reported a loss of £9.0 million for that
period. In the second half year the loss in this division was much reduced
to £0.6 million, mainly as a result of the ﬁrm actions we took. Revenue and
operating proﬁt in the Performance Analysis division were up 1 per cent
compared with 2004. Proﬁtability in the Performance Analysis division was
slightly lower in the third quarter of 2005 recovering somewhat in the
fourth. The ongoing business in the Systems group reported good growth
in 2005 over 2004.
Non-segmental costs, which are those that cannot be directly attributed to
the operating segments were £5.3 million excluding material one-time
items and share-based payment (2004 £5.3 million).These costs include the
costs of our Board, costs in relation to our dual listings and compliance
costs, including those in relation to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Currency impact
In 2005 the effects of currency translation were less marked than in 2004.
Currency translation increased revenue from continuing operations by 
£1.7 million, and increased profit before tax, goodwill impairment and
material one-time items by £0.2 million.
Cost of sales and operating expenses
Product development spend for 2005 was £58.4 million, or 23 per cent of
revenue (2004 £63.2 million and 22 per cent respectively). Of this amount
£42.1 million (2004 £43.2 million) was spent in the Performance Analysis
division and £14.0 million (2004 £17.2 million) in the Service Assurance division.
Product development is included in the cost of sales on the income statement.
Gross proﬁt decreased to £106.2 million, 41 per cent of sales from £122.0 million,
42 per cent of sales in 2004. This was a result of the decrease in revenue in
Service Assurance, the low levels of activity in the first half resulting in
unrecovered manufacturing overheads and to the relative increase in
product development spending as a percentage of sales as noted above.
Financial review 
Operating proﬁt was impacted by the weakness in the Service Assurance
division in the ﬁrst half, this division reported a loss of £9.0 million for that
period. In the second half year the loss in this division was much reduced
to £0.6 million, mainly as a result of the ﬁrm actions we took.
Eric Hutchinson
Finance Director 10 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Administration costs of £74.3 million for 2005 (2004 £34.0 million) include
a goodwill impairment charge of £37.0 million made in the ﬁrst half.
A share-based payment charge of £5.1 million has been reported in
accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ for the continuing Group.
This charge represents the expense for share options and other share-based
incentives calculated using an option pricing model. On transition to IFRS
Spirent has applied IFRS 2 only to awards made after 7 November 2002 and
not fully vested at 1 January 2005.We anticipate that the charge for 2006
will be in the region of £6 million based on current share price and volatility.
Material one-time items of £8.4 million have been charged in 2005 that relate
to restructuring costs and inventory write-downs within our businesses.
Disposal of operations
A one-time proﬁt on the disposal of operations of £3.9 million has been
reported, this relates to the sale of certain non-trading companies.
Finance charges
Net interest expense for 2005 was £6.6 million, being £8.1 million cost less
£1.5 million income, compared with £6.8 million in 2004 (excluding a make
whole amount in 2004 of £0.5 million). Net interest includes a charge of
£1.1 million in respect of the UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme in accordance
with IAS 19 ‘Employee Beneﬁts’.The deﬁcit in this scheme has been reduced
by the special contribution of £47.0 million in February 2006 and as a result
it is estimated that net interest income in respect of the pension scheme
will be approximately £1.5 million for 2006. For 2006, and following
repayment of the senior loan notes, Spirent expects to earn current market
rates of interest on the net cash balance remaining from the disposal of the
HellermannTyton Division.
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax
Reported loss before tax was £41.7 million compared with a profit of 
£11.2 million for 2004.
Profit before tax, material one-time items, goodwill impairment, share-
based payment, proﬁt on disposal of operations and costs associated with
the part prepayment of loan notes is set out below:
£ million 2005 2004
Reported (loss)/proﬁt before tax (41.7) 11.2
Material one-time items 8.4 2.9
Goodwill impairment 37.0 –
Share-based payment 5.1 4.8
Proﬁt on disposal of operations (3.9) (4.0)
Costs associated with the part prepayment of loan notes – 0.5
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 4.9 15.4
Tax
There was a tax credit of £4.0 million in 2005 compared with a charge of
£2.0 million in 2004, due to the release of provisions.We anticipate that the
effective tax rate for 2006 will be approximately 25 per cent.
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations contributed proﬁt after tax of £13.2 million compared
with £17.3 million in 2004.This result is after charging £6.7 million of costs
in relation to the disposal that were incurred and expensed during 2005.
Earnings per share
We are presenting an adjusted earnings per share measure that adds back
the effect of material one-time items, goodwill impairment, share-based
payment, proﬁt on the disposal of operations and any related tax as well 
as prior year tax adjustments. The adjusted earnings per share measure for
the Group as a whole is 2.30 pence for 2005 compared with 3.14 pence in
2004, a decrease of 27 per cent. The weighted average number of shares
outstanding at the period end was 950.4 million (2004 939.2 million). Basic
loss per share from continuing operations was 3.97 pence compared with
basic earnings per share of 0.98 pence in 2004.
Financing and cash ﬂow
At 31 December the Group held cash of £49.2 million compared with 
£51.7 million at 31 December 2004. Borrowings of the continuing Group
at the year end were £75.1 million and borrowings of the discontinued
operations were £9.7 million.Total borrowings of the Group at 31 December
2005 were £84.8 million compared with £78.1 million at 31 December 2004.
The effect of translation increased borrowings in 2005 by £7.7 million due
to the strengthening of the US dollar during the year.
Our major borrowings in 2005 continued to be the senior loan notes of
$124.8 million (£72.6 million) which were repaid in February 2006 out of
the proceeds of the sale of the HellermannTyton Division (see post balance
sheet events below). During 2005 our £30 million bank facility remained nil
drawn, this facility was cancelled in February 2006.
Total Group net cash from operating activities for 2005 was down by 
49 per cent at £29.4 million compared with £57.2 million in 2004 due to
the deterioration in Service Assurance and absorption of working capital.As
reported at the interim stage, working capital increased due to a signiﬁcant
reduction in payables of about £12 million, a result of the settlement of
liabilities in respect of 2004. For continuing operations there was a cash
outﬂow from operating activities of £1.1 million for the year, this includes
£4.0 million in respect of restructuring actions (2004 inﬂow £31.0 million).
Free cash ﬂow, being cash ﬂow before disposals, acquisitions and ﬁnancing
for 2005 for the Group as a whole was an outﬂow of £6.8 million compared
with an inﬂow of £23.0 million in 2004.
Net capital expenditure increased to £29.9 million, as planned, compared
with £24.8 million in 2004. We expect capital expenditure to be much
reduced in 2006 as the HellermannTyton Division comprised the major 
part of this. Capital expenditure for the continuing Group for 2005 was
£14.8 million and we expect it to be around £13 million in 2006.
The depreciation charge was £11.4 million for 2005 compared with 
£14.8 million in 2004. We expect the charge for 2006 to be in the region
of £13 million.
Financial review continued Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 11
Net tax payments for the Group of £4.6 million were made in 2005
compared with £3.1 million in 2004. We have, and expect to continue to
beneﬁt from the utilisation of carried forward tax losses in the UK and the
US. We expect tax payments for 2006 to be approximately £4 million.
In 2005 we made our second additional annual cash contribution of 
£3.5 million to our UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme. The Company is not
expected to make a further such payment in 2006 having instead made a
special contribution of £47.0 million out of the proceeds of the sale of the
HellermannTyton Division in February 2006.
Net interest payments of £6.5 million in 2005 were below the £7.2 million
paid in 2004. In addition in 2004 we paid make whole amounts of £2.3 million.
Pension fund
At the end of 2005 the deﬁcit in the UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme under
IAS 19 had increased to £51.5 million (31 December 2004 £38.1 million).
The assets have grown during the year by £21.9 million as a result of the
positive performance of equity markets and additional Company contributions
made. However, the liabilities have grown by £35.3 million due to falling
bond rates together with changes in longevity assumptions. In February
2006 the Company made a special contribution of £47.0 million into the
UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme as had been announced in December 2005.
We have reassessed the recognition of the deferred tax asset in relation to
the pension scheme. The funding of the scheme will crystallise a tax loss in
2006 that may not be recoverable in the foreseeable future as the Company
has signiﬁcant accumulated tax losses in the UK. Consequently, the deferred
tax asset of £11.1 million, which had been recognised at 31 December 2004,
has been written off through reserves.
Dividend
No dividend is being declared in respect of 2005.
Post balance sheet events
On 23 January 2006 Spirent announced that it had entered into an agreement
to acquire SwissQual for an initial consideration of CHF 62.5 million 
(£27.7 million).The initial consideration was paid in cash on completion on
23 January 2006 out of cash resources and utilisation of a new bank facility
that was set up specifically for the purpose. A further CHF 28.0 million
(£12.4 million) is payable in 2007 depending on revenue growth and various
technical milestones.
We also announced on 13 February 2006 the acquisition of QuadTex for
$7.5 million (£4.2 million), payable in cash on completion with a further 
$1.5 million (£0.9 million) payable depending on certain technical milestones
and the retention of key employees.
The disposal of the HellermannTyton Division was completed on 
15 February 2006 when proceeds of £288.9 million (for a cash free/debt 
free equivalent value) were received. These proceeds have been applied 
as follows:
• Repayment of the senior loan notes of $124.8 million (£71.5 million).
• Payment of the make whole amount (an amount which becomes payable
on the early redemption of the senior loan notes) of $12.9 million 
(£7.4 million).
• Break fees of £2.3 million in respect of interest rate swaps taken out in
connection with the senior loan notes.
• Special contribution of £47.0 million to the UK final salary pension
scheme.
• Repayment and cancellation of the bank facility in connection with the
acquisition of SwissQual.
Taking these transactions into account the pro forma cash balance is
approximately £150 million, of this, up to £50 million has been earmarked
to fund the on-market share repurchase programme. The programme is
expected to begin in the second quarter, following the completion of certain
actions: establishing distributable reserves in the parent Company, clearance
from the Pension Regulator and the approval from shareholders to make on-
market share repurchases of up to 14.99 per cent of our issued Ordinary
share capital.
Following the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division the Company issued
notices of cancellation in respect of all its borrowing facilities.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
Spirent has applied IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, for the ﬁrst
time with effect from 1 January 2005. The effect of the transition to IFRS
on the ﬁnancial information now being presented, including restatement of
comparatives and the accounting policies adopted, has not materially
changed from the information provided in the document issued by Spirent
on 15 July 2005 and entitled ‘Transition to International Financial Reporting
Standards’.
The most signiﬁcant impacts have been in relation to:
• The elimination of the charge for goodwill amortisation.
• The change in the proﬁt or loss on the disposal of operations.
• An increase in the charge for share-based payment.
Overall, this has had a net beneﬁcial effect on Spirent’s historic reported
earnings for 2003 and 2004, however the adoption of IFRS has no impact
on the cash generation of the Group.
Operating profit/(loss) and return on sales are used by the Group as key measures of
operating performance and are stated in the text before the effect of material one-time
items, goodwill impairment and share-based payment so that period-on-period comparisons
are not distorted.
The HellermannTyton Division for the purposes of these results has been presented as a
discontinued operation and our financial results are presented and discussed for the
continuing Spirent Group, unless otherwise stated. Executive directors 
1. Anders Gustafsson, Chief Executive (45) 
● ●
Anders Gustafsson was appointed Chief Executive in August 2004. Prior to
joining the Company he was the Senior Executive Vice President – Global
Business Operations of Tellabs, Inc.
2. Eric Hutchinson, Finance Director (50) 
Eric Hutchinson was appointed Finance Director in 2000, having previously
been responsible for all ﬁnancial reporting and control within the Group.
He is also a non-executive director and Chairman of the audit committee
of Trifast plc.
Non-executive directors 
3. John Weston CBE, Chairman (54) 
●● ●
John Weston CBE was appointed non-executive Chairman in 2002 and is
Chairman of the Nomination Committee. He was Chief Executive of BAE
SYSTEMS plc from 1998 to 2002. He is also non-executive Chairman of
iSOFT Group plc,Acra Controls and learndirect – the University for Industry.
4. James Wyness (68) 
●●● ●
James Wyness was appointed to the Board in 1979 and is the senior
independent director. He was previously Managing Partner then Senior
Partner of Linklaters. He is a non-executive director and was previously
Chairman of Saracens Limited. He will retire from the Board with effect
from the date of the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
5. Marcus Beresford CBE (63) 
●●● ●
Marcus Beresford CBE was appointed to the Board in 1999 and is Chairman
of the Remuneration Committee. He was previously Chief Executive of GKN
plc. He is also non-executive Chairman of Ricardo plc and a non-executive
director of Cobham plc.
6. Frederick D’Alessio (57) 
●● ●
Frederick D’Alessio was appointed to the Board in January 2004. He was
previously President of Advanced Services at Verizon Communications Inc.
He is a general partner and founder of Capitol Management Partners and
sits on the boards of SS8 Networks, Inc.,Aware, Inc., Hatteras Networks, Inc.
and Network Equipment Technologies, Inc.
7. Göran Ennerfelt (65) 
● ●
Göran Ennerfelt was appointed to the Board in 2000. He is President and
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Axel Johnson Gruppen AB, a member of the Axel
Johnson Group. He is also Vice Chairman of the Confederation of Swedish
Enterprise, as well as a non-executive director of Svenska Handelsbanken
and the Swedish National Committee of the International Chamber of
Commerce.
8. Andrew Given (58) 
●●● ●
Andrew Given was appointed to the Board in 2003 and is Chairman of the
Audit Committee. He was formerly Deputy Chief Executive of Logica plc.
He is also the senior independent non-executive director and Chairman of
the audit committees of both VT Group plc and Spectris plc.
9. Kurt Hellström (62) 
●● ●
Kurt Hellström was appointed to the Board in December 2004. He was
formerly President and Chief Executive Officer of Ericsson. He is also a
member of the board of directors of Atlas Copco AB, Bharti Tele-Ventures
Limited, Kineto Wireless, Gemplus International S.A., VTI, Far EasTone
Telecommunications, Symsoft AB and EQT.
12 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Board of directors
● Audit Committee
● Remuneration Committee
● ●
Nomination Committee
All the directors are considered independent of the management of the
Company with the exception of Anders Gustafsson, Eric Hutchinson and
Göran Ennerfelt.
Further biographical details of the directors can be found on the Company’s
website at www.spirent.com. The executive directors are supported by a
team of senior management and their biographies can also be found on
the Company’s website.
12 3 5 4
6 78 9 We recognise that our social, environmental and ethical conduct has an impact
on our reputation. We therefore take our corporate social responsibilities
(“CSR”) seriously and are committed to advancing our policies and systems
across the Group to ensure we address and monitor all aspects of CSR that
are relevant to our business. These include good ethical behaviour, concern
for employee health and safety, care for the environment and community
involvement.
We strive to maintain a productive and open dialogue with all parties who
may have an interest in our activities including shareholders, customers,
suppliers and employees.We have an established investor relations programme,
conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys, monitor supplier performance
and actively encourage feedback from our employees using a variety of methods
including employee surveys. We maintain our website as one of the main
routes for providing information to interested parties and for contacting us.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is committed to developing
and implementing appropriate policies while adhering to a fundamental
commitment to create and sustain long term value for shareholders. As a
Group driven largely by technological innovation, our main assets are the
talents and skills of the people we employ.The Board does not believe that,
to date, the activities of the Group present any signiﬁcant environmental
risks.We have established a committee to coordinate Group-wide CSR efforts.
Ethics 
Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance with high
ethical standards of business practice. We apply these standards to all
dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Group’s Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the Board, is available
on our website at www.spirent.com. Our Ethics Policy has been developed
to ensure that the Group’s business is conducted in adherence with high
ethical and legal principles and sets standards of professionalism and
integrity for all employees and operations worldwide. The following is a
summary of the Ethics Policy:
– all employees have the right and responsibility to ensure that Spirent’s
business is conducted with high ethical and legal principles;
– our policy is to operate within applicable laws;
– discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated;
– as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations;
– no bribes shall be given or received;
– conﬂicts of interest must be avoided;
– we aim to be a responsible partner within our local communities; and
– employees are encouraged and supported to report, in conﬁdence, any
suspected wrongdoings (“whistleblowing”).
Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Group’s internal
control process.
Employees 
The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre of
employees within the context of an operating structure that encourages
their contribution and development.
An environment that fosters innovation and supports a culture of
entrepreneurship and partnership are critical to Spirent’s success.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes are
developed for both technical and management staff.
Employees are provided with numerous learning and development
opportunities to fulﬁl their potential. A wide variety of both technical and
managerial courses and training materials are available to employees, as
are local undergraduate and postgraduate educational opportunities to 
help them to enhance their careers. These employment development
opportunities are structured to align with both the Group and Business
Units’ goals and objectives.
Spirent demonstrates that it values its employees through several reward
and recognition programmes. The Engineering Fellowship Programme
honours the top technical talent within the organisation, connecting 
the best and the brightest of Spirent’s technical expertise. The Spirit of
Spirent programme tracks outstanding service using Spirent’s core values –
customer focus, innovation, collaboration, contribution, continuous learning
and ethics. This programme is implemented across the Communications
group to encourage and reward significant contributions to Spirent 
by employees. Furthermore, the annual Innovation Awards programme
recognises all facets of contributions to Spirent, including outstanding sales,
technical innovations and general business innovations.
Similarly, the importance of two-way communication is recognised
particularly as it relates to the business and its performance. Business Unit
management is responsible for developing and implementing arrangements
for employee information, consultation, communication and involvement
which best meet their own particular needs within the context of a 
Group cascade process. A variety of tools are utilised to foster two-way
communications, including senior management meetings, ‘all-hands’
employee meetings, the regular distribution of an employee newsletter, and
the intranet. In addition, in 2005 Spirent undertook its ﬁrst all-employee
survey in its Communications group in an effort to better understand the
needs of its employee base. Actions from the survey will be implemented
throughout 2006 and beyond.
Leadership development and succession planning are processes which are
also critical to the success of the business. These plans are regularly
discussed and updated as the competition for talented employees increases
and the leadership needs of our business grow. Formal performance reviews
are conducted and are linked to the values of the organisation.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all existing
and prospective employees without unlawful or unfair discrimination. Full
support is given to the employment and advancement of disabled persons
and this is reinforced through the Group’s Ethics Policy.
Health and safety 
The Chief Executive is the director appointed by the Board to have
responsibility for the health and safety and environmental performance of
the Group.
The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for the management
of health and safety on the local Business Unit management, who are
supported by the Group internal control team and local external advisers,
where necessary.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 13
Corporate social responsibility statement Each Business Unit has a senior individual designated as being responsible
for ensuring the Business Unit conforms to local statutory health and safety
regulations as well as Group policy. All Business Units provide employees
with a written health and safety policy.
Spirent’s ‘Operational Excellence Programme’ which is further described in
the Directors’ statement on corporate governance on pages 17 to 19,
continues to further the corporate objective of continuous improvement in
the area of health and safety. An annual internal report on our health and
safety performance is collated from a questionnaire completed by all our
Business Units. The highlights of this report in respect of 2005 are:
– we had 422 incidents that required on-site First Aid, a small increase from
2004 but eight down compared with 2003;
– we saw a decrease in ill health/long term sickness levels with three cases
reported compared with ﬁve in 2004 and three in 2003;
– we saw a reduction in accident frequency and severity; and 
– we had three accidents that required short term hospitalisation compared
with two in 2004 and one in 2003.
Independent external reviews of the Company’s health and safety
performance are conducted annually. Regular designated health and safety
awareness training programmes, particularly at our manufacturing sites, are
also carried out.
The Group’s health and safety performance and signiﬁcant risk exposures
are reviewed regularly by management, twice a year by the Audit Committee
and annually by the Board.
Environmental 
Good environmental practice and the impact that our operations have on
the environment are of great importance to Spirent. The main aim of
Spirent’s Environmental Policy is to comply with local, state and national
environmental legislation in all jurisdictions in which we operate and to
adopt responsible environmental practices.The full text of our Environmental
Policy is available on our website at www.spirent.com.
Business Units are required to comply with Group policy and local statutory
regulations and are encouraged to set their own environmental targets. An
annual environmental questionnaire is completed by each Business Unit
which highlights their environmental performance.
Our Network Products group’s manufacturing sites worldwide operate 
ISO 14001 accredited environmental management systems. In addition,
various sales and distribution locations worldwide have achieved ISO 
14001 accreditation and a number are working towards achieving this
accreditation.The Communications group’s businesses are also introducing
formal environmental management systems, with a number having already
achieved ISO 14001 accreditation.
The majority of Spirent Group manufacturing sites have ISO 9001 accreditation
and, in the case of the Service Assurance division, also TL-9000 accreditation.
Business units closely monitor energy consumption and where possible
have introduced energy efficient measures, such as replacing existing
equipment with more energy efﬁcient machinery, installing light sensors
and ﬁtting temperature control devices.
A large proportion of our products are designed and manufactured to take
account of the recycling and disposal of the product at the end of its life
cycle. Our businesses comply with The Waste Electrical and Electronic
Equipment Regulations (“the WEEE Regulations”) and are working towards
full compliance with The Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous
Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2004 (“the
RoHS Regulations”).
The environmental performance of the Group continues to improve with
Business Units meeting goals for reducing energy consumption, reducing
waste and greater recycling. There are also programmes in place aimed at
reducing the amount of waste sent to landﬁll by increasing the volume of
recycling and also training and education initiatives to promote and improve
environmental performance.
The vacant site where historic activity had led to minor land contamination
is continuing to be remedied with full cooperation of the local statutory body.
Group performance and risk exposure reviews are undertaken in parallel
with those for health and safety as described above.
Community 
Spirent recognises the signiﬁcance of local communities and through our
Charitable Donations Policy we strive to be a responsible partner in the
communities in which we operate. We encourage all our businesses to
support the particular needs of their communities by contributing to local
charities and community initiatives. Support takes the form of employee
time and skills, gifts in kind and cash donations. In 2005, Spirent made
charitable cash donations of £96,000 (2004 £63,000).
In support of relief efforts following Hurricane Katrina in the United States,
the Company matched employee donations. Spirent also took actions to
help customers that were affected by the hurricane by offering equipment
and personnel to assist them in restoring their networks.
In 2005, we continued to support education in our local communities by
offering internships and work experience programmes. In the US we
participated in a programme which introduces local high school students
to jobs related to engineering.Through Junior Achievement, an organisation
which educates young people about business, economics and free enterprise,
we are involved in an annual ‘job shadow’ day which pairs a student to an
employee in many aspects of the business.
Our employees help the communities in which we operate by volunteering
their time to various programmes including Habitat for Humanity, an
organisation working to eliminate poverty housing.We continue to donate
materials and equipment to local causes throughout the world. During 2005,
donations included computers to those affected by the Asian tsunami,
computer screens and furniture to local schools and mobile phones to a
women’s shelter.We encourage our employees to become involved in fund
raising activities for local concerns and community initiatives. Through
activities such as ‘food drives’, collections and sponsored events our
businesses help organisations which provide food and clothing to people
around the world.
Spirent continues to support and encourage all our employees and businesses
to ﬁnd new ways of helping their communities.
14 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Corporate social responsibility statement continued The directors present their Report, the audited consolidated financial
statements and the parent Company ﬁnancial statements for the year to
31 December 2005.
Principal activities, business review and results 
The principal activities, review and results for the year (inclusive of ﬁnancial
performance, likely future developments and prospects) are set out on pages
2 to 11. Principal divisions, subsidiaries and associates are listed on page 114.
Dividends 
No interim dividend was paid during the year (2004 nil) and the directors
do not recommend the payment of a ﬁnal dividend (2004 nil).
Research and development 
Product development and innovation are considered key strategies to
maintain and improve the Group’s competitive position and therefore
continue to receive high priority. This commitment is highlighted by the
£62.8 million research and development spend during the year, equivalent to
14 per cent of sales (2004 £67.3 million and 14 per cent).The Company will
continue to commit resources as appropriate to research and development.
Major transactions 
On 19 September 2005, the Company announced that it had started the
formal process that was expected to result in the sale of its HellermannTyton
Division. On 15 February 2006, the sale of the division to funds controlled
by Doughty Hanson & Co Limited for a cash free/debt free equivalent value
of approximately £288.9 million was completed. Further details of the
transaction are set out in notes 37 and 40 to the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements and note 23 to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements.
On 23 January 2006, the Company announced the acquisition of SwissQual
Holding AG for an initial consideration of £27.7 million paid in cash, with
up to a further £12.4 million payable depending on revenue growth and
various technical and financial milestones. On 13 February 2006 the
Company announced the acquisition of QuadTex Systems, Inc for an initial
consideration of £4.2 million with further consideration of up to £0.9 million.
Share capital 
Changes in the Company’s share capital during the period are given in note
32 to the consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent
Company ﬁnancial statements.
Substantial shareholdings 
At the date of this Report, the Company had been notiﬁed of the following
interests in 3 per cent or more of its issued Ordinary share capital:
% held 
Barclays plc 13.2
Lexa BV 12.4
Fidelity Investments 8.0
Prudential plc 3.4
Legal & General Group plc 3.1
Sun Life Assurance of Canada 3.1
Additional shareholder information, including a profile of shareholdings,
appears on page 118.
Share listings 
The primary listing for the Company’s Ordinary shares is on the London
Stock Exchange.The Company’s Ordinary shares are also traded on the New
York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares and these
are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”), each one of which
represents four Ordinary shares. The Bank of New York is the authorised
Depositary bank for the Company’s ADR programme.
Directors 
The names and brief biographical details of the current directors are shown
on page 12. All held ofﬁce throughout the year and up to the date of this
Report. James Wyness will retire from the Board with effect from the date
of the 2006 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).
Retirement and election of directors 
Pursuant to the Company’s Articles of Association and the revised Combined
Code on Corporate Governance (see the Directors’ statement on corporate
governance on pages 17 to 19), John Weston will retire at the AGM on 
3 May 2006 and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. He does not
have a service contract with the Company.
Directors’ interests 
Göran Ennerfelt has a connected notiﬁable interest in the Spirent Ordinary
shares held by Lexa BV (see Substantial shareholdings on this page) which,
for statutory purposes, is also deemed to be an interest of the director.
The directors’ interests (including those of their immediate families and
any connected persons) in the share capital of the Company are set out in
the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 20 to 26.
Save as disclosed, no contracts or arrangements have been entered into
during the year or subsisted at the year end in which any director had,
directly or indirectly, a material interest which was signiﬁcant in relation to
the Group’s business.
Employees 
The Group’s and the Company’s employment policies regarding disabled
persons and further information on employee training, development and
involvement is explained in the Corporate social responsibility statement
on pages 13 and 14.
Employee share schemes 
The Company operates a number of share incentive schemes, details of
which can be found in note 32 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
and note 17 to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements.
Social responsibility and donations 
The Group’s Corporate social responsibility statement appears on pages 
13 and 14. Charitable donations of £96,000 were made in the year (2004
£63,000). This amount excludes operating units’ support and participation
in local community activities. No political donations were made in the year
(2004 nil).
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 15
Report of the directors Creditor payment policy 
Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and
conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are
conducted and it is Group policy to comply with those terms and to make
suppliers aware of them.
At 31 December 2005, the Company had an average of 48 days purchases
outstanding in trade creditors (2004 54 days).
Corporate governance 
The Directors’ statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 17
to 19.The Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of preparing the
ﬁnancial statements appears below.
Going concern 
After making enquiries, the directors conﬁrm that they have a reasonable
expectation that the Group and Company has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
the going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing the ﬁnancial
statements.
Annual General Meeting 
The AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 3 May 2006 at The
Copthorne Hotel (London Gatwick), Copthorne Way, Copthorne, Crawley,
West Sussex RH10 3PG, United Kingdom.
Auditors 
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorising 
the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the
forthcoming AGM.
By Order of the Board 
Paul Eardley 
Company Secretary 
23 February 2006 
16 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Report of the directors continued
The directors are responsible for:
– keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and 
the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, for the Group,Article 4 of the
International Accounting Standards Regulation; and 
– taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
Company’s website. Financial information published on the website is based
on legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of
ﬁnancial statements that may be different from comparable legislation in
other jurisdictions.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the ﬁnancial statements
The Companies Act 1985 requires directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements
for each accounting period which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the accounting period
and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing the
ﬁnancial statements the directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
– make judgements and estimates that are both reasonable and prudent;
– state whether applicable accounting standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union or UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice, as appropriate, have been followed, subject
to any material departures being disclosed and explained in the notes to
the ﬁnancial statements; and
– provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific
requirements is insufﬁcient to enable users to understand the impact of
particular transactions, other events and conditions on the financial
position and ﬁnancial performance of the entity. The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate
governance, the process by which the Group is directed and managed, risks
are identiﬁed and controlled and effective accountability assured.The Board
considers that it has complied throughout the year under review with the
requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (“the Code”)
which was issued in 2003. This statement describes how the principles and
provisions of corporate governance set out in the Code have been applied
within the Group.
The Board 
The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, six further non-executive
directors and two executive directors, details of whom are given on page
12. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with a clear
division of responsibility between them which is set out in writing and
agreed by the Board.
The size, balance and composition of the Board supports the Board’s 
role, which is to determine the long term direction and strategy of the
Group, create value for shareholders, monitor the achievement of business
objectives, ensure that good corporate governance is practised and to ensure
that the Group meets its other responsibilities to its shareholders, customers
and other stakeholders. The Board is also responsible for ensuring that
appropriate processes are in place in respect of succession planning for
appointments to the Board and to senior management positions.
The non-executive directors (each appointed for an initial three year term)
have a wide range of skills and experience which helps to ensure that
independent judgement is exercised on issues such as strategy and
performance and also that a proper balance of power is maintained for full
and effective control. The non-executive directors (in particular the
Chairman) devote sufﬁcient time and attention as necessary in order to
perform their duties. Other professional commitments of the non-executive
directors are provided in their biographies on page 12.
The Board requires that all non-executive directors are independent in
character and judgement and the independence of each director is reviewed
at least annually. As Göran Ennerfelt has a material notiﬁable interest in
the share capital of the Company (see the Report of the directors on pages
15 and 16), the Board has concluded that he is not to be considered as
independent of the management of the Company. In accordance with the
Code, the Board has reviewed the independence of James Wyness, who has
served on the Board in excess of nine years. The review concluded that
James Wyness is independent in character and in the exercise of his
judgement, and for these reasons the Board considers him to be independent.
The senior independent director is available to meet shareholders upon
request if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels
of the Chairman or executive directors has failed to resolve, or for which
such contact is inappropriate. James Wyness served as the senior
independent director during 2005 and will continue to do so until he retires
from the Board at the date of the 2006 Annual General Meeting. Marcus
Beresford will serve as the senior independent director thereafter.
It is the policy of the Board to hold at least six Board meetings a year,
including a meeting to review and approve long term strategy. There were
nine Board meetings during 2005. Full attendance of the Board is expected
at meetings and in 2005 all directors attended except for the following
absences: Marcus Beresford (1), Frederick D’Alessio (1), Andrew Given (2),
Göran Ennerfelt (3) and Kurt Hellström (3). The reasons for the absences
were due to either unavoidable changes in the Board meeting calendar at
short notice, the director being ill or the director having to be elsewhere for
other urgent business. Where the director was absent, full documentation
for the meeting was issued and brieﬁngs were provided as appropriate.
A schedule of matters speciﬁcally reserved for the Board’s decision has been
adopted whilst certain other responsibilities have been delegated to four
standing Committees with clearly defined terms of reference which,
together with the composition of each Committee, are reviewed annually.
Each Committee is provided with sufficient resources so that it may
undertake its duties. The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration
and Nomination Committees are available upon request to the Company
Secretary and are also available on the Company’s website.
The executive directors are supported by senior managers who are responsible
for assisting in the development and achievement of the Group’s corporate
strategy, business plans, budgets and for reviewing operational and ﬁnancial
performance.The team, together with the executive directors, are responsible
for agreeing and monitoring policies and other matters not reserved for the
Board. Further details of the senior management team can be found on the
Company’s website.
To ensure good communication between the Board and each Committee,
the Company Secretary is the appointed Secretary to all standing Board
Committees.
All directors receive appropriate training and induction upon appointment
and subsequently as necessary. Non-executive directors enhance their
understanding of the Group through regular business sector presentations,
the receipt of monthly reports from the Chief Executive and site visits. The
Chairman and the executive directors are responsible for ensuring that the
Board receives accurate and clear information in a timely manner for Board
meetings and on other occasions.
The Board has established a process to evaluate the performance of the
Board, its Committees and individual directors.The evaluation process includes
self-assessment by the Board and key processes include assessments of the:
– relevant contribution of the Board, each Committee, each director and
the overall composition of the Board;
– effectiveness of the leadership of the Company Chairman;
– effectiveness of relationships and communications with key management
and other stakeholders; and 
– quality of information provided to the Board to enable it to perform 
its duties.
Key outputs of the process are used to further improve areas which are
working well and to address any weaknesses.
In addition to the evaluation process, the Chairman holds regular meetings
with the other non-executive directors at which executive directors are not
present. The senior independent director also holds, at least annually, a
meeting of the other non-executive directors at which the Chairman is not
present to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 17
Directors’ statement on corporate governance The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal action against
its directors and certain other ofﬁcers.The directors also have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary (and if necessary, access to
further independent advice, at the Company’s expense), who advises the
Board and its Committees in respect of their procedures, directors’ duties
and responsibilities, corporate governance and all compliance matters. The
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved
to the Board.
Board appointments 
The Company’s Articles of Association require that all directors seek election
by shareholders at the ﬁrst Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) following their
appointment. They also require that all directors seek re-election at least
every three years.
Board Committees 
Acquisitions and Divestments Committee 
Chairman, Anders Gustafsson 
The Acquisitions and Divestments Committee comprises the executive
directors and any two non-executive directors. The Committee is primarily
concerned with the evaluation and approval of any acquisitions and
divestments delegated to it by the Board.
Audit Committee 
Chairman, Andrew Given 
The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors.
The Code requires that the Audit Committee includes a member who has
recent, signiﬁcant and relevant ﬁnancial experience and the Board believes
that Andrew Given provides such experience.
During 2005, the Committee held ﬁve meetings at which there was full
attendance by all Committee members. At all meetings the external
auditors, the Chief Executive, the Chairman, the Finance Director, the Head
of Internal Control and the Head of Financial Reporting are in attendance.
Other directors who are not members may attend at the invitation of the
Committee Chairman.The Committee also meets with the external auditors
in private for part of each meeting.
The Committee reviews all published ﬁnancial statements and post audit
ﬁndings before their presentation to the Board, focusing in particular on
accounting policies, compliance, management judgement and estimates. It
also monitors the Group’s internal control and risk management regime
(including the effectiveness of the internal audit function) and ﬁnancial
reporting. Any significant findings or identified weaknesses are closely
examined so that appropriate action can be taken, monitored and reported
to the Board.
The Audit Committee also advises the Board on the appointment of external
auditors and on the scope, results and cost effectiveness of both audit and
non-audit work. The Committee has adopted a policy which prohibits
certain types of non-audit work from being performed by the Company’s
auditors, particularly where auditor objectivity and independence would be
at risk. Other non-audit work which may be provided by the auditor is put
to tender where considered appropriate. Prior to any non-audit work being
awarded to the auditors, consideration is also given to costs, quality of
service and efficiency. The Audit Committee also assesses the overall
objectivity of the auditors’ services so that an independent professional
relationship is maintained. Details of the auditors’ remuneration for 2005
appear in note 5 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Nomination Committee 
Chairman, John Weston 
The Nomination Committee comprises all the non-executive directors and
the Chief Executive and meets at least once a year. During 2005, the
Committee held three meetings at which there was full attendance by 
all Committee members. The Committee is responsible for reviewing 
the composition and structure of the Board and for identifying and
recommending candidates for executive and non-executive positions, based
on the required role and capabilities which have been specified for the
appointment. Executive search consultants are used by the Committee to
assist this process as appropriate.
Remuneration Committee 
Chairman, Marcus Beresford 
The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of independent non-
executive directors. During 2005, the Committee held four meetings at
which there was full attendance by all Committee members. Other directors
who are not members may attend at the invitation of the Committee
Chairman.
No director is involved in determining his own remuneration.The Remuneration
Committee has delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for all
executive directors and the Chairman, whilst the Board is responsible for
setting the remuneration of the other non-executive directors.
Further details on the Remuneration Committee are included in the Report
on directors’ remuneration on pages 20 to 26.
Relations with shareholders 
The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and
communication with shareholders. Communication is facilitated by full year
and interim reports issued to shareholders. Further information and services
available to shareholders are described on page 118.
A valuable dialogue has been established with principal institutional
investors through a programme of investor relations events throughout the
year. During the year, the Company also discussed major remuneration and
long term incentive proposals with principal investors prior to the required
shareholder approval. In addition to a dialogue with principal shareholders,
the Board also commissions external advisers to undertake investor
perception reviews, the results of which are reported to the Board. All
contact with institutional investors, financial analysts, fund managers,
brokers and the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the
protection of inside information during such dialogue.
It is the Company’s practice to issue the Notice convening the AGM at least
20 working days before the meeting and to propose separate resolutions
on each substantially separate issue.All directors are expected to attend the
AGM to take any relevant questions.A report showing the number of proxy
votes cast for, against and withheld for each resolution is available for
shareholders attending the AGM in respect of resolutions which have 
been voted on by a show of hands. These results are also posted on the
Company’s website.
18 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Directors’ statement on corporate governance continued Internal control 
Introduction 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal
control, which comprises a process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the risks faced by the Group and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness in
accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control (“Turnbull”).
The Board conﬁrms that this process was in place throughout the year under
review and up to the date of approval of these ﬁnancial statements. The
primary aim is to operate a system which is appropriate to the business and
which can, over time, increase shareholder value whilst safeguarding the
Group’s assets.The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Process 
The Group’s ‘Operational Excellence Programme’ ensures that internal
control and risk management processes continue to become embedded in
the organisation. Day-to-day responsibility for effective internal control and
risk monitoring rests with senior management at operating group and
business unit level.
Spirent operates corporate internal control and risk management functions
which report into the Head of Internal Control. The functions operate on a
global basis and play a key role in providing an objective view and continuing
assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout
the Group to operating management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The work programme of the functions is focused on the areas perceived to
be of greatest risk to the Group and is agreed annually in advance by the
Audit Committee.
The Group’s system of internal control and risk management comprises an
integrated risk management strategy consisting of regular self-assessment
encompassing all operating units and preparation of a remedial action plan,
as appropriate. This system is coordinated by Spirent’s corporate internal
control and risk management functions. Signiﬁcant risks are also regularly
reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
In addition to this process, the following key elements are critical to the
overall internal control environment:
– an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, deﬁned lines
of responsibility and delegated levels of authority;
– an Ethics Policy (which has been approved by the Board), which sets
standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and
operations. The Ethics Policy also includes “whistleblowing” procedures
whereby employees may report, in conﬁdence, suspected wrongdoings;
– a comprehensive strategic planning, financial control and budgeting
system which is properly documented and regularly reviewed; and 
– a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence process and post
acquisition integration programme.
Review of effectiveness 
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of
the system of internal controls for the period under review, taking account
of material developments since that date using the process set out above.
US corporate governance compliance 
As the Company has a secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange
(“NYSE”), it is subject to certain US legislation. Following the introduction
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the US, NYSE introduced new
corporate governance standards. Companies which do not have their
primary listing on NYSE (such as Spirent) are generally permitted to follow
home country practice (ie the UK Listing Rules and the Code) in lieu of
NYSE’s standards. Generally, NYSE’s corporate governance standards do not
vary signiﬁcantly from those adopted in the UK, however, NYSE rules require
any such signiﬁcant variances to be disclosed. Following a review of NYSE
corporate governance standards, the following are considered signiﬁcant
variances to home country practice:
– NYSE rules provide that nomination committees should consist entirely
of independent directors. Spirent’s Nomination Committee (whose
constitution is in accordance with the Code) includes Anders Gustafsson
and Göran Ennerfelt, neither of whom are independent;
– NYSE rules provide that nomination/corporate governance committees
are responsible for developing and recommending to the Board a set of
corporate governance principles applicable to the Company. Spirent,
however, reserves these responsibilities for the whole Board (in accordance
with the Code); and 
– NYSE rules require audit committees to be directly responsible for the
appointment and retention of the Company’s external auditor. Spirent’s
Audit Committee, however, in accordance with the Code, is responsible
for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and
retention of the auditor.
In accordance with NYSE requirements, the above summary of signiﬁcant
variances in corporate governance practices can be found on the Company’s
website at www.spirent.com.
Pensions governance 
The Group’s principal pension and retirement schemes exist in the UK and
the US. Scheme funds are held separately from those of the Group and are
administered by Trustees (which include employees and independent
members).The schemes do not lend money or lease any assets to the Group.
Following completion of the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division 
on 15 February 2006, the Company made a special contribution of 
£47.0 million into the UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme, which substantially
funds the scheme.
Reporting 
The Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of preparing the
ﬁnancial statements is set out on page 16. A report by the auditors, Ernst
& Young LLP, which includes details of their responsibilities in respect of
the Group’s compliance with the Code, is set out on page 27.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 19 1. Introduction and compliance 
This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee (“the
Committee”) and approved by the Board in compliance with statutory
requirements and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (“the
Code”) issued in 2003.
The Board considers that it has complied throughout the year under review
with the requirements of the Code. The Directors’ statement on corporate
governance and this Report describe how the principles of corporate
governance set out in the Code have been applied within the Group.
2. Role and remit of the Remuneration Committee 
The composition of the Committee, made up wholly of independent 
non-executive directors, is given on page 12. The Committee makes
recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy and framework 
of executive remuneration and its cost. The Committee also determines 
the remuneration of each executive director and certain other senior
executives. In addition, the Committee is responsible on behalf of the Board
for monitoring and managing shareholder dilution arising from share
incentive plans.
In order to assist the Committee in carrying out its duties, during the year
the Committee consulted on a regular basis with its independent external
remuneration advisers. During the year the Committee retained Watson
Wyatt (who are also consultant actuaries to the Company on pension
matters) as advisers. Other advisers during the year were as follows
(additional services provided, all by appointment of the Company, are shown
alongside in brackets):
– JPMorgan Cazenove Limited (who are one of the Company’s brokers);
– Kepler Associates; and 
– Linklaters (who are one of the Company’s legal advisers).
The Committee also consulted with the Company’s Senior Vice President
of Human Resources, Head of Compensation and Beneﬁts and the Company
Secretary regarding remuneration and related corporate governance issues.
In addition, with respect to the remuneration of senior executives (for whom
the Company’s remuneration policy also applies, see below), the Committee
also consulted with the Chief Executive.
3. Remuneration policy 
The Company’s remuneration policy, which has not changed during the year
and will apply for the following ﬁnancial year, is to:
– attract, retain and motivate the high calibre professional, managerial and
technological expertise necessary to realise the Group’s business
objectives without paying excessively;
– ensure that the remuneration framework and its constituent reward
elements are competitive and, where appropriate, reﬂect the international
nature of the Group’s business and the markets within which it operates;
and 
– maintain the correct balance and linkage between individual and business
performance so as to align the interests of the executive with those of
shareholders, particularly that of enhancing shareholder value.
The Committee has developed remuneration packages that ﬁt this policy
on an integrated and total reward basis. This is achieved by providing 
base salary plus beneﬁts, pension beneﬁts, an annual short term incentive
bonus and discretionary awards under the Company’s share incentive 
plans, the latter two elements of which are performance-related. In normal
circumstances, it is the Committee’s policy that at least 50 per cent of an
executive director’s target total annual remuneration package is based on
performance-related elements. The recent history of the Company’s share
price volatility and its consequent impact on the ‘value’ of the long term
incentive component of the total remuneration package means in practice
that the actual balance of performance versus non-performance elements
can vary from year to year. In designing the performance-related elements
of remuneration, the Committee has followed the provisions set out in
Schedule A to the Code.
The Committee continues to monitor and review the level and constituent
elements of remuneration packages and will consult with its major
institutional shareholders as appropriate with regards to any significant
proposed changes.
4. Executive directors’ remuneration 
a) Base salary and beneﬁts 
The level of base salary is reviewed and established annually by reference
to both the performance and responsibilities of the individual and prevailing
market rates for executives of similar status in comparable companies.When
reviewing salaries, the Committee is mindful of and sensitive to the wider
scene, especially regarding employees’ pay and employment conditions
elsewhere in the Group. Following review, in respect of 2005, Anders
Gustafsson and Eric Hutchinson were awarded increases in annual base
salary of £20,000 and £13,500, respectively, bringing their total annual base
salary to £460,000 and £283,500, respectively.
Pension and other benefits have regard to competitor practice. Benefits
include a car allowance, healthcare and life insurance coverage. Pension
details are given in paragraphs 4(c), 6(b) and 6(c).
As noted above, the Company’s remuneration policy applies to senior
executives below Board level. In respect of 2005, the total remuneration (ie
base salary, bonus and taxable beneﬁts) for the lowest paid and highest
paid senior executive was £132,913 and £426,646, respectively. Average
pay for these individuals was £202,661.
b) Annual and other incentive bonus schemes 
The Committee reviews annual incentive bonus scheme targets and
performance conditions each year to incentivise the executive to meet the
short term strategic objectives of the Company.
In respect of 2005, Anders Gustafsson and Eric Hutchinson participated in
an annual cash bonus scheme which, consistent with UK market practice
and levels, was structured around a formula providing for an on-target
performance bonus of 50 per cent of base salary with a maximum of 100
per cent of base salary for exceptional performance. Performance was
measured against targets in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share
(“EPS”) and cash ﬂow, accounting for 80 per cent and 20 per cent of any
bonus, respectively. As the threshold targets for 2005 were not achieved,
neither executive director earned a bonus under the annual scheme.
20 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Report on directors’ remuneration In order to facilitate the Group’s stated strategy of focusing on growing its
Communications group whilst maximising the value of its other businesses,
both executive directors were also eligible to receive a cash bonus which was
payable dependent upon the disposal price of the HellermannTyton Division.
The bonus was structured around a formula providing for an award of up to
25 per cent of base salary.The disposal was completed on 15 February 2006
for a consideration of approximately £288.9 million, at a cash free/debt
free equivalent value, which exceeded the maximum bonus target set by the
Committee. Anders Gustafsson and Eric Hutchinson therefore received
bonuses of £115,000 and £70,875 respectively, equivalent to 25 per cent
of their base salary.
c) Directors’ pensions 
Both executive directors participate in pension plans operated by the
Company. Eric Hutchinson participates in the non-contributory funded
senior executive level of the Spirent Group Staff Pension and Life Assurance
Plan (“the Staff Plan”). This deﬁned beneﬁt arrangement will provide him
at normal retirement age of 60, and dependent on length of service, with
a pension of up to two-thirds of salary, subject to HM Revenue & Customs
limits and other statutory conditions. It also provides for dependants’
pensions and a cash lump sum on death. Pensionable salary is the director’s
base salary only.
Anders Gustafsson receives from the Company, a pension contribution of
30 per cent of basic salary. Subject to statutory limits, the Company makes
approved contributions into the executive section of the Spirent Retirement
Cash and Life Assurance Plan (“the Cash Plan”). The Executive section of
the Cash Plan is non-contributory and provides benefits on a defined
contribution basis. Contributions to the Cash Plan are held in an individual
account and invested in accordance with member elections. The Cash Plan
provides for a dependant’s pension and a cash lump sum on death in service.
In respect of those contributions which are outside of the statutory limits
the Company has established an unfunded unapproved retirement beneﬁt
(“UURB”) on a deﬁned contribution basis and the UURB balance is credited
with interest.
In 2004, the Committee conducted a review of UK executive pension
provisions in the light of the Government’s tax simpliﬁcation changes, which
are expected to come into effect in April 2006. The Committee concluded
that, in principle, it would not be appropriate for the Company to provide
additional compensation to executives who would be adversely affected
by the change. In respect of existing members of the Company’s deﬁned
benefit arrangements (which includes Eric Hutchinson), the Committee
concluded that no material changes will be made to existing arrangements.
In determining arrangements for Anders Gustafsson, the implications of the
tax simplification changes were taken into account as part of the
Committee’s deliberations on an appropriate remuneration package when
he joined the Company in 2004.
Further details of pension contributions and payments are given in
paragraphs 6(b) and 6(c).
d) Medium and long term incentive plans 
The Committee approves the grant of all awards under the Employee
Incentive Plan (“EIP”) in which executive directors participate (see below).
All grants are subject to the prior satisfactory performance of the individual
and grant amounts vary in accordance with the individual’s potential to
add value to the business over the medium to long term.
The executives are also eligible to participate in the Company’s all employee
share plans (further details of which are provided in note 32 to the
consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent Company
ﬁnancial statements).
Executive Share Option Scheme 
The Executive Share Option Scheme expired during 2005 and no grants
were made to directors under this scheme during the year. Further details
in respect of this scheme are provided in note 32 to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements and note 17 to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements.
Employee Incentive Plan
During the early part of 2005, a detailed international review was carried
out by Kepler Associates of long term incentive arrangements in similar
companies. As a result of the review and also following discussion with the
Company’s major institutional shareholders, the EIP was designed.
Details of the EIP, including the proposed grant levels, performance criteria
and vesting schedules, were explained in a circular to shareholders in April
2005 (“the 2005 Circular”). The EIP was approved by shareholders in May
2005 and both executive directors participated in this plan during the year.
Under the EIP, the Company is able to grant options and share settled stock
appreciation rights (“SARs”), the exercise of which will be subject to
challenging earnings per share (“EPS”) criteria. Performance shares may also
be granted, the vesting of which will be subject to challenging total
shareholder return (“TSR”) criteria. This combination reﬂects UK market
trends in the use of long term incentives and creates a more balanced
incentive package for executive directors.
In normal circumstances, SARs/options under the EIP will vest three years
following grant provided the Company’s EPS growth targets (after excluding
inﬂation) have been met over a three year performance period. The growth
targets in respect of the initial award to executive directors during the year
require that the Company’s EPS increases within a range of 6 per cent per
annum (for 25 per cent vesting) and 15 per cent per annum (for 100 per cent
vesting) over the performance period, with a sliding scale between these points.
In normal circumstances, performance shares under the EIP will vest three
years following grant provided the Company’s TSR targets have been met
over a three year performance period. TSR is the growth in the value of a
share or index, assuming dividends and other distributions are reinvested.
The performance conditions require Spirent’s TSR to be between the median
of a comparator group (for 30 per cent vesting) and in the upper quartile
of a comparator group (for 100 per cent vesting) over the performance
period, with a sliding scale between these points. The comparator group
consists of the 30 largest companies by market capitalisation in the FTSE
TechMARK 100 index, excluding those TechMARK companies who are also
constituents of the FTSE 100 at the commencement of the performance
period. The Committee considers the selected comparator group provides
a suitable benchmark for Spirent’s TSR.
All EIP awards will be tested once on or shortly following the third
anniversary of grant. Any part of an award which does not vest will lapse
and there will be no opportunity for retesting.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 21 The executive directors receive a mix of SARs/options and performance
shares, utilising a ratio of two SARs/options to one performance share.
At least 25 per cent of each grant is delivered in SARs/options and at least
25 per cent in performance shares, with the balance of the grant delivered
through a mix of SARs/options and performance shares as determined by
the Committee. In normal circumstances, the maximum combined award
under the EIP will be limited to 250 per cent of salary face value in SARs/
options.As explained above, grants normally consist partly of SARs/options
and partly of performance shares, with the proviso that the performance
share element may not exceed a face value of 100 per cent of salary (ie
using the ratio of two SARs/options to one performance share, the
maximum performance share award would be equivalent to 200 per cent
in SARs/options). In determining any award, the Committee will of course
have regard to all relevant circumstances.
The Committee is mindful of the need to continue to manage shareholder
dilution in a responsible manner. As explained in the 2005 Circular, the
current shareholder approved mandate includes an aggregated annual
allowance of up to 3.1 per cent of the issued share capital under the EIP and
the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan (“SSIP”). As part of the Committee’s
sustainable dilution strategy, SARs will, wherever possible, be used in lieu
of options in the operation of the EIP and SSIP.This SARs approach will help
the Company manage its actual dilution more efficiently as only the
appreciation value and not the entire share value needs to be funded when
an award is exercised.
Further information on the SARs approach, the operation of other share
schemes and shareholder dilution is provided in note 32 to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements and note 17 to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements.
The Committee believes that the grant structure, performance conditions
and grant levels under the EIP represent the most appropriate medium to
long term incentive arrangements enabling Spirent to compete for, motivate
and retain the highest calibre executives which it needs to drive the business
forward and increase shareholder value. As explained in the 2005 Circular,
the Committee proposed that the performance conditions and award
criteria in respect of the EIP will operate for two annual award cycles (ie for
2005 and 2006) and that the Company will revert to shareholders in 2007
if it wishes to propose any material changes.
In order to assist further in aligning the interests of executives and shareholders,
shareholding guidelines are in place which encourage executive directors
and certain senior executives to build up a meaningful level of shareholding
of up to two times salary through the retention of shares following exercise.
Attainment of these guidelines will be taken into account by the Committee
in determining future awards for executive directors and senior executives.
As a result of the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards
and the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division, the Committee has resolved
that it will adjust as necessary EPS performance condition measurements
in respect of outstanding SARs/options to ensure that performance is
measured on a consistent basis.
e) Service contracts 
The Committee’s policy is to offer service contracts which provide for no
more than 12 months’ notice from the Company in normal circumstances.
Anders Gustafsson entered into a service contract on 1 August 2004 which
currently has an unexpired term of 172 months and is terminable by the
Company on 12 months’ notice and by him on six months’ notice. Eric
Hutchinson entered into a service contract on 13 December 1999 which
currently has an unexpired term of 111 months and is terminable at any
time by either party on 12 months’ notice.
All contracts contain provisions for the Company to make payment in lieu
of notice and for removal of the director for poor performance or misconduct
without compensation.The Company will seek to apply practical mitigation
measures to any payment of compensation on termination, taking into
account all relevant circumstances.All service contracts contain appropriate
provisions to protect the legitimate interests of the Company with respect
to preventing any terminated director from working in a business which
competes against the Company. Service contracts do not contain any
compensation rights which could be increased on a change of control in 
the Company.
f) External appointments 
Spirent recognises the mutual beneﬁt for executive directors to serve as
non-executive directors of companies in other industries outside the Group.
Such appointments are subject to prior Board approval and any related fee
entitlements are for the account of the executive director concerned. During
2005, Eric Hutchinson served on the board of Trifast plc as a non-executive
director and received fees of £27,500 arising from this appointment.
5. Non-executive directors’ remuneration 
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee and the
remuneration of the other non-executive directors is determined by the
Board.The remuneration of all non-executive directors is reviewed following
a recommendation by the Chief Executive and after consultation with
independent external advisers concerning competitive market practice.The
Company’s remuneration policy (which has not changed during the year and
will apply for the following ﬁnancial year) with regards to non-executive
directors is to pay fees which are in line with market practice.
For 2005, the non-executive directors (apart from John Weston) were
awarded increases in basic fees of £3,000, bringing their basic fees to
£33,000 per annum. No remuneration increase was awarded to John Weston
in respect his duties as Chairman.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in bonus or share
incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify for pension
purposes or other beneﬁts. No element of their fees is performance-related.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are normally
appointed, subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, for an initial
three year term. Any subsequent extension to the term by the Board is not
automatic and is subject to prior recommendation of the Nomination
Committee.
Further information on non-executive directors’ fees is provided in
paragraph 6(a) below.
22 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Report on directors’ remuneration continued 6. Directors’ remuneration
1
a) Individual and total remuneration of the directors holding ofﬁce during 2005
Taxable Total
5
Total
5
Salary Fees
2
beneﬁts
3
Bonus
4
2005 2004
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive directors
N Brookes ––––– 295.5
M Chung ––––– 443.9
A Gustafsson 460.0 – 104.7 115.0 679.7 583.6
E Hutchinson
6
283.5 0.5 20.7 70.9 375.6 585.7
Non-executive directors
M Beresford – 40.0 – – 40.0 37.0
F D’Alessio – 38.0 – – 38.0 32.6
G Ennerfelt – 33.0 – – 33.0 30.0
A Given – 40.0 – – 40.0 37.0
K Hellström – 33.0 – – 33.0 1.9
R Moley – 13.0 – – 13.0 35.0
J Weston – 150.0 – – 150.0 150.0
J Wyness – 40.0 – – 40.0 37.0
Total 2005 743.5 387.5 125.4 185.9 1,442.3 2,269.2
Total 2004 1,040.3 361.1 176.3 691.5 2,269.2
Notes
1 Information relating to directors’ remuneration in 6(a), 6(b) and 6(c) has been audited by the Company’s auditors.
2 Eric Hutchinson earned these fees in respect of his services to the Board and its Committees.The non-executive directors receive a basic annual fee of £33,000 in respect of their services.
John Weston receives an annual fee of £150,000 which covers both his basic annual fee and his additional duties as Chairman. Andrew Given and Marcus Beresford each received an
additional £7,000 per annum in recognition of their extra responsibilities as Chairmen of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, respectively. An additional annual fee,
equivalent to that paid to the Chairman of the Audit or Remuneration Committee, is paid to the senior independent director (currently James Wyness). Frederick D’Alessio and Richard
Moley received an additional £5,000 per annum in recognition of the extensive international travelling commitment required to perform their duties.
3 Taxable beneﬁts include a car allowance, healthcare, personal tax advice, personal pensions advice and premiums for life assurance. In accordance with the Company’s normal policy it
was agreed to meet the costs, subject to a cap, of Anders Gustafsson relocating from the US to the UK in order to commence his appointment in 2004 and applicable costs are included
in his taxable beneﬁts.
4 Further details of the annual bonuses earned by the executive directors are provided in paragraph 4(b) above.
5 The ﬁgures relate to the period of each director’s Board membership. Frederick D’Alessio, Anders Gustafsson and Kurt Hellström were appointed to the Board in January 2004, August
2004 and December 2004, respectively. Nicholas Brookes, My Chung and Richard Moley ceased being directors of the Company in June 2004, September 2004 and May 2005 respectively.
6 Remuneration as shown above excludes fees received as a result of external appointments (see paragraph 4(f) above).
b) Directors’ pensions 
The pensions earned from the non-contributory deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements in place for the participating executive directors during 2005 were as follows:
Increase, Accumulated total accrued pension
Increase in before inﬂation, At At
Age at Years of accrued pension in accrued pension 31 December 31 December
31 December pensionable during the year during the year 2005
1
2004
2005 service £000 £000 £000 £000
E Hutchinson 50 20 9.0 5.0 189.0 180.0
Increase, before
Transfer value, Total transfer value of pension
2
Increase in total inﬂation, in total
Transfer value before inﬂation, At At transfer value transfer value
of the increase in of the increase in 31 December 1 January of pension of pension
accrued pension
2
accrued pension
2
2005 2005 during the year during the year
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
E Hutchinson 125.5 70.0 2,635 2,213 422 373
Notes 
1 The pension entitlements shown are those which would be paid annually from normal retirement age of 60 based on service to 31 December 2005. Eric Hutchinson’s total accrued
pension is restricted to 20 years’ service.
2 The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 and represents a liability of the Company (in respect of unfunded
arrangements) and of the Staff Plan (in respect of funded arrangements), not a sum paid or due to the individual.The transfer value cannot therefore be meaningfully added to annual remuneration.
3 No additional voluntary contributions have been included in the above table.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 23 c) Directors’ remuneration and payments to former directors – summary 
2005
1
2004
1
£000 £000
Total emoluments of all directors 1,442 2,269
Gains made on exercise of share options
2
– 8
Company contribution to 401(k) Retirement and Proﬁt Share Plan
2
– 11
Company contribution to the Cash Plan in respect of pensions
3
23 11
Ex gratia pension to former director
4
5 5
1,470 2,304
Notes
1 Figures relate to the period of each director’s Board membership.
2 An average conversion rate of £1 = $1.83 was used for 2004. This related to My Chung.
3 These payments relate to approved contributions made by the Company in respect of Anders Gustafsson’s participation in the Cash Plan. In respect of those contributions which are
outside of the statutory limits, the Company has established an unfunded unapproved retirement beneﬁt (“UURB”), which had a transfer value of approximately £166,500 at 31
December 2005 (31 December 2004 approximately £44,400).The transfer value represents a notional accumulation of the Company’s contributions. See paragraph 4(c) above for further
information on directors’ pensions.
4 This relates to an annual ex gratia pension to Geoff Bastians, who retired from the Board in 1984.
7. Directors’ interests
1
a) Summary of interests in Ordinary share capital 
The beneﬁcial and non-beneﬁcial interests of the directors (and their immediate families and any connected persons) in the Ordinary share capital of the
Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out below. The Company’s statutory register of directors’ interests contains full details of directors’
shareholdings and options over shares and is available for inspection at the registered ofﬁce during normal business hours on any business day.
At 31 December 2005 At 1 January 2005
Ordinary Ordinary Options and Ordinary Ordinary Options and
shares shares rights to acquire shares shares rights to acquire
beneﬁcial
2
non-beneﬁcial Ordinary shares
3
beneﬁcial
2
non-beneﬁcial Ordinary shares
3
Executive directors
4
A Gustafsson 50,000 180,180
5
3,232,000 – 180,180
5
1,800,000
E Hutchinson 753,707 – 4,091,733 738,381 – 3,282,447
Non-executive directors
M Beresford 65,225 – – 65,225 – –
F D’Alessio 28,000 – – 28,000 – –
G Ennerfelt
6
120,000,000 – – 119,000,000 – –
A Given ––––––
K Hellström ––––––
J Weston 1,662,000 – – 1,600,000 – –
J Wyness 346,037 – – 346,037 – –
Notes
1 Information relating to directors’ interests in 7(a) and 7(b) has been audited by the Company’s auditors.
2 Directors’ beneﬁcial holdings do not form part of the remuneration provided by the Company.
3 Options and other rights to acquire shares in respect of the executive directors include share options, share appreciation rights and performance shares.
4 The Company’s executive directors, along with other employees of the Group, are potential beneﬁciaries of certain Ordinary shares held in the Employee Share Ownership Trust
(“ESOT”). UK executive directors, with other employees of the Group, are also potential beneﬁciaries of the Spirent Sharesave Trust (“SST”). As potential beneﬁciaries of the ESOT and
the SST, the respective directors are deemed by the Companies Act 1985 to be interested in some of the Ordinary shares held by those Trusts.At 31 December 2005, the deemed beneﬁcial
interests in the ESOT and the SST were 180,180 Ordinary shares and 3,231,940 Ordinary shares, respectively (31 December 2004 259,066 and 3,508,136, respectively). Further details
on the Company’s share plans are provided in note 32 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and note 17 to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements.
5 The non-beneﬁcial interests of Anders Gustafsson arises from a conditional award over shares to a value of £100,000. The award was made in 2004 in recognition of his appointment
to the Board and the shares which were purchased are held in the ESOT. In normal circumstances, the shares will be released beneﬁcially to him on the third anniversary of his
appointment, subject to him still being in the Company’s employment at that time.
6 Göran Ennerfelt has a connected notiﬁable interest in the Spirent Ordinary shares held by Lexa BV (see the Report of the directors on pages 15 and 16), which for statutory purposes,
is also deemed to be an interest of the director.
24 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Report on directors’ remuneration continued b) Options and rights to acquire Ordinary shares 
Market
At At Exercise price value on
31 December Exercised/lapsed Granted 1 January per share date of grant Date ﬁrst
Plan type
1
2005 during the year during the year 2005 Date of grant pence pence exercisable Expiry date
A Gustafsson ESOS 1,800,000 – – 1,800,000 05 Aug 04 56 56 05 Aug 07 04 Aug 14
EIP 1,128,300 – 1,128,300 – 25 Aug 05 53 53 25 Aug 08 24 Aug 15
EIP 303,700 – 303,700 – 25 Aug 05 nil
2
53 25 Aug 08 25 Aug 08
E Hutchinson ESOS – 17,652
3
– 17,652 27 Apr 95 108 108 27 Apr 98 26 Apr 05
ESOS 42,928 – – 42,928 29 Apr 96 140 140 29 Apr 99 28 Apr 06
ESOS 33,786 – – 33,786 23 Apr 97 118 118 23 Apr 00 22 Apr 07
ESOS 29,586 – – 29,586 27 Apr 98 152 152 27 Apr 01 26 Apr 08
SRSOS 12,363 – – 12,363 22 Oct 98 83 83 01 Jan 06 30 Jun 06
ESOS 75,156 – – 75,156 01 Apr 99 133 133 01 Apr 02 31 Mar 09
ESOS – 55,562
3
– 55,562 11 May 00 334 334 11 May 03 10 May 05
ESOS 105,000 – – 105,000 09 Apr 01 305 305 09 Apr 04 08 Apr 11
SRSOS 8,693 – – 8,693 05 Oct 01 93 93 01 Dec 08 31 May 09
ESOS 234,000 – – 234,000 02 Apr 02 134 134 02 Apr 05 01 Apr 12
ESOS 387,000 – – 387,000 02 May 02 113 113 02 May 05 01 May 12
ESOS 1,128,000 – – 1,128,000 25 Mar 03 16 16 25 Mar 06 24 Mar 13
SRSOS 24,721 – – 24,721 26 Sep 03 38 38 01 Dec 10 31 May 11
ESOS 1,128,000 – – 1,128,000 05 Aug 04 56 56 05 Aug 07 04 Aug 14
EIP 695,300 – 695,300 – 25 Aug 05 53 53 25 Aug 08 24 Aug 15
EIP 187,200 – 187,200 – 25 Aug 05 nil
2
53 25 Aug 08 25 Aug 08
Notes 
1 Key to plan type:
EIP – Employee Incentive Plan; ESOS – Executive Share Option Scheme; SRSOS – UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme. An explanation of each plan and its operation is given in
note 32 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and note 17 to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements.
2 This relates to an award of performance shares under the EIP.There is no exercise price payable for a performance share upon vesting. Further details on performance shares are provided
in paragraph 4(d) above.
3 This award of options lapsed unexercised during the year.
The middle market price of an Ordinary share on 4 January 2005 (being the ﬁrst day the London Stock Exchange was open for trading in 2005) and
31 December 2005 was 51.5 pence and 49.5 pence, respectively, and during that period ranged between a high of 73.5 pence and a low of 41.25 pence.
Save as disclosed, there have been no changes between the year end and 23 February 2006 (the date on which the ﬁnancial statements have been signed)
in the directors’ beneﬁcial or non-beneﬁcial interests in the Ordinary share or loan capital of the Company or any subsidiary.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 25 8. Total Shareholder Return performance 
The graph below shows Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance (ie growth in the value of a share or index, assuming dividends and other distributions
are reinvested) for the last ﬁve ﬁnancial years of Spirent plc as shown against the FTSE 350 Index (“FTSE 350”) and the FTSE Information T echnology Index
(“FTSE IT”).The Committee believes that both the FTSE 350 and the FTSE IT provide broad equity market indices against which the performance of Spirent
can be fairly compared, and that the FTSE IT provides a particularly representative collection of comparator companies.
9. Shareholder advisory resolution in respect of the report on directors’ remuneration 
In accordance with statutory requirements, an ordinary resolution to approve this Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming 2006 Annual
General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board 
Marcus Beresford CBE 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
23 February 2006 
Rebased Index
Dec 00
Spirent
Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05
FTSE 350 FTSE IT
Financial year end
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
26 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Report on directors’ remuneration continued We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of Spirent plc for the year
ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated income
statement, Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense,
Consolidated balance sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement and the
related notes 1 to 40.These Group ﬁnancial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent Company ﬁnancial statements
of Spirent plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information
in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or
for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law
and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the
European Union as set out in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group ﬁnancial statements
give a true and fair view and whether the Group ﬁnancial statements have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
Directors’ report is not consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements, if
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding director’s remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined
Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider
whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited Group ﬁnancial statements. The
other information comprises only the Directors’ report, the Chairman’s
statement, the Chief Executive’s overview, the Operating review, the
Financial review and the Corporate governance statement. We consider 
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group ﬁnancial
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud
or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group ﬁnancial
statements.
Opinion 
In our opinion the Group ﬁnancial statements:
– give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the
European Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December
2005 and of its loss for the year then ended; and 
– have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Ernst & Y oung LLP
Registered auditor
London
23 February 2006
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 27
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Spirent plc 2005 2004 2003
Year to 31 December Notes £ million £ million £ million
Continuing operations
Revenue 3, 4 259.3 287.2 291.8
Cost of sales (153.1) (165.2) (174.3)
Gross proﬁt 106.2 122.0 117.5
Selling and distribution (70.9) (73.0) (70.0)
Administration (74.3) (34.0) (36.9)
Other operating income – 0.2 0.7
Operating (loss)/proﬁt 4 (39.0) 15.2 11.3
Add back:
Material one-time items 7 8.4 2.9 7.5
Goodwill impairment 14 37.0 ––
Share-based payment 33 5.1 4.8 0.9
Operating proﬁt before material one-time items, goodwill impairment and 
share-based payment 11.5 22.9 19.7
(Loss)/proﬁt from interests in joint ventures 18 – (0.7) 1.4
Operating (loss)/proﬁt of the Group and joint venture (39.0) 14.5 12.7
Proﬁt on the disposal of operations 37 3.9 4.0 8.6
(Loss)/proﬁt before interest (35.1) 18.5 21.3
Finance income 8 1.5 1.4 2.9
Finance costs 9 (8.1) (8.2) (12.7)
Costs associated with the part prepayment of loan notes 9 – (0.5) (16.1)
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax 4, 5 (41.7) 11.2 (4.6)
Tax 12 4.0 (2.0) 4.2
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year from continuing operations after tax (37.7) 9.2 (0.4)
Discontinued operations
Proﬁt for the year from discontinued operations 6 13.2 17.3 14.2
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year (24.5) 26.5 13.8
Attributable to:
Equity holders of parent (24.9) 26.2 13.6
Minority shareholders’ interests – discontinued operations 0.4 0.3 0.2
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year (24.5) 26.5 13.8
(Loss)/earnings per share (pence) 13
Basic (loss)/earnings (2.62) 2.79 1.46
Basic (loss)/earnings from continuing operations (3.97) 0.98 (0.04)
Diluted (loss)/earnings (2.62) 2.74 1.44
Diluted (loss)/earnings from continuing operations (3.97) 0.96 (0.04)
The notes on pages 32 to 94 and page 114 form part of these ﬁnancial statements.
28 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Consolidated income statement 2005 2004 2003
Year to 31 December Notes £ million £ million £ million
Income and expense recognised directly in equity
Gains on cash ﬂow hedges taken to equity 1.9 ––
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations 4.1 (1.5) 5.5
Actuarial (losses)/gains on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans 11 (16.1) 3.0 0.3
(10.1) 1.5 5.8
Transfers to income statement
Exchange gain transferred to proﬁt on sale – – (2.4)
Gains on cash ﬂow hedges (0.5) ––
Transfers to balance sheet
(Write off)/reinstatement of deferred tax asset on pension liability (11.1) – 12.6
Tax on exchange differences – – (0.2)
Tax on actuarial gains/(losses) – (0.9) (0.1)
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity (21.7) 0.6 15.7
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year (24.5) 26.5 13.8
Total recognised income and expense for the year 34 (46.2) 27.1 29.5
Attributable to:
Equity holders of parent (46.8) 26.9 29.4
Minority shareholders’ interests – discontinued operations 34 0.6 0.2 0.1
(46.2) 27.1 29.5
Effects of changes in accounting policy:
Equity holders of parent
Net gain on cash ﬂow hedges on ﬁrst-time application of IAS 39 0.5 ––
Net loss on fair value hedges on ﬁrst-time application of IAS 39 (1.0) ––
Loan notes at fair value on ﬁrst-time application of IAS 39 0.4 ––
(0.1) ––
The notes on pages 32 to 94 and page 114 form part of these ﬁnancial statements.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 29
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Consolidated balance sheet
30 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
2005 2004 2003
At 31 December Notes £ million £ million £ million
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 71.5 106.5 110.9
Property, plant and equipment 15 30.1 86.3 90.2
Investment in joint venture and associates 18 – 14.3 13.4
Trade and other receivables 20 1.7 1.5 1.7
Deferred tax 24 1.0 11.1 13.0
104.3 219.7 229.2
Current assets
Inventories 19 27.0 54.0 55.0
Trade and other receivables 20 56.3 88.4 85.2
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 30 2.6 ––
Cash and cash equivalents 21 49.2 51.7 37.6
135.1 194.1 177.8
Assets held in disposal group held for sale 6 164.1 ––
Total assets 403.5 413.8 407.0
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (62.9) (90.8) (87.6)
Current tax (24.7) (26.2) (24.7)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 30 (0.7) ––
Short term borrowings and overdrafts 23 (3.9) (1.8) (1.8)
Provisions and other liabilities 26 (4.1) (4.2) (4.6)
(96.3) (123.0) (118.7)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 25 (0.7) (3.9) (2.3)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 30 (2.0) ––
Long term borrowings 27 (71.2) (76.3) (93.3)
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan deﬁcit 11 (51.5) (38.1) (48.2)
Deferred tax 24 (0.8) (2.5) (2.9)
Provisions and other liabilities 26 (10.1) (9.6) (13.3)
(136.3) (130.4) (160.0)
Liabilities included in disposal group held for sale 6 (48.7) ––
Total liabilities (281.3) (253.4) (278.7)
Net assets 122.2 160.4 128.3
Capital and reserves
Share capital 32, 34 32.2 31.9 31.5
Share premium account 34 4.4 1.3 697.5
Capital reserve 34 10.2 10.9 17.7
Capital redemption reserve 34 – – 0.7
Translation reserve 34 5.5 1.6 3.0
Net unrealised gains and losses 34 1.9 ––
Retained earnings 34 66.1 113.4 (624.3)
Equity holders of parent 120.3 159.1 126.1
Minority interests 34 1.9 1.3 2.2
Total equity 122.2 160.4 128.3
The notes on pages 32 to 94 and page 114 form part of these ﬁnancial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Anders Gustafsson
Director
23 February 2006 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 31
2005 2004 2003
Year to 31 December Notes £ million £ million £ million
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 35 34.0 60.3 68.2
Tax (paid)/received (4.6) (3.1) 8.9
Net cash from operating activities 29.4 57.2 77.1
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Dividends received from associates 0.2 0.1 0.1
Interest received 1.4 1.6 3.6
Disposal of operations 37 2.4 2.5 62.0
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15 (30.5) (25.3) (16.7)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 0.6 0.5 0.9
Acquisition of subsidiaries 36 – (1.1) (1.1)
Contribution to joint venture – (0.2) (0.5)
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (25.9) (21.9) 48.3
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Interest paid (7.4) (8.4) (12.6)
Interest element of ﬁnance lease rental payments (0.5) (0.4) (0.5)
Costs associated with the part prepayment of loan notes – (2.3) (13.7)
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 2.7 1.5 0.7
New borrowings – – 9.4
Repayments of borrowings (0.2) (10.2) (152.9)
Repayments of capital element of ﬁnance lease rentals (1.4) (0.8) (0.8)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (6.8) (20.6) (170.4)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (3.3) 14.7 (45.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 51.0 36.9 83.0
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.1 (0.6) (1.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 48.8 51.0 36.9
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 21 49.2 51.7 37.6
Overdrafts 23 (0.4) (0.7) (0.7)
48.8 51.0 36.9
The notes on pages 32 to 94 and page 114 form part of these ﬁnancial statements. 1. Corporate information
The Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 23 February
2006. Spirent plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s Ordinary shares are traded on the London
Stock Exchange and, in the form of American Depositary Shares, on the New York Stock Exchange.
As required by the European Union’s IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 1985, the Group has prepared its consolidated financial statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (“EU”). IFRS as adopted by the EU differ in certain
respects from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). However, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the periods
presented would be no different had the Group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB. References to “IFRS” hereafter should be construed as references to
IFRS as adopted by the EU. The signiﬁcant accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
2. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
This is the ﬁrst year in which the Group has prepared its ﬁnancial statements under IFRS and the comparatives have been restated from UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”) to comply with IFRS. The Group issued a press release on 15 July 2005 incorporating its preliminary 
IFRS ﬁnancial statements for 2003 and 2004. The reconciliations to IFRS from the previously published UK GAAP ﬁnancial statements are summarised in
note 39.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.Where
the Group has applied different policies for part of the period since its transition to IFRS on 1 January 2003, this is explained in note 39.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the ﬁnancial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year. The
ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which
control is transferred out of the Group. All intra Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Interests in associates and joint venture
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the Group’s share of proﬁts or losses of associates and joint ventures.
Associates are those in which the Group is in a position to exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the operating
policy decisions of the investee. Results are based on management accounts to 31 December each year. The investment in associates is accounted for
using the equity method and carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate, less any
impairment in value.
Jointly controlled entities in which the Group enters into a contractual arrangement to undertake an economic activity with another party or parties that
is subject to joint control are treated as joint ventures. The investment in joint ventures is accounted for using the equity method. Results are based on
management accounts to 31 December each year.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries, representing the excess of cost over the net fair value of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities acquired, is capitalised as an intangible asset. Goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill in each cash-generating unit is tested annually for impairment and more frequently if there is any indication that the current asset value is not
recoverable.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually at business segment
level or statutory company level as the case may be.Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including
goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit, an operation within a cash-generating unit, an associate or jointly controlled entity
is included in the proﬁt or loss on its disposal.
32 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Intangible assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Separately identiﬁable intangible assets such as
patent fees, licence fees and trade marks are capitalised on the balance sheet only when the value can be measured reliably or the intangible asset is
purchased as part of the acquisition of a business. Such intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line basis.The carrying
value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets arising on the Group’s various product development projects are recognised only if all of the following conditions are met:
i) an asset is created that can be separately identiﬁed (such as software or a new process);
ii) it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic beneﬁts;
iii) the development cost can be measured reliably;
iv) it is intended that the asset is completed and used; and
v) there is adequate ﬁnancial, technical and other resources to complete, use or sell the asset.
Product development costs are expensed as incurred until the technological feasibility of the product under development has been established.Technological
feasibility in Spirent’s circumstances occurs when a working model is completed. For software development technological feasibility is not established until
the process of developing the software is complete.After technological feasibility is established, additional costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight
line basis over the estimated useful life.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment. Depreciation is not provided on freehold
land. Depreciation is provided to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of all other assets over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis
at rates which take into account commercial conditions at their location. Usual asset lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Properties held under ﬁnance leases Over the lease period
Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years
Fixtures, ﬁttings and equipment
Building installations 20 years or lease period if less
Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years
Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years
Business systems software 4 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may
not be recoverable.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when annual
impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher
of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not
generate cash inﬂows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its
recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash
ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and the
risks speciﬁc to the asset. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement of those expense categories consistent with
the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or
may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has
been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case the
carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. The increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been
determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a
systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 33 2. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Leases
Finance leases, which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned, are capitalised on the balance sheet at the lower
of fair value of the leased property and net present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liabilities are
recorded as long term or current liabilities depending on the period when they are due. The interest elements of the rental obligations are charged to the
income statement over the periods of the leases as a ﬁnance cost. Lease payments are apportioned between the ﬁnance cost and the reduction in the
lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over their useful
life as above.
Operating leases are leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset. Operating lease rentals are charged
to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. Cost includes all costs in bringing each product to its present location and
condition, being the full manufacturing cost on a ﬁrst-in-ﬁrst-out basis, including all attributable overheads based on a normal level of activity and
excluding borrowing costs. Net realisable value represents selling price less further costs to be incurred to completion and on sale.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible
amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when identiﬁed.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of
outstanding bank overdrafts.
Provisions
Provisions are recorded when the Group has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event which it is probable that the Group will
be required to settle by an outﬂow of resources and for which a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Provisions are reviewed
at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reﬂect the current best estimate.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision shall be the present value of the expenditures expected to be
required to settle the obligation.
Revenue recognition
Goods and services
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Group, the revenue can be reliably measured and when the Group has
transferred to the buyer the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership. In addition, revenue is only recognised when collectibility is probable.
For the sale of services, revenue is recognised in accounting periods in which the service is rendered. Revenue from maintenance contracts is recognised
over the period of performance.
Revenue from product sales of hardware and software is recognised at the time of delivery and acceptance and when there are no signiﬁcant vendor
obligations remaining. It is not until acceptance has occurred that the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. Terms of acceptance
are dependent upon the speciﬁc contractual arrangement agreed with the customer.
Contractual arrangements are accounted for as two or more separate transactions only where the commercial substance is that the individual components
operate independently of each other because they are capable of being provided separately from one another and it is possible to attribute reliable fair values
to every component.To the extent that a separate component comprises a product sale of hardware or software, revenue is recognised as described above.
Revenue is recognised on other components as the Group fulﬁls its contractual obligations and to the extent that it has earned the right to consideration.
34 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Foreign currencies
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Group’s functional and presentation currency. The Group determines
the functional currency of its foreign operations and items included in the ﬁnancial statements are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are measured in terms of historical costs using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transactions.
The functional currencies of the Group’s operations are principally US dollar, sterling or euro.
On consolidation the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated into the Group’s presentation currency at exchange rates
prevailing at the balance sheet date. The results of foreign operations are translated into sterling using average rates.
Equity investments in foreign operations include long term intra group loans, the settlement of which is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable
future. Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets of foreign investments and exchange adjustments arising from the
translation of the results of foreign operations, are classiﬁed as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are
recognised as part of the proﬁt or loss on disposal should an operation be disposed of. The Group has elected to apply the exemption in IFRS 1 ‘First Time
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ which allows the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be deemed to
be zero at the date of transition to IFRS. The gain or loss on the subsequent disposal of any foreign operation therefore excludes translation differences
that arose before the date of transition.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated
at closing rates of exchange. As permitted by IFRS 1 the Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions prior to the
date of transition to IFRS and treated as an asset of the parent, as sterling denominated.
All other exchange proﬁts and losses are taken to the income statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide
an effective hedge against the Group’s equity investments in foreign operations, which are taken to equity together with the exchange differences on the
carrying amount of the related investments.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. Issue costs are amortised over the expected life
of the instrument.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.Amortised
cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
From 1 January 2005, hedge accounting is adopted where derivatives such as ‘ﬁxed to ﬂoating’ interest rate swaps are held as fair value hedges against
ﬁxed interest rate borrowings. Under fair value hedge accounting, ﬁxed interest rate borrowings are revalued at each balance sheet date by the change in
the fair value attributable to the interest rate risk being hedged.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge its exposures to ﬂuctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. The Group’s policy is not to
undertake any trading activity in ﬁnancial instruments. Such derivative ﬁnancial instruments are stated at fair value with effect from 1 January 2005.
From 1 January 2005, such derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into
and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception. This
documentation identiﬁes the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be
measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 35 2. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign currencies. The fair value
of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity proﬁles. Interest rate swaps
are used to hedge the Group’s exposure to movements in interest rates. The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market rates
for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classiﬁed as fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised
asset or liability; or cash ﬂow hedges where they hedge exposure to the variability in cash ﬂows that is due to the risk associated with a recognised asset
or liability or a forecast transaction. The Group discontinues hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the
hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
In relation to these fair value hedges (interest rate swaps) which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging
instrument is recognised in the income statement and any gain or loss on the item that is being hedged is adjusted against its carrying amount and
recognised in the income statement.
In relation to cash ﬂow hedges (forward foreign exchange contracts) to hedge ﬁrm commitments or highly probable forecast transactions and which meet
the conditions for hedge accounting, the proportion of the gain or loss on the remeasurement of the fair value of the hedging instrument that is deemed
to be effective is recognised in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
When the ﬁrm commitment or highly probable forecast transaction results in the recognition of an asset or liability, the associated gains and losses that
have previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the carrying amount of the asset or liability at the time the asset or
liability is recognised.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income statement.
Gains or losses arising on hedging instruments, which are cancelled due to termination of the underlying exposure, are taken to the income statement
immediately.
Derivatives embedded in other ﬁnancial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are
not closely related to those of the host contracts.
Pension contributions
In the UK, the Group operates two deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes for the beneﬁt of employees. These schemes require contributions to be made to
separately administered funds, based on triennial actuarial valuations. Other schemes are deﬁned contribution in nature.
The cost of providing beneﬁts under the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes is determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit credit method,
which attributes entitlement to beneﬁts to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the current and prior periods (to determine the
present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straight line
basis over the vesting period or immediately if the beneﬁts have vested.When a settlement (eliminating all obligations for beneﬁts already accrued) or a
curtailment (reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs the
obligation and related scheme assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement
during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest element of the deﬁned beneﬁt cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is
determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the beneﬁt obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation
during the year.The expected return on scheme assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on scheme
assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of scheme assets of contributions received and beneﬁts paid during the year. The difference between the
expected return on scheme assets and the interest cost is recognised in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of recognised income and expense in the period in which they occur.
The deﬁned beneﬁt pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the total for each scheme of the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
(using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds), less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of scheme assets out
of which the obligations are to be settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the published
bid price. The value of a net pension beneﬁt asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount the
Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the scheme or reductions in the future contributions.
Contributions payable to the deﬁned contribution schemes are charged to the income statement in the year for which they are due.
36 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Employee beneﬁts
When an employee has rendered services to the Group during an accounting period, short term beneﬁts expected to be paid in exchange for those services
are recognised in the same accounting period.
Share-based payment
Employees (including directors) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services
in exchange for shares or rights over shares (equity-settled transactions).
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted. The fair value is
determined using a binomial model.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions
are fulﬁlled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (vesting date). The cumulative expense recognised
for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date, until the vesting date, reﬂects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number
of awards that will ultimately vest, in the opinion of the directors of the Company at that date and based on the best available estimates.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated
as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisﬁed, provided that all other performance conditions are satisﬁed.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modiﬁed, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modiﬁed. In addition, an
expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modiﬁcation, as measured at the date of modiﬁcation.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not yet recognised for the award
is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is
granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modiﬁcation of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reﬂected in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
The Group has an employee share trust for the granting of certain options to employees. Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated
as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’
only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 which were unvested at 1 January 2005.
Tax
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and
laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the
ﬁnancial statements, with the following exceptions:
– where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination
that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss;
– in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and
– deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against which the deductible temporary
differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is
realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise income tax is recognised in the
income statement.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 37 2. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
New standards and interpretations not applied
During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these ﬁnancial
statements:
International Accounting Standards (“IAS/IFRS”) Effective date
IFRS 1 Amendment relating to IFRS 6 1 January 2006 
IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 – Financial Guarantee Contracts) 1 January 2006
IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Assets 1 January 2006
IFRS 6 Amendment relating to IFRS 6 1 January 2006
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 
IAS 1 Amendment – Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007 
IAS 21 Amendment to IAS 21 – The effects of change in foreign exchange rates: Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 1 January 2006 
IAS 39 Fair Value Option 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendments to IAS 39 – Transition and Initial Recognition of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Day 1 proﬁts) 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Cash Flow Hedge Accounting 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 – Financial Guarantee Contracts 1 January 2006
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) 
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease 1 January 2006
IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds 1 January 2006
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Speciﬁc Market – Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 1 December 2005
IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 39 Financial Reporting in Hyperinﬂationary Economies 1 March 2006
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial statements
in the period of initial application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its ﬁnancial instruments, their signiﬁcance and the nature and extent
of risks that they give rise to. More speciﬁcally, the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its ﬁnancial instruments and its risk exposure in greater
detail. There will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
3. Revenue
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Sales of goods 228.8 250.9 251.8
Maintenance and support services 30.5 36.3 40.0
Total revenue from continuing operations 259.3 287.2 291.8
Revenues for discontinued operations principally relate to sales of goods.
4. Segmental analysis
The Group’s primary reporting format is business segments and its secondary format is geographical segments.
Business segments
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised on a worldwide basis into three operating groups: Communications, Network Products and
Systems. Communications is further subdivided into two divisions: Performance Analysis and Service Assurance. These four operating segments are the
basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
The principal activities of each segment are as follows:
– Performance Analysis division of the Communications group develops testing solutions for a broad range of Communications technologies critical to
the development of next-generation network equipment and devices;
– Service Assurance division of the Communications group provides network monitoring and management systems for service providers to assure the quality
of their high bandwidth data services. Sales include hardware and software products as well as maintenance and support services;
– Network Products group develops and manufactures innovative solutions for fastening, identiﬁcation, protection and connectivity in electrical and
communications networks marketed under the global brand HellermannTyton; and
38 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued – Systems group comprises PG Drives Technology, which develops power control systems for specialist electrical vehicles in the mobility and industrial
markets and, until August 2003, an aerospace business that provided ground-based logistics support software systems for the aviation market.
As described in note 6, the Network Products group and the investment in associated companies (“HellermannTyton Division”) has been classiﬁed as a
discontinued operation.
Non-segmental costs represent corporate expenses, non-segmental assets comprise cash held for central treasury purposes and other corporate assets
and non-segmental liabilities represent senior unsecured loan notes, deﬁned beneﬁt pension fund deﬁcit and other corporate liabilities.
2005
£ million
Continuing Discontinued
operations operations
Performance Service Non- Network Total
Analysis Assurance Communications Systems segmental Total Products operations
Revenue
External sales 178.8 42.8 221.6 37.7 – 259.3 205.5 464.8
Inter-segment sales – 0.1 0.1 – – 0.1 – 0.1
Segment revenue 178.8 42.9 221.7 37.7 – 259.4 205.5 464.9
Inter-segment sales are charged 
at prevailing market rates.
Proﬁt/(loss)
Operating proﬁt/(loss) before 
material one-time items,
goodwill impairment and 
share-based payment 22.0 (9.6) 12.4 4.4 (5.3) 11.5 25.3 36.8
Material one-time items (2.5) (5.4) (7.9) – (0.5) (8.4) (0.4) (8.8)
Goodwill impairment – (37.0) (37.0) – – (37.0) – (37.0)
Share-based payment (3.6) (1.2) (4.8) (0.1) (0.2) (5.1) (0.5) (5.6)
Operating (loss)/proﬁt 15.9 (53.2) (37.3) 4.3 (6.0) (39.0) 24.4 (14.6)
Share of proﬁt of associates –––––– 2.7 2.7
Operating (loss)/proﬁt of the Group 
and associates 15.9 (53.2) (37.3) 4.3 (6.0) (39.0) 27.1 (11.9)
Proﬁt/(loss) on the disposal 
of operations 3.9 (6.7) (2.8)
Finance income 1.5 0.1 1.6
Finance costs (8.1) (1.2) (9.3)
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax (41.7) 19.3 (22.4)
Tax 4.0 (6.1) (2.1)
(Loss)/proﬁt after tax for the year (37.7) 13.2 (24.5)
Other information
Product development 42.1 14.0 56.1 2.3 – 58.4 4.4 62.8
Capital expenditure note 15 12.1 1.9 14.0 0.7 0.1 14.8 18.2 33.0
Depreciation note 15 9.0 1.6 10.6 0.5 0.3 11.4 11.2 22.6
Assets
Segment assets 139.0 32.4 171.4 13.7 54.3 239.4 148.0 387.4
Investment in associates –––––– 16.1 16.1
Total assets 139.0 32.4 171.4 13.7 54.3 239.4 164.1 403.5
Liabilities
Segment liabilities (41.0) (12.9) (53.9) (4.9) (177.6) (236.4) (44.9) (281.3)
Net assets 98.0 19.5 117.5 8.8 (123.3) 3.0 119.2 122.2
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 39 4. Segmental analysis continued
2004
£ million
Continuing Discontinued
operations operations
Performance Service Non- Network Total
Analysis Assurance Communications Systems segmental Total Products operations
Revenue
External sales 176.8 74.7 251.5 35.7 – 287.2 187.8 475.0
Inter-segment sales – 0.1 0.1 – – 0.1 – 0.1
Segment revenue 176.8 74.8 251.6 35.7 – 287.3 187.8 475.1
Inter-segment sales are charged 
at prevailing market rates.
Proﬁt/(loss)
Operating proﬁt/(loss) before 
material one-time items and 
share-based payment 21.7 2.5 24.2 4.0 (5.3) 22.9 21.3 44.2
Material one-time items 1.3 (1.9) (0.6) – (2.3) (2.9) – (2.9)
Share-based payment (3.2) (1.4) (4.6) (0.1) (0.1) (4.8) (0.4) (5.2)
Operating proﬁt/(loss) 19.8 (0.8) 19.0 3.9 (7.7) 15.2 20.9 36.1
Loss from interest in joint venture – (0.7) (0.7) – – (0.7) – (0.7)
Share of proﬁt of associates –––––– 1.8 1.8
Operating proﬁt/(loss) of the Group,
joint venture and associates 19.8 (1.5) 18.3 3.9 (7.7) 14.5 22.7 37.2
Proﬁt on the disposal of operations 4.0 – 4.0
Finance income 1.4 0.2 1.6
Finance costs (8.2) (0.9) (9.1)
Costs associated with the part 
prepayment of loan notes (0.5) – (0.5)
Proﬁt before tax 11.2 22.0 33.2
Tax (2.0) (4.7) (6.7)
Proﬁt after tax for the year 9.2 17.3 26.5
Other information
Product development 43.2 17.2 60.4 2.8 – 63.2 4.1 67.3
Capital expenditure note 15 10.0 1.4 11.4 0.6 0.1 12.1 13.5 25.6
Depreciation note 15 11.9 2.0 13.9 0.4 0.5 14.8 10.6 25.4
Impairment of property, plant 
and equipment 0.6 – 0.6 – – 0.6 – 0.6
Assets
Assets 118.2 73.0 191.2 11.8 54.1 257.1 142.4 399.5
Investment in joint venture 
and associates – (0.3) (0.3) – – (0.3) 14.6 14.3
Total assets 118.2 72.7 190.9 11.8 54.1 256.8 157.0 413.8
Liabilities
Segment liabilities (44.8) (11.5) (56.3) (4.9) (149.7) (210.9) (42.5) (253.4)
Net assets 73.4 61.2 134.6 6.9 (95.6) 45.9 114.5 160.4
40 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 2003
£ million
Continuing Discontinued
operations operations
Performance Service Non- Network Total
Analysis Assurance Communications Systems segmental Total Products operations
Revenue
External sales 148.7 91.7 240.4 51.4 – 291.8 174.4 466.2
Inter-segment sales – 0.2 0.2 – – 0.2 – 0.2
Segment revenue 148.7 91.9 240.6 51.4 – 292.0 174.4 466.4
Inter-segment sales are charged 
at prevailing market rates.
Proﬁt/(loss)
Operating proﬁt/(loss) before 
material one-time items and 
share-based payment 5.2 13.4 18.6 6.2 (5.1) 19.7 16.9 36.6
Material one-time items (5.1) (0.1) (5.2) – (2.3) (7.5) – (7.5)
Share-based payment (0.8) (0.1) (0.9) – – (0.9) (0.1) (1.0)
Operating proﬁt/(loss) (0.7) 13.2 12.5 6.2 (7.4) 11.3 16.8 28.1
Income from interests in 
joint ventures – (0.2) (0.2) – 1.6 1.4 – 1.4
Share of proﬁt of associates –––––– 1.1 1.1
Operating proﬁt/(loss) of the Group,
joint ventures and associates (0.7) 13.0 12.3 6.2 (5.8) 12.7 17.9 30.6
Proﬁt on the disposal of operations 8.6 – 8.6
Finance income 2.9 0.2 3.1
Finance costs (12.7) (1.0) (13.7)
Costs associated with the part 
prepayment of loan notes (16.1) – (16.1)
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax (4.6) 17.1 12.5
Tax 4.2 (2.9) 1.3
(Loss)/proﬁt after tax for the year (0.4) 14.2 13.8
Other information
Product development 39.4 18.4 57.8 4.4 – 62.2 3.8 66.0
Capital expenditure note 15 6.1 1.0 7.1 0.5 0.1 7.7 9.3 17.0
Depreciation note 15 12.9 3.0 15.9 0.7 0.9 17.5 11.8 29.3
Impairment of property, plant 
and equipment note 15 3.2 – 3.2 – – 3.2 – 3.2
Assets
Assets 121.4 76.0 197.4 18.0 43.8 259.2 134.4 393.6
Investment in joint venture 
and associates – (0.2) (0.2) – – (0.2) 13.6 13.4
Total assets 121.4 75.8 197.2 18.0 43.8 259.0 148.0 407.0
Liabilities
Segment liabilities (40.0) (10.7) (50.7) (11.3) (177.2) (239.2) (39.5) (278.7)
Net assets 81.4 65.1 146.5 6.7 (133.4) 19.8 108.5 128.3
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 41 4. Segmental analysis continued
Geographical segments
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis and the operations are based in three main geographical areas. The following table presents
revenue and other information regarding the Group’s geographical segments and is based on the location of the customer and the geographical area in
which the assets are located.
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Revenue by market
Continuing operations
Europe 43.0 49.3 39.7
North America 158.2 182.0 190.2
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 58.1 55.9 61.9
259.3 287.2 291.8
Discontinued operations
Europe 122.8 118.1 109.9
North America 42.0 35.0 33.6
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 40.7 34.7 30.9
205.5 187.8 174.4
464.8 475.0 466.2
2004 and 2003 comparatives have been restated to reﬂect the geographic location for the customer where sales are made through distributors and the
end customer is known.
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Revenue by source
Continuing operations
Europe 61.2 59.9 52.0
North America 180.9 209.7 230.0
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 17.2 17.6 9.8
259.3 287.2 291.8
Discontinued operations
Europe 131.0 125.0 116.2
North America 40.3 33.7 32.1
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 34.2 29.1 26.1
205.5 187.8 174.4
464.8 475.0 466.2
Geographical assets
Continuing operations
Europe 76.6 75.1 49.6
North America 156.5 176.4 209.6
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 6.3 5.3 (0.2)
239.4 256.8 259.0
Discontinued operations
Europe 92.3 94.6 88.6
North America 32.1 25.5 25.4
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 39.7 36.9 34.0
164.1 157.0 148.0
403.5 413.8 407.0
42 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Capital expenditure
Continuing operations
Europe 1.9 1.2 0.8
North America 12.6 10.4 6.9
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 0.3 0.5 –
14.8 12.1 7.7
Discontinued operations
Europe 11.1 7.9 5.7
North America 3.2 3.5 1.8
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 3.9 2.1 1.8
18.2 13.5 9.3
33.0 25.6 17.0
5. (Loss)/proﬁt before tax
The following items have been included in arriving at (loss)/proﬁt before tax and are disclosed for continuing and discontinued operations:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Employee beneﬁt costs note 10 176.7 188.4 179.2
Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 133.9 129.7 139.2
Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 2.8 0.4 0.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 15
Owned assets 22.3 25.2 29.0
Under ﬁnance leases 0.3 0.2 0.3
Loss/(proﬁt) on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.4 (0.1)
Operating leases
Minimum lease payments 8.5 11.6 11.7
Sublease income 1.4 1.1 0.5
Product development costs 62.8 67.3 66.0
Net foreign exchange credit (0.1) (0.3) (0.5)
Services provided to all of the operations of the Group by the auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, and its associates
Audit services
Statutory audit 1.0 1.4 1.2
Non-audit services
Further assurance services 0.5 0.2 0.1
Tax services 0.3 0.4 0.6
0.8 0.6 0.7
1.8 2.0 1.9
Fees for further assurance services principally comprise amounts in respect of SEC Compliance, the IFRS conversion project, the disposal of the
HellermannTyton Division and other advice.
For 2005 Ernst and Young LLP were not the auditors of the Group’s pension schemes. In 2004 Ernst and Young LLP received fees of £15,740 for the audit
of the Group’s pension schemes. A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Directors’ statement on corporate governance and
includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 43 6. Discontinued operations
On 19 September 2005, Spirent plc announced that it had commenced a formal process that was expected to result in the disposal of all of the HellermannTyton
Division. This decision was consistent with the stated strategy of focusing on growing the Communications group. This process has progressed and on 
15 December 2005 the Board accepted a formal offer from funds controlled by Doughty Hanson & Co Limited for this division for £288.9 million at a
cash free/debt free equivalent value. This transaction was subject to shareholder approval at an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 24 January 2006
on which date the disposal was approved. The disposal was completed on 15 February 2006. At 31 December 2005 the HellermannTyton Division was
classiﬁed as a disposal group and was held for sale.
The results for discontinued operations are presented below:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Revenue 205.5 187.8 174.4
Cost of sales (120.7) (109.7) (105.5)
Gross proﬁt 84.8 78.1 68.9
Expenses (60.4) (57.2) (52.1)
Operating proﬁt 24.4 20.9 16.8
Share of proﬁt of associates note 18 2.7 1.8 1.1
Expenses incurred in relation to the disposal note 37 (6.7) ––
Finance income note 8 0.1 0.2 0.2
Finance costs note 9 (1.2) (0.9) (1.0)
Proﬁt before tax from discontinued operations 19.3 22.0 17.1
Tax note 12 (6.1) (4.7) (2.9)
Proﬁt for the year from discontinued operations 13.2 17.3 14.2
Expenses include £0.4 million (2004 and 2003 nil) in respect of material one-time items for restructuring.
The major classes of assets and liabilities of the discontinued operations measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell are 
as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Assets
Goodwill note 14 5.5 ––
Property, plant and equipment note 15 70.9 ––
Investment in associates note 18 16.1 ––
Inventories 33.7 ––
Trade and other receivables 37.9 ––
Assets held in disposal group held for sale 164.1 ––
Liabilities
Trade and other payables (35.2) ––
Current tax (1.9) ––
Short term borrowings – ﬁnance lease obligations (0.9) ––
Long term borrowings – ﬁnance lease obligations £8.1 million, other loans £0.7 million (8.8) ––
Deferred tax (1.9) ––
Liabilities included in disposal group held for sale (48.7) ––
Net assets attributable to discontinued operations 115.4 ––
44 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued The net cash ﬂows after tax of the Network Products group are as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Operating 31.2 26.2 28.5
Investing (15.1) (13.6) (8.0)
Financing (2.4) (1.7) (2.0)
Net cash inﬂow 13.7 10.9 18.5
7. Material one-time items
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Finance renegotiation costs – – 2.3
Inventory provisions 1.4 ––
Restructuring costs (including impairment of property, plant and equipment and lease provisions) 6.9 1.6 5.2
Exit from joint venture 0.1 1.3 –
8.4 2.9 7.5
The Group deﬁnes material one-time items as those items which, by their size or nature, would distort the comparability of the Group’s result from year
to year.
Material one-time items relating to discontinued operations are shown in note 6.
8. Finance income
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Continuing operations
Bank interest receivable 1.5 1.4 2.9
Discontinued operations note 6
Bank interest receivable 0.1 0.2 0.2
1.6 1.6 3.1
9. Finance costs
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Continuing operations
Bank loans and overdrafts 0.1 0.6 2.4
Senior unsecured loan notes 6.6 6.7 8.8
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 1.1 0.7 1.5
Leasehold provisions discount adjustment 0.3 0.2 –
Finance cost before costs associated with the part prepayment of loan notes 8.1 8.2 12.7
Costs associated with the part prepayment of loan notes – 0.5 16.1
8.1 8.7 28.8
Discontinued operations note 6
Bank loans and overdrafts 0.4 0.5 0.5
Finance leases 0.5 0.4 0.5
Other 0.3 ––
9.3 9.6 29.8
The costs associated with the part prepayment of loan notes in the amount of £0.5 million in 2004 and £16.1 million in 2003 comprised the make whole
amount payable to the senior unsecured loan note holders, due on early repayment.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 45 10. Employees
The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was:
2005 2004 2003
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 2,504 2,705 2,768
Selling and distribution 1,436 1,394 1,310
Administration 438 422 420
4,378 4,521 4,498
Employee beneﬁt costs were:
£ million £ million £ million
Remuneration 148.1 160.7 154.5
Social security costs 16.9 17.4 17.3
Pension and other related costs 6.1 5.1 6.4
Expense of share-based payment note 33 5.6 5.2 1.0
176.7 188.4 179.2
Employee numbers and costs include discontinued operations.
Please refer to the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 20 to 26 for disclosures relating to the emoluments, share option and long term incentive
interests and pensions of the directors.
11. Pensions
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The only signiﬁcant deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes are in the United Kingdom and comprise the Staff Pension Plan and the Retirement Cash Plan. These
schemes have been combined for the purposes of the following disclosures.
The most recent actuarial valuation of schemes’ assets and the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes’ obligations using the projected unit credit
method at 1 April 2003 have been used and updated by our independent actuaries.
i) The key ﬁnancial assumptions used were:
2005 2004 2003
% %%
Inﬂation 2.9 2.9 2.8
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.6 3.6 3.5
Rate of increase for pensions in payment pre 2001 service 3.5 3.0 3.0
Rate of increase for pensions in payment post 2001 pre April 2005 service 2.8 2.7 2.7
Rate of increase for pensions post April 2005 service 2.1 ––
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.9 2.9 2.8
Rate used to discount scheme liabilities 4.7 5.3 5.4
Expected rate of return on scheme assets 6.4 6.5 6.8
The expected long term rate of return on assets has been set reﬂecting the price inﬂation expectation, the expected real return on each major asset class
and the long term asset allocation strategy adopted for the schemes.
The demographic assumptions are as follows:
– for future pensioners, that men and women aged 65 will live on average for a further 22 and 24 years, respectively; and
– for current pensioners, that men and women aged 65 will live on average for a further 21 and 24 years, respectively.
46 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued ii) The assets and the liabilities in the schemes were as follows:
Long term Long term Long term
rate of return rate of return rate of return
expected 2005 expected 2004 expected 2003
% £ million % £ million % £ million
Equities 7.6 77.2 7.5 62.2 7.8 61.3
Government bonds 4.1 22.1 4.5 11.9 4.8 15.3
Corporate bonds 4.5 13.4 5.0 18.8 5.1 9.6
Cash 4.8 2.1 5.0 2.6 4.3 4.5
Property 6.6 5.5 6.5 4.6 6.8 1.8
Other 5.2 8.5 5.6 6.8 5.6 6.3
Fair value of schemes’ assets 6.4 128.8 6.5 106.9 6.8 98.8
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes’ obligations (179.6) (144.2) (142.2)
Net deﬁcit in the schemes (50.8) (37.3) (43.4)
Present value of unfunded obligations (0.7) (0.8) (4.8)
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan deﬁcit (51.5) (38.1) (48.2)
No deferred tax asset has been recognised (2004 £11.1 million; 2003 £13.0 million) in respect of the net deﬁcit in the schemes.The schemes are prohibited
from investing in Spirent’s own ﬁnancial instruments.
iii) Analysis of the amounts charged to the income statement:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Analysis of amount charged to operating costs:
Current service cost 2.0 1.8 2.2
Total operating charge 2.0 1.8 2.2
Analysis of amount charged to ﬁnance costs:
Expected return on pension schemes’ assets (6.5) (6.6) (5.7)
Interest on pension schemes’ liabilities 7.6 7.3 7.2
Finance costs 1.1 0.7 1.5
Net charge 3.1 2.5 3.7
iv) Analysis of amount recognised directly in the statement of recognised income and expense:
Actual return on pension schemes’ assets 21.1 10.2 12.3
Expected return on pension schemes’ assets (6.5) (6.6) (5.7)
Experience gains on the schemes’ assets 14.6 3.6 6.6
Experience gains arising on the schemes’ liabilities 4.8 2.4 6.8
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes’ liabilities (35.5) (3.0) (13.1)
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised directly in equity (16.1) 3.0 0.3
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 January 2003 in the Group’s statement of recognised income and expense is 
£12.8 million loss (2004 £3.3 million gain; 2003 £0.3 million gain). The directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deﬁcit
recognised on 1 January 2003 and taken directly to equity of £41.9 million in the Group is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of
those pension schemes. Consequently, the directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised
in the Group’s statement of recognised income and expense before 1 January 2003.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 47 11. Pensions continued
v) Movements in the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations in the current period were as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
At 1 January 144.2 142.2 130.9
Current service cost 2.0 1.8 2.2
Interest cost 7.6 7.3 7.2
Employee contributions 0.6 0.5 0.6
Beneﬁt payments (5.5) (8.2) (5.0)
Actuarial loss 30.7 0.6 6.3
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes’ obligations 179.6 144.2 142.2
vi) Movements in the present value of fair value of schemes’ assets in the current period were as follows:
At 1 January 106.9 98.8 89.0
Expected return on schemes’ assets 6.5 6.6 5.7
Employer contributions 5.7 5.6 1.9
Employee contributions 0.6 0.5 0.6
Beneﬁt payments (5.5) (8.2) (5.0)
Actuarial gain 14.6 3.6 6.6
Fair value of schemes’ assets 128.8 106.9 98.8
vii) History of experience gains and losses
2005 2004 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes’ obligations (179.6) (144.2) (142.2) (130.9)
Fair value of schemes’ assets 128.8 106.9 98.8 89.0
Net deﬁcit in schemes (50.8) (37.3) (43.4) (41.9)
Experience gains and losses on schemes’ liabilities
Amount (£ million) 4.8 2.4 6.8 (0.9)
Percentage of schemes’ liabilities (%) 2.7 1.7 4.8 (0.7)
Experience gains and losses on schemes’ assets
Amount (£ million) 14.6 3.6 6.6 (20.3)
Percentage of schemes’ assets (%) 11.3 3.4 6.7 (22.8)
48 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued The above schemes are funded and have full UK HM Revenue & Customs tax-exempt approval by which beneﬁts are limited due to the statutory earnings
cap (a HM Revenue & Customs limit on the amount of earnings that can be made pensionable under the schemes for members who joined after May
1989). Certain members, whose salaries are in excess of this cap, have had their beneﬁts increased through unapproved, unfunded arrangements, to the
level that would otherwise have applied in respect of the basic salary only. The Group has contractually agreed to pay the additional retirement beneﬁts
itself and a provision is made in respect of this obligation in the balance sheet at 31 December 2005 of £0.7 million (2004 £0.8 million; 2003 £4.8 million).
This represents the actuarial value as conﬁrmed by the Group’s pension advisers, of the unapproved beneﬁt entitlements accrued at that date. The value is
assessed and reviewed on a Market Value basis in line with the Main Plan Valuation and adjusted each year by the charge for the year (equivalent to a
contribution to a funded scheme) of £0.1 million (2004 £0.1 million; 2003 £0.2 million) and interest of nil on the unfunded liability (2004 nil; 2003 £0.3
million). The additional death-in-service beneﬁts over the statutory cap are separately insured by the Group under an unapproved scheme.
On 1 July 2004, Nicholas Brooks was paid a lump sum of £3.7 million to commute all of his unfunded unapproved pension entitlement which stood at
£4.5 million at 31 December 2003.
The Group contributed £47.0 million to its UK ﬁnal salary scheme in February 2006 from the proceeds of the sale of the HellermannTyton Division 
(see note 40).
Deﬁned contribution schemes
United Kingdom
The Group maintains deﬁned contribution pension schemes for employees in the UK. These schemes are known as “Cash Builder”, “Pension Builder” and
“Executive Section”. Employer contributions into these schemes for 2005 were £0.3 million (2004 £0.1 million; 2003 £0.1 million).
United States
The Group maintains deﬁned contribution pension beneﬁt schemes for employees of its US subsidiaries. These schemes, also known as 401(k) Plans, allow
employees to defer a percentage of their salary for retirement. There are four different 401(k) Plans within the US businesses and each of these schemes
has different features regarding Group contributions, maximum deferral percentages and investment choices. The investment choices offered are among
a selection of diversiﬁed mutual funds offering a broad mix of investment return potential with varying levels of risk.
In aggregate, the Group contributions to the various US schemes totalled $4.6 million for 2005 (2004 $4.6 million; 2003 $4.4 million). Total assets in the
deﬁned contribution schemes at the end of 2005 were $129.2 million (2004 $116.8 million; 2003 $103.1 million). There were no deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
in the US as at 31 December 2005, 2004 or 2003.
Other jurisdictions
Outside the United Kingdom and the United States employees are provided with pension arrangements determined in accordance with approved local
practice and regulations and these arrangements are deﬁned contribution schemes. Total contributions for 2005, in respect of these schemes amounted
to £0.3 million (2004 £0.3 million; 2003 £0.2 million).
Total contributions to deﬁned contribution schemes were £3.1 million (2004 £2.9 million; 2003 £3.0 million).
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 49 12. T ax
Tax on the proﬁt on ordinary activities
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Tax charge in the income statement
Current income tax
Foreign tax
continuing operations 1.9 2.8 2.3
discontinued operations 6.5 4.6 2.6
Current income tax charge 8.4 7.4 4.9
Amounts overprovided in previous years
UK tax (1.6) – 1.1
Foreign tax (4.3) (1.3) (7.1)
Total current income tax 2.5 6.1 (1.1)
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences (0.4) 1.7 (0.2)
Reversal of deferred tax assets – (1.1) –
Total deferred tax (0.4) 0.6 (0.2)
Tax charge in the income statement 2.1 6.7 (1.3)
The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows:
Income tax (credit)/expense on continuing operations (4.0) 2.0 (4.2)
Income tax expense on discontinued operations note 6 6.1 4.7 2.9
2.1 6.7 (1.3)
Tax relating to items charged or credited to equity
Deferred tax
Actuarial gains and losses on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans – (0.9) (0.1)
(Write off)/reinstatement of deferred tax asset on pension liability (11.1) – 12.6
Tax on exchange differences – – (0.2)
Tax (charge)/credit in the statement of recognised income and expense (11.1) (0.9) 12.3
There was no tax effect in respect of material one-time items (2004 and 2003 nil).
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in relation to the deﬁned beneﬁt pension fund deﬁcit in 2005 as its future recovery is uncertain (2004 £11.1 million
asset; 2003 £13.0 million asset).This results in a charge of £11.1 million to the statement of recognised income and expense (2004 nil; 2003 £12.6 million credit).
50 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the income statement for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30 per cent (2004 and 2003 30 per cent).
The differences are reconciled below:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax from continuing operations (41.7) 11.2 (4.6)
Proﬁt before tax from discontinued operations note 6 19.3 22.0 17.1
Accounting (loss)/proﬁt before tax (22.4) 33.2 12.5 
Accounting (loss)/proﬁt multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax 
of 30 per cent (2004 and 2003 30 per cent) (6.7) 10.0 3.7
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes:
Material one-time items not given credit 2.6 0.9 5.4
Intangible assets 10.6 (1.1) –
Tax relief on share-based payment 1.2 1.6 0.3
Disposals 0.8 (1.2) (2.6)
Differences in overseas rates and other adjustments 0.2 (1.7) (1.3)
Tax overprovided in previous years (5.9) (1.3) (6.0)
Other (0.7) (0.5) (0.8)
Total tax expense/(credit) reported in the income statement 2.1 6.7 (1.3)
13. (Loss)/earnings per share
2005 2004 2003
pence pence pence
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (2.62) 2.79 1.46
Basic (loss)/earnings per share from continuing operations (3.97) 0.98 (0.04)
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations 1.35 1.81 1.50
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (2.62) 2.74 1.44
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share from continuing operations (3.97) 0.96 (0.04)
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations 1.33 1.78 1.48
Adjusted earnings per share 2.30 3.14 2.36
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations 0.32 1.29 0.84
Adjusted earnings per share from discontinued operations 1.98 1.85 1.52
The Group discloses adjusted earnings per share attributable to equity shareholders in order to provide a measure to enable period-on-period comparisons
to be made of its performance.
(Loss)/earnings per share is calculated by reference to the (loss)/proﬁt for the year and the number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year as follows:
2005
£ million
Continuing Discontinued Total
operations operations operations
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year (37.7) 13.2 (24.5)
Less: minority shareholders’ interests – (0.4) (0.4)
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year attributable to equity holders of parent (37.7) 12.8 (24.9)
Material one-time items 8.4 0.4 8.8
Goodwill impairment 37.0 – 37.0
Share-based payment 5.1 0.5 5.6
(Proﬁt)/loss on the disposal of operations (3.9) 6.7 2.8
Prior year tax credit (5.9) – (5.9)
Prior year tax credit on associate – (1.5) (1.5)
Adjusted earnings attributable to equity holders of parent 3.0 18.9 21.9
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 51 13. (Loss)/earnings per share continued
2004
£ million
Continuing Discontinued Total
operations operations operations
Proﬁt for the year 9.2 17.3 26.5
Less: minority shareholders’ interests – (0.3) (0.3)
Proﬁt for the year attributable to equity holders of parent 9.2 17.0 26.2
Material one-time items 2.9 – 2.9
Share-based payment 4.8 0.4 5.2
Proﬁt on the disposal of operations (4.0) – (4.0)
Costs associated with the part prepayment of loan notes 0.5 – 0.5
Prior year tax credit (1.3) – (1.3)
Adjusted earnings attributable to equity holders of parent 12.1 17.4 29.5
2003
£ million
Continuing Discontinued Total
operations operations operations
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year (0.4) 14.2 13.8
Less: minority shareholders’ interests – (0.2) (0.2)
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of parent (0.4) 14.0 13.6
Material one-time items 7.5 – 7.5
Share-based payment 0.9 0.1 1.0
Proﬁt on the disposal of operations (8.6) – (8.6)
Costs associated with the part prepayment of loan notes 16.1 – 16.1
Attributable tax on material one-time items (1.7) – (1.7)
Prior year tax credit (6.0) – (6.0)
Adjusted earnings attributable to equity holders of parent 7.8 14.1 21.9
2005 2004 2003
Number Number Number
million million million
Weighted average number of shares in issue – basic and adjusted 950.4 939.2 929.3
Dilutive potential of employee share options 10.2 18.1 17.1
Weighted average number of shares in issue – diluted 960.6 957.3 946.4
The shares in issue used to calculate basic and adjusted (loss)/earnings per share exclude the shares held by Spirent Sharesave Trust and the Employee
Share Ownership Trust in accordance with IAS 33 ‘Earnings per Share’.
52 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 14. Goodwill
£ million
Cost net of accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January 2003 113.6
Increase during the year 2.7
Disposal of operations note 37 (0.6)
Exchange adjustment (4.8)
At 31 December 2003 110.9
Exchange adjustment (4.4)
At 31 December 2004 106.5
Attributable to discontinued operation note 6 (5.5)
Impairment (37.0)
Exchange adjustment 7.5
At 31 December 2005 71.5
At 31 December 2003
Cost (gross carrying amount) 1,785.5
Accumulated impairment losses (1,674.6)
Net carrying amount 110.9
At 31 December 2004
Cost (gross carrying amount) 1,745.3
Accumulated impairment losses (1,638.8)
Net carrying amount 106.5
At 31 December 2005
Cost (gross carrying amount) 1,777.3
Accumulated impairment losses (1,705.8)
Net carrying amount 71.5
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to two cash-generating units, Performance Analysis
which is also a reportable segment and the Service Assurance Broadband business unit, which together with the Field Test business unit, constitutes the
Service Assurance reportable segment.
The carrying amounts of goodwill at 31 December 2005 by cash-generating unit are as follows:
£ million
Service
Performance Assurance
Analysis Broadband Total
Europe 5.5 – 5.5
North America 45.4 20.6 66.0
50.9 20.6 71.5
Impairment of Service Assurance Broadband
IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ requires that a cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated should be tested whenever there is an indication
that the unit may be impaired. As a result of the substantial drop in activity levels in Service Assurance Broadband during the ﬁrst half of 2005 this unit
was tested for impairment. The recoverable amount of this unit was determined based on a value in use calculation using a pre-tax discount rate of 
14.5 per cent. Following the impairment test, a goodwill charge of £37.0 million was recognised through administration expenses in the ﬁrst half of 2005.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 53 14. Goodwill continued
Annual impairment test
The recoverable amounts of the Performance Analysis and Service Assurance Broadband cash-generating units at 30 November 2005, the annual impairment
testing date, have been calculated based on a value in use calculation using cash ﬂow projections over a ﬁve year period. These were based on ﬁnancial
budgets approved by the Board for the next year and on approved strategic plans for the following two years. Cash ﬂows in years four and ﬁve have been
extrapolated using a 4.0 per cent growth rate which approximates to the average long term growth rate for the industries in which these units operate.
The cash ﬂows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 15.9 per cent (2004 16.9 per cent; 2003 18.4 per cent) and 17.2 per cent (2004 15.6 per
cent; 2003 15.0 per cent) respectively. In both cases the recoverable amounts of these units were in excess of their carrying values and no further
impairment arose in the second half of 2005.
The key assumptions in these value in use calculations were:
• Revenue growth rates used in the budget and strategic plans.
• Gross margin.
• Operating expenses.
• Discount rate.
• Growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the strategic plan period.
Revenue growth rates used in the budget and strategic plans are based on management’s estimate of growth in the markets served, taking into account
products yet to be launched and which are in the development pipeline. They are consistent with external sources of information including comparable
companies operating in the same markets and analysts’ forecasts.
Gross margins are based on historical values achieved by the respective cash-generating units.
Operating expenses are based upon historical levels suitably adjusted for increases in activity levels over the term of the cash ﬂow projections.
The discount rates are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted to reﬂect management’s estimate of the speciﬁc risk proﬁle
associated with the cash ﬂow projections for each cash-generating unit.
Long term growth rates are based upon industry analysis and are consistent with analysts’ forecasts.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
With regard to the assessment of value in use of the Performance Analysis unit, management believes that no reasonable possible change in any of the
above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
For the Service Assurance Broadband unit, there are reasonable possible changes in key assumptions which would cause the carrying value of the unit to
exceed its recoverable amount. In particular, the revenue growth assumptions in the strategic plan are based upon the successful execution of a new strategy
for growth to meet the needs of service providers for their new triple play networks and services.The strategic plan assumes a signiﬁcant increase in revenues
in 2007, being the full year effect of new products expected to be launched in the second half of 2006. Should management fail to execute this strategy,
such that the anticipated increase in revenue is not realised by 50 per cent or more in that year, and assuming growth is maintained at planned rates
thereafter, albeit off a lower base, then value in use would be reduced to a value equal to the carrying amount for this unit.
54 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 15. Property, plant and equipment
£ million
Fixtures
Land and Plant and ﬁttings and
buildings machinery equipment Total
Cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment
At 1 January 2003 43.4 37.0 29.6 110.0
Additions
owned assets 0.5 11.6 4.6 16.7
leased assets – – 0.3 0.3
Disposals (0.2) (0.4) (0.2) (0.8)
Disposal of operations note 37 (0.4) (0.1) (0.2) (0.7)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (3.2) – – (3.2)
Depreciation charge for the year (2.7) (14.6) (12.0) (29.3)
Exchange adjustment (0.8) (1.3) (0.7) (2.8)
At 1 January 2004 36.6 32.2 21.4 90.2
Additions
owned assets 0.8 16.5 8.0 25.3
leased assets – – 0.3 0.3
Inter-class transfers – (0.3) 0.3 –
Disposals – (0.6) (0.3) (0.9)
Disposal of operations note 37 – – (0.1) (0.1)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (0.5) – (0.1) (0.6)
Depreciation charge for the year (2.3) (14.0) (9.1) (25.4)
Exchange adjustment (0.8) (1.1) (0.6) (2.5)
At 1 January 2005 33.8 32.7 19.8 86.3
Additions
owned assets 1.7 16.3 12.5 30.5
leased assets 2.2 – 0.3 2.5
Inter-class transfers 0.2 (0.8) 0.6 –
Disposals – – (0.6) (0.6)
Attributable to discontinued operation note 6 (31.0) (27.3) (12.6) (70.9)
Depreciation charge for the year (2.1) (12.3) (8.2) (22.6)
Exchange adjustment 1.4 2.4 1.1 4.9
At 31 December 2005 6.2 11.0 12.9 30.1
At 31 December 2003
Cost 49.8 120.7 66.6 237.1
Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment (13.2) (88.5) (45.2) (146.9)
Net carrying amount 36.6 32.2 21.4 90.2
At 31 December 2004
Cost 48.8 129.3 65.9 244.0
Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment (15.0) (96.6) (46.1) (157.7)
Net carrying amount 33.8 32.7 19.8 86.3
At 31 December 2005
Cost 16.7 41.0 50.0 107.7
Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment (10.5) (30.0) (37.1) (77.6)
Net carrying amount 6.2 11.0 12.9 30.1
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 55 15. Property, plant and equipment continued
Property, plant and equipment include assets held under ﬁnance leases as follows:
£ million
Fixtures
Plant and ﬁttings and
machinery equipment Total
Net book value at 31 December 2003 0.4 0.6 1.0
Net book value at 31 December 2004 0.3 0.5 0.8
Net book value at 31 December 2005 0.3 – 0.3
16. Capital commitments and contingent liabilities
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Capital expenditure commitments:
Contracted but not provided 0.4 1.0 1.5
For 2005 capital expenditure commitments are for the continuing Group.
The Group has provided indemnities of £1.0 million (2004 £0.5 million; 2003 £1.0 million) for certain ongoing business obligations under letters of credit
for subsidiary companies.
17. Subsidiaries
A list of the signiﬁcant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given on page
114 of these ﬁnancial statements.
18. Investments in joint venture and associates
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Investments in associates – 14.3 13.1 
Investment in joint venture – – 0.3 
Investments accounted for using the equity method – 14.3 13.4 
Joint venture
At 1 January – 0.3 50.1 
Share of retained (loss)/proﬁt – (0.7) 1.4 
Additions – 0.2 0.5 
Disposal – – (54.3)
Exchange adjustment – – 2.6 
Accrued contribution to joint venture – 0.2 –
At 31 December – – 0.3 
Share of joint venture’s revenue and proﬁt
Revenue – – 22.4 
Expenses – (0.7) (19.9)
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax – (0.7) 2.5 
Tax – – (1.1)
Share of results from joint ventures after tax – (0.7) 1.4 
56 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued The joint venture company as at 31 December 2004 and 2003 was:
Location % holding Nature of business
Spirent DM Ltd China 40% Communications
During 2004, the Group exited from the Spirent DM joint venture. Until exit, the Group accounted for its interests in the joint venture using the equity method.
Associates
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
At 1 January 14.3 13.1 11.9
Exchange adjustment (0.7) (0.5) 0.2
Share of associates’ net proﬁt – discontinued operations note 6 2.7 1.8 1.1
Dividend (0.2) (0.1) (0.1)
Attributable to discontinued operations note 6 (16.1) ––
At 31 December – 14.3 13.1 
Gross assets – 16.2 14.7
Gross liabilities – (1.9) (1.6)
– 14.3 13.1
Gross assets and gross liabilities of the associates are estimated based on the latest audited ﬁnancial statements.
The share of associates net proﬁt includes a prior year tax credit of £1.5 million in 2005 in respect of tax on the unremitted earnings.
The associated companies at 31 December 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows:
% holding Nature of business
Tyton Company of Japan 49 Cable management products
3M/ECC 20 Cable management products
Tyton Company of Japan has a reporting date of 31 March being the date of preparation of statutory ﬁnancial statements.
At 31 December 2005, the investment in associates has been included in assets held in disposal group held for sale, as these investments form part of the
HellermannTyton Division (note 6).
19. Inventories
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Raw materials 5.8 12.1 12.6
Work in progress 2.2 6.2 5.0
Finished goods 19.0 35.7 37.4
27.0 54.0 55.0
An expense of £2.8 million (2004 £0.4 million; 2003 £0.1 million) has been recognised in the period for inventory write-downs.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 57 20. Trade and other receivables
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Non-current assets
Other receivables – 0.2 0.2
Prepayments 1.7 1.3 1.5
1.7 1.5 1.7
Current assets
Trade receivables 45.8 74.6 69.5
Owed by associates – 0.3 0.2
Other receivables 2.3 6.3 8.2
Prepayments and accrued income 8.2 7.2 7.3
56.3 88.4 85.2
58.0 89.9 86.9
Trade and other receivables relating to discontinued operations are disclosed in note 6 for 2005.
Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 60 day settlement terms. Trade receivables are presented net of allowances for
estimated irrecoverable amounts of £0.5 million (2004 £1.3 million; 2003 £1.6 million), which have been estimated by the Group’s management based
on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. Other receivables are non-interest bearing.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables, although the Group has no signiﬁcant concentration of credit risk with exposure
spread over a large number of customers.
21. Cash and cash equivalents
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Cash at bank and in hand 22.3 20.4 33.6
Short term bank deposits 26.9 31.3 4.0
49.2 51.7 37.6
22. Trade and other payables – current
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Trade payables 11.1 28.0 27.6
Payments received on account 6.9 0.1 –
Owed to associates – 0.8 0.8
Other taxes and social security costs 2.7 5.1 5.3
Other payables 4.4 7.1 10.0
Accruals and deferred income 37.8 49.7 43.9
62.9 90.8 87.6
Trade and other payables relating to discontinued operations are disclosed in note 6 for 2005.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 60 day terms. Other payables are non-interest bearing.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
58 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 23. Short term borrowings and overdrafts
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Senior unsecured loan notes note 28 3.2 ––
Bank overdrafts (secured) 0.4 0.7 0.7
Bank loans due within one year 0.2 0.2 0.4
Finance lease obligations due within one year note 27 0.1 0.9 0.7
3.9 1.8 1.8
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. Overdrafts are secured either by mortgages on the freehold properties or by ﬂoating charges on the assets of
the borrowing subsidiaries.
24. Deferred tax
The movement in the deferred tax liabilities are as follows:
Other short
Accelerated tax term temporary
depreciation differences Total
£ million £ million £ million
At 1 January 2003 1.7 1.1 2.8
Exchange adjustment – (0.2) (0.2)
Movement in respect of pension liability – 0.5 0.5
Charge for the year note 12 (0.3) 0.1 (0.2)
At 1 January 2004 1.4 1.5 2.9
Movement in respect of pension liability – (1.0) (1.0)
Charge for the year note 12 – 0.6 0.6
At 1 January 2005 1.4 1.1 2.5
Attributed to discontinued operations note 6 (1.3) (0.6) (1.9)
Exchange adjustment – (0.4) (0.4)
Charge during the year note 12 0.7 (0.1) 0.6
At 31 December 2005 0.8 – 0.8
The movement in the deferred tax assets are as follows:
Retirement
beneﬁt
Other obligations Total
£ million £ million £ million
At 1 January 2003 –––
Movement in respect of pension liability – 0.5 0.5
Reinstatement of deferred tax asset on pension scheme note 12 – 12.6 12.6
Tax on actuarial gain note 12 – (0.1) (0.1)
At 1 January 2004 – 13.0 13.0
Tax on actuarial gain note 12 – (0.9) (0.9)
Movement in respect of pension liability – (1.0) (1.0)
At 1 January 2005 – 11.1 11.1
Write off of deferred tax asset note 12 – (11.1) (11.1)
Recognised during the year note 12 1.0 – 1.0
At 31 December 2005 1.0 – 1.0
Deferred tax assets of £13.3 million (2004 £13.3 million; 2003 £18.3 million) arising principally on timing differences in the US and UK have not been
recognised. These assets can only be realised when they reverse against suitable taxable proﬁts. Although the directors ultimately expect to realise these
assets, there is currently insufﬁcient evidence under IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ to recognise a deferred tax asset in respect of these timing differences.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 59 24. Deferred tax continued
A deferred tax asset of £15.2 million in respect of the UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme has not been recognised in 2005. In 2004 and 2003 an asset was recognised.
In addition, the Group has tax losses arising in the US of £79.6 million (2004 £70.6 million; 2003 £70.1 million) and in the UK of £42.2 million 
(2004 £39.6 million; 2003 £24.8 million) that are available for offset against future taxable proﬁts. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect
of these losses as their future recovery is uncertain. US tax losses can be carried forward for 20 years and UK losses can be carried forward indeﬁnitely.
In total deferred taxes assets amounting to £74.2 million (2004 £52.6 million; 2003 £50.3 million) have not been recognised on unutilised losses and 
timing differences.
£0.1 million of deferred tax (2004 £2.1 million; 2003 £2.1 million) is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and the
joint venture.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the tax deduction which may be available on the future exercise of stock options.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are insigniﬁcant.
25. Trade and other payables – non-current
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Other payables 0.2 1.1 1.3
Deferred income 0.4 2.5 0.4
Pension 0.1 0.3 0.6
0.7 3.9 2.3
26. Provisions and other liabilities
£ million
Restructuring Lease
provisions provisions Total
At 1 January 2005 1.3 12.5 13.8
Charged during the year 4.0 3.0 7.0
Discount on unwind of lease provision – 0.3 0.3
Utilised in the year (4.9) (3.0) (7.9)
Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.9 1.0
At 31 December 2005 0.5 13.7 14.2
60 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Provisions have been analysed as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Current 4.1 4.2 4.6
Non-current 10.1 9.6 13.3
14.2 13.8 17.9
The lease provisions are for the continuing obligations under leases in respect of properties which have been vacated by the Group.Where material, lease
obligations are discounted. The Group expects these provisions to be utilised over the next ten years.
The restructuring costs relate to our exit from the Spirent DM joint venture.
27. Long term borrowings
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Senior unsecured loan notes note 28 67.7 64.8 80.8
Bank loans 2.2 2.2 3.3
Other loans – 0.6 0.7
Finance lease obligations 1.3 8.7 8.5
71.2 76.3 93.3
Finance lease obligations
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million £ million £ million £ million
Present value of minimum
Minimum lease payments lease payments
Amounts payable under ﬁnance leases:
Within one year 0.2 1.4 1.2 0.1 0.9 0.7
Between one and ﬁve years 0.7 4.0 3.8 0.4 2.5 2.2
After ﬁve years 1.0 7.0 7.2 0.9 6.2 6.3
1.9 12.4 12.2 1.4 9.6 9.2
Less: amounts representing future ﬁnance charges (0.5) (2.8) (3.0)
Present value of lease obligations 1.4 9.6 9.2
All leases are on a ﬁxed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.The Group’s obligations under ﬁnance
leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 61 28. Senior unsecured loan notes
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Due within one year note 23
Senior unsecured loan notes 2006 3.2 ––
Due after more than one year note 27
Senior unsecured loan notes 2006 – 2.8 3.6
Senior unsecured loan notes 2009 67.7 62.0 77.2
67.7 64.8 80.8
70.9 64.8 80.8
At 31 December 2005, 2004 and 2003, the following loan notes were in issue:
a) $5.5 million (2004 $5.5 million; 2003 $6.4 million) bearing interest at 8.94 per cent (2004 and 2003 9.19 per cent) repayable on 23 November 2006;
b) $36.2 million (2004 $36.2 million; 2003 $41.9 million) bearing interest at 9.06 per cent (2004 and 2003 9.31 per cent) repayable on 23 November 2009;
c) $65.9 million (2004 $65.9 million; 2003 $76.1 million) bearing interest at 9.16 per cent (2004 and 2003 9.41 per cent) repayable on 23 November 2009;
and
d) $17.2 million (2004 $17.2 million; 2003 $19.8 million) bearing interest at 9.75 per cent (2004 and 2003 10.00 per cent) repayable on 23 November
2009. An interest rate derivative was entered into in 1999 to reduce the effective interest rate to 9.28 per cent (2004 and 2003 9.53 per cent).
Loan notes are repayable:
i) at maturity; or
ii) at any time at the Company’s option in an amount of not less than 5 per cent of the aggregate principal amount then outstanding plus a make
whole amount.
The loan note agreement provides for half yearly covenant ratio testing. The covenants ratios are as follows:
a) Net interest cover – greater than or equal to 3.0 times;
b) Net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (“EBITDA”) – less than or equal to 3.0 times; and
c) Net worth – greater than £100 million.
Covenant ratios are calculated using UK GAAP as applied at 31 December 2002. As the loan notes were repaid in February 2006 covenant testing is not
required for 31 December 2005.
If the Group repaid at its option the total principal amount of the loan notes at 31 December 2005, a make whole amount of $14.3 million (£8.3 million)
would become payable.
On 15 February 2006 the loan notes were repaid out of the proceeds of sale of the HellermannTyton Division. A make whole amount of $13.9 million
(£7.4 million) was also paid (see note 40).
29. Financial risk management
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise trade receivables, trade payables, bank and other loans, loan notes, ﬁnance
leases, bank overdrafts, cash and short term deposits. The main purpose of these ﬁnancial instruments, other than trade receivables and trade payables, is
to raise ﬁnance for the Group’s operations.
The Group enters into derivative transactions, principally interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts, for the management of the Group’s
interest rate and currency risks and other exposures when deemed appropriate.
The key objective of the Group Treasury department is to manage the ﬁnancial risks of the business and to ensure that sufﬁcient liquidity is available to
the Group. All treasury activity operates within a formal control framework. The Board has approved treasury policies and guidelines and periodically
reviews treasury activities. Additionally, it is the Group’s policy that speculative treasury transactions are expressly forbidden.
62 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s long term debt obligations. The objective of the Group’s
interest rate management policy is to reduce the volatility of the interest charge. Interest rate exposure is managed through an optimum mix of ﬁxed and
ﬂoating rate debt and the use of interest rate swaps. At 31 December 2005, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps, approximately 42
per cent (2004 51 per cent; 2003 57 per cent) of the Group’s borrowings are at a ﬁxed rate of interest. As discussed in note 40, Post balance sheet events,
the Group’s senior unsecured loan notes were repaid in February 2006.
Foreign currency risk
Currency exposures arise from trading transactions undertaken by the Group in foreign currencies and on the translation of the operating results and net
assets of overseas subsidiaries. As a result of the Group having signiﬁcant operations in the United States, its results can be affected signiﬁcantly by
movements in the US dollar exchange rate. During the year, sterling weakened against the US dollar.
Group Treasury, by means of forward foreign exchange contracts, carries out the majority of the transaction hedging activity. The Group does not enter
into instruments to hedge the translation exposure of the operating results or net assets of its overseas subsidiaries since these are accounting and not
cash exposures. However, to provide a partial hedge, net investment hedges are entered into to match, as far as possible, the currency of borrowings with
the currency proﬁle of the operating results and net assets.
Credit risk
The Group has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk.The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers
before sales commence. Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the Group Audit Committee and such approval is limited to
ﬁnancial institutions with a rating of Standard & Poors A or Moodys A-2 or better.The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objective is to ensure that there are sufﬁcient sources of funding to meet projected requirements. Its operations are ﬁnanced through a
combination of retained earnings and external ﬁnancing. Financing is raised principally by the the parent Company and lent to subsidiaries on commercial
terms. Debt is largely sourced from the syndicated bank market and the US private placement market.
30. Financial instruments
a) Interest rate risk
The interest rate proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities at 31 December was as follows:
2005
£ million
At ﬂoating Non-interest
interest rates bearing Total
Financial assets
Sterling 21.4 3.9 25.3
US dollar 10.6 2.9 13.5
Euro 4.4 2.0 6.4
Other 5.5 1.1 6.6
41.9 9.9 51.8
Trade receivables for the continuing and discontinued operations have been excluded from the above table as they are all due in less than one year and
are non-interest bearing.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 63 30. Financial instruments continued
2004
£ million
At ﬂoating Non-interest
interest rates bearing Total
Financial assets
Sterling 29.1 0.2 29.3
US dollar 9.1 1.8 10.9
Euro 5.8 0.4 6.2
Other 4.3 1.2 5.5
48.3 3.6 51.9
2003
£ million
At ﬂoating Non-interest
interest rates bearing Total
Financial assets
Sterling 8.5 0.4 8.9
US dollar 17.2 1.1 18.3
Euro 4.0 0.6 4.6
Other 4.3 1.7 6.0
34.0 3.8 37.8
The ﬁnancial assets of the Group comprise:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Receivables due after more than one year (excluding prepayments) note 20 – 0.2 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents note 21 49.2 51.7 37.6
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments see below 2.6 ––
51.8 51.9 37.8
Floating rate ﬁnancial assets comprise cash deposits at call, seven day and monthly rates.
2005
£ million
At ﬁxed At ﬂoating Non-interest
interest rates interest rates bearing Total
Financial liabilities
Sterling – – 2.8 2.8
US dollar 31.4 44.6 6.0 82.0
Euro 1.4 0.4 0.8 2.6
Other – – 4.8 4.8
32.8 45.0 14.4 92.2
Trade payables for the continuing and discontinued operations have been excluded from the above table as they are all due in less than one year and are
non-interest bearing.
64 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 2004
£ million
At ﬁxed At ﬂoating Non-interest
interest rates interest rates bearing Total
Financial liabilities
Sterling – – 3.0 3.0
US dollar 30.2 37.5 11.1 78.8
Euro 9.7 0.5 0.8 11.0
Other – 0.2 – 0.2
39.9 38.2 14.9 93.0
2003
£ million
At ﬁxed At ﬂoating Non-interest
interest rates interest rates bearing Total
Financial liabilities
Sterling – – 1.3 1.3
US dollar 43.7 40.4 16.1 100.2
Euro 10.0 0.4 1.8 12.2
Other 0.2 0.4 – 0.6
53.9 41.2 19.2 114.3
The ﬁnancial liabilities of the Group comprise:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Short term borrowings and overdrafts note 23 3.9 1.8 1.8
Long term senior unsecured loan notes note 27 67.7 64.8 80.8
Long term bank loans note 27 2.2 2.2 3.3
Long term other loans and ﬁnance lease obligations note 27 1.3 9.3 9.2
Non-current other payables note 25 0.2 1.1 1.3
Provisions note 26 14.2 13.8 17.9
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments see below 2.7 ––
92.2 93.0 114.3
The ﬂoating rate liabilities at 31 December 2005 comprise primarily $72.1 million (2004 and 2003 $72.1 million) of the senior unsecured loan notes for
which an interest rate swap is in place. Other ﬂoating rate liabilities bear interest at various rates set with reference to the prevailing LIBOR or equivalent
for the time period and country.
Finance lease obligations of the discontinued operations of £9.0 million and other loans of £0.7 million have not been included in the tables for 2005, see
note 6.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 65 30. Financial instruments continued
The interest rate risk proﬁle at 31 December 2005 of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is as follows:
2005
£ million
More
Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 than 5
1 year years years years years years Total
Fixed rate
Senior unsecured loan notes (3.2) – – (25.8) – – (29.0)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases and 
hire purchase contracts (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.9) (1.4)
US dollar bank loan $4.2 million at 
7 per cent interest (0.2) (0.2) (2.0) – – – (2.4)
(3.5) (0.3) (2.1) (25.9) (0.1) (0.9) (32.8)
Floating rate
Cash at bank and in hand 39.3 ––––– 39.3
Bank overdrafts (0.4) ––––– (0.4)
Senior unsecured loan notes – – – (41.9) – – (41.9)
Interest rate swap (see 30(e) below) – – – (2.0) – – (2.0)
Foreign currency contracts 1.9 ––––– 1.9
40.8 – – (43.9) – – (3.1)
Interest on ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed as ﬂoating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed as ﬁxed
rate is ﬁxed until the maturity of the instrument. The other ﬁnancial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest
bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
2004 2003
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Average average period average period Average average period average period
interest rates to maturity to maturity interest rates to maturity to maturity
of ﬁxed rate of ﬁxed rate of non-interest of ﬁxed rate of ﬁxed rate of non-interest
liabilities liabilities bearing liabilities liabilities liabilities bearing liabilities
% years years % years years
Financial liabilities
Sterling – – 5.0 11.5 2.3 4.7
US dollar 9.2 4.6 2.9 9.2 5.6 3.1
Euro 4.9 12.1 8.4 5.7 12.8 6.5
Other – – – 11.2 2.1 –
Group 8.1 6.4 3.6 8.6 6.9 3.5
66 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued b) Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
The undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December were as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Expiring in one year or less 30.1 31.6 61.5
The committed borrowing facilities at 31 December 2005 comprise primarily of a £30 million working capital facility.This facility was cancelled in February
2006 on completion of the sale of the HellermannTyton Division.
c) Currency exposure of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
The table shows the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of the Group at 31 December.These monetary assets and liabilities are not denominated
in their functional currency and therefore give rise to exchange gains and losses in the income statement.
2005 
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) £ million
Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total
Functional currency of Group operation
Sterling – 3.4 0.1 0.6 4.1
US dollar (0.6) – (0.5) – (1.1)
Euro (0.5) 0.8 – (0.4) (0.1)
Other (0.5) 0.5 (1.2) (0.4) (1.6)
(1.6) 4.7 (1.6) (0.2) 1.3
2004 
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) £ million
Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total
Functional currency of Group operation
Sterling – 0.1 1.6 0.3 2.0
US dollar (0.7) – (0.3) (1.8) (2.8)
Euro (0.6) (0.9) – – (1.5)
Other (0.5) 2.0 – 0.7 2.2
(1.8) 1.2 1.3 (0.8) (0.1)
2003
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) £ million
Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total
Functional currency of Group operation
Sterling – (1.0) 0.6 – (0.4)
US dollar (0.3) – (0.1) – (0.4)
Euro (0.8) (1.5) – 0.2 (2.1)
Other (1.9) 1.7 (0.9) 0.6 (0.5)
(3.0) (0.8) (0.4) 0.8 (3.4)
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 67 30. Financial instruments continued
d) Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments
Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (other than current
trade and other receivables and current trade and other payables that approximate fair value) that are carried in the ﬁnancial statements at other than
fair values.
2005 2004 2003 
£ million £ million £ million
Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair
value value value value value value
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents note 21 49.2 49.2 51.7 51.7 37.6 37.6
Other debtors note 20 – – 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
Financial liabilities
Short term borrowings and overdrafts note 23 (3.9) (3.9) (1.8) (1.8) (1.8) (1.8)
Other ﬁnancial liabilities note 25 (0.2) (0.2) (1.1) (1.1) (1.3) (1.3)
Long term senior unsecured loan notes note 27 (67.7) (76.1) (64.8) (75.3) (80.8) (97.0)
Other long term borrowings note 27 (3.5) (3.4) (11.5) (11.7) (12.5) (11.8)
Provisions and other liabilities note 26 (14.2) (14.2) (13.8) (13.8) (17.9) (17.9)
(40.3) (48.6) (41.1) (51.8) (76.5) (92.0)
Interest rate swaps (2.0) (2.0) – (1.0) – (1.3)
Currency derivatives 1.9 1.9 – 0.5 – 0.4
(40.4) (48.7) (41.1) (52.3) (76.5) (92.9)
Market values have been used to determine the fair value of the long term senior unsecured loan notes. The fair value of derivatives and borrowings has
been calculated by discounting the expected future cash ﬂows at prevailing interest rates.
e) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The fair value of the derivative ﬁnancial instruments at 31 December 2005 is as follows:
£ million
Assets Liabilities
Interest rate swaps – (2.0)
Currency derivatives 2.6 (0.7)
2.6 (2.7)
The derivative ﬁnancial instruments are as follows:
Interest rate swaps
Fixed to ﬂoating interest rate swaps were entered into on 23 May 2003 on $72.1 million of the senior unsecured loan notes. The swaps terminate on 
23 November 2009 and can be cancelled at the bank’s option at six monthly intervals. The swaps have been transacted with two banks and are split 
$48.0 million and $24.1 million between them. The terms of the $48.0 million swap allow for either party to exercise a break on 23 November 2008.
Should a break take place a mark to market settlement would be due at fair value.
The interest rate swaps have been designated as hedges and following the adoption of IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 are included in the balance sheet as
derivative ﬁnancial instruments non-current liabilities at their fair value with movements in fair value being reﬂected through the income statement.
68 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Currency derivatives
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts in the management of transactional exchange rate exposures. These contracts are designated where
possible as hedging instruments.
At 31 December 2005, the Group held foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges in respect of the forward purchase of dollars to establish the sterling
value of the anticipated repayment of senior unsecured loan notes associated with the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division.The terms of this contract
are as follows:
Maturity Exchange rate
Buy US dollars 140,000,000 26 January 2006 1.77028
At 31 December 2005, the Group held foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges in respect of the forward purchase of Yen to establish the sterling
value of the acquisition of the majority interest in the Tyton Company of Japan associated with the disposal of HellermannTyton Division. The terms of
this contract are as follows:
Maturity Exchange rate
Buy Y en 5,252,360,000 26 January 2006 204.59
At 31 December 2005 the Group held various foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges in respect of the forward sale of US dollars and euro on
trading transactions. These contracts total £30.6 million, are for various maturity dates over the period to December 2006 and are at exchange rates in
the range 1.72 to 1.80 for US dollar contracts and 1.45 to 1.46 for euro contracts.
Hedge of net investment in foreign entities
As at 31 December 2005 senior unsecured loan notes of $124.8 million (2004 $124.8 million; 2003 $144.2 million) have been designated as a hedge of
the net investments in the United States and are being used to reduce the exposure of the foreign exchange risk. Gains or losses on the retranslation of
this borrowing are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in subsidiaries.
Unrealised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Total net Total net Total net
gains/ gains/ gains/
Gains Losses (losses) (losses) (losses)
Unrealised gains/(losses) at 1 January 0.5 (1.0) (0.5) (0.9) 0.9
Gains/(losses) arising in previous years realised in the year (0.5) – (0.5) (0.4) (0.9)
Gains/(losses) arising before 1 January that were not 
realised in the year – (1.0) (1.0) (1.3) –
Gains/(losses) arising in the year that were not realised 2.6 (1.7) 0.9 0.8 (0.9)
Unrealised gains/(losses) on hedges at 31 December 2.6 (2.7) (0.1) (0.5) (0.9)
Expected to be realised:
In one year or less 2.6 (0.7) 1.9 0.5 0.4
In later years – (2.0) (2.0) (1.0) (1.3)
2.6 (2.7) (0.1) (0.5) (0.9)
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 69 31. Operating lease commitments
At 31 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due
as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Continuing operations
Within one year 7.6 8.3 9.0
In the second to ﬁfth years 17.1 21.6 24.9
Over ﬁve years 5.4 10.0 10.4
30.1 39.9 44.3
Discontinued operations
Within one year 1.6 1.7 1.4
In the second to ﬁfth years 4.2 4.7 3.9
Over ﬁve years 9.0 10.7 6.4
14.8 17.1 11.7
44.9 57.0 56.0
The Group leases certain land and buildings under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with a variety of terms. The Group also leases certain plant
and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. Total future sub-lease payments receivable relating to the above leases amounted to
£5.4 million (2004 £7.0 million; 2003 £8.0 million).
32. Authorised and issued share capital
Authorised
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
1,250 million (2004 and 2003 1,250 million) Ordinary shares of 3
1
⁄ 3 pence each 41.7 41.7 41.7
Issued and fully paid
Number of
Ordinary shares
million £ million
At 1 January 2003 939.4 31.3
Allotted pursuant to share options and purchase rights exercised 4.6 0.2
At 1 January 2004 944.0 31.5
Allotted as deferred consideration for the acquisition of Caw Networks, Inc. 4.3 0.1
Allotted pursuant to share options and purchase rights exercised 7.9 0.3
At 1 January 2005 956.2 31.9
Allotted pursuant to share options and purchase rights exercised 9.6 0.3
At 31 December 2005 965.8 32.2
At the Annual General Meeting held on 4 May 2005, shareholders gave authority for the Company to purchase up to 48 million of its own Ordinary shares
in the market subject to certain speciﬁed conditions.At 23 February 2006, no purchases have been made or are contracted to be made under such authority.
70 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued In accordance with the rules of the following share schemes, options and purchase rights were exercised during the year which resulted in new Ordinary
shares being allotted by the Company or existing shares being transferred from Spirent Sharesave Trust (“SST”) as follows:
Number of Consideration
Ordinary shares received
million £000
Executive Share Option Schemes 2.1 341.7
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan 4.2 833.8
Acquisition plans
1
0.6 108.6
All employee share schemes 3.1 1,498.9
10.0 2,783.0
Note
1 The Acquisition Plans are the Netcom Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan, the Zarak Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan and the Caw Amended and Restated Stock Plan
(see notes (d), (e) and (f) on pages 74 and 75).
During the year 276,196 shares were transferred from the SST to satisfy options exercised under the UK all employee share schemes, and 195,756 shares
were transferred from the Employee Share Ownership Trust (“ESOT”) to satisfy options exercised under the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan.
There has been no material increase in the issued share capital, whether by exercise of options, purchase rights or otherwise, between the end of the year
and 23 February 2006, the date on which these ﬁnancial statements have been signed.
A reconciliation of movements in share incentives over the three years to 31 December 2005 is shown below:
Executive Share 2005 Employee Spirent Stock UK Sharesave Employee Stock
Option Schemes
1
Incentive Plan
2
Incentive Plan
3
Acquisition Plans
4
Schemes
5
Purchase Plans
6
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average average average average
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
of shares price of shares price of shares price of shares price of shares price of shares price
million pence million pence million pence million pence million pence million pence
Options outstanding at
1 January 2003 18.0 180 – – 79.6 215 15.1 59 5.3 61 3.3 14
Granted 7.6 16 – – 21.1 57 – – 3.4 38 3.3 50
Exercised –––– (0.4) 16 (0.9) 17 – – (3.3) 14
Forfeited (0.3) 220 – – (33.4) 309 (0.2) 47 (0.8) 50 – –
Expired (2.7) 180 – – (4.2) 289 (1.3) 79 (0.8) 88 – –
Options outstanding at
31 December 2003 22.6 125 – – 62.7 108 12.7 59 7.1 48 3.3 50
Granted 6.2 61 – – 25.0 68 0.1 9 – – 2.7 50
Exercised (0.1) 29 – – (2.6) 24 (1.8) 20 (0.1) 41 (3.3) 50
Forfeited (0.1) 156 – – (5.9) 85 (0.2) 17 (0.4) 42 – –
Expired (1.5) 184 – – (2.5) 284 (1.1) 126 (0.7) 77 – –
Options outstanding at
31 December 2004 27.1 107 – – 76.7 94 9.7 60 5.9 45 2.7 50
Granted – – 3.2 40 24.3 54 – – – – – –
Exercised (2.1) 16 – – (4.2) 20 (0.6) 18 (0.4) 41 (2.7) 50
Forfeited (0.5) 141 – – (7.9) 67 (0.2) 10 (0.3) 41 – –
Expired (3.3) 175 – – (7.3) 177 (0.2) 123 (0.6) 68 – –
Options outstanding at
31 December 2005 21.2 105 3.2 40 81.6 81 8.7 62 4.6 43 – –
Options exercisable 
At 31 December 2003 5.7 152 – – 25.4 118 12.7 59 – – – –
At 31 December 2004 8.2 124 – – 36.3 118 9.7 60 0.2 110 – –
At 31 December 2005 4.0 152 – – 39.5 103 8.7 62 0.8 48 – –
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 71 32. Authorised and issued share capital continued
Notes
1 Includes options granted under the 1995, 1985 and International Executive Share Option Schemes. As at 31 December 2005, the 1985 and International Executive Share Option
Schemes were closed and no options remained outstanding.
2 Figures for the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan include share options, stock appreciation rights and performance shares in aggregate.
3 Shows both traditional share options and share settled stock appreciation rights in aggregate. A grant of 12.1 million options with an exercise price of 60.75 pence per share awarded
in December 2003 made under the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan was partially hedged by 6.1 million Ordinary shares held in trust. As at 31 December 2005, 195,756 Ordinary shares
had been transferred out of the ESOT in respect of the exercise of options from this grant, leaving a balance of 5.9 million shares hedging this award.
4 The Acquisition Plans are share plans which originally granted options over other companies’ shares which have been rolled over into Spirent shares when the said companies were
acquired by Spirent plc. A description of the Acquisition Plans can be found in notes (d) to (f) on pages 74 and 75 of these ﬁnancial statements.
5 276,196 Spirent Ordinary shares were transferred from the Spirent Sharesave Trust (“SST”) to settle the exercise of UK Sharesave options in 2005. As at 31 December 2005, 3.2 million
Ordinary shares remained in the SST hedging share option grants made under the Sharesave Schemes.
6 The Employee Stock Purchase Plans includes the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Global All Employee Share Purchase Plan and the UK Employee Share Purchase Plan. No purchase
rights were outstanding under these plans as at 31 December 2005.
The following information relates to the outstanding share options:
2005 2004 2003
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Range of average average average average average average
exercise exercise remaining exercise remaining exercise remaining
Exercise period (as at prices price Number contractual price Number contractual price Number contractual
Share scheme Notes 31 December 2005) pence pence million life pence million life pence million life
Executive Share a 25.03.06-24.03.13 16 16 5.2 7.2 16 7.5 8.2 16 7.6 9.2
Option Schemes
1
03.10.04-04.08.14 56-72 62 6.8 8.2 62 7.0 9.2 72 0.9 7.8
11.04.98-01.05.12 91-163 125 6.6 4.6 133 9.0 5.5 132 10.2 6.3
11.05.03-08.04.11 305-598 318 2.6 4.9 320 3.6 5.9 320 4.0 6.9
Employee 
Incentive Plan b 25.08.08-24.08.15 0-53
2
40 3.2 8.0 –– ––– –
Spirent Stock c 10.10.03-09.10.09 6 6 0.2 3.8 6 0.2 4.8 6 0.3 5.8
Incentive Plan 14.11.03-09.04.10 13-18 17 6.5 4.0 17 10.4 5.0 17 13.5 6.0
08.05.04-07.05.10 22 22 0.1 4.3 22 0.1 5.4 22 0.1 6.4
12.09.03-07.12.12 38-56 52 22.6 6.5 46 2.3 5.9 55 1.8 6.5
03.10.02-06.04.12 61-87 67 39.4 4.9 67 46.7 5.8 66 27.0 6.2
30.08.02-12.06.09 94-140 115 1.5 3.1 119 2.2 4.1 121 2.5 5.1
21.06.02-13.03.09 141-190 143 8.3 3.2 144 10.2 4.2 144 11.4 5.2
11.05.01-06.06.08 270-400 319 1.7 2.0 321 2.4 2.9 321 3.0 3.9
07.09.01-14.02.08 488-617 583 1.3 2.0 585 2.2 3.0 583 3.1 4.0
Acquisition Plans d, e, f 15.08.02-25.06.12 8-11
3
9 0.1 6.0 9 0.3 6.9 11 0.7 7.9
23.07.99-12.11.07 15-18 18 2.9 1.4 18 3.5 2.3 18 4.0 3.3
23.07.99-18.01.08 24-36 24 2.2 1.9 24 2.2 2.9 24 3.2 3.9
14.11.00-22.03.08 54-79 54 0.1 2.2 54 0.1 3.2 54 0.2 4.2
14.11.00-12.10.10 90-127 103 2.9 3.2 103 3.0 4.2 101 3.9 5.0
17.05.00-19.07.09 151 151 0.4 3.5 151 0.5 4.5 151 0.5 5.5
14.11.00-12.11.10 350-572 523 0.1 4.8 519 0.1 5.8 535 0.2 6.8
Sharesave Schemes g 01.12.05-31.05.11 38-41 39 4.4 2.2 39 5.5 3.1 39 6.2 4.1
01.01.06-31.05.09 83-103 89 0.1 1.4 93 0.3 1.3 89 0.8 1.5
01.12.05-30.11.08 142-518 314 0.1 1.0 214 0.1 1.2 142 0.1 1.7
Employee Stock
Purchase Plans h, i, j –– – – – 50 2.7 0.1 50 3.3 0.1
Total 119.3 122.1 108.5
Notes
1 Includes options granted under the 1995, 1985, and International Executive Share Option Schemes.As of 31 December 2005, the 1985 and International Executive Share Option Schemes
were closed and no options remained outstanding.
2 Figures for the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan include share options, stock appreciation rights and performance shares in aggregate. No exercise price is payable on the vesting of a
performance share.
3 These exercise prices relate to the Caw Amended and Restated Stock Plan and are expressed in this table in sterling using the average exchange rate between pounds sterling and US
dollars for the year. The actual exercise price of these options are priced in US dollars at either 15.03 US cents or 20.03 US cents per share.
72 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Potential dilution of issued share capital arising from employee share schemes
In accordance with guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, the following information is provided in respect of possible future dilution 
of the Company’s issued share capital arising from the exercise of awards under the Group’s employee share schemes. The issued share capital at 
31 December 2005 was 965.8 million. The closing price for a Spirent Ordinary share was 49.5 pence.
At 31 December 2005
Maximum
3
Maximum
5
Weighted number of new Weighted number of new
average issue shares average issue shares
Total
1
exercise price required to Total
4
exercise price required to
Total exercisable of all Shares held
2
satisfy outstanding of all satisfy all
number below exercisable in trust exercisable below outstanding outstanding
exercisable 49.5 pence awards or treasury awards 49.5 pence awards awards
million million pence million million million pence million
Discretionary share 
options 37.4 6.9 114 5.9 6.9 12.5 101 12.5
Options arising from 
Acquisition Plans 8.7 5.1 62 – 5.1 5.2 62 5.2
Stock appreciation rights
6
6.2 0.1 68 – 0.1 3.0 59 0.2
Conditional shares – – – – – 0.8 – 0.8
Stock purchase rights – – – – – – – – 
Sharesave options 0.8 0.8 48 3.2 – 4.5 43 1.3
Total 53.1 12.9 9.1 12.1 26.0 20.0
Notes
1 This is the number of exercisable awards which have an exercise price less than 49.5 pence per share, being the Spirent plc closing share price on 31 December 2005.
2 Shares held in trust are in relation to shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust and the Spirent Sharesave Trust. These shares were purchased in the market and are held to
satisfy exercises under various employee share schemes. Market purchased shares have been excluded for the purposes of calculating dilution.
3 This is the number of shares which would need to be issued to satisfy the exercise of all exercisable awards with an exercise price of less than 49.5 pence, being the Spirent plc closing
share price on 31 December 2005.
4 Total number outstanding relates to outstanding awards (whether exercisable or not) which have an exercise price less than 49.5 pence per share, being the Spirent plc closing share
price on 31 December 2005.
5 This is the number of shares which would need to be issued to satisfy the exercise of outstanding awards (whether exercisable or not) with an exercise price of less than 49.5 pence,
being the Spirent plc closing share price on 31 December 2005.
6 This includes stock appreciation rights awarded under the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan and Employee Incentive Plan. Stock appreciation rights awarded under the Netcom Stock
Appreciation Rights Plan (see note (k) below for details on this plan) are not included in the above ﬁgure and are fully hedged by shares in the Employee Share Ownership Trust.
Description of employee share schemes
a) 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”)
The ESOS is now closed (however outstanding options may still be exercised) and has been replaced by the Employee Incentive Plan referred to in (b) below.
The HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) approved ESOS incorporates the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers (“ABI”) at that time.
It was subsequently amended by the Board to facilitate the award of unapproved share options both in the UK and overseas.
Awards under the ESOS, normally determined annually, were at the sole discretion of the Remuneration Committee after considering recommendations
made to it by the Chief Executive. No price was payable on the grant of an option and no options have been, or could be, granted at a discount to the
market price.
The normal exercise period for options granted under the ESOS is between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant. Options awarded under
the ESOS are subject to the achievement of an earnings per share (“EPS”) performance condition before they can be exercised. The condition is that over
a period of three consecutive ﬁnancial years, there has been an increase in the Company’s adjusted EPS which is at least 6 per cent more than the increase
in the Retail Price Index over the same period. The performance condition is tested on the third anniversary of grant and, if it has not been met at that
time, at each subsequent anniversary of grant until the option expires (ie on the tenth anniversary of grant in normal circumstances).
All ESOS grants made after 11 May 2000 to executive directors are subject to enhanced performance conditions on exercise. The performance conditions
require the Company’s adjusted EPS to increase over a period of three consecutive ﬁnancial years within a range of 9 per cent (minimum performance for
25 per cent option vesting) and 15 per cent (for 100 per cent option vesting), with a sliding scale between these points. In addition, performance testing
over the ten year option term is measured from a base point ﬁxed at the date of grant. Performance will be tested on the third anniversary of grant and,
if the target conditions at that time have not yet been met in full, performance will be tested again on the fourth and ﬁfth anniversaries of grant only,
with the performance hurdle being increased in proportion to the extended period.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 73 32. Authorised and issued share capital continued
b) 2005 Employee Incentive Plan (“EIP”)
On 4 May 2005, Spirent shareholders approved the EIP to replace the now closed ESOS. The EIP is currently available for selected employees (including
executive directors) on a similar discretionary basis as the ESOS and any awards will be subject to prior satisfactory individual performance. No price is
payable on the grant of an award and no award has been granted at a discount to the market price. The Company is able to grant share options, including
HMRC approved options, share settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) and performance shares under the EIP.
In normal circumstances, options or SARs under the EIP will vest three years following grant provided the Company’s EPS growth targets (after excluding
inﬂation) have been met over a three year performance period. The growth targets in respect of the initial award require that the Company’s EPS increases
within a range of 6 per cent per annum (for 25 per cent vesting) and 15 per cent per annum (for 100 per cent vesting) over the performance period, with
a sliding scale between these points.
In normal circumstances, performance shares under the EIP will vest three years following grant provided the Company’s total shareholder return (“TSR”)
targets have been met over a three year performance period.The performance conditions require Spirent’s TSR to be between the median of a comparator
group (for 30 per cent vesting) and the upper quartile of a comparator group (for 100 per cent vesting) over the performance period, with a sliding scale
between these points. The comparator group consists of the 30 largest companies by market capitalisation in the FTSE TechMARK 100 Index, excluding
those TechMARK companies who are also constituents of the FTSE100 Index at the commencement of the performance period.
All EIP awards will be tested once on or shortly following the third anniversary of grant. Any part of an award which does not vest shall, lapse (ie there is
no opportunity for retesting).
SARs granted under the EIP will deliver the appreciation value (ie the aggregated increase in market value of an Ordinary share over the base price of the
SAR) in the form of new issue Ordinary shares. This SARs approach, which is also being utilised for the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan (see note (c) below)
will help the Company manage its dilution headroom more efﬁciently as only the SAR gain and not the entire share value needs to be funded. Using a
SARs based approach, it is not possible to determine the precise level of dilution until the SARs are exercised. 2.2 million SARs with a base price of 53
pence were outstanding in respect of the EIP as at 31 December 2005, however, no SARs have been exercised.
Options and SARs granted under the EIP expire on the tenth anniversary of their grant unless they have previously lapsed or been exercised.
c) Spirent Stock Incentive Plan (“SSIP”)
The SSIP (formerly the Spirent Stock Option Plan) was introduced in 2000. This discretionary plan is primarily targeted at selected employees in the
Communications group with grants normally determined annually by reference to the seniority and contribution of the individual, together with the
performance of the relevant business and prevailing local market practice. Under the SSIP, grants are also permitted to selected newly hired and promoted
employees on a monthly basis.
Following an Extraordinary General Meeting held in June 2004, shareholders approved the renewal of the SSIP until the Company’s 2007 Annual General
Meeting along with several amendments including the ability to award SARs as well as stock options. The Company is mindful of the need to continue to
manage shareholder dilution in a responsible manner. The current shareholder approved mandate regarding annual dilution rates includes an annual
allowance of 2.5 per cent of shares outstanding for the SSIP and 0.6 per cent of shares outstanding for the EIP (see (b) above).The Remuneration Committee
does not propose any change to the aggregate of 3.1 per cent of shares outstanding that could be granted annually under both the SSIP and EIP, but believes
it would be helpful to allow ﬂexibility in the mix to reﬂect future operational requirements. 38.5 million SARs with a base price of between 42 pence and
71 pence were outstanding in respect of the SSIP at 31 December 2005, however, no SARs have been exercised.
Awards made pursuant to the SSIP normally vest over four years, provided that the employee remains in employment.Awards normally become 25 per cent
exercisable on the ﬁrst anniversary of the date of grant and thereafter in equal proportions on a monthly basis over a further 36 months. Any award not
exercised by the seventh anniversary of grant will lapse.
SSIP awards granted from June 2004 to certain senior managers will only become exercisable subject to the achievement of applicable EPS performance
conditions.
No price is payable on the grant of options or SARs and no options or SARs have been, or can be, granted at a discount to the market price.
d) Netcom Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (“NARSOP”)
Spirent completed the acquisition of Netcom Systems, Inc. (“Netcom”) in 1999. $44.5 million of the total consideration was satisfied through the 
roll-over of outstanding options over Netcom shares, primarily held by Netcom employees, into options over approximately 23.8 million Ordinary shares
(as adjusted) on substantially similar terms as previously existed under the NARSOP. All remaining outstanding options are fully vested and exercisable
until they expire.
74 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued e) Zarak Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (“ZARSOP”)
Out of a total consideration of approximately 44.9 million Ordinary shares issued for the acquisition of Zarak Systems Corporation (“Zarak”) in 2000,
approximately 3.8 million shares arose in connection with the roll-over of outstanding options over Zarak shares into options over Spirent Ordinary shares
on substantially similar terms as previously existed under the ZARSOP. These options are primarily held by Zarak employees and have either a ﬁve or ten
year life from the original date of grant.
Unvested rolled-over options were capable of immediate exercise (ie prior to their respective vesting date) and any shares arising from such an event were
held in the ESOT until the relevant vesting date. The option holder was entitled to the beneﬁcial (but not legal) interest in the shares whilst they were
held in trust but they remained subject to forfeiture (with the original option exercise prices being refunded to the participant) if the participant’s
employment was terminated prior to the vesting date. All ZARSOP options and resulting shares held in the ESOT have now fully vested.
f) Caw Amended and Restated Stock Plan (“CARSP”)
Out of a total initial consideration for the acquisition of Caw Networks, Inc. (“Caw”) in 2002 of $49 million, approximately $4 million was in respect of
Spirent Ordinary shares and options which arose on the roll-over of outstanding options and shares under the previous Caw employee stock plan. The
options and shares will vest over a period expiring in 2006 on substantially similar terms as previously existed under the CARSP. The options are held by
Caw employees and have a ten year life from the original date of grant. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement for Caw, an additional cash payment
of 78.8 US cents was payable as each share vested or upon the exercise of a vested option.
Any Ordinary shares issued under the CARSP are restricted until they have vested or are not at risk from forfeiture under the plan rules. Unvested rolled-
over options are capable of immediate exercise (ie prior to their respective vesting date) and any shares arising from such an event are held in the ESOT
until the relevant vesting date. The option holder is entitled to the beneﬁcial (but not legal) interest in the shares whilst they are held in the ESOT but
they remain subject to forfeiture (with the original option exercise prices being refunded to the participant) if the participant’s employment is terminated
prior to the vesting date.
In accordance with the original terms for acquiring Caw, in March 2004, Spirent allotted 4.3 million Ordinary shares and issued 75,000 options following
the achievement by Caw of certain technical and ﬁnancial earn out targets. Participation in the CARSP entitled the participants to a share in the earn out.
Any earn out payment for an outstanding CARSP option was made by increasing the number of shares subject to the option and decreasing the per share
exercise price so as to preserve the existing aggregate total exercise price. Of the 4.3 million shares, 54,000 shares were issued to the ESOT in respect of
unvested restricted shares, which remained subject to forfeiture prior to vesting. As a result of the earn out, the additional cash payment referred to above
was adjusted to 66.9 US cents as each share vests or upon the exercise of a vested option.
The Ordinary shares subject to rolled-over options from the acquisition of Netcom, Zarak and Caw, or granted under the SSIP, do not count toward ABI
scheme limits. The plans mentioned in (a) and (d) to (f) above are closed to new entrants and no further awards of options can be made under them.
g) UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“SRSOS”) and 2005 Sharesave Scheme
The SRSOS closed in 2005 and was replaced by the 2005 Sharesave Scheme. SRSOS options which remain outstanding may still be exercised prior to expiry,
however no further grants can be made. Both schemes operate as HMRC approved Save-As-You-Earn schemes and are open to all UK employees, subject
to a qualifying service period. Any future sharesave invitations will be made under the 2005 Sharesave Scheme, which is broadly similar to the SRSOS.
The employee enters into a Save-As-You-Earn contract with the Company’s savings carrier to save a regular sum of between £5 and £250 per month for
a ﬁxed period of either three or ﬁve years.
No price is payable on the grant of an option. The option exercise price is calculated by reference to the middle market price of an Ordinary share on the
business day prior to the beginning of the invitation period, discounted by up to 20 per cent, at the Board’s discretion. Options are normally exercisable
within six months of the third, ﬁfth or seventh anniversary of the contract commencement date, as elected by the option holder at the start of the contract.
The Company operates the SST to honour the contractual commitment to deliver Ordinary shares against the valid exercise of outstanding options under
the SRSOS. The SST, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Spirent plc, acts as sole trustee. During the year, 276,196 shares were transferred to participants. SST
has waived all rights to receive dividends payable on its registered shareholding except for 0.01 pence per annum in aggregate and accordingly such
shareholding is not included in the Company’s EPS calculation as referred to in note 13.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 75 32. Authorised and issued share capital continued
h) US Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”)
The ESPP operates on a broadly similar basis to the Sharesave Scheme. It enables the Company to grant eligible US employees the right to acquire Spirent
American Depositary Shares using proceeds of a savings contract. When joining the ESPP, participants enter into a contract to save up to 15 per cent of
basic salary (gross), subject to an individual maximum of $1,000 (net) per month, over a contract period of 12 months by way of regular payroll deductions.
No price is payable on the grant of a purchase right. The purchase price will be based on the market value of an Ordinary share either on the ﬁrst day of
the offering period or on the last day of the offering period, whichever price is lower, less a 15 per cent discount or, where shares are to be subscribed,
their nominal value (if greater).
i) Global All Employee Share Purchase Plan (“GAESPP”)
The GAESPP was approved by shareholders in 2001 and offers employees in countries other than the UK or US an opportunity to share in the Company’s
performance through share ownership. The GAESPP was implemented in Canada in January 2002 and operates on similar terms to the ESPP above, with
participants entering into a 12 month contract to save up to 15 per cent of basic salary (gross), subject to an individual maximum of Cdn $1,000 (net) per month.
j) UK Employee Share Purchase Plan (“UK ESPP”)
On 4 May 2005, shareholders approved the UK ESPP, which is an HMRC approved share incentive plan, available to all UK employees (subject to a qualifying
service period). The UK ESPP offers three ways to provide Ordinary shares to employees: free shares, partnership shares and matching shares. The UK ESPP
will operate in conjunction with a trust, which will hold the shares on the behalf of participants.
Each year awards of free shares may be made to eligible employees up to a value of £3,000.Awards may be made subject to performance targets determined
by the directors. In normal circumstances, free shares must be held in trust for between three and ﬁve years and normally become free of income tax and
national insurance if held for ﬁve years.
Employees may be offered the opportunity to purchase partnership shares out of monthly contributions taken from pre-tax salary (up to £1,500 or 
10 per cent of salary, if less). The directors determine a savings period of between one and 12 months following which the shares are purchased. Where
the savings period is longer than one month, the purchase price will be the lesser of the price at the beginning of the accumulation period or the price at
the end. Participants can withdraw partnership shares from the trust at anytime, however, doing so before ﬁve years may trigger a tax liability.
If partnership shares have been offered to employees, the Company may also offer matching shares up to a maximum of two matching shares for each
partnership share. In normal circumstances, matching shares must be held in trust for a period of at least three years and may be subject to forfeiture if
the participant leaves employment prior to the end of this period.
No awards have been made so far under this plan.
k) Stock Appreciation Rights Plan (“SARP”)
The SARP was introduced in September 1999 as an interim incentive arrangement for the employees of Netcom following the closure of the NARSOP
described in (d) above and subsequently for certain other employees in the Communications group. Under the SARP, recruitment, promotion and recognition
awards over Ordinary shares have been made in line with historic and local competitive market practice on a quarterly basis at the discretion of a
committee of senior executives. The operation of the SARP reﬂects as far as practicable the now closed NARSOP. Accordingly, rights under the SARP vest
over four years, 25 per cent vesting one year after the date of grant and the remainder vesting on a monthly basis over a further 36 months. Rights granted
are not subject to the fulﬁlment of any pre-exercise performance conditions.
The SARP will deliver the appreciation value (ie the aggregated increase in the market value of an Ordinary share over the rights price) in the form of
existing Ordinary shares which have been purchased in the market by the Company’s ESOT. The maximum number of shares over which SARP awards can
be made is 5.25 million.
At 31 December 2005, the following rights were outstanding under the SARP:
Number of
rights
Rights price outstanding
Rights exercise dates pence million
10.09.00-29.06.10 182-400 2.4
76 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 33. Share-based payment
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans is as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Continuing operations
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme 0.4 0.3 0.1
2005 Employee Incentive Plan 0.1 ––
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan 4.4 3.6 0.2
Acquisition Plans 0.2 0.4 0.5
Employee Sharesave Schemes – 0.5 0.1
5.1 4.8 0.9
Discontinued operations
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme 0.4 0.2 0.1
Employee Sharesave Schemes 0.1 0.2 –
0.5 0.4 0.1
5.6 5.2 1.0
The fair value of the options and purchase rights over Ordinary shares is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model. The following table
gives the assumptions made in arriving at the share-based payments charge:
2005 2004 2003
Weighted average share price (pence) 53 65 36
Weighted average fair value (pence) 24 36 19
Expected volatility (%) 50-55 70 70
Expected life (years) 4.5 4.5 4.5
Risk free rate (%) 4.2 4.0-5.1 3.6-4.9
Dividend yield (%) nil-1.0 1.0 1.0
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous two years which management
considers to be the period which is likely to be most representative of future volatility. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on
management’s best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. For performance shares granted
under the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan, which have a market based performance condition, it has been assumed that there will be 50 per cent vesting
for valuation purposes.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 77 34. Reconciliation of movements in equity
£ million
Share Capital Net unrealised Retained
Share premium Capital redemption Translation gains and Investment in earnings/ Minority Total
capital account reserve reserve reserve (losses) own shares (loss) interests equity
At 1 January 2003 as originally stated 31.3 696.1 17.6 0.7 – – (2.1) (648.5) 2.1 97.2
Changes in accounting policy relating 
to ﬁrst-time application of IFRS – – – – – – 2.1 (4.9) – (2.8)
At 1 January 2003 as restated note 39 31.3 696.1 17.6 0.7 – – – (653.4) 2.1 94.4
Changes in equity for 2003
Total recognised income and expense 
for the year – – (1.2) – 3.0 – – 27.6 0.1 29.5
Share-based payment – – – – – – – 0.4 – 0.4
New shares issued 0.2 1.4 (0.9) – – – – – – 0.7
Obligation to issue share capital 
Caw Networks Inc. – – 2.7 – – – – – – 2.7
Other movements – – (0.5) – – – – 1.1 – 0.6
At 31 December 2003 31.5 697.5 17.7 0.7 3.0 – – (624.3) 2.2 128.3
Changes in equity for 2004
Total recognised income and expense 
for the year – – (1.2) – (1.4) – – 29.5 0.2 27.1
Share-based payment – – – – – – – 4.8 – 4.8
New shares issued 0.3 3.3 (2.1) – – – – – – 1.5
New shares issued – Caw Networks Inc. 0.1 3.2 (2.7) – – – – – – 0.6
Cancellation of share premium and 
capital redemption reserve – (702.7) – (0.7) – – – 703.4 – –
Minority acquired – – – – – – – – (1.1) (1.1)
Other movements – – (0.8) – – – – – – (0.8)
At 31 December 2004 31.9 1.3 10.9 – 1.6 – – 113.4 1.3 160.4
Changes in accounting policy relating 
to ﬁrst-time application of IAS 39 
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement’ note 39 – – – – – 0.5 – (0.6) – (0.1)
At 1 January 2005 as restated 31.9 1.3 10.9 – 1.6 0.5 – 112.8 1.3 160.3
Changes in equity for 2005
Total recognised income and expense 
for the year – – – – 3.9 1.4 – (52.1) 0.6 (46.2)
Share-based payment – – – – – – – 5.4 – 5.4
New shares issued 0.3 3.1 (0.7) – – – – – – 2.7
At 31 December 2005 32.2 4.4 10.2 – 5.5 1.9 – 66.1 1.9 122.2
78 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Nature and purpose of reserves
A reconciliation of the opening and closing balance on each reserve is shown in the Reconciliation of movements in equity. The nature and purpose of
each reserve within equity is as follows:
i) Share premium account: this reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value;
ii) Capital reserve: this reserve arises in relation to share option plans in acquired companies;
iii) Capital redemption reserve: this reserve has been eliminated as described below;
iv) Translation reserve: this reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the net investments hedged in these subsidiaries; and
v) Net unrealised gains and losses: this reserve records movements in fair value of forward currency contracts.
At 31 December 2005, the cumulative amount of goodwill charged to retained earnings as a result of UK GAAP accounting policies prior to 1998, is 
£43.9 million (2004 and 2003 £43.9 million).
Investment in own shares
At 31 December 2005, an amount of £2.6 million (2004 £2.6 million; 2003 £2.6 million) is deducted from retained earnings in relation to the cost of
investment in own shares. The investment in own shares relates to 3.2 million Ordinary shares (2004 and 2003 3.5 million) held by the Spirent Sharesave
Trust (“SST”) and 9.4 million Ordinary shares (2004 and 2003 9.5 million) held by the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust (“ESOT”). Shares held by
the SST will be used to satisfy options under the Company’s Savings Related Share Option Schemes. Shares held in the ESOT are primarily held to hedge
awards under various discretionary employee share schemes. The market value of own shares held in trust at 31 December 2005 was £6.2 million (2004
£9.6 million; 2003 £7.6 million).
Cancellation of share premium and capital redemption reserves
On 24 November 2004, Spirent plc was granted an order of the High Court for the approval of the cancellation of the share premium account and capital
redemption reserve (“the Cancellation”) which stood at that date at £702.7 million and £0.7 million, respectively. The Cancellation created a reserve in
the ﬁnancial statements of the Company which was applied to eliminate the deﬁcit in distributable reserves. The balance of this reserve created after the
deﬁcit in distributable reserves had been eliminated was transferred to a special non-distributable reserve. The special non-distributable reserve at 31
December 2005 is £11.1 million (2004 £61.6 million; 2003 nil) and will be increased in future years to the extent that the Company subsequently realises
any value from its assets in excess of the value at which those assets were recorded in the Company’s ﬁnancial statements at the time of the Cancellation.
The special non-distributable reserve will have a maximum value equal to the aggregate of the share premium account and capital redemption reserve at
the time of the Cancellation, being £703.4 million. The special non-distributable reserve will be used to eliminate deﬁcits arising in future years and is only
capable of being distributed to the shareholders of the Company once all the creditors of the Company, which existed at the date of the Cancellation, have
consented to the Cancellation or have been satisﬁed in full or on transferring to a blocked trust account a sum equal to the aggregate amount due to any
creditors of Spirent plc who were creditors on 24 November 2004 and who remain creditors on the date of release of the special non-distributable reserve.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 79 35. Reconciliation of operating (loss)/proﬁt to cash generated from operations
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Continuing operations
Operating (loss)/proﬁt (39.0) 15.2 11.3
Adjustments for:
Goodwill impairment 37.0 ––
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11.4 14.8 17.5
Loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.5 –
Impairment of property, plant and equipment – 0.6 2.2
Share-based payment 5.1 4.8 0.9
Changes in working capital:
Deferred income received 5.8 4.9 0.2
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 0.4 (7.1) 6.7
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (0.4) 3.5 1.8
(Decrease)/increase in payables (16.8) 4.5 2.1
Decrease in provisions (0.9) (2.9) (5.9)
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan (3.8) (7.8) 0.8
Cash (outﬂow)/generated from continuing operations (1.1) 31.0 37.6
Discontinued operations
Operating proﬁt 24.4 20.9 16.8
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11.2 10.6 11.8
Proﬁt on the disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Share-based payment 0.5 0.4 0.1
Changes in working capital:
Increase in receivables (1.7) (2.0) (2.9)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (3.0) (4.5) 1.3
Increase in payables 3.8 4.0 3.6
Cash generated from discontinued operations 35.1 29.3 30.6
Cash generated from operations 34.0 60.3 68.2
80 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 36. Acquisition of subsidiaries
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Net assets – minority interest acquired – 1.1 –
Goodwill – – 2.7
– 1.1 2.7
Consideration
Issue of Ordinary shares – Caw Networks, Inc. – 0.6 2.7
Cash (including expenses) – 1.1 –
Adjustment to consideration – prior year acquisitions – (0.6) –
– 1.1 2.7
The cash ﬂows in respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries are as follows:
Cash (including expenses) – (1.1) –
Cash (accrued in prior years) – – (1.1)
Net cash outﬂow on acquisitions – (1.1) (1.1)
The issue of Ordinary shares related to deferred consideration pursuant to the acquisition agreement with Caw Networks, Inc. 4.3 million Ordinary shares
were issued on 31 March 2004 when the Spirent Ordinary share price was 75.5 pence. The consideration had been estimated in 2003 and provided at 
£2.7 million and adjusted in 2004 when the actual share price and exchange rate were known.
During 2004, the minority shareholdings in two of the Network Products group’s subsidiaries were acquired for a cash consideration of £1.1 million.
37. Disposal of operations
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Net assets disposed of
Goodwill note 14 – – 0.6
Property, plant and equipment note 15 – 0.1 0.7
Inventories – 0.2 2.3
Trade and other receivables – 1.8 2.4
Trade and other payables – (2.4) (4.5)
Provisions – (1.2) –
Investment in joint venture – – 54.3
Net (liabilities)/ assets – (1.5) 55.8
Exchange gain transferred to proﬁt on sale – – (2.4)
Proﬁt on disposal of operations 3.9 4.0 8.6
Disposal costs – HellermannTyton Division note 6 (6.7) ––
(2.8) 2.5 62.0
During 2005, the Group disposed of certain non-trading companies for £3.9 million and incurred costs amounting to £6.7 million in relation to the disposal
of the HellermannTyton Division. The sale of the HellermannTyton Division was completed on 15 February 2006.
During 2004, the Group disposed of its aerospace maintenance, repair and overhaul software business from within the Systems group.
During 2003, the Group disposed of its Aviation Information Solutions businesses from within the Systems group and its interests in the WAGO joint venture.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 81 37. Disposal of operations continued
Cash ﬂows in respect of the disposal of operations are as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£ million £ million £ million
Cash received on disposal of operations 3.9 2.5 62.0
Cash expenses paid on the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division (1.5) ––
Net cash ﬂow 2.4 2.5 62.0
Expenses accrued on the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division (5.2) ––
(2.8) 2.5 62.0
38. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this
note. Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below.
Trading transactions
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group:
£ million
Amounts owed Amounts owed
Sales of goods Purchases of goods by related parties to related parties
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
Associates 1.2 1.3 1.0 3.0 2.3 2.1 0.5 0.3 0.2 1.3 0.8 0.8
Sales to and purchases from related parties are made at normal market prices.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provisions have been made in respect
of the amounts owed by related parties. The amounts owed by and to related parties for 2005 are included in discontinued operations.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the executive directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories
speciﬁed in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’.
2005 2004 2003
£000 £000 £000
Short term employee beneﬁts 1,078 1,920 1,431
Share-based payment 504 222 61
1,582 2,142 1,492
82 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 39. Transition to IFRS
For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 December 2004, the Group prepared its ﬁnancial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”). As described in notes 1 and 2 above, these ﬁnancial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2005, are the ﬁrst the
Group is required to prepare in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (“EU”).
Accordingly, the Group has prepared ﬁnancial statements which comply with IFRS applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 and the signiﬁcant
accounting policies meeting those requirements are described in note 2. In preparing these ﬁnancial statements, the Group has started from an opening
balance sheet as at 1 January 2003, the Group’s date of transition to IFRS, and made those changes in accounting policies and other restatements required
by IFRS 1 for the ﬁrst-time adoption of IFRS. This note explains the principal adjustments made by the Group in restating its UK GAAP balance sheet as
at 1 January 2003 and its previously published UK GAAP ﬁnancial statements for the two years ended 31 December 2003 and 31 December 2004.
Exemptions applied
IFRS 1 allows ﬁrst-time adopters certain exemptions from the general requirement to apply IFRS as effective for December 2005 year ends retrospectively.
The Group has taken the following exemptions:
• Comparative information on ﬁnancial instruments is prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and the Group has adopted IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments:
Disclosure and Presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ from 1 January 2005.
• IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’ has been applied prospectively from 1 January 2005, in accordance with the 
requirements of that standard and IFRS 1. Accordingly, the comparative balance sheets have not been adjusted for assets and liabilities classiﬁed in 
2005 as held for sale.
• IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ has not been applied to acquisitions of subsidiaries or interests in associates and joint ventures that occurred before 
1 January 2003.
• The Group has recognised all cumulative actuarial gains and losses on pensions and other post-retirement beneﬁts as at 1 January 2003, directly in 
equity.Accordingly, the Group discloses prospectively from 1 January 2003 the information required by IAS 19 ‘Employee Beneﬁts’ on scheme obligations,
scheme assets and experience adjustments on scheme assets and liabilities, as those amounts are determined.
• Cumulative currency translation differences for all foreign operations are deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2003.
• IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ has not been applied to any equity instruments that were granted on or before 7 November 2002, nor has it been applied
to equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 that vested before 1 January 2005.
Accounting policies applied in the two years ended 31 December 2003 and 31 December 2004
As noted above, the Group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 1 January 2005 and as permitted under IFRS 1 the Group has not restated
comparative information. The new accounting policies as applied for the year ended 31 December 2005 are set out in note 2. For accounting periods up
to the year ended 31 December 2004 the following accounting policies were applied in respect of ﬁnancial instruments in the ﬁnancial statements of Group:
Derivative instruments
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to foreign exchange rates.The Group also uses interest rate swaps to adjust interest
rate exposures.
The Group considers its derivative instruments qualify for hedge accounting when certain criteria are met.
Forward foreign currency contracts
The rates under such contracts are used to record the hedged item. As a result, gains and losses are offset against the foreign exchange gains and losses
on the related ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, or where the instrument is used to hedge a committed future transaction, the gains and losses are not
recognised until the transaction occurs.
Interest rate swaps
Interest differentials are recognised by accruing with net interest payable. Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value or shown on the Group balance
sheet at the year end. If they are terminated early, the gain or loss is spread over the remaining maturity of the original instrument.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 83 39. Transition to IFRS continued
Nature of the main adjustments to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39
Had IAS 32 and IAS 39 been applied from 1 January 2003 all the Group’s derivative instruments would have been brought onto the balance sheet at fair value.
Available-for-sale investments and investments held at fair value through proﬁt and loss would have been carried at fair value rather than at cost.
Following adoption of IAS 32 and 39 by the Group, forward currency contracts with a positive fair value of £0.5 million and interest rate swaps with negative
fair value of £1.0 million have been recognised in the Group balance sheet at 1 January 2005.
Restatement on the ﬁrst-time application of IAS 32 and IAS 39
£ million
Current assets – Financial assets 0.5
Non-current liabilities – Financial liabilities (1.0)
Long term borrowings 0.4
Total change in equity note 34 (0.1)
Explanation of IFRS adjustments to the income statements and balance sheets
The most signiﬁcant adjustments arising from the Group’s transition to IFRS are described below and their ﬁnancial effect is set out in the reconciliations
on pages 89 to 93.
a) IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’
IFRS 2 requires an expense to be recognised where the Group buys goods or services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (equity-settled transactions),
or in exchange for other assets equivalent in value to a given number of shares or rights over shares (cash-settled transactions). The main impact of 
IFRS 2 on the Group is the measurement of the expense for employees’ and directors’ share options and other share-based incentives by using an 
option-pricing model.
Effect on the income statement
This change has resulted in an increase in the reported charge for share-based payment of £4.6 million for 2004 and £0.4 million for 2003.
The effect of this revised policy on the basic and diluted EPS is as follows:
• For 2004 a decrease in basic earnings per share of 0.49 pence (2003 0.04 pence).
• For 2004 a decrease in diluted earnings per share of 0.48 pence (2003 0.04 pence).
Effect on equity
There is no net effect on equity.
84 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued b) IAS 19 ‘Employee Beneﬁts’
IAS 19 permits two different approaches for the recognition of actuarial gains and losses. The Group is adopting the approach which is similar to the UK
Standard, Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’. Spirent adopted FRS 17 for UK GAAP reporting in 2003 and restated the
consolidated balance sheet at 1 January 2003 for the adoption of this standard. The implementation of IAS 19 in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension
schemes has had no effect on the reported results of the Group compared with the results reported under UK GAAP.
Under UK GAAP a deferred tax asset arose in respect of the retirement beneﬁt obligation on the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes and this was set off
against the obligation for disclosure purposes. IAS 19 requires that the deferred tax asset be separately disclosed as a non-current asset.
IAS 19 also requires companies to make an accrual for holiday pay; under UK GAAP this was not mandatory.
Effect on the income statement
The requirement to accrue holiday pay has resulted in a credit to the income statement of £0.8 million for 2004 and no adjustment for 2003.
The effect of this revised policy in respect of the requirement to accrue holiday pay on the basic and diluted EPS is as follows:
• For 2004 an increase in basic earnings per share of 0.09 pence (2003 nil).
• For 2004 an increase in diluted earnings per share of 0.08 pence (2003 nil).
Effect on equity
At 31 December 2004, a deferred tax asset of £11.1 million has been reclassiﬁed from the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan deﬁcit to non-current assets. A
similar reclassiﬁcation was made of £13.0 million at 31 December 2003. No deferred tax asset was recognised at the transition date 1 January 2003.
An additional accrual of £0.2 million for holiday pay has been reported and included in trade and other payables at 31 December 2004.A similar adjustment
of £1.0 million was made at 31 December 2003 and £1.0 million at 1 January 2003.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 85 39. Transition to IFRS continued
c) IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’
i) Goodwill amortisation
The Group made no acquisitions in 2003 or 2004 and has elected not to restate business combinations prior to the transition date of 1 January 2003. The
effect of the adoption of IFRS 3 on the Group’s accounting policies has therefore had no impact on the book value of assets and liabilities acquired for
prior period acquisitions.
The adoption of IFRS 3 and IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ has resulted in the Group ceasing annual goodwill amortisation from 1 January 2003 and
introduced the requirement to test for impairment annually at the level of the cash-generating unit or cash-generating units to which goodwill has been
allocated (unless an event occurs during the year which requires the goodwill to be tested more frequently).
In addition, the reversal of goodwill amortisation has resulted in a higher goodwill balance denominated in foreign currencies and hence has adjusted the
exchange difference on retranslation of goodwill into sterling at each reporting date.
Effect on the income statement
Goodwill amortisation of £9.1 million charged in 2004 and £9.7 million charged in 2003 under UK GAAP has been reversed in the restatements under IFRS.
The effect of this revised policy due to the adoption of IFRS 3 on the basic and diluted EPS is as follows:
• For 2004 an increase in basic earnings per share of 0.97 pence (2003 1.04 pence).
• For 2004 an increase in diluted earnings per share of 0.96 pence (2003 1.03 pence).
Effect on equity
A cumulative exchange difference of £1.1 million arises on the retranslation of the adjusted goodwill balance at 31 December 2004. The equivalent
cumulative exchange difference was £0.4 million at 31 December 2003.
The reversal of the cumulative goodwill amortisation from transition date together with the exchange effects outlined above have increased the carrying
value of goodwill at 31 December 2004 by £17.7 million. The cumulative adjustment at 31 December 2003 was £9.3 million.
ii) Proﬁt or loss on disposal
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and will not be included in the calculation of any proﬁt or loss on
any subsequent disposal under IFRS.
Effect on the income statement
Goodwill written off to reserves arising prior to 1998 and reinstated under UK GAAP on the disposal of operations has been reversed in the amount of
£4.9 million and £2.6 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The effect of this revised policy due to the adoption of IFRS 3 on the basic and diluted EPS is as follows:
• For 2004 an increase in basic earnings per share of 0.52 pence (2003 0.28 pence).
• For 2004 an increase in diluted earnings per share of 0.51 pence (2003 0.27 pence).
Effect on equity
There is no net effect on equity.
86 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued d) IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’
IAS 12 requires that deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse
in the foreseeable future. These deferred tax liabilities were not required to be recognised under UK GAAP.
Effect on the income statement
The tax charge for the Group has increased by £0.1 million and that for the associate by £0.1 million for 2003 under IFRS. There is no effect on the income
statement in 2004 and therefore there is no effect on basic or diluted earnings per share (2003 basic and diluted 0.02 pence decrease).
Effect on equity
Under IFRS additional deferred tax liabilities for subsidiaries have been recognised of £0.6 million and for associates of £1.5 million at 31 December 2004
and at 31 December 2003. At the transition date, 1 January 2003, tax liabilities of £0.4 million for subsidiaries and £1.4 million for associates have been
recognised under IFRS.
e) IAS 28 ‘Investments in Associates’ and IAS 31 ‘Interests in Joint Ventures’
IAS 28 and IAS 31 require that the Group’s share of the associates’ or joint ventures’ net proﬁt or loss be disclosed in the income statement as one line
after charging or crediting the Group’s share of the associates’ or joint ventures’ interest and tax. Under UK GAAP the Group’s share of interest and tax
of the associates and joint ventures were disclosed within the interest or tax lines in the income statement.
Effect on the income statement
An amount of £1.0 million of tax has been reclassiﬁed to the associates’ result from the tax charge in 2004 under IFRS. In 2003, £0.2 million of interest
and £1.1 million of tax have been reclassiﬁed to the joint ventures’ result and £0.9 million of tax to the associates’ result.
Effect on equity
There is no effect on equity.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 87 39. Transition to IFRS continued
f) IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’
The Group has elected to adopt IAS 21 from the transition date, 1 January 2003. As a result any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign subsidiary
and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are now treated as assets and liabilities of the
foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. Goodwill acquired prior to 1 January 2003 that has been treated as an asset of the parent is reported
in pounds sterling at the date of transition.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets of overseas subsidiaries and exchange adjustments arising from the translation
of the results of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, are classiﬁed as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such
translation differences are recognised as part of the proﬁt or loss on disposal should an operation be disposed of. The Group has elected to apply the
exemption that allows the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be deemed to be zero at the date of transition to IFRS, 1 January
2003. The Group has similarly elected that the gain or loss on the subsequent disposal of any foreign operation shall exclude translation differences that
arose before the transition date.
For disposals in 2003 and 2004 that occurred after the transition date, the proﬁt or loss on disposal has been restated so as to include the effect of any
post-transition translation differences.
Effect on the income statement
There is no effect on the income statement in 2004. In 2003, exchange gains of £2.4 million on foreign operations disposed of have been credited to the
income statement.
The effect of this revised policy on the basic and diluted earnings per share is as follows:
• For 2004 there is no effect on basic earnings per share (2003 0.25 pence increase).
• For 2004 there is no effect on diluted earnings per share (2003 0.25 pence increase).
Effect on equity
At 31 December 2004, cumulative translation adjustments of £2.8 million have been transferred to a separate translation reserve in accordance with IAS 21.
These, together with the translation effects of other IFRS adjustments, result in a closing balance of £1.6 million on the translation reserve at this date.
The translation reserve at 31 December 2003 was a credit balance of £3.0 million.
g) Reclassiﬁcations
Some reclassiﬁcations are required in the restatements under IFRS.
Effect on the income statement
For the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes a credit for the expected return on the schemes’ assets and a charge for the increase during the period in the
present value of the schemes’ liabilities, because the beneﬁts are one year closer to settlement, were included in other ﬁnance expense or income in the
income statement under UK GAAP. Under IFRS this charge or credit has been reclassiﬁed as ﬁnance costs.
Effect on equity
Under IFRS it is necessary to classify provisions into short term provisions and non-current provisions.
Under IFRS the investment in own shares has been reclassiﬁed to retained earnings in the transition date balance sheet and at 31 December 2003.
The investment in own shares was deducted from retained earnings at 31 December 2004 for UK GAAP so no adjustment is required.
For UK GAAP purposes in the following reconciliations the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan deﬁcit has been reclassiﬁed as a non-current liability.
Other
The Group has applied IAS 39 prospectively, that is with effect from 1 January 2005, and hence no adjustments for ﬁnancial instruments are required in
the income statement restatements for 2003 or 2004.
88 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2003
£ million
Effect of
Notes UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 113.6 – 113.6
Property, plant and equipment 110.0 – 110.0
Investment in joint venture 50.1 – 50.1
Investment in associates a 13.3 (1.4) 11.9
Trade and other receivables 2.0 – 2.0
289.0 (1.4) 287.6
Current assets
Inventories 61.5 – 61.5
Trade and other receivables 95.3 – 95.3
Cash and cash equivalents 83.6 – 83.6
240.4 – 240.4
Total assets 529.4 (1.4) 528.0
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables c (88.0) (1.0) (89.0)
Current tax (19.5) – (19.5)
Short term borrowings and overdrafts (1.8) – (1.8)
Provisions and other liabilities d – (5.7) (5.7)
(109.3) (6.7) (116.0)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables (4.7) – (4.7)
Long term borrowings (243.6) – (243.6)
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan deﬁcit (46.2) – (46.2)
Deferred tax e (2.4) (0.4) (2.8)
Provisions and other liabilities d (26.0) 5.7 (20.3)
(322.9) 5.3 (317.6)
Total liabilities (432.2) (1.4) (433.6)
Net assets 97.2 (2.8) 94.4
Share capital 31.3 – 31.3
Share premium account 696.1 – 696.1
Capital reserve 17.6 – 17.6
Capital redemption reserve 0.7 – 0.7
Retained loss f (648.5) (4.9) (653.4)
Investment in own shares b (2.1) 2.1 –
Minority interests 2.1 – 2.1
Total equity 97.2 (2.8) 94.4
Notes to the reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2003
a Additional deferred tax liabilities recognised in relation to associates.
b Investment in own shares reclassiﬁed as treasury stock and shown as a deduction from equity.
c Accrual for vacation earned but not taken at the year end extended to include all subsidiaries within the Group.
d Reclassiﬁcation of the current portion of lease provisions from provisions under UK GAAP to short term provisions under IFRS.
e Additional deferred tax liabilities recognised in relation to subsidiaries.
f Net adjustment to retained earnings.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 89 39. Transition to IFRS continued
Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2003
£ million
Effect of
Notes UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Non-current assets
Goodwill a 101.6 9.3 110.9
Property, plant and equipment 90.2 – 90.2
Investment in joint venture 0.3 – 0.3
Investment in associates b 14.6 (1.5) 13.1
Trade and other receivables 1.7 – 1.7
Deferred tax c – 13.0 13.0
208.4 20.8 229.2
Current assets
Inventories 55.0 – 55.0
Trade and other receivables 85.2 – 85.2
Cash and cash equivalents 37.6 – 37.6
177.8 – 177.8
Total assets 386.2 20.8 407.0
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables d (86.6) (1.0) (87.6)
Current tax (24.7) – (24.7)
Short term borrowings and overdrafts (1.8) – (1.8)
Provisions and other liabilities e – (4.6) (4.6)
(113.1) (5.6) (118.7)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables (2.3) – (2.3)
Long term borrowings (93.3) – (93.3)
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan deﬁcit c (35.2) (13.0) (48.2)
Deferred tax f (2.3) (0.6) (2.9)
Provisions and other liabilities e (17.9) 4.6 (13.3)
(151.0) (9.0) (160.0)
Total liabilities (264.1) (14.6) (278.7)
Net assets 122.1 6.2 128.3
Share capital 31.5 – 31.5
Share premium account 697.5 – 697.5
Capital reserve 17.7 – 17.7
Capital redemption reserve 0.7 – 0.7
Translation reserve g – 3.0 3.0
Investment in own shares h (2.6) 2.6 –
Retained loss i (624.9) 0.6 (624.3)
Minority Interests 2.2 – 2.2
Total equity 122.1 6.2 128.3
Notes to the reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2003
a Elimination of goodwill amortisation from 1 January 2003.
b Additional deferred tax liabilities recognised in relation to associates.
c Deferred tax asset on pension scheme is required to be shown separately.
d Accrual for vacation earned but not taken at the year end extended to include all subsidiaries within the Group.
e Reclassiﬁcation of the current portion of lease provisions from provisions under UK GAAP to short term provisions under IFRS.
f Additional deferred tax liabilities recognised in relation to subsidiaries.
g Separate translation reserve required.
h Reclassify own shares within retained earnings.
i Net adjustment to retained earnings.
90 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004
£ million
Effect of
Notes UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Non-current assets
Goodwill a 88.8 17.7 106.5
Property, plant and equipment 86.3 – 86.3
Investment in associates 15.8 (1.5) 14.3
Trade and other receivables 1.5 – 1.5
Deferred tax b – 11.1 11.1
192.4 27.3 219.7
Current assets
Inventories 54.0 – 54.0
Trade and other receivables 88.4 – 88.4
Cash and cash equivalents 51.7 – 51.7
194.1 – 194.1
Total assets 386.5 27.3 413.8
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables c (90.6) (0.2) (90.8)
Current tax (26.2) – (26.2)
Short term borrowings and overdrafts (1.8) – (1.8)
Provisions and other liabilities e – (4.2) (4.2)
(118.6) (4.4) (123.0)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables (3.9) – (3.9)
Long term borrowings (76.3) – (76.3)
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan deﬁcit b (27.0) (11.1) (38.1)
Deferred tax d (1.9) (0.6) (2.5)
Provisions and other liabilities e (13.8) 4.2 (9.6)
(122.9) (7.5) (130.4)
Total liabilities (241.5) (11.9) (253.4)
Net assets 145.0 15.4 160.4
Share capital 31.9 – 31.9
Share premium account 1.3 – 1.3
Capital reserve 10.9 – 10.9
Capital redemption reserve –––
Translation reserve f – 1.6 1.6
Retained earnings g 99.6 13.8 113.4
Minority Interests 1.3 – 1.3
Total equity 145.0 15.4 160.4
Notes to the reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004
a Elimination of goodwill amortisation from 1 January 2003.
b Deferred tax asset on pension scheme is required to be shown separately.
c Accrual for vacation earned but not taken at the year end extended to include all subsidiaries within the Group.
d Additional deferred tax liabilities recognised in relation to subsidiaries.
e Reclassiﬁcation of the current portion of lease provisions from provisions under UK GAAP to short term provisions under IFRS.
f Separate translation reserve required under IFRS.
g Net adjustment to retained earnings.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 91 39. Transition to IFRS continued
Reconciliation of the income statement for 2003
£ million
Effect of
Effect of proposed
transition disposal of
Notes UK GAAP to IFRS HellermannTyton
g
IFRS
Continuing operations
Revenue 466.2 – (174.4) 291.8
Cost of sales (279.8) – 105.5 (174.3)
Gross proﬁt 186.4 – (68.9) 117.5
Operating expenses a (167.6) 9.3 52.1 (106.2)
Operating proﬁt 18.8 9.3 (16.8) 11.3
Proﬁt from interests in joint ventures b 2.7 (1.3) – 1.4
Share of proﬁt of associates c 2.1 (1.0) (1.1) –
Operating proﬁt of the Group, joint venture and associates 23.6 7.0 (17.9) 12.7
Proﬁt on the disposal of operations d 3.6 5.0 – 8.6
Proﬁt before interest 27.2 12.0 (17.9) 21.3
Finance income 3.1 – (0.2) 2.9
Finance costs e (28.5) (1.3) 1.0 (28.8)
Other ﬁnance expense e (1.5) 1.5 – –
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 0.3 12.2 (17.1) (4.6)
Tax f (0.6) 1.9 2.9 4.2
Loss for the year from continuing operations after tax (0.3) 14.1 (14.2) (0.4)
Discontinued operations
Proﬁt for the year from discontinued operations g – – 14.2 14.2
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year (0.3) 14.1 – 13.8
Attributable to
Equity holders of the parent (0.5) 14.1 – 13.6
Minority shareholders’ interests – discontinued operations 0.2 – – 0.2
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year (0.3) 14.1 – 13.8
Notes to the reconciliation of the consolidated income statement for 2003
a The adjustment to operating expenses under IFRS is made up of the following items:
£ million
Reversal of UK GAAP goodwill amortisation charge 9.7
Additional share-based payment charge under IFRS 2 (0.4)
9.3
b Under IAS 31 income from interests in joint ventures is shown net of taxation (£1.1 million) and ﬁnance costs (£0.2 million).
c Under IAS 28 share of proﬁt of associates is shown net of tax (£0.9 million) and an adjustment of £0.1 million in relation to deferred tax liabilities under IAS 12.
d Under IFRS goodwill previously written off to reserves of £2.6 million is not reinstated on the disposal of operations. In addition, there are exchange gains on foreign operations of £2.4
million that under IAS 21 were taken to equity and on disposal of those operations have now been transferred to the income statement.
e The adjustment to ﬁnance costs under IFRS relates to the reclassiﬁcation of the ﬁnance expense arising on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes of £1.5 million to other ﬁnance expense
and a reduction of £0.2 million for ﬁnance costs of the joint venture.
f The adjustment to tax relates to the tax charge for the associates and joint venture (see (b) and (c) above) and a deferred tax charge which arises in relation to temporary differences
for investments in subsidiaries under IAS 12.
g The income statement has been adjusted to reﬂect the effect of the proposed disposal of the HellermannTyton Division which is a discontinued operation under IFRS but not under
UK GAAP in 2005.
92 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Reconciliation of the income statement for 2004
£ million
Effect of
Effect of proposed
transition disposal of
Notes UK GAAP to IFRS HellermannTyton
f
IFRS
Continuing operations
Revenue 475.0 – (187.8) 287.2
Cost of sales (274.9) – 109.7 (165.2)
Gross proﬁt 200.1 – (78.1) 122.0
Operating expenses a (169.3) 5.3 57.2 (106.8)
Operating proﬁt 30.8 5.3 (20.9) 15.2
(Loss) from interest in joint venture (0.7) – – (0.7)
Share of proﬁt of associates b 2.8 (1.0) (1.8) –
Operating proﬁt of the Group, joint venture and associates 32.9 4.3 (22.7) 14.5
(Loss)/proﬁt on the disposal of operations c (0.9) 4.9 – 4.0
Proﬁt before interest 32.0 9.2 (22.7) 18.5
Finance income 1.6 – (0.2) 1.4
Finance costs d (8.9) (0.7) 0.9 (8.7)
Other ﬁnance expense d (0.7) 0.7 – –
Proﬁt before tax 24.0 9.2 (22.0) 11.2
Tax e (7.7) 1.0 4.7 (2.0)
Proﬁt for the year from continuing operations after tax 16.3 10.2 (17.3) 9.2
Discontinued operations
Proﬁt for the year from discontinued operations f – – 17.3 17.3
Proﬁt for the year 16.3 10.2 – 26.5
Attributable to
Equity holders of the parent 16.0 10.2 – 26.2
Minority shareholders’ interests – discontinued operations 0.3 – – 0.3
Proﬁt for the year 16.3 10.2 – 26.5
Notes to the reconciliation of the consolidated income statement for 2004
a The adjustment to operating expenses under IFRS is made up of the following items:
£ million
Reversal of UK GAAP goodwill amortisation charge 9.1
Decrease in vacation accrual 0.8
Additional share-based payment charge under IFRS 2 (4.6)
5.3
b Under IAS 28 share of proﬁt of associates is shown net of taxation (£1.0 million).
c Under IFRS goodwill previously written off to reserves is not reinstated on the disposal of operations.
d The adjustment to ﬁnance costs under IFRS relates to the reclassiﬁcation of the ﬁnance expense arising on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes to other ﬁnance expense.
e The adjustment to tax under IFRS relates to the tax charge for the associates (see (b) above).
f The income statement has been adjusted to reﬂect the effect of the proposed disposal of the HellermannTyton Division which is a discontinued operation under IFRS but not under
UK GAAP in 2005.
Explanation of material adjustments to the cash ﬂow statement for 2004 and 2003
Income taxes of £3.1 million paid during 2004 (2003 received £8.9 million) are classiﬁed as operating cash ﬂows under IFRS, but were included in a
separate category of tax cash ﬂows under UK GAAP. There are no other material differences between the cash ﬂow statements presented under IFRS and
the cash ﬂow statements presented under UK GAAP.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 93 40. Post balance sheet events
On 23 January 2006 the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire SwissQual Holding AG (“SwissQual”) for an initial consideration
of CHF 62.5 million (£27.7 million). The initial consideration was paid in cash on completion on 23 January 2006 out of cash resources and utilisation of
a new bank facility that was set up speciﬁcally for the purpose. A further CHF 28.0 million (£12.4 million) is payable in 2007 depending on revenue growth
and various technical milestones.
We also announced on 13 February 2006 the acquisition of QuadTex Systems, Inc for $7.5 million (£4.2 million) payable in cash on completion with a
further $1.5 million (£0.9 million) payable depending on certain technical milestones and the retention of key employees.
The directors consider it impractical to provide further disclosures in relation to these acquisitions given their proximity to the date of the Annual Report.
The disposal of The HellermannTyton Division was completed on 15 February 2006 when proceeds of £288.9 million were received at a cash free/
debt free equivalent value. These proceeds have been applied as follows:
• Repayment of the senior loan notes of $124.8 million (£71.5 million).
• Payment of the make whole amount (an amount which becomes payable on the early redemption of the senior loan notes) of $12.9 million 
(£7.4 million).
• Break fees of £2.3 million in respect of interest rate swaps taken out in connection with the senior loan notes.
• Special contribution of £47.0 million to the UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme.
• Repayment and cancellation of the bank facility in connection with the acquisition of SwissQual.
T aking these transactions into account the pro forma cash balance is approximately £150 million, of this, £50 million has been earmarked to fund the on-
market share repurchase programme. The programme is expected to begin in the second quarter, following the completion of certain actions: establishing
distributable reserves in the parent Company, clearance from the Pension Regulator and the approval from shareholders to make on-market share
repurchases of up to 14.99 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital.
Following the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division the Company issued notices of cancellation in respect of all its borrowing facilities.
94 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 95
Independent auditors’ report to the shareholders of Spirent plc 
We have audited the parent Company ﬁnancial statements of Spirent plc
for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Company
balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 23.These parent Company ﬁnancial
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out
therein.We have also audited the information in the Directors’ remuneration
report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements of Spirent
plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or
for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’
remuneration report and the parent Company financial statements in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) as set out in the
Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company ﬁnancial statements and
the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company ﬁnancial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company
ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985.We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ report is not
consistent with the parent Company ﬁnancial statements, if the Company
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions
is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial
statements.The other information comprises only the Directors’ report, the
unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration report, the Chairman’s
statement, Chief Executive’s overview, the Operating review and Financial
review. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of
any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent
Company ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any
other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the parent Company ﬁnancial statements and the part
of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the parent Company ﬁnancial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company
ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to
be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud
or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company
ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to
be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2005; and 
– the parent Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Y oung LLP
Registered auditor
London 
23 February 2006 96 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
2005 2004
At 31 December Notes £ million £ million
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 4 15.9 15.8
Fixed asset investments
Shares in subsidiaries 5 233.2 263.3
Loans to subsidiaries 6 119.1 175.3
Investment in associate 7 0.1 0.1
Total ﬁxed assets 368.3 454.5
Current assets
Stocks 8 9.3 8.6
Trade and other debtors 9 21.9 25.3
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 16 2.6 –
Cash at bank and in hand 26.4 28.9
60.2 62.8
Current liabilities
Creditors due within one year 10 (23.4) (19.7)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 16 (0.6) –
Loans due within one year 14 (3.2) –
(27.2) (19.7)
Net current assets 33.0 43.1
Assets less current liabilities 401.3 497.6
Long term liabilities
Creditors due after more than one year 11 (234.3) (309.3)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 16 (2.0) –
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Deferred tax 12 (0.8) –
Provisions 13 (1.7) (2.0)
Assets less liabilities (excluding pension liability) 162.5 186.3
Pension liability 3 (51.5) (27.0)
Assets less liabilities (including pension liability) 111.0 159.3
Capital and reserves 17
Called up share capital 32.2 31.9
Share premium account 4.4 1.3
Capital reserve 10.2 10.9
Merger reserve – 1.2
Net unrealised gains and losses 2.0 –
Proﬁt and loss account 62.2 114.0
Shareholders’ funds – equity 111.0 159.3
The notes on pages 97 to 114 form part of these ﬁnancial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Anders Gustafsson
Director
23 February 2006
Company balance sheet Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 97
1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
As the Company is included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, made up to 31 December each year, it is not required to present a separate proﬁt
and loss account as provided by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Changes in accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous ﬁnancial year except that the Company has adopted the following standards
for which the principal effects of this decision are discussed below.
Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 20 ‘Share-based Payment’
Employees (including directors) of the Company receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render
services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (equity-settled transactions).
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted. The fair value is
determined using a binomial model.
The Company has applied FRS 20 from 1 January 2005, as allowed by the standard, and only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002
which were unvested at 1 January 2005.
FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’
From 1 January 2005, the Company is required to adopt the provisions of the above standards.
The Company uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge its exposures to ﬂuctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates and ‘ﬁxed to ﬂoating’
interest rate swaps to hedge its ﬁxed interest rate borrowings.The Company’s policy is not to undertake any trading activity in ﬁnancial instruments. From
1 January 2005, the Company accounts for these instruments in accordance with FRS 26 (see below).
Tangible assets
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land. Depreciation is provided to write off all other assets over their estimated useful lives at rates which take
into account commercial conditions at their location. Usual asset lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold properties Over the lease period
Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years
Fixtures, ﬁttings and equipment
Building installations 20 years or lease period if less
Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years
Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years
Business systems software 4 years
The carrying values of tangible ﬁxed assets are reviewed for impairment in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may
not be recoverable.
Leases
Finance leases, which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned, are capitalised on the balance sheet at net present
value. The corresponding liabilities are recorded as long term or current liabilities depending on the period when they are due. The interest elements of
the rental obligations are charged to the proﬁt and loss account over the periods of the leases as a ﬁnance cost. Capitalised leased assets are depreciated
over their useful life.
Operating lease rentals are charged to proﬁt and loss account over the period of the lease.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. Cost includes all costs in bringing each product to its present location and
condition, being the full manufacturing cost on a ﬁrst-in-ﬁrst-out basis, including all attributable overheads based on a normal level of activity. Net
realisable value represents the selling price less further costs to be incurred to completion and on sale.
Notes to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements 98 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements continued
1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Trade and other debtors
Trade debtors, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible
amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when identiﬁed.
Provisions
Provisions are recorded when the Company has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event which it is probable that it will be
required to settle by an outﬂow of resources and for which a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Provisions are reviewed at
each balance sheet date and adjusted to reﬂect the current best estimate.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision shall be the present value of the expenditures expected to be
required to settle the obligation.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Company, the revenue can be reliably measured and when the Company
has transferred to the buyer the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership. In addition, revenue is only recognised when collectibility is probable.
For the sale of services, revenue is recognised in accounting periods in which the service is rendered.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.All exchange proﬁts and losses
are taken to the proﬁt and loss account.
Product development
Expenditure is charged to the proﬁt and loss account in the year in which it is incurred.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Company’s balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. Issue costs are amortised over the expected life
of the instrument.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.Amortised
cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
From 1 January 2005, hedge accounting is adopted where derivatives such as ‘ﬁxed to ﬂoating’ interest rate swaps are held as fair value hedges against
ﬁxed interest rate borrowings. Under fair value hedge accounting, ﬁxed interest rate borrowings are revalued at each balance sheet date by the change in
the fair value attributable to the interest rate risk being hedged.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
With effect from 1 January 2005 the Company uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge its exposures to ﬂuctuations in interest and foreign exchange
rates. The Company’s policy is not to undertake any trading activity in ﬁnancial instruments. Such derivative ﬁnancial instruments are stated at fair value
with effect from 1 January 2005.
From 1 January 2005, such derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into
and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception. This
documentation identiﬁes the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be
measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective. Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 99
Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign currencies. The fair value
of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity proﬁles. Interest rate swaps
are used to hedge the Company’s exposure to movements in interest rates. The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market rates
for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classiﬁed as fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised
asset or liability; or cash ﬂow hedges where they hedge exposure to the variability in cash ﬂows that is due to the risk associated with a recognised asset
or liability or a forecast transaction.
In relation to these fair value hedges (interest rate swaps) which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging
instrument is recognised in the proﬁt and loss account and any gain or loss on the item that is being hedged is adjusted against its carrying amount and
recognised in the proﬁt and loss account.
In relation to cash ﬂow hedges (forward foreign exchange contracts) to hedge ﬁrm commitments or highly probable forecast transactions and which meet
the conditions for hedge accounting, the proportion of the gain or loss on the remeasurement of the fair value of the hedging instrument that is deemed
to be effective is recognised in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the proﬁt and loss account.
When the ﬁrm commitment or highly probable forecast transaction results in the recognition of an asset or liability, the associated gains and losses that
have previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the carrying amount of the asset or liability at the time the asset or
liability is recognised.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the proﬁt and loss account.
Gains or losses arising on hedging instruments, which are cancelled due to termination of the underlying exposure, are taken to the proﬁt and loss account
immediately.
Derivatives embedded in other ﬁnancial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are
not closely related to those of the host contracts.
Policy prior to 1 January 2005
Foreign exchange contracts
The rates under foreign currency contracts are used to record the hedged item and as such gains and losses are offset against the foreign exchange gains
and losses on the related ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. Where the contract is a hedge against future transactions, gains and losses are deferred until the
transaction occurs.
Interest rate swaps
Receipts and payments on interest rate swaps are recognised on an accruals basis over the life of the underlying ﬁnancial instrument. Interest rate swaps
are not revalued to fair value or shown in the Company’s balance sheet.
Pensions
The Company operates two deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes for the beneﬁt of employees. These schemes require contributions to be made to separately
administered funds, based on triennial actuarial valuations. Other schemes are deﬁned contribution in nature.
The assets of the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are measured at their market value at the balance sheet date and the liabilities of the schemes measured using
the projected unit credit method. The discount rate used to measure the schemes’ liabilities is the current rate of return on an AA corporate bond of
equivalent term and currency to the liabilities. The extent to which the schemes’ assets exceed or fall short of the schemes’ liabilities is shown as a surplus
or deﬁcit in the balance sheet net of deferred tax.
The regular service cost of providing retirement beneﬁts to employees in deﬁned beneﬁt schemes is charged to operating proﬁt in the year together with
the cost of providing beneﬁt improvements in respect of past service and gains or losses arising on settlements and curtailments.
A credit for the expected return on the schemes’ assets and a charge for the increase during the period in the present value of the schemes’ liabilities
because the beneﬁts are one year closer to settlement, are included in other ﬁnance expense in the proﬁt and loss account. Differences arising between
the actual and expected returns on the schemes’ assets together with changes in the actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of recognised
gains and losses.
Contributions payable to the other deﬁned contribution schemes are charged to the proﬁt and loss account in the year for which they are due. 100 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements continued
1. Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Employee beneﬁts
When an employee has rendered service to the Company during an accounting period, short term beneﬁts expected to be paid in exchange for that service
are recognised in the same accounting period.
Share-based payment
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted. The fair value is
determined using a binomial model.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions
are fulﬁlled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (vesting date). The cumulative expense recognised
for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date, until the vesting date, reﬂects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number
of awards that will ultimately vest, in the opinion of the directors of the Company at that date and based on the best available estimates.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated
as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisﬁed, provided that all other performance conditions are satisﬁed.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modiﬁed, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modiﬁed. In addition,
an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modiﬁcation, as measured at the date of modiﬁcation.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not yet recognised for the award
is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is
granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modiﬁcation of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The Company has an employee share trust for the granting of certain options to employees. Shares are held by the employee share trust, treated as treasury
shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable represents the amount expected to be paid or recovered in respect of taxable proﬁt for the year and is calculated using tax rates
that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on an undiscounted basis on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date except as referred
to below.Amounts provided are calculated with reference to tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected
to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable proﬁts from which the
future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not provided on gains on the disposal of ﬁxed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, unless there is a binding agreement
to dispose of the assets concerned. Provision will not be made where it is considered more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into
replacement assets and charged to tax only when the replacement assets are sold.
2. Employees
Please refer to the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 20 to 26 for disclosures relating to the emoluments, share options and long term incentive
interests and pensions of the directors. Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 101
3. Pensions
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are in the United Kingdom and comprise the Staff Pension Plan and the Retirement Cash Plan. These schemes have been
combined for the purposes of the following disclosures.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the schemes’ assets and the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes’ obligations using the project unit credit
method at 1 April 2003 have been used and updated by our independent actuaries.
i) The key ﬁnancial assumptions used were:
2005 2004 2003
% %%
Inﬂation 2.9 2.9 2.8
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.6 3.6 3.5
Rate of increase for pensions in payment pre 2001 service 3.5 3.0 3.0
Rate of increase for pensions in payment post 2001 pre April 2005 service 2.8 2.7 2.7
Rate of increase for pensions post April 2005 service 2.1 ––
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.9 2.9 2.8
Rate used to discount scheme liabilities 4.7 5.3 5.4
The expected long term rate of return on assets has been set reﬂecting the price inﬂation expectation, the expected real return on each major asset class
and the long term asset allocation strategy adopted for the plans.
The demographic assumptions are as follows:
– for future pensioners, that men and women aged 65 will live on average for a further 22 and 24 years, respectively; and
– for current pensioners, that men and women aged 65 will live on average for a further 21 and 24 years, respectively.
ii) The assets and the liabilities in the scheme were as follows:
Long term Long term Long term
rate of return rate of return rate of return
expected 2005 expected 2004 expected 2003
% £ million % £ million % £ million
Equities 7.6 77.2 7.5 62.2 7.8 61.3
Government bonds 4.1 22.1 4.5 11.9 4.8 15.3
Corporate bonds 4.5 13.4 5.0 18.8 5.1 9.6
Cash 4.8 2.1 5.0 2.6 4.3 4.5
Property 6.6 5.5 6.5 4.6 6.8 1.8
Other 5.2 8.5 5.6 6.8 5.6 6.3
Fair value of scheme assets 6.4 128.8 6.5 106.9 6.8 98.8
Present value of funded obligations (179.6) (144.2) (142.2)
Net deﬁcit in the schemes (50.8) (37.3) (43.4)
Related deferred tax asset – 11.1 13.0
Deﬁcit in schemes, net of tax (50.8) (26.2) (30.4)
Present value of unfunded obligations (0.7) (0.8) (4.8)
Net pension liability (51.5) (27.0) (35.2)
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in 2005 in respect of the net deﬁcit in the schemes. The schemes are prohibited from investing in Spirent’s own
ﬁnancial instruments. 102 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements continued
3. Pensions continued
iii) Analysis of the amounts charged to the proﬁt and loss account
2005 2004
£ million £ million
Analysis of amount charged to operating costs:
Current service cost 2.4 1.8
Analysis of amount charged to ﬁnance costs:
Expected return on pension schemes’ assets (6.9) (6.6)
Interest on pension schemes’ liabilities 7.6 7.3
Finance costs 0.7 0.7
Net proﬁt and loss charge 3.1 2.5
iv) Analysis of amount recognised directly in equity
Actual return less expected return on pension schemes’ assets 14.6 3.6
Experience gains arising on the schemes’ liabilities 4.8 2.4
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes’ liabilities (35.5) (3.0)
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised directly in equity (16.1) 3.0
v) Movement in deﬁcit in the year
Deﬁcit in schemes at the beginning of year (37.3) (43.4)
Current service cost (2.4) (1.8)
Employer contributions paid 5.7 5.6
Other ﬁnance expense (0.7) (0.7)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (16.1) 3.0
Net deﬁcit in the schemes at 31 December (50.8) (37.3)
vi) History of experience gains and losses
2005 2004 2003 2002
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Difference between the expected and actual return on the schemes’ assets
Amount (£ million) 14.6 3.6 6.6 (20.3)
Percentage of the schemes’ assets (%) 11.3 3.4 6.7 (22.8)
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities
Amount (£ million) 4.8 2.4 6.8 (0.9)
Percentage of the present value of the schemes’ liabilities (%) 2.7 1.7 4.8 (0.7)
Total amount recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses
Amount (£ million) (16.1) 3.0 0.3 (23.6)
Percentage of the present value of the schemes’ liabilities (%) (9.0) 2.1 0.2 (18.0) Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 103
The above schemes are funded and have full UK HM Revenue & Customs tax-exempt approval by which beneﬁts are limited due to the statutory earnings
cap (a HM Revenue & Customs limit on the amount of earnings that can be made pensionable under the schemes for members who joined after May
1989). Certain members, whose salaries are in excess of this cap, have had their beneﬁts increased through unapproved, unfunded arrangements, to the
level that would otherwise have applied in respect of the basic salary only.The Company has contractually agreed to pay the additional retirement beneﬁts
itself and a provision is made in respect of this obligation in the balance sheet at 31 December 2005 of £0.7 million (2004 £0.8 million). This represents
the actuarial value as conﬁrmed by the Company’s pension advisers, of the unapproved beneﬁt entitlements accrued at that date. The value is assessed
and reviewed on a Market Value basis in line with the Main Plan Valuation and adjusted each year by the charge for the year (equivalent to a contribution
to a funded plan) of £0.1 million (2004 £0.1 million).The additional death-in-service beneﬁts over the statutory cap are separately insured by the Company
under an unapproved scheme.
The Company made a special contribution of £47.0 million into the UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme in February 2006 (see note 23).
Deﬁned contribution schemes
United Kingdom
The Company maintains deﬁned contribution pension schemes for employees in the UK. These schemes are known as “Cash Builder”, “Pension Builder”
and “Executive Section”. Employer contributions into these schemes for 2005 were £0.3 million (2004 £0.1 million).
4. T angible assets
£ million
Land and buildings Fixtures
Plant and ﬁttings and
Freehold Long lease Short lease machinery equipment Total
Cost
At 1 January 2005 1.0 9.1 0.4 32.3 8.9 51.7
Additions
owned assets 0.2 – – 2.6 0.4 3.2
Disposals – – – (0.3) (0.2) (0.5)
At 31 December 2005 1.2 9.1 0.4 34.6 9.1 54.4
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2005 0.5 2.1 0.2 25.8 7.3 35.9
Provided during the year – 0.3 – 2.2 0.6 3.1
Disposals – – – (0.3) (0.2) (0.5)
At 31 December 2005 0.5 2.4 0.2 27.7 7.7 38.5
Net book value at 31 December 2004 0.5 7.0 0.2 6.5 1.6 15.8
Net book value at 31 December 2005 0.7 6.7 0.2 6.9 1.4 15.9 104 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements continued
5. Shares in subsidiaries
£ million
Cost
At 1 January 2005 1,717.4
Additions 0.2
Transfers to subsidiaries (896.2)
Disposals (1.3)
At 31 December 2005 820.1
Provisions
At 1 January 2005 1,454.1
Increases in provisions 29.0
Transfers (896.2)
At 31 December 2005 586.9
Net book value at 31 December 2005 233.2
6. Loans to subsidiaries
£ million
At 1 January 2005 175.3
Advances 6.6
Repayments (71.8)
Exchange adjustment 9.0
At 31 December 2005 119.1
7. Investments in Associates
£ million
Cost
At 1 January and 31 December 2005 0.1
The associated company as at 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004 was:
Location % holding Nature of business
Tyton Company of Japan Japan 49% Cable management products
8. Stocks
2005 2004
£ million £ million
Raw materials 3.1 2.6
Work in progress 0.7 0.7
Finished goods 5.5 5.3
9.3 8.6 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 105
9. Trade and other debtors
2005 2004
£ million £ million
Due within one year
Trade debtors 8.7 9.0
Owed by subsidiaries 8.5 9.2
Owed by associates 0.1 0.1
Other debtors 1.9 2.0
Tax recoverable 1.3 3.6
Prepayments and accrued income 1.4 1.4
21.9 25.3
10. Creditors due within one year
2005 2004
£ million £ million
Trade creditors 9.0 8.9
Owed to subsidiaries 1.5 2.0
Other creditors 3.9 1.3
Accruals and deferred income 7.8 6.4
Other taxes and social security costs 1.2 1.1
23.4 19.7
11. Creditors due after more than one year
2005 2004
£ million £ million
Senior unsecured loan notes note 14 67.7 64.8
Owed to subsidiaries 166.4 244.1
Deferred income – 0.3
Pension 0.2 0.1
234.3 309.3
12. Deferred tax
£ million
At 1 January 2005 –
Charge for the year 0.8
At 31 December 2005 0.8
2005 2004
£ million £ million
Deferred tax provided
Capital allowances in advance of the corresponding charges for depreciation 0.8 – 106 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements continued
13. Provisions
£ million
Lease provisions
At 1 January 2005 2.0
Utilised in the year (0.3)
At 31 December 2005 1.7
Provisions have been analysed as follows:
Current 0.3
Non-current 1.4
1.7
These provisions are in respect of obligations for properties which have been vacated under operating leases.
14. Senior unsecured loan notes
2005 2004
£ million £ million
Due within one year
Senior unsecured loan notes 2006 3.2 –
Due after more than one year note 11
Senior unsecured loan notes 2006 – 2.8
Senior unsecured loan notes 2009 67.7 62.0
67.7 64.8
70.9 64.8
At 31 December 2005 and 2004, the following loan notes were in issue:
a) $5.5 million bearing interest at 8.94 per cent (2004 9.19 per cent) repayable on 23 November 2006;
b) $36.2 million bearing interest at 9.06 per cent (2004 9.31 per cent) repayable on 23 November 2009;
c) $65.9 million bearing interest at 9.16 per cent (2004 9.41 per cent) repayable on 23 November 2009; and
d) $17.2 million bearing interest at 9.75 per cent (2004 10.00 per cent) repayable on 23 November 2009. An interest rate derivative was entered into
in 1999 to reduce the effective interest rate to 9.28 per cent (2004 9.53 per cent).
Loan notes are repayable:
i) at maturity; or
ii) at any time at the Company’s option in an amount of not less than 5 per cent of the aggregate principal amount then outstanding plus a make
whole amount.
The loan note agreement provides for half yearly covenant ratio testing. The covenant ratios are as follows:
a) Net interest cover – greater than or equal to 3.0 times;
b) Net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (“EBITDA”) – less than or equal to 3.0 times; and
c) Net worth – greater than £100 million.
Covenant ratios are calculated using UK GAAP as applied at 31 December 2002. As the loan notes were repaid in February 2006 testing is not required
for 31 December 2005.
If the Company repaid at its option the total principal amount of the loan notes at 31 December 2005 then a make whole amount of $14.3 million
(£8.3 million) would become payable.
On 15 February 2006 the loan notes were repaid out of the proceeds of sale of the HellermannTyton Division. A make whole amount of $13.9 million
(£7.4 million) was also paid (see note 23). Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 107
15. Operating lease commitments
At the balance sheet date, the Company had annual commitments which expire as follows:
2005 2004
£ million £ million
In the second to ﬁfth years 0.2 0.2
Over ﬁve years 1.1 1.1
1.3 1.3
16. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ for parent company ﬁnancial
statements. The disclosures in respect of the Company are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments at 31 December 2005 is as follows:
£ million
Assets Liabilities
Interest rate swaps – (2.0)
Currency derivatives 2.6 (0.6)
2.6 (2.6)
Expected to be recognised:
In one year or less 2.6 (0.6)
More than one year – (2.0)
2.6 (2.6)
Interest rate swaps
Fixed to ﬂoating interest rate swaps were entered into on 23 May 2003 on $72.1 million of the senior unsecured loan notes. The swaps terminate on 
23 November 2009 and can be cancelled at the bank’s option at six monthly intervals. The swaps have been transacted with two banks and are split 
$48.0 million and $24.1 million between them. The terms of the $48.0 million swap allow for either party to exercise a break on 23 November 2008.
Should a break take place a mark to market settlement is due at fair value.
The interest rate swaps have been designated as hedges and following the adoption of IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 are included in the balance sheet as
derivative ﬁnancial instruments non-current liabilities at fair value with movements in the fair value being reﬂected through the proﬁt and loss account.
Currency derivatives
The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts in the management of transactional exchange rate exposures. These contracts are designated
where possible as hedging instruments.
At 31 December 2005, the Company held foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges in respect of the forward purchase of US dollars to establish
the sterling value of the anticipated repayment of senior unsecured loan notes associated with the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division. The terms
of this contract are as follows:
Maturity Exchange rate
Buy US dollars 140,000,000 26 January 2006 1.77028
At 31 December the Company held foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges in respect of the forward purchase of Yen to establish the sterling
value of the acquisition of the majority interest in the Tyton Company of Japan associated with the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division. The terms
of this contract are as follows:
Maturity Exchange rate
Buy Y en 5,232,360,000 26 January 2006 204.59
At 31 December the Company held various foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges for various transactional exchange expenses. 108 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements continued
17. Capital and reserves
£ million
Called up Share Proﬁt
share premium Capital Merger Net unrealised and loss
capital account reserve reserve gains and losses account
2
At 1 January 2005 as originally stated 31.9 1.3 10.9 1.2 – 114.0
Changes in accounting policy on adopting 
FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’ –––– 0.4 (0.6)
At 1 January 2005 as restated 31.9 1.3 10.9 1.2 0.4 113.4
New shares issued 0.3 3.1 (0.7) – – –
Loss for the year
3
––––– (25.9)
Share-based payment ––––– 0.7
Actuarial loss recognised on the pension schemes ––––– (16.1)
Unrealised gains and losses –––– 1.6 –
Deferred tax written off on pension schemes ––––– (11.1)
Transfer
4
– – – (1.2) – 1.2
At 31 December 2005 32.2 4.4 10.2 – 2.0 62.2
Notes
1 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption given in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to publish its proﬁt and loss account.
2 The Company’s proﬁt and loss account of £62.2 million (2004 £114.0 million) includes non-distributable reserves of £51.1 million (2004 £51.1 million) and a special non-distributable
reserve of £11.1 million (2004 £61.6 million).
3 The loss for the year dealt with in the ﬁnancial statements of the Company was £25.9 million (2004 £6.8 million).
4 A transfer has been made between merger reserve and the proﬁt and loss account.
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes
Amounts included within reserves in respect of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes are as follows:
2005 2004
£ million £ million
Proﬁt and loss account excluding pension fund deﬁcit 113.0 140.2
Pension fund deﬁcit note 3 (50.8) (26.2)
Proﬁt and loss account including pension fund deﬁcit 62.2 114.0
Restatement on the adoption of FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’
Under previous UK GAAP, gains and losses from derivative ﬁnancial instruments used for hedging purposes are not recognised in earnings or as adjustments
to carrying amounts until the underlying hedged transaction matures or occurs. FRS 26 requires all derivatives to be recognised at fair value on the 
balance sheet.
Following the adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26, forward currency contracts with a positive fair value of £0.4 million and interest rate swaps with a negative
fair value of £1.0 million have been recognised on the Company balance sheet at 1 January 2005.
£ million
Current assets – Financial assets 0.4
Long term liabilities – Financial liabilities (1.0)
Long term borrowings 0.4
Total change in equity (0.2) Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 109
Share capital
Authorised Issued and fully paid
2005 2004 2005 2004
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Called up share capital – Ordinary shares of 3
1
⁄ 3 pence each 41.7 41.7 32.2 31.9
Changes during the year in the Ordinary share capital were as follows:
Number of
Ordinary shares
million
Issued and fully paid at 1 January 2005 956.2
Allotted pursuant to share options and purchase rights exercised 9.6
Issued and fully paid at 31 December 2005 965.8
At the Annual General Meeting held on 4 May 2005, shareholders gave authority for the Company to purchase up to 48 million of its own Ordinary shares
in the market subject to certain speciﬁed conditions.At 23 February 2006, no purchases have been made or are contracted to be made under such authority.
In accordance with the rules of the following share schemes, options and purchase rights were exercised during the year which resulted in new Ordinary
shares being allotted by the Company or existing shares being transferred from Spirent Sharesave Trust (“SST”) as follows:
Number of Consideration
Ordinary shares received
million £000
Executive Share Option Schemes 2.1 341.7
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan 4.2 833.8
Acquisition Plans 0.6 108.6
All employee share schemes 3.1 1,498.9
10.0 2,783.0
During the year, 276,196 shares were transferred from the SST. There has been no material increase in the issued share capital, whether by exercise of
options, purchase rights or otherwise, between the end of the year and 23 February 2006, the date on which these ﬁnancial statements have been signed.
Investment in own shares
At 31 December 2005, the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust held 9.5 million Ordinary shares (2004 10.3 million Ordinary shares) to satisfy awards
under various share-based incentive schemes. Of this number, 0.4 million Ordinary shares were unconditionally vested at 31 December 2005 (2004 0.6 million
Ordinary shares). At 31 December 2005, the SST held 3.2 million Ordinary shares (2004 3.5 million Ordinary shares) to satisfy awards made to UK based
employees under an all employee share scheme. The market value of own shares held in trust at 31 December 2005 was £6.2 millon (2004 £9.6 millon).
Employee share schemes
The Company operates a number of employee option schemes as described below. The following options and purchase rights over Ordinary shares under
these schemes have been granted and remain outstanding. 110 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements continued
17. Capital and reserves continued
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2005 is shown below:
Executive Share 2005 Employee
Option Schemes Incentive Plan UK Sharesave Schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number average Number average Number average
of shares exercise price of shares exercise price of shares exercise price
millions pence millions pence millions pence
Options outstanding at 31 December 2004 16.2 90 – – 4.5 45
Granted –– 3.1 41 ––
Exercised (1.8) 16 – – (0.3) 41
Forfeited (0.3) 172 – – (0.2) 41
Expired (1.9) 160 – – (0.5) 68
Options outstanding at 31 December 2005 12.2 88 3.1 41 3.5 42
Options exercisable at 31 December 2005 1.5 143 – – 0.5 46
The following information relates to the outstanding share options at 31 December 2005:
2005
Weighted Weighted
Range of average average
Exercise period (as at exercise prices exercise price Number remaining
Share scheme Notes 31 December 2005) pence pence million contractual life
Executive Share Option Schemes a 25.03.06-24.03.13 16 16 3.2 7.2
03.10.04-04.08.14 56-72 60 4.8 8.4
29.04.99-01.05.12 113-152 131 3.2 5.0
11.05.03-08.04.11 305-334 316 1.0 4.9
Employee Incentive Plan b 25.08.08-24.08.15 0-53
1
41 3.1 8.0
Sharesave Schemes c 01.12.05-31.05.11 38-41 39 3.4 2.3
01.12.06-31.05.07 93-142 100 0.1 1.4
Total 18.8
Note
1 Figures for the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan include share options, stock appreciation rights and performance shares in aggregate. No exercise price is payable on the vesting of a
performance share.
a) 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”)
The ESOS is now closed (however outstanding options may still be exercised) and has been replaced by the Employee Incentive Plan referred to in (b) below.
The HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) approved ESOS incorporates the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers at that time. It was
subsequently amended by the Board to facilitate the award of unapproved share options both in the UK and overseas.
Awards under the ESOS, normally determined annually, were at the sole discretion of the Remuneration Committee after considering recommendations
made to it by the Chief Executive. No price was payable on the grant of an option and no options have been, or could be, granted at a discount to the
market price.
The normal exercise period for options granted under the ESOS is between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant. Options awarded under
the ESOS are subject to the achievement of an earnings per share (“EPS”) performance condition before they can be exercised. The condition is that over
a period of three consecutive ﬁnancial years, there has been an increase in the Company’s adjusted EPS which is at least 6 per cent more than the increase
in the Retail Price Index over the same period. The performance condition is tested on the third anniversary of grant and, if it has not been met at that
time, at each subsequent anniversary of grant until the option expires (ie on the tenth anniversary of grant in normal circumstances). Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 111
All ESOS grants made after 11 May 2000 to executive directors are subject to enhanced performance conditions on exercise. The performance conditions
require the Company’s adjusted EPS to increase over a period of three consecutive ﬁnancial years within a range of 9 per cent (minimum performance for
25 per cent option vesting) and 15 per cent (for 100 per cent option vesting), with a sliding scale between these points. In addition, performance testing
over the ten year option term is measured from a base point ﬁxed at the date of grant. Performance will be tested on the third anniversary of grant and,
if the target conditions at that time have not yet been met in full, performance will be tested again on the fourth and ﬁfth anniversaries of grant only,
with the performance hurdle being increased in proportion to the extended period.
b) 2005 Employee Incentive Plan (“EIP”)
On 4 May 2005, Spirent shareholders approved the EIP to replace the now closed ESOS scheme. The EIP is currently available for selected employees
(including executive directors) on a similar discretionary basis as the ESOS and any awards will be subject to prior satisfactory individual performance. No
price is payable on the grant of an award and no award has been granted at a discount to the market price. The Company is able to grant share options,
including HMRC approved options, share settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) and performance shares under the EIP.
In normal circumstances, options or SARs under the EIP will vest three years following grant provided the Company’s EPS growth targets (after excluding
inﬂation) have been met over a three year performance period. The growth targets in respect of the initial award require that the Company’s EPS increases
within a range of 6 per cent per annum (for 25 per cent vesting) and 15 per cent per annum (for 100 per cent vesting) over the performance period, with
a sliding scale between these points.
In normal circumstances, performance shares under the EIP will vest three years following grant provided the Company’s total shareholder return (“TSR”)
targets have been met over a three year performance period.The performance conditions require Spirent’s TSR to be between the median of a comparator
group (for 30 per cent vesting) and the upper quartile of a comparator group (for 100 per cent vesting) over the performance period, with a sliding scale
between these points. The comparator group consists of the 30 largest companies by market capitalisation in the FTSE TechMARK 100 Index, excluding
those TechMARK companies who are also constituents of the FTSE100 Index at the commencement of the performance period.
All EIP awards will be tested once on or shortly following the third anniversary of grant. Any part of an award which does not vest shall lapse (ie there is
no opportunity for retesting).
SARs granted under the EIP will deliver the appreciation value (ie the aggregated increase in market value of an Ordinary share over the base price of the
SAR) in the form of new issue Ordinary shares. This SARs approach will help the Company manage its dilution headroom more efﬁciently as only the SAR
gain and not the entire share value needs to be funded. Using a SARs based approach, it is not possible to determine the precise level of dilution until the
SARs are exercised.
Options and SARs granted under the EIP expire on the tenth anniversary of their grant unless they have previously lapsed.
c) UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“SRSOS”) and 2005 Sharesave Scheme
The SRSOS closed in 2005 and was replaced by the 2005 Sharesave Scheme. SRSOS options which remain outstanding may still be exercised prior to
expiry, however no further grants can be made. Both schemes operate as HMRC approved Save-As-You Earn schemes and are open to all UK employees,
subject to a qualifying service period. Any future sharesave invitations will be made under the 2005 Sharesave Scheme, which is broadly similar to the
SRSOS.
The employee enters into a Save-As-You-Earn contract with the Company’s savings carrier to save a regular sum of between £5 and £250 per month for
a ﬁxed period of either three or ﬁve years.
No price is payable on the grant of an option. The option exercise price is calculated by reference to the middle market price of an Ordinary share on the
business day prior to the beginning of the invitation period, discounted by up to 20 per cent at the Board’s discretion. Options are normally exercisable
within six months of the third, ﬁfth or seventh anniversary of the contract commencement date, as elected by the option holder at the start of the contract.
The Company operates the SST to honour the contractual commitment to deliver Ordinary shares against the valid exercise of outstanding options under
the SRSOS and the SST, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Spirent plc, acts as sole trustee. During the year, 276,196 shares were transferred to participants.
SST has waived all rights to receive dividends payable on its registered shareholding except for 0.01 pence per annum in aggregate and accordingly such
shareholding is not included in the Company’s EPS calculation as referred to in note 13 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 112 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the parent Company ﬁnancial statements continued
18. Share-based payment
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans was £0.7 million, all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment
transactions.The Company has applied FRS 20 from 1 January 2005 as allowed by the standard and only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November
2002 which were unvested at 1 January 2005. The charge relates to the following schemes:
2005
£ million
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme 0.4
2005 Employee Incentive Plan 0.2
All Employee Share Plans 0.1
Total 0.7
The fair value of the options and purchase rights over Ordinary shares is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model. The following table
gives the assumptions made in arriving at the share-based payments charge:
2005
Weighted average share price (pence) 53
Weighted average fair value (pence) 24
Expected volatility (%) 50
Expected life (years) 4.5
Risk free rate (%) 4.2
Dividend yield (%) nil
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous two years which management
considers to be the period which is likely to be most representative of future volatility. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on
management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. For performance shares granted
under the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan, which have a market based performance condition, it has been assumed that there will be 50 per cent vesting
for valuation purposes.
19. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ and as such disclosures are provided in the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements.
20. Subsidiaries
A list of the signiﬁcant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given on page
114 of this Annual Report. Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 113
21. Capital commitments and contingent liabilities
2005 2004
£ million £ million
Capital expenditure commitments 
Contracted but not provided 0.1 0.1
Contingent liabilities 
Bank guarantees 1.5 1.6
Spirent plc has provided indemnities of £1.0 million (2004 £0.5 million) for certain ongoing business obligations under letters of credit for subsidiary
companies.
22. Directors emoluments and transactions with directors
Please refer to the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 20 to 26 for disclosures relating to the remuneration, share options and long term incentives
and pensions of the directors.
23. Post balance sheet events
On 23 January 2006 Spirent announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire SwissQual Holding AG (“SwissQual”) for an initial consideration
of CHF 62.5 million (£27.7 million). The initial consideration was paid in cash on completion on 23 January 2006 out of cash resources and utilisation of
a new bank facility that was set up speciﬁcally for the purpose. A further CHF 28.0 million (£12.4 million) is payable in 2007 depending on revenue growth
and various technical milestones.
We also announced on 13 February 2006 the acquisition of QuadTex Systems, Inc for $7.5 million (£4.2 million) payable in cash on completion with a
further $1.5 million (£0.9 million) payable depending on certain technical milestones and the retention of key employees.
The directors consider it impractical to provide further disclosures in relation to these acquisitions given their proximity to the date of the Annual Report.
The disposal of The HellermannTyton Division was completed on 15 February 2006 when proceeds of £288.9 million (for a cash free/debt free equivalent
value) were received. These proceeds have been applied as follows:
• Repayment of the senior loan notes of $124.8 million (£71.5 million).
• Payment of the make whole amount (an amount which becomes payable on the early redemption of the senior loan notes) of $12.9 million 
(£7.4 million).
• Break fees of £2.3 million in respect of interest rate swaps taken out in connection with the senior loan notes.
• Special contribution of £47.0 million to the UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme.
• Repayment and cancellation of the bank facility in connection with the acquisition of SwissQual.
Taking these transactions into account the pro forma cash balance is approximately £150 million, of this, up to £50 million has been earmarked to fund
the on-market share repurchase programme. The programme is expected to begin in the second quarter, following the completion of certain actions:
establishing distributable reserves in the parent Company, clearance from the Pension Regulator and the approval from shareholders to make on-market
share repurchases of up to 14.99 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital.
Following the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division the Company issued notices of cancellation in respect of all its borrowing facilities. 114 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
% held at
31 December 2005
Communications
Communications performance analysis and service assurance systems
Spirent Communications Inc 100
Calabasas, California, USA
Eatontown, New Jersey, USA
Honolulu, Hawaii, USA
Sunnyvale, California, USA
Spirent Communications of Ottawa Ltd 100
Nepean, Ontario, Canada
Spirent Communications (SW) Ltd* 100
Paignton, Devon, UK
Spirent Communications of Rockville, Inc. 100
Rockville, Maryland, USA
Spirent Communications (Scotland) Ltd* 100
Hamilton, Glasgow, UK
Spirent Communications Ltd* 100
Crawley, West Sussex, UK
Spirent Communications (India) Pvt Limited 100
Bangalore, India
Spirent Communications (Asia) Limited 100
Hong Kong
Spirent Communications Technology (Beijing) Limited* 100
Beijing, PRC
Systems
Control systems for the mobility and industrial markets
PG Drives Technology Ltd 100
Christchurch, Dorset, UK
PG Drives Technology Inc 100
Anaheim, California, USA
% held at
31 December 2005
Network Products
#
Electrical and data network cable management and connectivity products
and systems
Trading divisions of Spirent plc
HellermannTyton 100
Aldridge, West Midlands, UK
Plymouth, Devon, UK
Wythenshawe, Manchester, UK
HellermannTyton (Pty) Ltd 100
Johannesburg, South Africa
HellermannTyton SA 100
Trappes, France
HellermannTyton AB 100
Järfälla, Sweden
HellermannTyton GmbH 100
Vienna, Austria
HellermannTyton GmbH 100
Tornesch, Germany
HellermannTyton Ltda 100
Jundaí, Brazil
HellermannTyton Pte Ltd 75
Yishun, Singapore
HellermannTyton Data Ltd* 100
Northampton, UK
HellermannTyton Corporation 100
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA
Tyton Company of Japan Ltd*‡ 49
Tokyo, Japan
The above companies operate and are incorporated in the countries listed.All shareholdings
in the companies are held indirectly by Spirent plc, except where indicated by an asterisk
(*) where the shareholding is held directly by Spirent plc.The activity mentioned is indicative
and not comprehensive.
The percentage held reﬂects the proportion of shares controlled and not the beneﬁcial interest.
‡Associate.
#On 15 February 2006 Spirent plc disposed of the HellermannTyton Division which included
all the companies and divisions listed in this section.
Principal divisions, subsidiaries and associates Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 115
£ million
2005 2004 2003 2002
†
2001
†
IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP
Consolidated income statement
Continuing operations
Revenue 259.3 287.2 291.8 394.2 554.6
Operating (loss)/proﬁt (39.0) 15.2 11.3 (959.1) (751.7)
Add back:
Material one-time items 8.4 2.9 7.5 38.3 32.0
Goodwill impairment 37.0 – – 901.6 724.6
Goodwill amortisation – – – 54.6 83.9
Share-based payment 5.1 4.8 0.9 0.5 –
Operating proﬁt before material one-time items, goodwill 
impairment and amortisation and share-based payment 11.5 22.9 19.7 35.9 88.8
Joint venture’s (loss)/proﬁt – (0.7) 1.4 7.4 9.6
Share of loss of associate – – – (1.0) (0.2)
Proﬁt/(loss) on disposal of operations 3.9 4.0 8.6 (48.4) (2.8)
(Loss)/proﬁt before interest (35.1) 18.5 21.3 (1,001.1) (745.1)
Net ﬁnance expense (6.6) (6.8) (9.8) (11.8) (21.2)
Costs associated with the part prepayment of loan notes – (0.5) (16.1) – –
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax (41.7) 11.2 (4.6) (1,012.9) (766.3)
Tax 4.0 (2.0) 4.2 (24.0) (26.8)
(Loss)/proﬁt from continuing operations after tax (37.7) 9.2 (0.4) (1,036.9) (793.1)
Discontinued operations 13.2 17.3 14.2 (13.4) 29.3
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year (24.5) 26.5 13.8 (1,050.3) (763.8)
Minority interest (0.4) (0.3) (0.2) (0.4) (0.2)
(Loss)/proﬁt attributable to equity holders of parent (24.9) 26.2 13.6 (1,050.7) (764.0)
Consolidated balance sheet
Goodwill 71.5 106.5 110.9 113.6 987.7
Property, plant and equipment 30.1 86.3 90.2 110.0 137.6
Investments – 14.3 13.4 63.4 62.6
Working capital (excluding cash, overdrafts and deferred tax) (3.3) 23.0 27.3 46.6 32.7
Operating assets 98.3 230.1 241.8 333.6 1,220.6
Net assets classiﬁed as held for sale 115.4 ––––
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (net) (0.1) ––––
Net borrowings (25.9) (26.4) (57.5) (161.8) (179.1)
Provisions and other liabilities (14.2) (13.8) (17.9) (28.4) (1.5)
Deferred tax 0.2 8.6 10.1 – 25.8
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan deﬁcit (51.5) (38.1) (48.2) (46.2) (15.6)
Net assets 122.2 160.4 128.3 97.2 1,050.2
Equity holders of parent 120.3 159.1 126.1 95.1 1,047.8
Minority interests 1.9 1.3 2.2 2.1 2.4
Total equity 122.2 160.4 128.3 97.2 1,050.2
† 2001 and 2002 have been restated to present the HellermannTyton Division, and in 2001 the Sensing Solutions group, as discontinued operations.
Financial history 116 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Financial history continued
£ million
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP
Investment
Capital expenditure – owned assets 30.5 25.3 16.7 27.6 59.4
– leased assets 2.5 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.8
Depreciation 22.6 25.4 29.3 33.6 37.2
Product development 62.8 67.3 66.0 77.7 95.9
Share information
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (pence) (2.62) 2.79 1.46 (113.90) (83.49)
Basic (loss)/earnings per share from continuing operations (pence) (3.97) 0.98 (0.04) (112.40) (86.67)
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 2.30 3.14 2.36 3.41 7.70
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations (pence) 0.32 1.29 0.84 2.07 4.45
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (pence) (2.62) 2.74 1.44 (113.90) (83.49)
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share from continuing operations (pence) (3.97) 0.96 (0.04) (112.40) (86.67)
Fully paid Ordinary shares in issue at year end (million) 965.8 956.2 944.0 939.4 933.2
Segmental analysis
Business segments
Revenue
Performance Analysis 178.8 176.8 148.7 184.0 241.4
Service Assurance 42.8 74.7 91.7 131.4 189.2
Communications 221.6 251.5 240.4 315.4 430.6
Systems 37.7 31.3 37.9 34.3 29.1
On-going operations 259.3 282.8 278.3 349.7 459.7
Other disposals
2
– 4.4 13.5 44.5 94.9
Continuing operations 259.3 287.2 291.8 394.2 554.6
Network Products 205.5 187.8 174.4 164.7 170.4
Sensing Solutions – – – – 76.8
464.8 475.0 466.2 558.9 801.8
Operating proﬁt
1
Performance Analysis 22.0 21.7 5.2 10.5 38.6
Service Assurance (9.6) 2.5 13.4 20.8 44.8
Communications 12.4 24.2 18.6 31.3 83.4
Systems 4.4 3.4 6.8 3.8 4.2
Non-segmental (5.3) (5.3) (5.1) – –
On-going operations 11.5 22.3 20.3 35.1 87.6
Other disposals
2
– 0.6 (0.6) 0.8 1.2
Continuing operations 11.5 22.9 19.7 35.9 88.8
Network Products 25.3 21.3 16.9 15.0 14.9
Sensing Solutions – ––– 8.1
36.8 44.2 36.6 50.9 111.8 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 117
£ million
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP
Geographical segments
Revenue
Europe 61.2 59.0 49.4 39.8 38.4
North America 180.9 206.2 219.1 300.4 421.0
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 17.2 17.6 9.8 9.5 0.3
On-going operations 259.3 282.8 278.3 349.7 459.7
Other disposals
2
– 4.4 13.5 44.5 94.9
Continuing operations 259.3 287.2 291.8 394.2 554.6
Network Products 205.5 187.8 174.4 164.7 170.4
Sensing Solutions – – – – 76.8
464.8 475.0 466.2 558.9 801.8
Rates against sterling
Average exchange rates for major currencies
US dollar 1.82 1.83 1.64 1.51 1.44
Euro 1.46 1.47 1.45 1.59 1.61
Number
Average employment by geographical area
Europe 1,771 1,742 1,722 1,909 2,730
North America 1,813 1,988 2,071 2,622 3,608
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 794 791 705 648 1,474
4,378 4,521 4,498 5,179 7,812
Notes
1 Before goodwill amortisation and impairment, material one-time items and share-based payment.
2 Other disposals includes other less signiﬁcant disposals and closures which do not qualify as discontinued operations. 118 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Shareholder analysis
At 23 February 2006, the number of registered shareholders was 6,335 and
the number of Ordinary shares in issue was 966.4 million.
Percentage Number Percentage
Number of total of shares of share
of holdings shareholders million capital
Range of holdings:
1-5,000 4,375 69.06 6.7 0.69
5,001-10,000 769 12.14 5.8 0.60
10,001-50,000 774 12.22 16.3 1.69
50,001-100,000 96 1.52 6.8 0.70
100,001-250,000 81 1.28 13.6 1.41
250,001-500,000 68 1.07 25.1 2.60
500,001-1,000,000 45 0.71 32.1 3.32
1,000,001-Highest 127 2.00 860.0 88.99
Total 6,335 100.00 966.4 100.00
Held by:
Individuals 5,009 79.07 29.7 3.07
Institutions 1,326 20.93 936.7 96.93
Total 6,335 100.00 966.4 100.00
Lloyds TSB Registrars*
Enquiries concerning shareholdings, change of address or other particulars
should be directed in the ﬁrst instance to the Company’s Registrar, Lloyds
TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3964. They also provide a range of online
shareholder information services at www.shareview.co.uk, where shareholders
can check their holdings and ﬁnd practical help on transferring shares or
updating their details.
Spirent Single Company ISA
Lloyds TSB Registrars (a division of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, which is authorised
and regulated by the Financial Services Authority) operate a Single Company
Individual Savings Account (“ISA”) in which Spirent Ordinary shares can be
held in a tax efﬁcient manner. Full details and an application form can be
obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 242 4244.
Internet, telephone and postal share dealing services
Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareview Dealing is a telephone and Internet service
that provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling Spirent
Ordinary shares. For telephone services call 0870 850 0852 between
8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday and for Internet services visit
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
A postal dealing service for buying and selling Ordinary shares is also
available and a dealing form can be obtained by calling 0870 606 0302.
Share price information
The Spirent share price is available via the Company’s website
(www.spirent.com) and also in various newspapers published in the UK.
UK capital gains tax
For the purposes of capital gains tax, the market value of an Ordinary share
on 31 March 1982, as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation issues, was
97.233 pence per share.
American Depositary Receipts – The Bank of New Y ork*
The Company’s shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (ticker:
SPM) in the form of American Depositary Shares (“ADS”) and these are
evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”), each one of which
represents four Ordinary shares. The Bank of New York is the authorised
Depositary bank for the Company’s ADR programme. The Company’s ADS
price is quoted daily in the Wall Street Journal and can be obtained from
either the Spirent website or via the New York Stock Exchange website at
www.nyse.com.
Spirent website at www.spirent.com
The Spirent website provides further information about Spirent and its
operating groups and also provides access to annual and interim reports,
company news and share price information.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is obliged by law to make its share register available upon
request to the public and to other organisations, which may use it as a
mailing list, resulting in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail. Shareholders
wishing to limit the receipt of such mail should write to the Mailing
Preference Service, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS,
United Kingdom or call +44 (0)20 7291 3310 for an application form or visit
www.mpsonline.org.uk.
ShareGIFT
Shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, where dealing costs
may make it uneconomical to sell them, may wish to consider donating
them to charity through ShareGIFT, a registered charity administered by The
Orr Mackintosh Foundation. The relevant share transfer form can be
obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars. Further information is available at
www.sharegift.org or telephone +44 (0)20 7337 0501.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.30am on
Wednesday 3 May 2006 at the Copthorne Hotel (London Gatwick),
Copthorne Way, Copthorne, Crawley, West Sussex RH10 3PG, United
Kingdom. Shareholders who are not attending the AGM may appoint a
proxy and vote their shares electronically by using www.sharevote.co.uk or
CREST and following the instructions on the enclosed Form of Proxy.
Advisers
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP*
Brokers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
Citigroup
Financial Adviser
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
*Contact details appear on page 120.
Shareholder information Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 119
3G (Third Generation) Future generation of mobile communications following ﬁrst generation (analogue) and second (digital).
10 Gig E (10-gigabit Ethernet) Networking technology enabling Ethernet data to be transported at 10 gigabits per second.
Access The connection between the local exchange and the home/ofﬁce, etc (also referred to as the Access Network or the
Local Loop).
ATM (Asynchronous High-speed transmission technology used for transporting multiple simultaneous services (voice, data and 
Transfer Mode) multimedia applications) with high quality of service levels.
Broadband Generic term for devices with a bandwidth greater than one megabit per second.
CDMA (Code Division Technology allowing communications circuits to carry multiple conversations simultaneously, thus increasing 
Multiple Access) its capacity.
DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) Technology that uses existing telephone/copper lines to transport high-bandwidth data such as multimedia and video
to service subscribers.
Ethernet A family of networking technologies developed for local area networks and now migrating to metro area networks.
Gig E (Gigabit Ethernet) Transmission protocol over a local area network that operates at a speed of 10 billion bits (gigabit) per second.
GPS (Global Positioning System) A system for determining location and height at any point on the earth’s surface. A receiver uses minute differences
in measured time signals from clocks on satellites to calculate these positions and altitudes.
HSDPA (High-speed Downlink An evolution of W-CDMA.
Packet Access) 
Internet protocol multimedia A standardised next-generation architecture for telecoms operators who want to provide mobile and ﬁxed multimedia 
subsystem (IMS) services.
Internet telephony Generic term used to describe various approaches to running voice telephony over IP (Internet Protocol).
IP (Internet Protocol) Data protocol used by many networking devices to facilitate and control the ﬂow of data.
Metro A metropolitan (city) area. Generally excludes suburban zones but can include university campuses.
Triple play Voice, video and data transmitted over a single transport medium.
VoIP (voice over IP) The technology that makes it possible to have a telephone conversation where the signal is carried over the 
Internet or a dedicated network in Internet Protocol (IP) packets, instead of over dedicated voice transmission lines.
W-CDMA (Wideband CDMA) A global standard for mobile 3G.
Glossary 120 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005
Head ofﬁce and registered ofﬁce
Spirent plc
Spirent House
Crawley Business Quarter
Fleming Way
Crawley
West Sussex RH10 9QL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1293 767676
Fax: +44 (0)1293 767677
Email: plc@spirent.com
Website: www.spirent.com
Spirent plc
Registered in England No: 470893
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
1 More London Place
London SE1 2AF
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7951 2000
Website: www.ey.com
Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
Service Helplines:
Tel: 0870 600 3964 (UK)
Tel: +44 121 415 7047 (overseas)
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
ADR depositary
The Bank of New York
Investor Relations
PO Box 11258
Church Street Station
New Y ork
NY 10286-1258
USA
Tel: 1 888 BNY ADRS (toll free – US)
Tel: +1 (610) 382 7836 (outside US)
Email: shareowners@bankofny.com
Website: www.adrbny.com
Contact details Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements (as that term is deﬁned in the United States
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as
assumptions about future events.You can sometimes, but not always, identify these statements by the use
of a date in the future or such words as “will”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “expect”, “project”, “intend”, “plan”,
“should”,“may”,“assume” and other similar words. By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently
predictive and speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on
circumstances that will occur in the future. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which are not a guarantee of future performance and are subject to factors that could cause
our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. Such factors
include, but are not limited to: the extent to which customers continue to invest in next-generation
technology and deploy advanced IP-based services; our ability to successfully expand our customer base;
our ability to continue to benefit from generally improving market conditions; the prevailing market
conditions and pace of economic recovery; our ability to improve efﬁciency, achieve the beneﬁts of our cost
reduction goals and adapt to economic changes and other changes in demand or market conditions; our
ability to develop and commercialise new products and services, extend our existing capabilities in IP services
and expand our product offering internationally; our ability to attract and retain qualiﬁed personnel; the
effects of competition on our business; ﬂuctuations in exchange rates and heavy exposure to a weak US
dollar; changes in the business, ﬁnancial condition or prospects of one or more of our major customers; risks
of doing business internationally; risks relating to the acquisition or sale of businesses and our subsequent
ability to integrate businesses; our reliance on proprietary technology; our exposure to liabilities for product
defects; our reliance on third party manufacturers and suppliers; and other risks described from time to time
in Spirent plc’s Securities and Exchange Commission periodic reports and ﬁlings. The Company undertakes
no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result
of new information, future events or otherwise. Spirent and the Spirent logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Spirent plc.
All other trademarks or registered trademarks mentioned herein are held by their
respective companies. All rights reserved.
Designed and produced by CGI London +44 (0)20 7467 9300.
Front cover photography by Jean Paul Froget.
Printed by royle corporate print.
The paper used in this report is elemental chlorine-free.
www.spirent.com
