 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements provided in this Annual Report may be forward-looking statements (as that term
is deﬁned in the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995) based on current
expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events. You can sometimes, but 
not always, identify these statements by the use of a date in the future or such words as ‘will,’
‘anticipate,’ ‘estimate,’ ‘expect,’ ‘project,’ ‘intend,’ ‘plan,’ ‘should,’ ‘may,’ ‘assume’ and other similar
words. By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently predictive and speculative and
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will
occur in the future. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which
are not a guarantee of future performance and are subject to factors that could cause our actual
results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. Such factors
include, but are not limited to: the effects of competition on our business; our ability to develop 
and commercialise new products and services and realise product synergies; our ability to conclude
the divestment of our interests in the WAGO joint venture; our ability to effect certain amendments
to the terms of our loan notes and bank facility; risks relating to the acquisition or sale of businesses 
and our subsequent ability to integrate businesses; our ability to meet and achieve the beneﬁts of
our cost reduction goals and otherwise successfully adopt cost structures to respond to changes in
business conditions; risks that our cost cutting initiatives will impair our ability to develop products
and remain competitive; our ability to improve efﬁciency and adapt to the current economic
slowdown and other changes in demand; changes in the business, ﬁnancial condition or prospects 
of one or more of our major customers; our reliance on third party manufacturers and suppliers;
risks of not retaining or increasing market share; our exposure to liabilities for product defects;
our reliance on proprietary technology; our ability to attract and retain qualiﬁed personnel; risks of
doing business internationally; changes in market conditions in the markets in which we participate
or in general economic or political conditions; and other risks described from time to time in Spirent
plc’s Securities and Exchange Commission periodic reports and ﬁlings. The Company undertakes no
obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in the Annual Report, whether as 
a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Spirent plc is an international network technology company providing state-of-the-art systems 
and solutions for a broad range of customers worldwide. Our Communications group is a worldwide
provider of integrated performance analysis and service assurance systems for next-generation 
network technologies. Spirent’s solutions accelerate the development and deployment of network
equipment and services by emulating real-world conditions and assuring end-to-end performance 
of large-scale networks. Our Network Products group provides innovative solutions for fastening,
identifying, insulating, organising, routing and connectivity that add value to electrical and 
communication networks in a wide range of applications. Our Systems group offers integrated 
product solutions for the aerospace and power controls markets.
Contents 
1 Financial Summary
2 Our Business at a Glance
3 Chairman’s Letter
4 Chief Executive’s Review
7 Operating Review
11 Financial Review
15 Board of Directors and
Operations Management Team
16 Directors’ Statement on 
Corporate Governance
18 Social Responsibility Statement
20 Report of the Directors
22 Report on Directors’ Remuneration
30 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
in Respect of the Accounts
31 Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Spirent plc
32 Consolidated Proﬁt and Loss Account
33 Consolidated Statement of
Total Recognised Gains and Losses,
Reconciliation of Movements in
Shareholders’ Funds
34 Consolidated Balance Sheet 
35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement,
Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow 
to Movement in Net Borrowings
36 Company Balance Sheet
37 Notes to the Accounts
77 Principal Divisions, Subsidiaries,
Joint V enture and Associates
79 Financial History
82 Shareholder Information
84 Financial Calendar,
Contact Details Financial Summary
£ million 2002 2001
Turnover 558.9 801.8
Operating proﬁt* 50.5 112.9
Proﬁt before taxation** 46.4 100.9
Headline earnings per share** (pence) 3.40 7.76
Spirent plc is a public limited company registered in England. Its Ordinary shares 
are listed on the London Stock Exchange and, in the form of American Depositary
Shares, on the New York Stock Exchange.
This report is the Annual Report of Spirent plc for the year to 31 December 2002
and complies with UK regulations.
The Annual Report is available on Spirent’s website at www.spirent.com
A separate Annual Report on Form 20-F is being prepared to meet US regulations
and will be ﬁled with the US Securities and Exchange Commission by 30 June 2003.
Notes
* Before goodwill amortisation and operating exceptional items being £56.1 million
(2001 £86.6 million) and £964.9 million (2001 £759.5 million), respectively, for
the Group.
** Before goodwill amortisation and operating exceptional items as above and
non-operating exceptional items of £78.5 million (2001 proﬁt £14.5 million).
1 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Turnover £ million
02
01
00
99
98
559
802
697
545
470
Operating profit* £ million
02
01
00
99
98
51
113
138
90
71
Product development £ million
02
01
00
99
98
78
96
60
39
27
Headline EPS** pence
02
01
00
99
98
3.40
7.76
12.61
9.18
8.47 Our Communications group is a worldwide provider of integrated
performance analysis and service assurance systems for next-generation
network technologies. Spirent’s solutions accelerate the development and
deployment of network equipment and services by emulating real-world
conditions and assuring end-to-end performance of large-scale networks.
The Performance Analysis division develops testing solutions for a broad
range of communications technologies critical to the deployment of
next-generation networks. Our systems test a full range of wireless 
and wireline networks and equipment, including core terabit routers,
broadband access devices, next-generation wireless handsets, Internet
infrastructure and storage area networks. Our systems enable customers
to emulate large-scale networks, introduce impairments and stress test
equipment to ensure maximum performance and conformance to
industry standards.
The Service Assurance division provides network monitoring and
management systems for service providers to assure the quality of their
high bandwidth voice and data services. Our systems enable efﬁcient
delivery and maintenance of leased line voice and data, digital subscriber
line, wireless, optical and converged packet networks. The division
provides operations support systems, remote test probes, network test
access systems and the expertise to implement solutions over a national
or global scale.
Our Network Products group provides innovative solutions for fastening,
identifying, insulating, organising, routing and connectivity that add value
to electrical and communication networks in a wide range of applications
marketed under the HellermannTyton name worldwide.
Network Products designs and manufactures a broad range of high-grade
nylon ties, clips, channels and ﬁxings for fastening cables and wires in
electrical, communications, automotive, industrial equipment, aerospace
and construction applications. We also produce products with value-
added identiﬁcation and security features such as standard cable markers,
application tailored labels, printed customised markers and tags, tamper-
evident ﬁxings, security seals and printed ties for clinical waste. Our
heatshrink insulation, convoluted tubing and cable covering products
provide insulation and physical protection for wires and cables.
We also produce a range of products used in the installation of local area
and wide area communications networks such as raceways, ducting,
racks, patch panels and modular jacks. Our ‘Network Sciences’ structured
cabling system includes GigaBand Category 6 and MegaBand Category 5e
systems with performance which far exceeds the required standards.
We are a market leader in systems for the automated application 
of cable ﬁxings and identiﬁcation printing and application systems.
Our Systems group offers integrated product solutions for the aerospace
and power controls markets.
We are a leading developer and supplier of ground-based maintenance,
repair and overhaul (MRO) software systems, brand named GOLD™ and
AuRA™, that manage aerospace customers’ MRO processes by providing
maintenance workﬂow management, inventory control, repair order
management, recording and forecasting capabilities. Aviation Information
Solutions (AIS) designs, manufactures and integrates hardware and
software solutions that enable customers to operate their aircraft more
efﬁciently, safely and effectively, and assist in pilot training. The AIS
product range includes airborne ﬁle servers, the AvVantage™ electronic
ﬂight bag, and ﬂight deck and cabin instruments and displays as well as
software applications for use by ﬂight crew and ground-based personnel.
The power controls business is a leading supplier of sophisticated
electronic control systems for use in specialised electrically powered
vehicles. These include medical vehicles such as powered wheelchairs 
and mobility scooters as well as small industrial vehicles such as ﬂoor
cleaning vehicles and aerial access platforms. These systems allow 
the user to control the direction and speed of the vehicle as well as
controlling other aspects of the vehicles’ functions, including seating 
or platform position, lights, turn indicators and vehicle diagnostics.
2 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Our Business at a Glance
Communications
Network Products
Systems Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to be writing to you for the ﬁrst time
having been appointed non-executive Chairman 
of Spirent in November 2002.
2002 was a challenging year but we adapted to 
the volatile conditions and maintained our leading
positions in the markets in which we operate. Our
focus on innovation, customer care and increasing
global presence has enabled all our businesses to
make progress during this difﬁcult year. We were
cash generative and continued to deliver operating
proﬁt. Following a tough third quarter management
moved quickly to cut costs. We also agreed to 
sell our interests in the WAGO joint venture and
renegotiated our borrowing covenants to give us
increased headroom. We remain committed to
investing in the future through focused product
development spending.
We have written off substantial goodwill this year
giving us a balance sheet with which to look
forward. I am conﬁdent that the Group has strong
technological leadership in its key markets, and it
will be well positioned as the telecommunications
market recovers.
The reduction in operating costs unfortunately
involved cutting our workforce. We have also
imposed tight controls on spending. To this end you
will notice that we have not produced an Annual
Review this year, rather just this Annual Report.
I hope you will ﬁnd it interesting reading and 
hope it will help you to understand the underlying
strengths of the business as well as the challenges
that we face.
We fully recognise our responsibilities in relation to
our employees, the communities in which they live,
the environment and other stakeholders and have
made progress in the management, monitoring and
reporting of corporate social responsibility issues
during the year.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank James
Wyness for his willingness to take on the role of
acting non-executive Chairman after the death of
Dr George Sarney. James was an able steward and
remains the senior independent non-executive
director on the Board. The Board and management
have worked hard to steer the Company through
these difﬁcult times and these results reﬂect the
efforts of every one of Spirent’s employees to
deliver their very best.
With ﬁnancing terms now agreed, our task is 
to manage the business to drive organic growth 
and generate cash going forwards.
Yours faithfully
3 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Chairman’s Letter
John P Weston CBE
Chairman
Notes
Operating proﬁt (EBITA) and return on sales as referred to in the text are stated
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Free cash ﬂow as referred to in the text is cash ﬂow before acquisitions and disposals,
equity dividends and ﬁnancing. Overview 
Turnover of £558.9 million and operating proﬁt
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
of £50.5 million were 30 per cent and 55 per cent
below our results for 2001, respectively, but all 
our operating groups generated operating proﬁt 
and cash in 2002. In the ﬁrst half of the year we
delivered a resilient performance despite generally
depressed market conditions and continuing
declines in spending by our major telecoms
customers. However a drop in capital expenditure
by US network service providers (NSPs) in the 
third quarter reduced the performance of our
Communications group for the second half of 
the year. As a result Group operating proﬁt was
signiﬁcantly lower in the second half of 2002
compared with the ﬁrst half.
We are pleased to announce the divestment of our interests in WAGO 
to our joint venture partners for net cash proceeds of approximately
£58.2 million. The divestment is subject to shareholder approval which 
is being sought at an Extraordinary General Meeting to be convened for 
31 March 2003. WAGO is not considered to be a core business of the
Group and does not materially contribute to the Group’s cash ﬂow.
We continue to be in compliance with our existing borrowing covenants.
However in order to increase the level of headroom available under certain
of our ﬁnancial covenants we have renegotiated our borrowing terms. The
new borrowing terms are conditional on the completion of the divestment
of WAGO and the use of the net proceeds to pay down debt. Further
details of the new borrowing terms are set out in the Financial Review.
The fall in revenues in our Communications group led us to realign 
our cost base. This involved an 11 per cent reduction in workforce,
reorganisation of our operations and reductions in discretionary spending
within the Communications group. These actions are expected to result 
in annualised cost savings of £33.5 million. In accordance with accounting
standards and due to the fall in trading we were required to take a non-
cash goodwill impairment charge of £923.3 million in the year. Operating
exceptional items totalling £41.6 million have also been charged in 2002
primarily relating to the reorganisation of our operations.
In difﬁcult conditions our Communications group was able to maintain its
position as a market leader due to our portfolio of leading-edge products,
technologies and services, our expertise in network operations and our
ability to provide integrated performance analysis and service assurance
solutions. The Performance Analysis division achieved a stable order intake
rate of some £50 million per quarter in the ﬁrst half of 2002 but this
dropped to £42 million in the third quarter. Order intake recovered in the
fourth quarter to £50 million. The Service Assurance division’s order book
closed the year at £37 million compared with £31 million at the end of the
third quarter and £73 million at the end of last year, reﬂecting customers’
changing order patterns and reduction in capital expenditure over the year.
Our Network Products and Systems groups delivered sound performances
in the year. These businesses supply a broad range of industries and
therefore have provided some protection from the current volatile
conditions in the telecoms market.
During the year we expanded the technological capabilities of the Group
through organic development and strategic investments. The Performance
Analysis division expanded its Internet infrastructure testing capabilities
through the acquisition of Caw Networks, Inc. (Caw). The purchase of a
wideband CDMA (W-CDMA) product line has brought us expertise in this
important third generation (3G) wireless technology and the purchase of
a remote special services test product line further strengthened our
Service Assurance product portfolio.
We made progress in the divestment of non-core businesses during 
the year with the sale of our aerospace component businesses and the
divestments of Switching Systems International Inc (SSI) and Monitor
Labs Incorporated (MLI) from our Systems group.
Financial Summary
Reported turnover was £558.9 million and operating proﬁt was £50.5
million in 2002. Turnover from ongoing businesses was £533.9 million
and operating proﬁt was £49.2 million, down 18 per cent and 50 per
cent, respectively, compared with 2001. As a result of the drop in
turnover and with the cost-saving actions only becoming effective in the
fourth quarter, return on sales for ongoing businesses declined to 9.2 per
cent (2001 15.3 per cent). The reduced trading levels in the third quarter
led to a weak second half, down 16 per cent on turnover and 57 per cent
on operating proﬁt from ongoing businesses compared with the ﬁrst half
of 2002. Our Communications group reported a small operating loss for
the third quarter but returned to proﬁtability in the fourth quarter as the
cost savings started to take effect.
In accordance with accounting standards and due to the deterioration 
in trading we were required to reassess the carrying value of certain of
our businesses at the year end. This has resulted in a non-cash goodwill
impairment charge of £923.3 million of which £330.7 million relates to
4 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Chief Executive’s Review the Performance Analysis division and £530.4 million is in respect of the
Service Assurance division.
Reported loss before taxation was £1,053.1 million (2001 loss 
£730.7 million). Before charging goodwill amortisation of £56.1 million
and exceptional items of £1,043.4 million, proﬁt before taxation was
£46.4 million for the year.
Headline earnings per share were 3.40 pence (2001 7.76 pence).
Operating cash generation for the year was £76.9 million compared with
£141.2 million in 2001. Despite the lower levels of trading we were able
to generate £36.4 million of free cash ﬂow compared with £40.4 million
in 2001. This was achieved after investing £77.7 million (2001 £95.9
million) in product development representing 14 per cent of turnover,
up from 12 per cent in 2001. Free cash ﬂow was down by only £4.0 million
despite a fall of £64.3 million in cash ﬂow from operating activities.
Net borrowings reduced to £161.8 million (2001 £179.1 million) at 
the year end. The net proceeds from the divestment of WAGO will reduce
net borrowings in 2003.
Operating Summary
Communications 
Spirent’s Communications group achieved operational successes in a
number of key strategic areas including wireless, metro and broadband
access networks and Internet infrastructure testing together with
geographic expansion during the year.
Our Performance Analysis division competes in the research and
development segment of the test and measurement market and so was
directly affected by the reduction in capital spending by its main chipset and
network equipment manufacturer (NEM) customers. However due to our
broad spread of technologies and the cost efﬁciencies our products deliver,
the division was able to increase its share of customers’ capital budgets.
We continue to focus our product development efforts in those areas
where we believe there are near term opportunities as well as longer
term potential. Our drive for innovation delivered several new product
launches and ‘industry ﬁrsts’ during the year. The quality of our products
continued to be recognised worldwide with the WebAvalanche™ 4.2
Internet testing solution winning ‘Best of Show’ awards at Networld™ +
Interop® in Atlanta and Tokyo and our Abacus2 voice-over-IP (VoIP)
product winning Internet Telephony® magazine’s 2002 Product of 
the Year award. Spirent Communications was also proud to be named 
by industry analyst Frost & Sullivan as the 2002 Market Engineering
Company of the Year in the category of communications test.
Spirent is a market leader in the US broadband service assurance market
where our systems are deployed to assure some of the largest residential
digital subscriber line (DSL) and high-capacity business leased line
networks in the country. However customers of our Service Assurance
division came under ﬁnancial pressure during the year and as a result the
roll-outs of monitoring systems for DSL and leased line services were
slowed such that our order book dropped substantially over the year.
Nevertheless progress was made by the division with initial deployment
of its CenterOp™ platforms for fault and performance management 
and the introduction of new systems for the assurance of optical and
packet networks.
A key strategy for our Communications group is to expand its geographic
reach and we made progress in increasing our global presence during the
year. Customers outside North America accounted for 25 per cent of
Communications group sales in 2002 (2001 20 per cent).
Network Products 
The results of our Network Products group for 2002 remained in line 
with 2001 despite a depressed result in South America due to the severe
recession in the region. Overall performance from our activities in the US,
Europe and Japan were broadly ﬂat during the year.
Due to the fall-off in the telecoms market, total sales of our local area
network (LAN) and broadband wide area network connectivity products
declined in the year and now represent only 13 per cent of Network
Products group turnover (2001 17 per cent). This decline was largely
off-set by sales to the automotive sector where our products were
accepted onto a number of new car and heavy vehicle platforms at
manufacturers in the US and Europe. Sales of our automated cable
bundling and tying, labelling and printing systems continued to be 
strong during the year.
Against a competitive background characterised by downward pricing
pressure, our ability and commitment to working closely with customers
to deliver products that meet their needs enabled us to penetrate new
markets and increase market share during the year.
Systems 
The ongoing businesses within our Systems group delivered growth 
in both turnover and operating proﬁt due to improved performance 
in the aerospace business and continuing growth in the power controls
business through increased penetration of the mobility and small industrial
vehicle markets.
5 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes
Operating proﬁt (EBITA) and return on sales as referred to in the text are stated
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Free cash ﬂow as referred to in the text is cash ﬂow before acquisitions and disposals,
equity dividends and ﬁnancing. Dividend
An interim dividend of 1.35 pence per share was paid to shareholders in
November 2002. A ﬁnal dividend will not be paid in respect of the year 
to 31 December 2002 nor will a dividend be paid in respect of the year
ending 31 December 2003. The Board intends to keep future dividend
policy under review but any future dividend payments will be dependent
on trading outlook and the availability of cash and distributable reserves.
Board and Senior Management
We were saddened to report the deaths of Dr George Sarney, non-
executive Chairman, and Mr Ray Parsons CBE, Life President, during 
the year. They each made signiﬁcant contributions to the Group and 
will be missed.
We would like to thank Mr James Wyness, the senior independent
non-executive director, who took on the role of acting non-executive
Chairman. On 31 October 2002 the Board announced the appointment
of John Weston CBE as non-executive Chairman. He brings substantial
public company experience, strategic insight and a strong understanding
of international business and technology to the Group.
Jim Schleckser, President, Service Assurance – Broadband, Spirent
Communications, has been appointed to the Operations Management
Team with effect from 1 January 2003.
Our People 
We appreciate that the uncertainties in the marketplace during the year
have been unsettling for our employees. Our results for the full year are
testament to their ability to respond positively to the demands made of
them to ensure we continue to deliver the cutting-edge technological
innovations and dedicated support and services that our customers have
come to expect. We would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge
the contributions made by our employees in this challenging year and
thank them for their continued dedication and commitment.
Corporate Social Responsibility
We recognise our corporate social, environmental and ethical impact and
responsibilities and are committed to advancing our policies and systems
across the Group to ensure we address, control and monitor all aspects of
corporate responsibility. We strive to maintain an open dialogue with our
stakeholders and welcome contact from all our interested groups.
Outlook
We have planned our business assuming the challenging conditions in 
the telecoms market will continue throughout 2003 and trading so far
this year has been in line with our expectations. As growth in data trafﬁc
creates opportunities for Spirent, we remain committed to investing 
in our leading-edge products, technologies and services to enhance our
market positions and grow market share.
6 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Nicholas K Brookes
Chief Executive Communications 
£ million 2002 2001 Change %
Turnover
Performance Analysis 187.1 245.5 (24)
Service Assurance 128.3 185.1 (31)
Communications group 315.4 430.6 (27)
Operating proﬁt
Performance Analysis 9.4 38.7 (76)
Service Assurance 21.4 44.7 (52)
Communications group 30.8 83.4 (63)
Return on sales (per cent)
Performance Analysis 5.0 15.8
Service Assurance 16.7 24.1
Communications group 9.8 19.4
Despite the decline in the global telecoms market in 2002 the
Communications group remained focused on its strategy of enabling
customers to move communications technologies out of the laboratory
and into live networks more rapidly, cost-effectively and with less risk.
By staying strategically well-aligned with the needs of our customers we
were able to maintain our technological leadership, improve our market
position and capture an increased proportion of our customers’ reduced
capital budgets.
Throughout 2002 our major customers, the NEMs and NSPs, continued
to restructure their operations in response to the signiﬁcantly reduced
overall market. This coupled with certain regulatory issues for our
customers in the US resulted in a reduction in spending on our products,
particularly in the third quarter. However we were encouraged to 
see order intake recover somewhat in the fourth quarter in both the
Performance Analysis and Service Assurance divisions. By taking
immediate cost-saving actions in October we were also able to return 
to proﬁtability in the fourth quarter after delivering a small operating 
loss in the third quarter. Overall the Communications group’s turnover 
in 2002 was £315.4 million, down 27 per cent from 2001, with operating
proﬁt down 63 per cent at £30.8 million. Given the drop in performance
and with the cost savings only partially realised by the year end, return
on sales for 2002 was signiﬁcantly below that for 2001 at 9.8 per cent
(2001 19.4 per cent).
During the year we maintained investment in the development of our
products to ensure we continue to meet our customers’ needs to be both
cost-efﬁcient and cutting-edge. Product development of £66.2 million
(2001 £73.0 million) represented 21 per cent of Communications group
turnover and was invested in key areas such as gigabit and 10-gigabit
Ethernet in the access and metro networks, VoIP, Internet Protocol 
version 6 (IPv6), Internet infrastructure and security testing, storage 
area networks and 3G wireless technologies. This investment resulted 
in numerous new products and enhancements to existing product lines
being launched during the year including the ﬁrst end-to-end performance
analysis and radio frequency emulation system for the wireless LAN
market, a fully automated system for testing W-CDMA mobile handsets,
a system for the analysis of Internet infrastructures simultaneously from
the physical layer to the application layer, and a test system for storage
area networks. Spirent is especially active in the 10-gigabit Ethernet and
IPv6 segments which respectively aim to ease bottlenecks in broadband
metro and access networks and provide higher levels of security and
broader address space for the next phase of the Internet. New Service
Assurance products included a series of interfaces for optical and packet
services devices and systems for the performance management of gigabit
Ethernet and high-speed optical networks.
The Communications group took a number of signiﬁcant steps in 2002 
to strengthen Spirent’s brand recognition within the communications
industry and improve integration among the group’s business units and
product lines. An extensive branding effort in the ﬁrst half of the year 
has resulted in improved name recognition. All of the businesses in 
the Communications group now operate under the Spirent name and
realignment of the business units within the Performance Analysis
division has clariﬁed product lines and responsibilities. Spearheaded by
our ‘Advanced Test Programs’ team, Spirent participated in over 100 high
proﬁle public tests of leading-edge networking equipment and services,
helping make ‘Tested with Spirent’ one of the industry’s best known
programmes in testing.
Performance Analysis 
Spirent’s Performance Analysis solutions play a critical role in helping
leading-edge equipment manufacturers, service providers and enterprises
emulate communications trafﬁc and simulate real-world conditions for
conformance, functional and performance testing of their equipment 
and networks. Our products cover a broad range of communications
technologies including Ethernet, wireless, Internet infrastructure, storage
area networks, position location and VoIP providing customers with a
‘one-stop shop’ for their test and measurement needs.
Turnover from this division fell in 2002 due to decreased spending by 
our major customers in the US and Europe. Return on sales declined to
5.0 per cent from 15.8 per cent in 2001 due to a combination of the drop
in trading levels and the timing of the associated cost reductions in this
business. Despite the overall reduction in sales there were areas of
growth, in particular our wireless test products which increased strongly
7 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Operating Review
Notes
Operating proﬁt (EBITA) and return on sales as referred to in the text are stated
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Free cash ﬂow as referred to in the text is cash ﬂow before acquisitions and disposals,
equity dividends and ﬁnancing. with turnover up 57 per cent over 2001 and our position location test
products which also had a good year, largely driven by sales of our
industry leading position location test system launched in 2001.
During the year we strengthened our position as a leader in wireless
testing particularly for next-generation wireless technologies including
CDMA-2000, the 3G wireless technology being adopted by the US, and
W-CDMA, being adopted by GSM-centric countries such as those in
Europe and Asia. We successfully introduced new systems that provide
automated conformance, network emulation and position location
testing for CDMA-2000 mobile handsets. Spirent’s automated test
systems now play an important role in the conformance and acceptance
test laboratories of major CDMA-2000 service providers including Verizon
Wireless, Sprint PCS Group and SK Telecom in Korea. Spirent’s automated
systems are also in wide use in the laboratories of major wireless mobile
handset and component providers including QUALCOMM Incorporated,
Motorola, Inc. and Nokia Corporation. We expanded our 3G wireless
portfolio through the acquisition of a W-CDMA base station emulator
product line during the year which has brought us important capabilities
in W-CDMA technology.
We further addressed the testing and performance analysis needs of
users and providers of Internet and security applications in 2002. Since
the integration of Caw into the Performance Analysis division during the
year progress has been made on the development of its Avalanche and
Reﬂector™ products. With these systems customers are able to generate
large amounts of Internet trafﬁc in the laboratory to stress network
equipment and actual website or security applications to ensure their
robustness. Customers using these systems include the NEMs, NSPs, high
volume website customers, enterprises and government departments.
An important part of our strategy is to increase our international
presence and during the year we opened sales and support services
ofﬁces in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou to better serve customers 
in the important Asian region.
Service Assurance 
Our Service Assurance division provides network monitoring, operations
support systems (OSS), remote test probes, consulting and technical
services for some of the world’s largest providers of communications
services including leased line, DSL, wireless, optical and managed IP
services. Our systems assist service providers in cutting their operational
costs by automating their network management monitoring and service
assurance processes and are therefore important to our customers in the
current difﬁcult market conditions.
Turnover in the Service Assurance division fell in the third quarter as our
major customers, the incumbent local exchange carriers (ILECs) in the US,
reduced investment in their networks in response to ﬁnancial constraints
and regulatory pressures. As a result of lower volume, return on sales was
affected falling to 16.7 per cent from 24.1 per cent in 2001. Return on
sales was also affected by the product mix which included a higher
hardware content in the second half of the year as compared with the
ﬁrst half which had a higher software element. Additionally, sales of
monitoring systems for leased line broadband services represented 
a higher proportion of turnover in 2002 compared with 2001 which 
had a predominance of DSL business.
During the year we maintained our position as a leading provider 
of service monitoring systems to the US ILECs with participation 
in their continuing business and residential broadband service roll-out
programmes. The year also saw the initial large-scale deployment of 
the CenterOp platforms, Sentry and Perform, for fault and performance
management. In the wireless space our service assurance systems provide
centralised remote test and performance monitoring for the core, or 
land side, of mobile networks and with the addition of Verizon Wireless
and Nextel Communications, Inc. as customers during the year Spirent
systems are now used by seven of the top ten mobile service providers 
in the US. The purchase of a remote special services test product line
during the year brought us a large installed base and ongoing business 
at BellSouth Corporation and Korea Telecom. The integration of this
operation into the Service Assurance division is largely completed and
while revenues were affected by the market downturn the business has
performed in line with our expectations. An important driver for the
acceptance of our systems is their ability to measure the performance of,
or interoperate with, a wide range of network devices and elements and
other OSS. In 2002 we advanced our certiﬁcation programme and now
have full interoperability with network elements and OSS from a broad
range of leading suppliers worldwide.
An important opportunity for growth in the Service Assurance division 
is the expansion of the customer base internationally. Although the sales
cycle for our Service Assurance division’s large ticket systems is long, we
are encouraged by the progress we have made in pursuing opportunities
outside the US. We have begun formatting our products to enable local
language support and were pleased to secure our ﬁrst order in Japan.
Our efforts in Asia were reinforced by the opening in Beijing in early 
2003 of a sales and support services ofﬁce for the Asian region and 
the formation of Spirent DM, a partnership with two local companies,
to facilitate the development of service assurance products for the
Chinese market.
8 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Operating Review continued Network Products
£ million 2002 2001 Change %
Turnover 164.7 170.4 (3)
Operating proﬁt 15.0 15.3 (2)
Return on sales (per cent) 9.1 9.0
Turnover in our Network Products group was down marginally by 3 per
cent. In the US, improved sales to the heavy vehicles market and growth
of our recently introduced LAN ‘Network Sciences’ product line were
off-set by reduced sales to telecoms service providers. Our European
sales showed a small increase overall and in Japan sales were broadly ﬂat.
In South America the recession led by the severe economic collapse in
Argentina affected the group. The restructuring actions taken in 2001 to
consolidate and extend customer-facing activities and reduce administrative
and back ofﬁce activities became fully effective in the ﬁrst half of 2002
and margins for the year improved to 9.1 per cent compared with 7.3 per
cent in the second half of 2001.
Sales to the automotive sector contributed 30 per cent to turnover in
2002 compared with 27 per cent in 2001.While global vehicle production
was broadly ﬂat the trend towards increasing electronic/electrical
systems content and lighter vehicles requiring increased use of plastics
has provided underlying market growth. As a result we have been able 
to increase our penetration with vehicle manufacturers, their ﬁrst tier
suppliers and major vehicle cable harness manufacturers worldwide.
Our sales in the US heavy vehicles market recovered showing 23 per cent
growth after the signiﬁcant market downturn in 2001. Due to our
product quality and innovation we have ‘preferred supplier’ status with
important automotive manufacturers and tier one suppliers worldwide.
The market for our broadband products (used in wide area networks 
to route and organise ﬁbre optic cables in large telephone exchanges 
and outside plant) and structured cabling products (used in local area
networks to provide network connectivity) remained very weak in the 
US and UK throughout the year due to the depressed conditions in 
the telecoms market and reductions in enterprise IT spending. We have
developed and extended our LAN products for the European market
which we expect will beneﬁt sales in 2003.
Despite a generally weak global economy we increased our penetration
with distributors, wholesalers and catalogue houses that sell a broad
range of our products worldwide. The major contract we signed with the
Royal Mail during the year to provide ties for mail sacks has commenced
well with 60 per cent of all orders now being placed via the XML 
e-procurement system.
Our range of electrically operated automatic application systems was
expanded in the year with the introduction of two major new models:
the AT2060 for ﬁxings and the ALA for identiﬁcation. We now have a
large installed base of Autotool and printing systems at customer sites
worldwide and our contracts to supply the associated cable ties and
identiﬁcation labels and markers represent a valuable source of
continuing business for the group.
We successfully completed the move into our new production and
distribution facility in Jundaí, Brazil without any interruption to customer
service and expect to beneﬁt from cost and operational efﬁciencies.
We also increased the range of products being manufactured at the Wuxi,
China facility after increasing the production space last year.
Systems
£ million 2002 2001 Growth %
Turnover 53.8 48.6 11
Operating proﬁt 3.4 0.5 >100
Return on sales (per cent) 6.3 1.0
Figures in the above table relate to ongoing businesses only
On an ongoing business basis the Systems group saw an increase in
revenues and operating proﬁt due to increased customer penetration,
product launches (including the new airborne ﬁle server) and the
successful entrance into new markets. The impact of cost reductions
taken in the ﬁrst half of the year in the aerospace business coupled with
increased sales resulted in improved trading in the Systems group for 
the second half of 2002.
Within the aerospace business sales of our maintenance, repair and
overhaul software systems, AuRA™ and GOLD™, increased as we
continued to win new business from both the civil and military sectors.
Our Aviation Information Solutions (AIS) business received US Federal
Aviation Administration certiﬁcation for its airborne ﬁle server product
which commenced shipping at the end of the year. AIS’s reputation as 
a leading supplier of integrated hardware and software solutions to the
aerospace industry enabled it to secure new contracts during the year 
for its AvVantage™ electronic ﬂight bag and Vision and ReVision pilot
training software systems.
The power controls business saw growth in turnover over 2001 mainly
due to increased penetration of the mobility vehicles market. Sales to the
industrial market, a new market for the business, also contributed to the
improvement.
9 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes
Operating proﬁt (EBITA) and return on sales as referred to in the text are stated
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Free cash ﬂow as referred to in the text is cash ﬂow before acquisitions and disposals,
equity dividends and ﬁnancing. The market for power controls for wheelchairs and mobility scooters
remains competitive and is experiencing pricing pressures. We responded
to this during the year through a number of initiatives including the
introduction of the VSI power control system for wheelchairs, which is a
lower cost, higher speciﬁcation replacement for its predecessor product,
the Pilot, and the launch of a competitively priced mobility scooter
controller, the S-Drive. Our ability to respond quickly and work closely
with customers to meet their demands for increasing functionality at
lower prices enables us to maintain our leading position in this sector.
While the US remains the largest end-user market for powered
wheelchairs and mobility scooters, many of our customers have
manufacturing facilities worldwide and we are shipping an increasing
number of units to Asia.
We have made good progress in our efforts to penetrate the small industrial
vehicle market during 2002.We have had particular success with our
multi-functional TRIO™ controllers for ﬂoor cleaning vehicles, while our
access platform system has been deployed by one of the world’s largest
manufacturers of such vehicles.We continue to invest in this market and
its associated technologies to enhance our future opportunities.
Interconnection Joint Venture 
In 2002 our share of turnover from the WAGO joint venture decreased 
by 3 per cent to £75.6 million (2001 £78.3 million) and our share of 
the operating proﬁt decreased by 23 per cent to £7.4 million (2001 
£9.6 million). The decline was due to the continuing depressed conditions
WAGO experienced in most of its geographic markets during the year.
Our share of interest payable and of taxation from WAGO were 
£0.7 million and £2.7 million, respectively, giving a proﬁt after taxation 
of £4.0 million.
We announced on 12 March 2003 the divestment of our interests in WAGO
to our joint venture partners. This transaction is subject to shareholder
approval which will be sought at an Extraordinary General Meeting to be
convened on 31 March 2003.
10 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Operating Review continued Results
Six months to Six months to Year to Year to
30 June 31 December 31 December 31 December
£ million 2002 2002 2002 2001
Turnover
Ongoing businesses 290.1 243.8 533.9 649.6
Divestments and 
discontinued 
operations 20.9 4.1 25.0 152.2
Group 311.0 247.9 558.9 801.8
Operating proﬁt
Ongoing businesses 34.5 14.7 49.2 99.2
Divestments and 
discontinued 
operations 0.7 0.6 1.3 13.7
Group 35.2 15.3 50.5 112.9
Return on sales (per cent)
Group 11.3 6.2 9.0 14.1
Turnover for 2002 of £558.9 million was 30 per cent lower than 2001
with the second half of 2002 being 20 per cent below the ﬁrst half.
Organically, excluding the effects of currency exchange and disposals,
turnover was 16 per cent down from 2001 with the impact of currency
translation, primarily due to the weakening of the US dollar, reducing
reported turnover for 2002 by some £18.4 million. Divested companies
contributed £25.0 million to turnover in 2002 (2001 £152.2 million).
Levels of activity in the Communications group in the ﬁrst half of 2002
were in line with those seen in the second half of 2001. During the 
third quarter of 2002, however, we saw a marked reduction in activity,
particularly in the Service Assurance division, following announcements
by many of our major customers that they were further cutting their
capital expenditure budgets.
In 2002 North America accounted for 66 per cent of turnover by source
from ongoing businesses (2001 73 per cent) at £350.2 million compared
with £472.0 million in 2001. Europe accounted for 28 per cent of turnover
by source from ongoing businesses (2001 23 per cent) and in absolute
terms was little changed on the prior year at £151.4 million.
By market, turnover was reduced in absolute terms in Europe and North
America but there was marginal growth in Asia where turnover increased
from 13 per cent to 16 per cent of the total.
Operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of
£50.5 million was 55 per cent below the previous year, with the second
half of 2002 56 per cent below the ﬁrst half. Organically, operating proﬁt
was 50 per cent below 2001 with the effects of exchange further
reducing proﬁts by £1.6 million.
Return on sales was consequently much reduced at 9.0 per cent,
5.1 percentage points below 2001 due to depressed returns in our
Communications group. However Network Products maintained a return
of 9.1 per cent and returns in the Systems group improved over 2001
beneﬁting from the restructuring in the aerospace business and growth 
in power controls.
Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, amortisation and
exceptional items (EBITDA before exceptional items) was £84.1 million
(2001 £150.1 million).
Net interest payable reduced from £22.8 million in 2001 to £12.3 million
due to the reduction in net debt and lower interest rates in the US and
UK. An interest rate swap was entered into in November 2002 replacing 
a previous swap arrangement. This swap has the effect of moving the
interest on $163.4 million of the loan notes from a ﬁxed to ﬂoating rate,
currently saving 3 percentage points.
The Group’s effective tax rate for 2002 was 18.1 per cent. This rate is
lower than the expected rate of 29 per cent due to a credit relating to
prior years of £6.2 million. At current levels of proﬁtability it is expected
that the effective tax rate will revert to a level of 31 per cent going
forward. An exceptional tax charge of £18.5 million arises principally
through the re-evaluation of the recovery of deferred tax assets under
Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 19.
Headline earnings per share were 3.40 pence compared with 7.76 pence 
in 2001.
Reported loss before taxation was £1,053.1 million after charging
exceptional items of £1,043.4 million compared with a loss of £730.7
million in 2001 after charging exceptional items of £745.0 million, giving
a reported loss per share of 117.12 pence (2001 loss 83.43 pence).
At 31 December 2002 Spirent was in compliance with its existing
borrowing covenants. Net interest cover was 4.4 times (2001 5.1 times)
and net debt to EBITDA was 1.9 times (2001 1.2 times).
On 12 March 2003, Spirent announced the divestment of its 51 per cent
interests in WAGO, its interconnection joint venture, for net proceeds 
of approximately £58.2 million. WAGO is not considered to be a core
business of the Group. The only contribution to Group cash ﬂow from 
the WAGO companies for the year to 31 December 2002 was a dividend
of £0.2 million (2001 £1.6 million). Accordingly, apart from the net
proceeds, the divestment will not have a material effect on the Group’s
cash ﬂow on an ongoing basis. The divestment is subject to shareholder
11 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Financial Review
Notes
Operating proﬁt (EBITA) and return on sales as referred to in the text are stated
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Free cash ﬂow as referred to in the text is cash ﬂow before acquisitions and disposals,
equity dividends and ﬁnancing. approval and requires the consent of our noteholders and parties to the
syndicated bank facility.
New Borrowing Terms 
To provide the Group with an increase in the level of headroom available
in relation to certain of the ﬁnancial covenants, amendments to the
terms of the loan notes and syndicated bank facility have been agreed.
These amendments are conditional on the completion of the divestment
of WAGO and the use of the net proceeds to pre-pay approximately
£45.8 million of the loan notes and pay an associated contractual make-
whole amount of approximately £12.4 million. This amount and any
professional fees in relation to the renegotiation of the borrowing terms
will be charged as exceptional costs in 2003.
Under the revised terms relating to the syndicated bank facility Spirent
will have a committed line of £75 million available, which will reduce to
£60 million by 31 December 2003. The bank facility remains repayable 
in July 2004. The interest rate will be increased to an initial margin over
LIBOR of 1.75 per cent, which may decrease in certain circumstances.
Following the application of the net proceeds from the divestment 
of WAGO it is expected that $144.5 million of loan notes will remain
outstanding with unchanged maturities principally in 2009. The applicable
interest rate will be increased to a weighted average of 9.45 per cent
which will decrease if certain ﬁnancial requirements are satisﬁed.
Certain of the ﬁnancial covenants attaching to both the syndicated bank
facility and the loan notes, which will be tested on a quarterly basis, have
been amended as set out in the table below.
The new borrowing terms also contain a covenant that consolidated net
worth must not be less than £100 million at any time.
Other signiﬁcant terms include restrictions on dividend payments and
restrictions on acquisitions and disposals. Some of these restrictions fall
away on certain ﬁnancial requirements being satisﬁed, which in any
event cannot occur before 30 June 2004. The ﬁnancial requirements 
to be satisﬁed are:
(1) that at the end of three consecutive quarters EBITA to net interest
must equal or exceed 4.5 times and net debt to EBITDA must be
equal to or less than 1.5 times for the rolling 12 month period ending
on the quarter end date; and
(2) that the Group has in place a bank facility of £50 million.
On satisfaction of these ﬁnancial requirements, the quarterly covenant
tests will be replaced by semi-annual covenant tests with covenants of
EBITA to net interest of 3.0 times and net debt to EBITDA of 3.0 times.
If completion of the divestment of WAGO does not occur, the existing
borrowing terms will continue to apply. In such circumstances and if
current levels of trading are not maintained, the directors would need 
to consider taking appropriate actions with a view to maintaining
compliance with the existing terms.
Goodwill Impairment
Following the deterioration in trading, goodwill impairment has been
charged at the year end as required by accounting standards. Goodwill
impairment is a non-cash charge that has no impact on our business
going forward.
The total charge reported is £923.3 million and is principally in relation to
the Communications group. In line with best practice this charge includes
£87.0 million in respect of goodwill previously charged to reserves.
The remaining goodwill carrying value is £113.6 million and it is expected
that the goodwill amortisation charge will be approximately £10.0
million in 2003. The impairment has resulted in a £575.9 million deﬁcit 
in the distributable reserves of the Company. At the appropriate time 
and with court approval it may be possible to utilise the share premium
account, which at 31 December 2002 stood at £696.1 million, in order 
to off-set the deﬁcit on reserves.
Exceptional Items
Exceptional items (excluding taxation) of £1,043.4 million have been
charged in the period and include the goodwill impairment charge of
£923.3 million discussed above.
Other Operating Exceptional Items
Other operating exceptional items are shown in the table below.
Restructuring costs of £8.6 million have been charged in respect of
redundancy payments and other costs incurred in the restructuring 
of the business.
After the reduction in workforce in the fourth quarter we relocated
certain employees to make more efﬁcient use of our facilities and this
has resulted in certain leased properties being vacated. Provisions of
£20.2 million have been recognised in the period in relation to our
continuing obligations under these leases.
The deterioration in the technology industry has led us to make
provisions amounting to £4.4 million (2001 £14.2 million) for stocks 
in excess of 12 months’ usage and to write down the value of certain
tangible ﬁxed assets by £3.6 million.
Acquisition retention bonuses arising from acquisitions made in 2000 
of £4.8 million have been charged in the year.
12 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Financial Review continued
Financial Covenants
Existing As amended
30 June 30 September 31 December
2003 2003 2003
EBITA: net interest   3.00× 2.00× 2.25× 2.50×
Net debt: EBITDA   3.00× 2.75× 2.50× 2.25×
Other Operating Exceptional Items
£ million 2002
Restructuring costs 8.6
Tangible ﬁxed asset write-downs 3.6
Lease provisions 20.2
Stock provisions 4.4
Acquisition retention bonuses 4.8
41.6 The cash cost of operating exceptional items was £7.7 million in 2002
(2001 £11.9 million).
Non-operating Exceptional Items
A net loss of £48.4 million is reported on divestments from within 
the Systems group. The net loss on divestments is after charging 
£70.8 million of goodwill previously written off to reserves and now
reinstated in accordance with FRS 10.
The investment in own shares held in the Employee Share Ownership
Trust has been written down to market value at 31 December 2002
resulting in a charge of £30.1 million given the marked reduction 
in the share price. These shares had been purchased in previous years 
to hedge obligations under various option schemes and the long term
share purchase plan which are now out of the money.
Taxation
The reduction in activity levels has necessitated a reassessment of 
£19.0 million of deferred tax assets. These assets had previously been
recognised on the acquisition of businesses, on prior years’ exceptional
items, and on timing differences. Although we expect the assets to be
recovered in full over time there is currently insufﬁcient evidence to
support the continued recognition of the deferred tax assets under 
FRS 19. The tax effect of the exceptional items in 2002 gives rise to 
a tax credit of £0.5 million, resulting in an exceptional tax charge of
£18.5 million.
Cash Flow
Spirent continued to generate cash in all its operating groups despite the
depressed trading conditions. Operating cash ﬂow of £76.9 million was
46 per cent down on the previous year of £141.2 million. Cash ﬂow
before acquisitions and disposals, equity dividends and ﬁnancing, or free
cash ﬂow, was £36.4 million compared with £40.4 million for 2001.
Net interest payments were lower by £13.1 million compared with the
previous year. This is due to lower levels of debt and a fall in interest
rates. Interest is primarily dollar denominated and provides a natural
hedge against proﬁt translation.
Tax payments have fallen to £4.2 million from £21.0 million in 2001 
due to reduced trading levels, refunds of over paid tax and the
recognition for tax purposes of items previously charged to proﬁt.
Net capital expenditure at £25.8 million was substantially lower than 
in the previous year (2001 £57.7 million) and was below the 2002
depreciation charge of £33.6 million. It is anticipated that capital
expenditure for 2003 will remain at around the same level as 2002.
Proceeds from disposals net of the cost of acquisitions contributed 
£6.4 million during 2002.
Payments in respect of the 2001 ﬁnal dividend and the 2002 interim
dividend amounted to £40.2 million (2001 £39.8 million).
Net borrowings closed at £161.8 million compared with £179.1 million
for the previous year with exchange beneﬁting the position by £12.7 million.
Acquisitions and Disposals
We made three acquisitions during the year for a total cash cost of 
£49.2 million.
We invested £16.4 million in the acquisition of certain assets of the
remote special services test product line of Anritsu Company US in July
2002. In August 2002 the remaining 85 per cent of Caw not already
owned by the Group was acquired for an initial consideration including
expenses of £26.7 million in cash. Deferred consideration (expected to be
satisﬁed by way of shares) is payable dependent on certain performance
criteria being achieved by Caw for the year ending 31 December 2003.
In September 2002 we acquired a product line and certain intellectual
property rights from UbiNetics for a cash consideration of £6.1 million
including expenses.
We continued to divest our non-core businesses and realised £37.6
million in net proceeds from the sale of our aerospace component
businesses in April 2002. Other divestments also within our Systems
group realised a further £18.0 million.
Pension Fund
The Group applies the principles of Statement of Standard Accounting
Practice (SSAP) 24 for determining pension charges. Spirent operates 
one major deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan, which is in the UK, and was last
subject to a full actuarial valuation in April 2000 at which time a surplus
was identiﬁed. A valuation is required every three years and consequently
is due to commence on 1 April 2003. Given the decline in equity markets
and reducing interest rates, which have both adversely affected the
funding levels, it is highly likely that a deﬁcit will arise at the next valuation.
Until the valuation has been performed it is not possible to indicate what
the deﬁcit will be. All other Group pension arrangements are on a deﬁned
contribution basis.
Based on FRS 17 the funding position at 31 December 2002 was a deﬁcit
of £41.9 million before taxation, representing a funding deﬁcit of 32 per
cent. This valuation represents a snap shot in time of the plan and is 
not a valuation of the plan on an ongoing basis. We consider that such 
a deﬁcit, should it arise, would be a manageable position which could be
made good over the remaining service lives of the employees.
13 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Free Cash Flow
£ million 2002 2001
Operating activities 76.9 141.2
Net interest and other (10.5) (22.1)
Net capital expenditure (25.8) (57.7)
Tax paid (4.2) (21.0)
Free cash ﬂow 36.4 40.4
Notes
Operating proﬁt (EBITA) and return on sales as referred to in the text are stated
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Free cash ﬂow as referred to in the text is cash ﬂow before acquisitions and disposals,
equity dividends and ﬁnancing. Treasury Management and Financial Instruments
The primary objective of the treasury function is to reduce ﬁnancial risk
and to ensure that sufﬁcient liquidity is available to the Group to meet
its current and anticipated needs. It operates as a service centre within 
a framework of policies and guidelines laid down by the Board that are
subject to regular review.
Objectives, Policies and Strategies
The major treasury activities involve raising ﬁnance and managing the
Group’s interest rate and currency exposures. Financial instruments
including derivatives are used to manage these exposures when deemed
appropriate. Transactions are only undertaken if they relate to underlying
exposures or business requirements. Speculative treasury transactions are
expressly forbidden.
Financing
TheGroup’s policy is to ﬁnance operations through a combination 
of retained earnings and external ﬁnancing. The Company raises the
majority of the funding for the Group. Debt is principally sourced from
the syndicated bank market and the US private placement market.
WAGO, which is a joint venture, arranges its own ﬁnancing.
At 31 December 2002, the amount of loan notes outstanding was 
$218 million, equivalent to £135.4 million at 31 December 2002
exchange rates. These loan notes have various maturity dates ranging
from 2006 to 2009.
Amounts available under the committed banking facilities were 
£194.4 million at 31 December 2002 of which £96.2 million was drawn.
These facilities mature in July 2004.
Since the year end the terms of the loan notes and the banking facility
have been varied as previously discussed.
Further details on the sources of funding are set out in note 30 to the
Accounts.
Interest Rate Management
The objective of our interest rate management policy is to reduce 
the volatility of the interest charge. The exposure to interest rates 
is managed through an optimum mix of ﬁxed and ﬂoating debt and 
the use of interest rate swaps.
At 31 December 2002 the Group’s borrowings were composed of 20 per
cent of ﬁxed rate debt. This excludes $163.4 million of private placement
notes which have been swapped into ﬂoating rates through the use of 
a seven year swap, callable at the counterparties’ option at six monthly
intervals commencing May 2003.
The interest proﬁle of Spirent’s cash and borrowings at the year end 
is detailed in note 30 to the Accounts.
Net interest payable was £12.3 million (2001 £22.8 million). A one
percentage point movement in short term dollar interest rates based on
the year end position would impact proﬁt before tax by approximately
£1 million.
Borrowings are denominated in currencies that correspond to Spirent’s
net assets as described below.
The fair value of borrowings and cash at the year end are compared 
to book value in note 30 to the Accounts.
Currency Management
Currency exposures arise from trading transactions undertaken by
subsidiaries in foreign currencies and on the translation of the operating
results and net assets of our overseas subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are required to hedge material transactional exposures,
against their local currency, using forward contracts. Group Treasury, by
means of forward foreign exchange contracts, carries out the majority 
of this hedging activity.
We do not hedge translation exposures on translation of the operating
results or net assets of our overseas subsidiaries since these are an
accounting, not a cash, exposure. Where possible we aim to match the
currency of our borrowings with the currency proﬁle of proﬁts and net
assets, this provides a partial hedge against these translation exposures.
Details of the currencies of borrowings are set out in the table below.
At the year end the balance sheet translation exposure was 70 per cent
hedged (2001 69 per cent).
During the year sterling strengthened against the US dollar, the main
currency to which we are exposed. A movement in the US dollar against
sterling by 1 per cent if maintained over the whole year based on 2002
results, would affect reported proﬁt before tax by approximately 
£0.2 million.
Summary
2002 has been a demanding year both in terms of trading and the
challenges we have faced adjusting our cost base and ﬁnancial structure
to meet the downturn in the Communications group. Our aim is to focus
on the organic growth of the business and cash generation in order to
retain cash to further reduce net borrowings.
14 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Financial Review continued
Net Borrowings by Currency and Tenor
£ million 2002 2001
US dollar Sterling Euro Other Total Total
Cash and current asset investments 10.9 61.2 6.9 4.6 83.6 27.9
Less: borrowings repayable in one year (0.6) (0.1) (0.9) (0.2) (1.8) (11.2)
Net liquid funds 10.3 61.1 6.0 4.4 81.8 16.7
Less: borrowings repayable after one year (149.5) (84.4) (9.5) (0.2) (243.6) (195.8)
Net (borrowings)/funds (139.2) (23.3) (3.5) 4.2 (161.8) (179.1)
Eric G Hutchinson
Finance Director The Board
Executive Directors
Nicholas K Brookes (55) UK resident 
N
Chief Executive
Nicholas Brookes was previously a Vice President of Texas Instruments Inc
from where he joined the Board as Deputy Chief Executive in 1995,
becoming Chief Executive in 1996. He is also a non-executive director 
of De La Rue plc and Corporacion Financiera Alba S.A.
My E Chung (50) US resident
Group President, Spirent Communications
My Chung was appointed to the Board in 2001 and has speciﬁc 
operating responsibility as Group President, Spirent Communications.
Prior to joining the Company in 1998 he spent 11 years with
Telecommunications Techniques Corporation (TTC), most latterly 
as Division President.
Eric G Hutchinson (47) UK resident
Finance Director
Eric Hutchinson was appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 2000
having previously been responsible for all ﬁnancial reporting and control
within the Group. He joined the Company in 1983, was appointed Chief
Accountant in 1987 and became Head of Corporate Accounting in 1997.
Non-executive Directors
John P Weston CBE* (51) UK resident 
A R N
Chairman
John Weston joined the Board and was appointed Chairman on 
7 November 2002. He is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He was Chief Executive of BAE SYSTEMS plc from May 1998 to March
2002 and has over 30 years’ senior experience in aerospace, engineering
and related technology industries.
James A D Wyness* (65) UK resident 
A R N
James Wyness was appointed to the Board in 1979 and is the senior
independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit
Committee. He was formerly Senior Partner of Linklaters, the Company’s
UK legal advisers, from where he retired in 1997. He is a non-executive
director of Saracens Limited.
Marcus Beresford* (60) UK resident 
A R N
Marcus Beresford was appointed to the Board in 1999 and is Chairman of
the Remuneration Committee. He was Chief Executive of GKN plc from
August 2001 to 31 December 2002 and has over 30 years’ managerial
experience in the automotive and electronic industries. He is also a
director of the Engineering Technology Board.
Paul M F Cheng* (66) Hong Kong resident 
R N
Paul Cheng was appointed to the Board in 1996. He is a founding partner
of China Key Consultants Limited. He was formerly Chairman of Inchcape
Paciﬁc Limited and N M Rothschild & Sons (Hong Kong) Limited as well
as a member of Hong Kong’s Legislative Council. He currently serves 
as an independent non-executive director of several listed companies 
on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and is an adjunct professor at the
business school of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.
15 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Board of Directors and Operations Management Team
P Göran Ennerfelt (63) Swedish resident 
A N
Göran Ennerfelt was appointed to the Board in 2000. He is President and
Chief Executive of Axel Johnson AB, a member of the Axel Johnson Group.
He is also Chairman of the Swedish Federation of Trade, the Board of
Trustees of SNS (Centre for Business and Policy Studies), the General
Export Association of Sweden and the Stockholm Institute of Transition
Economics at the Stockholm School of Economics. He is a director of
Svenska Handelsbanken, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and 
the Swedish National Committee of the International Chamber of
Commerce.
Richard M Moley* (64) US resident 
R N
Richard Moley was appointed to the Board in 2000. He was previously 
a main board director and Senior Vice President of Cisco Systems from
where he retired in 1997. He currently serves as a non-executive director
(formerly Chairman) of Netro Corporation and a number of other 
US high technology public and start up companies including Linear
Technologies Corporation, Echelon Corporation, Calient Systems Inc 
and Polaris Networks Inc.
Operations Management Team
Nicholas K Brookes (55) 
Chief Executive
My E Chung (50) 
Group President, Spirent Communications
Eric G Hutchinson (47) 
Finance Director
Paul R Eardley (42) 
Company Secretary and General Counsel
W Barry Phelps (56) 
Executive Vice President, Spirent Communications
Stephen J Salmon (53) 
Group President, Network Products
Jim H Schleckser (40) 
President, Service Assurance – Broadband, Spirent Communications
Geoffrey P L Zeidler (40) 
President, Europe and Wireless, Spirent Communications
Spirent’s Operations Management Team develops and oversees corporate
strategy and reviews annual business plans, budgets and operational and
ﬁnancial performance. It agrees and monitors policies and other matters
not reserved for the Board.
AAudit Committee
RRemuneration Committee
N Nomination Committee
* Indicates that the director is considered independent of the management 
of the Company The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate
governance, the process by which the Group is directed and managed,
risks are identiﬁed and controlled and effective accountability assured.
The Board considers that it has complied throughout the year under
review with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority relating to the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) except in relation
to Nicholas Brookes’ 24 month notice period from the Company within
his service contract. Subsequent to the 2002 year end, Mr Brookes’
service contract was amended so as to comply with the Code.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance set
out in the Code have been applied within the Group. The Board is also
closely reviewing the current corporate governance proposals on both the
role and effectiveness of non-executive directors (the Higgs Review) and
also the role and responsibilities of audit committees (the Smith Review).
In addition, as the Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange,
it is subject to certain US legislation. The Board is therefore also closely
reviewing the implementation of certain requirements following the
publication in the US of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. Any changes
which may be implemented by the Board as a result of the above will 
be reported as appropriate in the Directors’ Statement on Corporate
Governance in next year’s Annual Report.
The Board
The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, ﬁve further non-
executive directors and three executive directors, details of whom are
given on page 15. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are held
separately with a clear division of responsibility between them. The Board
considers that all non-executive directors are independent with the
exception of Göran Ennerfelt by virtue of his notiﬁable interests referred
to in the Report of the Directors on page 20. James Wyness is the senior
independent non-executive director. The non-executive directors (each
appointed for an initial three year term) have a wide range of skills 
and experience which helps to ensure that independent judgement is
exercised on issues such as strategy and performance and also that a
proper balance of power is maintained for full and effective control.
The role of the Board is to determine the long term direction and
strategy of the Group, monitor the achievement of business objectives,
ensure that good corporate governance is practised and ensure that the
Group meets its responsibilities to its shareholders, customers and other
stakeholders.
The Board meets at least six times a year and a separate meeting is held
annually to review and approve long term strategy. Full attendance of 
the Board is expected at Board meetings and in 2002 attendance was in
excess of 90 per cent. A schedule of matters speciﬁcally reserved for the
Board’s decision has been adopted whilst certain other responsibilities
have been delegated to four standing committees with clearly deﬁned
terms of reference which, together with the composition of each
Committee, are reviewed annually. To ensure good communication
between the Board and each of the Committees, the Company Secretary
is the appointed Secretary to all standing Board Committees.
All directors receive appropriate training and brieﬁng upon appointment
and subsequently as necessary. Non-executives have the opportunity 
to enhance their understanding of the Group through regular business
sector presentations, the receipt of monthly reports from the Chief
Executive and site visits.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary (and, if necessary, access to further independent advice, at the
Company’s expense), who advises the Board in respect of its procedures,
directors’ duties and responsibilities, corporate governance and all
compliance matters. The appointment and removal of the Company
Secretary is a matter reserved to the Board.
Board Appointments
The Company’s Articles of Association require that all directors seek
election by shareholders at the ﬁrst Annual General Meeting following
their appointment. They also require that all directors seek re-election 
at least every three years.
Board Committees
Acquisitions and Divestments Committee
Chairman, Nicholas Brookes
The Acquisitions and Divestments Committee comprises the executives
and any two non-executive directors. The Committee is primarily
concerned with the evaluation and approval of acquisitions and
divestments whose cash consideration does not exceed £25 million.
Audit Committee
Chairman, James Wyness
The Audit Committee comprises four non-executive directors. The
Committee meets no less than four times a year with the external
auditors, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Head of Financial
Control and the Head of Financial Reporting in attendance. It also meets
with the external auditors in private for part of each meeting. The
Committee reviews all published accounts and post audit ﬁndings before
their presentation to the Board, focusing in particular on accounting
policies, compliance, management judgement and estimates. It also
monitors the Group’s internal control regime and ﬁnancial reporting. Any
signiﬁcant ﬁndings or identiﬁed weaknesses are closely examined so that
appropriate action can be taken, monitored and reported to the Board.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external
auditors and on the scope, results and cost effectiveness of both audit
and non-audit work. The Committee has adopted a policy which restricts
certain types of non-audit work that may be performed by the Company’s
auditors. The Audit Committee also assesses the objectivity of the
auditors’ services so that an independent professional relationship is
maintained. Details of the auditors’ remuneration for 2002 appear in 
note 5 to the Accounts.
Nomination Committee
Chairman, John Weston 
The Nomination Committee comprises all the non-executive directors
and the Chief Executive and meets at least once a year. It is responsible
for reviewing the composition and structure of the Board and for
identifying and recommending candidates for executive and non-
executive appointments. Executive search consultants are used by 
the Committee to assist this process as appropriate.
Remuneration Committee
Chairman, Marcus Beresford
The Remuneration Committee which consists exclusively of independent
non-executive directors, meets at least three times a year. Further details
about the Committee are included in the Report on Directors’
Remuneration on pages 22 to 29.
16 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance No director is involved in determining his own remuneration, whether
determined by the Committee or, in the case of non-executives, by the
Board.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and
communication with shareholders. Communication is facilitated by full
year and interim reports issued to shareholders. Further information and
services available to shareholders are described on pages 82 and 83.
A valuable dialogue has also been established with principal institutional
investors through a programme of investor relations events throughout
the year in the UK and overseas. All contact with institutional investors,
ﬁnancial analysts, fund managers, brokers and the media is controlled by
written guidelines to ensure the protection of price-sensitive information
during such dialogue.
It is the Company’s practice to issue the Notice convening the Annual
General Meeting at least 20 working days before the Meeting and to
propose separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue. All
directors are expected to attend the AGM to take any relevant questions.
A report showing the number of proxy votes cast for and against each
resolution is available for shareholders attending the AGM in respect of
resolutions which have been voted on by a show of hands. The results of
proxy votes are also posted on the Company’s website following the
conclusion of the AGM.
Internal Control
Introduction
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal
control, which comprises a process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the risks faced by the Group and for regularly reviewing its
effectiveness in accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal
Control (Turnbull). The Board conﬁrms that this process was in place
throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of 
the ﬁnancial statements. The primary aim is to operate a system which 
is appropriate to the business and which can, over time, increase
shareholder value whilst safeguarding the Group’s assets. The system is
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Process
The Group’s ‘Operational Excellence Programme’ ensures that internal
control and risk management processes continue to become embedded
in the organisation. Day-to-day responsibility for effective internal
control and risk monitoring rests with senior management at business
group and operating unit level.
The Group’s system of internal control and risk management comprises
an integrated risk management strategy consisting of regular self-
assessment encompassing all operating units and preparation of a
remedial action plan, as appropriate. Signiﬁcant risks are also reviewed 
by the Audit Committee and by the Board on at least four separate
occasions each year.
In addition to this process, the following key elements are critical to the
overall internal control environment:
– an organisation structure with clear operating procedures, deﬁned
lines of responsibility and delegated levels of authority;
–a Code of Business Ethics, which sets standards of professionalism and
integrity for all employees and operations worldwide;
–a comprehensive strategic planning, ﬁnancial control and budgeting
system which is properly documented and regularly reviewed; and
–a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence process and
post acquisition integration programme.
Spirent’s corporate internal control and risk management functions
report into the Head of Internal Control, operate on a global basis and
play a key role in providing an objective view and continuing assessment
of the effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout the Group
to operating management, the Audit Committee and the Board. The work
programme of these two functions is focused on the areas perceived to
be of greatest risk to the Group and is agreed annually in advance by the
Audit Committee.
The Group has a material joint venture investment (51 per cent interest)
in the WAGO group of companies. The Board believes that WAGO has
appropriate internal controls in place although the review for this
operation is less comprehensive than that for the Group’s subsidiary
operations. The WAGO businesses have therefore been excluded from 
the above disclosures. On 12 March 2003, the Company announced that 
it had reached conditional agreement to dispose of its interests in the
WAGO group of companies. The disposal is expected to complete in 
April 2003.
Review of Effectiveness
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
effectiveness of the system of internal control for the period under
review, taking account of material developments since that date using
the process set out above. The Board conﬁrms that the review revealed
nothing which, in its opinion, indicated that the system was ineffective 
or unsatisfactory.
Pensions Governance
The Group’s principal pension and retirement schemes exist in the United
Kingdom, the United States, Australia and South Africa. Scheme funds are
held separately from those of the Group and are administered by Trustees
(which in the UK and US include employees and independent members).
The schemes do not lend money or lease any assets to the Group.
Reporting
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of preparing the
Accounts is included on page 30. A report by the auditors, Ernst & Young
LLP, which includes details of their responsibilities in respect of the
Company’s compliance with the Code, is set out on page 31.
17 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 We recognise our corporate social, environmental and ethical impact and
responsibilities and are committed to advancing our policies and systems
across the Group to ensure we address, control and monitor all aspects of
corporate social responsibility (CSR). We understand that our reputation
and future success rests in part on our:
– concern for employee health and safety;
– care for the environment;
–involvement in the community; and
–good ethical behaviour.
We realise the importance of maintaining good relationships with not
only our shareholders, customers and employees but also with other
parties who have an interest in our activities. We strive to maintain an
open dialogue with our stakeholders and welcome contact from all our
interested groups.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for Spirent’s social responsibilities
and is committed to developing and implementing policies which
support them alongside a fundamental commitment to create and
sustain long term value for shareholders. We believe that CSR represents
good management practice and is important in developing our business.
To date, the Board does not believe that the activities of the Group
present any signiﬁcant social, ethical or environmental risks. We have
established a CSR Committee to co-ordinate Group-wide corporate
responsibility efforts, which is chaired by the Chief Executive and will
meet quarterly.
Health and Safety
The Chief Executive is the appointed director responsible to the Board 
for the health and safety and environmental performance of the Group.
The Group policy statement provides for the delegation of day-to-day
management of the health and safety responsibility to local business unit
management supported by the Group Internal Control team and local
external advisers as necessary. All local business units are required to
produce and publish to employees a written health and safety policy.
Each business unit has an individual designated as the appointed Health
and Safety Ofﬁcer with responsibility for ensuring the business unit
conforms to local statutory regulations as well as Group policy.
Spirent’s ‘Operational Excellence Programme’, which is further described
in the Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 16 and 17,
furthers the corporate objective of continuous improvement. The
performance for 2002, collated from the annual health and safety
questionnaire completed by all business units, demonstrates that over 
80 per cent of our business units improved performance compared 
with the previous year. The highlights of the report are:
–over 50 per cent improvement in ill health/long term sickness 
levels reducing to only four cases for 2002 compared with nine 
the previous year;
–a signiﬁcant reduction in accident frequency and severity;
– no accidents that resulted in hospitalisation, a positive improvement
from three in 2001;
– 489 incidents that required on-site ﬁrst aid treatment, a reduction 
of 18 per cent from 2001; and
– 315 workdays lost due to sickness and accidents in 2002, a 25 per cent
reduction on 2001 levels.
Health and safety training programmes are operated at the manufacturing
units with independent reviews of company performance being
undertaken by external consultants and loss control experts from 
our insurers.
The Group’s health and safety performance and signiﬁcant risk exposures
are regularly reviewed by the Operations Management Team, twice a
year by the Audit Committee and annually by the Board.
Environmental
Spirent recognises the importance of good environmental practice and
the impact that its operations may have on the environment. The Spirent
Group policy is to comply with local, state and national environmental
legislation in all jurisdictions in which we operate and to adopt
responsible environmental practices.
Business units are required to comply with Group policy and local
statutory regulations and are encouraged to set their own environmental
targets. An annual environmental questionnaire is completed that
demonstrates the environmental performance of the business units.
The Network Products group has consolidated on its success in 2001 of
achieving ISO 14001 accreditation and by the end of 2002 had 95 per cent
of business units accredited including all manufacturing sites worldwide
and has only a few sales ofﬁces remaining for accreditation.
The Communications group is predominately US-based and even though
the businesses have a high level of ISO 9001 accreditation, and in the
case of the Service Assurance division also TL-9000 accreditation, the
move towards ISO 14001 accreditation is only now beginning to be
recognised in the US. We would expect over the next few years that 
our US businesses will seek ISO 14001 accreditation.
In 2002 75 per cent of business units reported improvements on 2001
levels in environmental performance in meeting goals for reducing waste,
increasing recycling and reducing energy consumption. This is a
signiﬁcant improvement on previous years.
Of the two vacated sites where historic activities were deemed to have
led to minor land contamination, on more detailed investigation at one
of the sites it was revealed that no land contamination had in fact taken
place. At the other site we are undertaking remediation work in line with
the local statutory obligations.
Group performance and risk exposure reviews are undertaken in parallel
with those for health and safety as described above.
Community
Spirent’s policy is to be a responsible partner within the local
communities in which we operate through supporting community
initiatives and local charities. Local communities are important to us and
we encourage our employees to participate as volunteers in community
and charitable activities. We make contributions through cash donations,
gifts in kind and employee skills, talent and time. In 2002 Spirent made
charitable donations of £90,000 (2001 £73,000).
18 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Social Responsibility Statement Each business unit is encouraged, through a charitable donations policy,
to develop programmes which address the needs of their local community.
Their involvement covers a wide range of activities from fund raising for
disadvantaged groups to supporting local schools.
During the year Spirent and our employees have undertaken a number 
of initiatives to contribute to the communities in which we live and work
to make a positive difference.
We support a number of educational schemes including a Junior
Achievement programme in the US where employees are given leave to
teach in local schools. We also provide work experience in association
with a number of universities and summer internships for local students
around the world. In support of science and technology education we
have provided equipment and products to local schools and technology
colleges. In the UK Spirent plc supports The Duke of Edinburgh’s Award
scheme and is a sponsor of the Science, Engineering and Technology
Student of the Year Awards in the category of Best Electronic Engineering
Student. We take an active role in the development of the Young
Enterprise in Sussex scheme and sponsor its annual ‘Best Product’ award.
As part of our initiative to support local communities and disadvantaged
groups our business units support programmes which provide gifts,
clothing, food and other assistance for unprivileged children and families
worldwide.
We recognise the importance of continuing to support local community
and educational initiatives and encourage our employees to ﬁnd new
ways to participate in community projects.
Ethical Standards
Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance with
high ethical standards of business practice. It applies these standards 
to all dealings with customers, suppliers, stakeholders and employees.
The Group’s policy on ethics is made available to all employees and
emphasises the requirement for honesty and integrity in their business
dealings and dealings with colleagues. Spirent reviews its ethics policy
annually and intends to publish it later this year on the Company
website. Ethical practice is reviewed as part of the Group’s internal
control process on an annual basis to ensure that the core values are
embedded in all business dealings.
Employment, Training, Education and Employee Involvement
The Group aims, on a worldwide basis, to attract, retain and motivate 
the highest calibre of employee, and encourages creativity and initiative
while rewarding high performance both on an individual and team
contribution basis.
The Company is committed to providing employees with a continuing
opportunity to develop their full potential by gaining the relevant skills
and experience required to deliver the business objectives. Training
programmes and links with the educational sector reinforce this
commitment to learning and development activities. Management
development and succession planning are vital to the future success 
of the Company and are, therefore, managed accordingly.
Such processes are reinforced through appropriate remuneration 
systems and recognised through an innovation awards programme. The
development of a ‘Technical Ladder’ as a career path for technical staff
that is parallel to a more traditional management career path is very
important given the criticality of intellectual property and technical
innovation to Spirent’s future success.
Each operating company within the Group is committed to providing
equality of opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without
unlawful or unfair discrimination. Full support is given to the employment
and advancement of disabled persons.
The Company places great emphasis on the highest level of customer
care and service and acknowledges that to achieve this objective requires
a contribution from every employee. Reﬂecting the overall philosophy of
decentralisation, local operating company management is responsible for
developing and implementing arrangements for employee information,
consultation, communication and involvement which best suit their own
particular needs.
The Group recognises the importance of two-way communication 
with employees, particularly on matters relating to the business and 
its performance. This is achieved using a variety of methods including 
senior management brieﬁngs, the regular distribution of an in-house
publication, Viewpoints, intranets and a corporate website.
19 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 The directors present their Report and the audited consolidated accounts
for the year to 31 December 2002.
Principal Activities, Business Review and Results
The principal activities, review and results for the year (inclusive of
ﬁnancial performance, likely future developments and prospects) are set
out on pages 1 to 14. Principal divisions, subsidiaries, joint venture and
associates are listed on pages 77 and 78.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 1.35 pence per share was paid on 4 November
2002. The directors do not recommend the payment of a ﬁnal dividend
therefore the total dividend for the period was 1.35 pence per share
(2001 4.35 pence).
Research and Development
Product development and innovation is considered a key strategy to
maintain and improve the Group’s competitive position and therefore
continues to receive high priority. This commitment is highlighted by 
the £77.7 million research and development spend during the year,
equivalent to 14 per cent of turnover (2001 £95.9 million, equivalent to
12 per cent of turnover). The Company will continue to commit resources
as appropriate to research and development.
Major Transactions
On 1 April 2002, the Company completed the sale of its non-core
aerospace component businesses within its Systems group to 
Curtiss-Wright Corporation for a cash consideration of $60 million.
On 1 May 2002, the Company completed the disposal of certain assets
of Switching Systems International Inc, a business within its Systems
group, for up to $9.1 million in cash.
On 10 July 2002, the Company completed the acquisition of certain
assets of the remote special services test product line of Anritsu
Company US for a cash consideration of $26 million. The remote special
services test product line has been integrated into the Company’s Service
Assurance division.
On 16 August 2002, the Company completed the acquisition of Caw
Networks, Inc. for an initial consideration of $49 million comprised of
approximately $45 million in cash and $4 million in a combination of
Spirent restricted shares and options pursuant to an employee stock 
plan. The business has been integrated into the Company’s Performance
Analysis division.
On 18 September 2002, the Company announced a strategic partnership
with UbiNetics. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company acquired
UbiNetics’ CS100 product line and rights to associated intellectual
property for £6.5 million in cash. The partnership is in association with
the Company’s Performance Analysis division.
On 30 September 2002, the Company completed the disposal of 
Monitor Labs Incorporated, part of the Systems group, to Teledyne
Technologies Incorporated for a cash consideration of $24 million.
On 12 March 2003, it was announced that Spirent had entered into
conditional agreements with members of and companies controlled by
the Hohorst family for the sale of its 51 per cent interests in WAGO, its
interconnection joint venture, for a total consideration of approximately
£60.7 million payable in cash, in full, on completion. The disposal is
subject to shareholder approval at an Extraordinary General Meeting to
be held on 31 March 2003 and is expected to be completed in April 2003.
Further details of these and other minor changes in the structure of the
Group are set out in notes 34, 35 and 36 to the Accounts.
Share Capital
Changes in the Company’s share capital during the period are given 
in note 32 to the Accounts.
Substantial Shareholdings
As at the date of this Report, the Company had been notiﬁed of the
following interests in 3 per cent or more of its issued share capital:
% held
Lexa BV 13.62
FMR Corporation and Fidelity International Ltd 10.00
Prudential plc 5.10
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3.63 
Additional shareholder information, including a proﬁle of shareholdings, appears on
pages 82 and 83.
Share Listings
The primary listing for the Company’s Ordinary shares is the London
Stock Exchange. The Company’s Ordinary shares are also listed on the
New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares 
and these are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), each
one of which represents four Ordinary shares. The Bank of New York is
the authorised depositary bank for the Company’s ADR programme.
Directors
The names and brief biographical details of the current directors are
shown on page 15. All held ofﬁce throughout the year and up to the date
of this Report with the exception of John Weston who was appointed as
non-executive Chairman on 7 November 2002. Dr George Sarney was
the former non-executive Chairman until he died on 30 April 2002.
Retirement and Election of Directors
Pursuant to the Company’s Articles of Association, Paul Cheng and
Richard Moley will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting 
on 20 May 2003 and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Having been appointed during the year, John Weston will also retire 
at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
None of the directors subject to election or re-election have service
contracts with the Company.
Directors’ Interests
Göran Ennerfelt is President and Chief Executive of Axel Johnson AB,
a member of the Axel Johnson Group, which is owned by his spouse,
Antonia Ax:son Johnson. Accordingly, he has a connected notiﬁable
interest in the following:
20 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Report of the Directors – the Stock Purchase Agreement (and ancillary agreements) dated 
16 November 2000 and made between Lexa BV (an Axel Johnson
Group company), Antonia Ax:son Johnson, the Company and Spirent
Holdings Corporation, which relates to the Company’s acquisition 
of Hekimian Laboratories, Inc.; and
– the Company through the 13.62 per cent shareholding of Lexa BV,
the registered holder of the Ordinary shares (see also Substantial
Shareholdings on page 20).
The directors’ interests (including those of their immediate families and
any connected persons) in the share capital of the Company are set out
in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 22 to 29.
Save as disclosed, no contracts or arrangements have been entered into
during the year or subsisted at the year end in which any director had,
directly or indirectly, a material interest which was signiﬁcant in relation
to the Group’s business.
Employees
The Group’s employment policies regarding disabled persons and further
information on employee training, development and involvement is
explained in the Social Responsibility Statement on pages 18 and 19.
Employee Share Schemes
The Company operates a number of share incentive schemes, details of
which can be found in note 32 to the Accounts. The Company operates
all employee share plans in the UK, US and Canada.
Social Responsibility and Donations
The Group’s Social Responsibility Statement appears on pages 18 
and 19. Charitable donations of £90,000 were made in the year 
(2001 £73,000). This amount excludes operating units’ support and
participation in local community activities. No political donations 
were made in the year (2001 £nil).
Creditor Payment Policy
Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and
conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are
conducted and it is Group policy to comply with those terms and to
make suppliers aware of them.
At 31 December 2002 the Company had an average of 47 days purchases
outstanding in trade creditors (2001 46 days).
Corporate Governance
The Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance is set out on pages
16 and 17. The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of
preparing the Accounts appears on page 30.
Going Concern
The attention of shareholders is drawn to the Going Concern statement
appearing in note 1 to the Accounts on page 37. The directors are of 
the opinion that, taking into account the net proceeds from the disposal
of the WAGO group of companies (see ‘Major Transactions’ above) and
also the amended syndicated bank facility and loan note terms (see
Financial Review, pages 11 to 14) that they have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the going
concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing the Accounts.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.00 noon on Tuesday,
20 May 2003 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London 
WC2A 3ED, United Kingdom.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorising
the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
Paul Eardley
Company Secretary
12 March 2003
21 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 1. Introduction and Compliance
This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee 
(the Committee) and approved by the Board in compliance with the
requirements of The Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the
Regulations) and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code).
The Board considers that it has complied throughout the year under
review with the requirements of the Code with the exception of Code
provision B.1.7 in respect of Nicholas Brookes’ 24 month notice period
from the Company within his service contract. Subsequent to the 2002
year end, Mr Brookes’ service contract was amended so as to comply 
with the Code (see paragraph 4(e) below). The Directors’ Statement on
Corporate Governance (see pages 16 and 17) and this Report describe
how the principles of corporate governance set out in the Code have
been applied within the Group.
2. Role and Remit of the Remuneration Committee
The composition of the Committee, made up wholly of independent 
non-executive directors, is given on page 15. The late Dr George Sarney,
former non-executive Chairman of the Company, was also a member of
the Committee up to the time of his death in April 2002. The Committee
makes recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy and
framework of executive directors’ remuneration and its cost. The
Committee also determines the remuneration of each executive director
and each member of the Operations Management Team (see page 15 
for details). In addition, the Committee is responsible on behalf of the
Board for monitoring and managing shareholder dilution through share
incentive plans. The Committee meets at least four times a year and full
attendance is expected at each meeting. In 2002 attendance was in
excess of 90 per cent.
In order to assist the Committee in carrying out its duties, during the
year the Committee consulted on a regular basis with its appointed
independent external remuneration advisers. The advisers during the 
year were as follows (additional services provided, all by appointment 
of the Company, are shown alongside in brackets):
– Cazenove & Co. Ltd (who are the Company’s broker);
–Kepler Associates;
– Linklaters (who are the Company’s legal advisers);
–Watson Wyatt (who are also consultant actuaries for the Company’s
UK pension fund).
The Committee also consulted with the Company’s Compensation and
Beneﬁts Manager and the Company Secretary regarding remuneration
and related corporate governance issues. In addition, with respect to 
the remuneration of senior executives (for whom the Company’s
remuneration policy also applies – see below), the Committee also
consulted with the Chief Executive.
3. Remuneration Policy
The Company’s remuneration policy, which has not changed during the
year and will apply for the following ﬁnancial year, is to:
–attract, retain and motivate the high calibre professional, managerial
and technological expertise necessary to realise the Group’s business
objectives without paying excessively;
– ensure that the remuneration framework and its constituent reward
elements are competitive and where appropriate reﬂect the
international nature of the Group’s business and the markets within
which it operates; and
– maintain the correct balance and linkage between individual and
business performance so as to align the interests of the executive with
those of shareholders, particularly that of enhancing shareholder value.
The Committee has developed remuneration packages which ﬁt this
policy on an integrated and total reward basis. This is achieved by
providing base salary plus beneﬁts, pension entitlements, an annual short
term incentive bonus and discretionary awards under the Company’s
share incentive plans, the latter two elements of which are performance-
related. In normal circumstances, it is the Committee’s policy that over
50 per cent of an executive director’s target total annual remuneration
package is based on performance-related elements. The Company’s
recent history of share price volatility and its consequent impact on the
‘value’ of the long term incentive component of the total remuneration
package means in practice that the actual balance of performance versus
non-performance elements can vary from year to year. In designing the
performance-related elements of remuneration, the Committee has
followed the provisions set out in Schedule A to the Code.
In subsequent years, the Committee will continue to monitor and review
the level and constituent elements of remuneration packages and will
consult with its major institutional shareholders as appropriate with
regards to any proposed changes.
4. Executive Directors’ Remuneration
(a) Base Salary and Beneﬁts
The level of base salary is reviewed and established annually by reference
to both the performance and responsibilities of the individual and
prevailing market rates for executives of similar status in comparable
companies. When reviewing salaries, the Committee is mindful of and
sensitive to the wider scene, especially regarding employees’ pay and
employment conditions elsewhere in the Group. No increase in salary
was awarded to the executive directors either during 2002 or in respect
of their 1 January 2003 annual pay review.
Pension and other beneﬁts have regard to competitor practice in the
home country of each executive. Beneﬁts include a company car or car
allowance, healthcare, disability and life insurance coverage. Pension
details are given in paragraphs 4(c) and 7(b).
(b) Annual Incentive Bonus Scheme
The Committee reviews annual incentive bonus scheme targets and
performance conditions each year to incentivise the executive to meet
the short term strategic objectives of the Company.
In respect of 2002, Messrs Brookes and Hutchinson participated in an annual
scheme which, consistent with UK market practice and levels, was structured
around a formula providing for an on-target performance bonus of 50 per
cent of base salary with a maximum of 100 per cent of base salary for
exceptional performance. Performance was measured against growth
targets in the Company’s headline Earnings per Share (EPS), however,
as the threshold target was not met, no bonus was payable for 2002.
In respect of 2003, the same 50 per cent on-target and 100 per cent
exceptional performance bonus opportunities will be available to Messrs
22 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Report on Directors’ Remuneration Brookes and Hutchinson. Performance for 2003 will be measured against
targets in EPS and other ﬁnancial objectives (accounting for 80 per cent
of any bonus) and also against the achievement of certain personal and
strategic objectives selected by the Committee (accounting for 20 per
cent of any bonus).
My Chung (who is US-based) also participates in a similar annual
incentive bonus scheme. Consistent with US market practice and levels,
for 2002, he had a target bonus opportunity of 50 per cent and he 
was capped at 200 per cent of salary for exceptional performance.
Performance was measured against growth targets in proﬁt for the
Communications group, however, as the threshold target was not met,
no bonus was payable for 2002.
In respect of 2003, the same 50 per cent on-target and 200 per cent
exceptional performance bonus opportunities will be available to My
Chung. Performance for 2003 will again be measured against proﬁt
targets for the Communications group, subject to threshold performance
in respect of other appropriate ﬁnancial measures (accounting for 90 per
cent of any bonus) and also against other personal and strategic objectives
as selected by the Committee (accounting for 10 per cent of any bonus).
(c) Directors’ Pensions
All three executive directors participate in Group pension plans as
described below.
The UK executives participate in the non-contributory funded senior
executive level of the Spirent Group Staff Pension and Life Assurance Plan
(the Staff Plan). This deﬁned beneﬁt arrangement will provide them at
normal retirement age of 60, and dependent on length of service, with 
a pension of up to two-thirds of salary, subject to Inland Revenue limits
and other statutory conditions. It also provides for dependants’ pensions
and a cash lump sum on death. Pensionable salary is the director’s base
salary only.
The Company has undertaken to Nicholas Brookes, whose salary for
approved pension purposes under the Staff Plan is capped by the provisions
of the Finance Act 1989 (£97,200 for the tax year 2002/2003), that his
beneﬁt entitlements shall be as if the ‘cap’ did not apply. The Company
will be liable for making payment of any unapproved pension in excess 
of the approved maximum and a balance sheet provision exists in respect
of this obligation. The Company has taken out insurance to cover that
part of his life assurance in excess of the cap. As Eric Hutchinson was 
a member of the pension plan prior to 1989, his pension entitlements
are not subject to the capping provisions of the Finance Act 1989.
The pensions earned by the UK executives during the year under the Staff
Plan are given in paragraph 7(b).
My Chung participates in the Spirent International Inc Retirement and
Proﬁt Share Plan, a deﬁned contribution plan approved under section
401(k) of the US Internal Revenue Service Code (the IRS Code). The
Company makes matching contributions of up to 2 per cent and is
permitted to make discretionary proﬁt sharing contributions of up to 
8 per cent of the maximum compensation permitted for these purposes
under the IRS Code. The normal retirement age under this plan is 65 
and, consistent with local practice, bonuses are pensionable for all
participating US employees, including My Chung.
(d) Medium and Long Term Incentive Plans
The Committee approves the grant of all options under the Executive
Share Option Scheme (ESOS) and the Spirent Stock Option Plan (SSOP)
in which executive directors participate (see below). All grants are subject
to prior satisfactory individual performance and grant amounts vary 
with the individual’s potential impact on longer term business results.
Executive directors also continue to participate in the Long Term Share
Purchase Plan (LTSPP). However, following shareholder approval in 2002
of the closure of the LTSPP and the substitution of future annual awards
with equivalent value supplemental grants of options under the ESOS,
no further grants have been made under the LTSPP since 2001. The
executives are also eligible to participate in either the Company’s UK 
or US all employee share plans, as appropriate (further details of which
are provided in note 32 to the Accounts).
ESOS
All ESOS grants made after 11 May 2000 to executive directors are
subject to enhanced performance conditions on exercise which the
Committee believes represent challenging criteria that align the interests
of executives to that of shareholders. The performance conditions 
require the Company’s headline EPS to increase over a period of three
consecutive ﬁnancial years within a range of 9 per cent (minimum
performance for 25 per cent option vesting) and 15 per cent (for 
100 per cent option vesting), with a sliding scale between these points.
In addition, performance testing over the ten year option term is measured
from a base point ﬁxed at the date of grant. Performance will be tested
on the third anniversary of grant and, if the target conditions at that time
have not yet been met in full, performance will be tested again on the
fourth and ﬁfth anniversaries of grant only, with the performance hurdle
being increased in proportion to the extended period. The Committee’s
current grant policy is to provide each executive director with the
opportunity to receive options up to an annual limit of 3 times base
salary, however the size of grant each year will have due regard to
prevailing relevant circumstances.
ESOS grants made before 11 May 2000 to executive directors are subject
to a performance condition which was in line with prevailing market
practice at that time. The performance condition on exercise is that over
a period of three consecutive ﬁnancial years, there has been an increase
in the Company’s headline EPS which is at least 6 per cent more than 
the increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period. The same
performance condition is tested on the third anniversary of grant and,
if the performance condition has not been met at that time, at each
subsequent anniversary of grant until the expiry of the option (on the
tenth anniversary of grant).
SSOP
The SSOP was approved by shareholders in May 2000 for
Communications group employees and will expire in May 2003. The
Committee is currently reviewing medium and long term incentive
arrangements for employees within the Communications group (which
include My Chung) and shareholders will be informed as appropriate with
regards to any new initiatives which require shareholder approval.
In addition to participating in the ESOS, with due regard to the competitive
US recruitment and retention practices to which the Company is
exposed, the Committee has concluded that My Chung (who is Group
President of Spirent Communications, a US citizen and resident in the
US) should also continue to participate in the SSOP. This plan is not open
to current UK executive directors. Options normally vest over four years,
23 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 with 25 per cent exercisable on the ﬁrst anniversary of the date of grant,
and thereafter in equal proportions on a monthly basis. In line with
prevailing market practice and as previously approved by shareholders, no
pre-exercise performance conditions attach to options granted under the
SSOP. In normal circumstances, My Chung will have the opportunity to
receive an annual grant of up to 4.5 times base salary under the SSOP
(subject to prevailing relevant circumstances), in addition to any ESOS
award. The Committee reviews the most appropriate balance of awards
between ESOS and SSOP options for My Chung prior to any grant.
LTSPP
As noted above, although the LTSPP is closed, there are still outstanding
awards which were granted prior to the plan’s closure. The LTSPP was
introduced in 1999 and only executive directors and members of the
Operations Management Team are eligible to participate. All grants under
the LTSPP with the exception of those made in 2001 have lapsed as they
have failed to meet the minimum performance conditions of (i) a real 
(ie above inﬂation) growth in the Spirent share price of at least 5 per cent
per annum, and (ii) a total shareholder return (ie capital appreciation,
dividends paid, plus any other issues or distributions) performance ranked
above the 60th percentile against a comparator group. In respect of the
2001 LTSPP grant, the Committee agreed at the time of grant that the
FTSE 100 index would be an appropriate comparator group and is a broad
equity market index against which the performance of the LTSPP grants
could be fairly compared. The Committee believes that the LTSPP
performance conditions remain extremely challenging.
Further information on the ESOS, SSOP and LTSPP is provided in note 32
to the Accounts.
The Committee believes that the grant structure, performance conditions
and grant levels under the ESOS and SSOP represent the most appropriate
medium to long term incentive arrangements which will enable Spirent 
to compete for, motivate and retain the highest calibre executives which
it needs to drive the business forward and increase shareholder value. In
order to assist further in aligning the interests of executives and shareholders,
shareholding guidelines were introduced in 2000 which encourage
executive directors and certain senior managers to build up a meaningful
level of shareholding of up to two years’ salary over a period of ﬁve years.
(e) Service Contracts
In respect of 2002, Nicholas Brookes was subject to a service contract
entered into on 5 May 1995 which currently has an unexpired term of 50
months and was terminable at any time by the Company on 24 months’
notice and by Mr Brookes on 12 months’ notice. Eric Hutchinson entered
into a service contract on 13 December 1999 which currently has an
unexpired term of 146 months and is terminable at any time by either
party on 12 months’ notice. My Chung entered into a service contract on
9 May 2001 which currently has an unexpired term of 171 months and 
is terminable at any time by the Company on 12 months’ notice and by
Mr Chung on six months’ notice. All contracts contain provisions for the
Company to make payment in lieu of notice and for removal of the director
for poor performance or misconduct without compensation. The Company
will seek to apply practical mitigation measures to any payment of
compensation on termination, taking into account all relevant circumstances.
The Committee is aware the Code states there is a strong case for service
contract notice periods not to exceed 12 months. However, Mr Brookes’
service contract was originally agreed prior to the introduction of the
Code, when notice periods of 24 months were in line with prevailing
market practice. Nevertheless, having due regard to current best practice,
Mr Brookes and the Board agreed to amend his service contract with
effect from 1 January 2003, so that the service contract is terminable at
any time by either party on 12 months’ notice. The Committee’s policy 
is to offer service contracts to newly appointed executives which provide
for only 12 months’ notice from the Company in normal circumstances,
and this was applied in the cases of Messrs Hutchinson and Chung.
(f) External Appointments
Spirent recognises the mutual beneﬁt for executive directors to serve as
non-executives of companies in other industries outside the Group. Such
appointments are subject to prior Board approval and, with effect from 
1 January 2003, any related fee entitlements are for the account of the
executive concerned.
5. Non-executive Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the 
Board following a recommendation by the Chief Executive and after
consultation with independent external advisers concerning competitive
market practice. The Company’s remuneration policy (which has not
changed during the year and will apply for the following ﬁnancial year)
with regards to non-executive directors is to pay fees which are in line
with market practice. No fee increase was awarded either during 2002 
or at the remuneration review at 1 January 2003.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in bonus or share
incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify for pension
purposes or other beneﬁts. No element of their fees are performance-
related. Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are
normally appointed, subject to the Company’s Articles of Association,
for an initial three year term. Any subsequent extension to the term by
the Board is not automatic and is subject to prior recommendation of 
the Nomination Committee.
Further information on non-executive directors’ fees is provided in
paragraph 7(a) below.
6. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Performance
The graph below shows TSR performance (ie growth in the value of a
share or index, assuming dividends and other distributions are reinvested)
for the last ﬁve ﬁnancial years of Spirent plc as shown against the FTSE
350 index and the FTSE Information Technology Index (FTSE IT). The
Committee believes that both the FTSE 350 and the FTSE IT provide a
broad equity market index against which the performance of Spirent can
be fairly compared, and that the FTSE IT index provides a particularly
representative collection of comparator companies.
24 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued
Rebased Index
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Dec 97
Spirent
Dec 98 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02
FTSE 350 FTSE IT Financial year end 7. Directors’ Remuneration
(a) Individual and Total Remuneration of the Directors Holding Ofﬁce During 2002
Annualised arrangements 2002 Remuneration
(1)
at 1 January 2003
Taxable Total
(1)
Total
(1)
Salary Fees
(2)
Salary Fees
(2)
beneﬁts
(3)
Bonus
(4)
2002 2001
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive directors
500.0 0.5 N Brookes 500.0 0.5 44.8 – 545.3 533.9
217.4 0.5 M Chung
(5)
231.8 0.5 18.9 – 251.2 168.1
250.0 0.5 E Hutchinson 250.0 0.5 22.4 – 272.9 268.9
Non-executive directors
– 37.0 M Beresford – 37.0 – – 37.0 37.0
– 35.0 P Cheng – 35.0 – – 35.0 35.0
– 30.0 G Ennerfelt – 30.0 – – 30.0 30.0
– 35.0 R Moley – 35.0 – – 35.0 35.0
– 150.0 J Weston – 22.5 – – 22.5 –
– 37.0 J Wyness – 89.3 – – 89.3 37.0
G Sarney – 66.7 1.4 – 68.1 203.3
Total 2002 981.8 317.0 87.5 – 1,386.3 1,348.2
Total 2001 907.2 375.3 65.7 – 1,348.2
Notes
(1) The ﬁgures relate to the period of each director’s Board membership. My Chung and John Weston were appointed to the Board in May 2001 and November 2002,
respectively. George Sarney died in April 2002.
(2) Executive directors receive a basic annual fee of £500 in respect of their services to the Board and its committees.
The non-executive directors receive a basic annual fee of £30,000 in respect of their services. John Weston receives an annual fee of £150,000 which covers both his
basic annual fee and his additional duties as Chairman. James Wyness and Marcus Beresford each receive an additional £7,000 per annum in recognition of their extra
responsibilities as Chairmen of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, respectively. James Wyness also received an additional £52,300 in respect of his
additional duties as acting Chairman between May 2002 and November 2002. Paul Cheng and Richard Moley each receive an additional £5,000 per annum in
recognition of the extensive international travelling commitment required to perform their duties.
(3) Taxable beneﬁts include a company car or car allowance and life, disability and healthcare insurance coverage.
Nicholas Brookes’ taxable beneﬁt also includes £5,000 for personal tax advice paid by the Company and £6,728 relating to the premium paid for life assurance in excess
of the statutory earnings cap (as referred to in paragraph 4(c)). The late Dr Sarney’s taxable beneﬁt is in respect of personal tax advice paid by the Company.
(4) During the year neither Nicholas Brookes nor Eric Hutchinson earned an EPS bonus (2001 £nil). My Chung did not earn a Communications group cash bonus (2001 £nil).
(5) My Chung receives his base salary in US dollars.An average exchange rate of £1 = $1.51 has been used in respect of 2002 remuneration and an exchange rate of £1 = $1.61
(being the closing rate on 31 December 2002) has been used in respect of 2003 annualised remuneration.
25 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 (b) Directors’ Pensions
The pensions earned from the non-contributory deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements in place for the UK executives during 2002 were as follows:
Accumulated total 
accrued pension
Increase Increase,
Age at Years of in accrued before inﬂation, At At
31 December pensionable pension during in accrued pension 31 December 31 December
2002 service the year during the year 2002
(1)
2001
£000 £000 £000 £000
N Brookes
(2)
55 15 16.7 9.5 261.1 244.4
E Hutchinson 47 19 8.3 3.8 162.5 154.2
Transfer value, Increase in Increase, before
Transfer value before inﬂation, Total transfer value total transfer inﬂation, in total
of the increase of the increase of pension
(3)
value of transfer value of
in accrued in accrued At 31 December At 1 January pension during pension during
pension
(3)
pension
(3)
2002 2002 the year the year
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
N Brookes 278 156 4,425 4,086 339 218
E Hutchinson 87 40 1,703 1,581 122 75
Notes
(1) The pension entitlements shown are those which would be paid annually from normal retirement age of 60 based on service to 31 December 2002.
(2) Details of the Company’s unfunded pension provision relating to the pension undertaking in excess of the statutory earnings cap made to Nicholas Brookes 
(which includes an eight year pensionable service credit) are shown in note 10 to the Accounts.
(3) The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 and represents a liability of the Company 
(in respect of unfunded arrangements) and of the Staff Plan (in respect of funded arrangements), not a sum paid or due to the individual. The transfer value cannot
therefore be meaningfully added to annual remuneration.
(4) No additional voluntary contributions have been included in the above table.
(c) Directors’ Remuneration and Payments to Former Directors Summary
2002 2001
Year to 31 December £000 £000
Total emoluments for all directors 1,386 1,348
Gains made on exercise of share options
(1)
6 1
Company contribution to 401(k) Retirement and Proﬁt Share Plan
(2)
13 12
Pension and fees of the Life President (2002 £28,204 and £4,865, respectively)
(3)
33 98
Emoluments and ex gratia pension to former directors
(4)
19 5
Consultancy payments and fee payments to former directors 6 24
1,463 1,488
Notes
(1) This relates to Eric Hutchinson (2002) and My Chung (2001).
(2) Prevailing average conversion rates of £1 = $1.44 and £1 = $1.51 were used for 2001 and 2002, respectively. These payments relate to My Chung.
(3) These payments relate to Ray Parsons, who died in April 2002.
(4) £14,000 was paid as a one time ex gratia sum during 2002 to the widow of the late Dr George Sarney, the former Chairman. Dr Sarney died in April 2002. £5,000 
per annum is paid as an ex gratia pension to Geoff Bastians, who retired from the Board in 1984.
26 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued 8. Directors’ Interests
The beneﬁcial and non-beneﬁcial interests of the directors (and their immediate families and any connected persons) in the Ordinary share capital of
the Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out below. The Company’s statutory register of directors’ interests contains full details of
directors’ shareholdings and options over shares and is available for inspection at the registered ofﬁce during normal business hours on any business day.
At 31 December 2002 At 1 January 2002
(1)
Ordinary Ordinary Options and LTSPP Ordinary Ordinary Options and LTSPP
shares shares rights to acquire performance shares shares rights to acquire performance
(beneﬁcial)
(2)
(non-beneﬁcial) Ordinary shares units (beneﬁcial)
(2)
(non-beneﬁcial) Ordinary shares units
Executive Directors
N Brookes 2,947,083 26,315
(3)
1,910,135 208,480 127,083 26,315 684,021 428,199
M Chung 8,977 39,620
(4)
1,937,818 88,893 8,113 39,620 1,181,696 88,893
E Hutchinson 726,210 12,171
(3)
1,003,190 90,849 43,411 12,171 387,318 90,849
Non-executive Directors
M Beresford 15,225 – – – 15,225–––
P Cheng 7,250 – – – 7,250 – – –
G Ennerfelt
(5)
128,398,257 – – – 108,398,257 – – –
R Moley 1,010,000 – – – 10,000–––
J Weston 1,600,000 – – – 1,600,000–––
J Wyness 346,037 – – – 46,037–––
Notes
(1) At 7 November 2002, the date of appointment for John Weston.
(2) Directors’ beneﬁcial holdings do not form part of remuneration provided by the Company.
(3) The non-beneﬁcial interests of Messrs Brookes and Hutchinson represent their respective £100,000 and £46,250 deferred cash bonus awards made under the terms 
of the annual incentive bonus plan for 2000. The bonuses were used to purchase shares in the market on 28 February 2001 and are being held in the Employee Share
Ownership Trust (ESOT) for a period of three years from that date. In normal circumstances, the directors do not obtain a beneﬁcial interest in the shares until the
expiry of that period at which time, subject to still being in the Company’s employment, the beneﬁcial share interests will be released to them. There are no other 
pre-release performance conditions to be satisﬁed.
(4) The non-beneﬁcial interest of My Chung over 39,620 shares exists in a similar manner to that described in note (3) above except that his interest arises from a deferred
cash bonus of $175,000 (being 50 per cent of his annual base salary) made on a discretionary basis on 9 May 2001 (in recognition of his promotion to the Board). The
bonus was used to purchase the shares in the market on that date and will be released beneﬁcially to him from the ESOT on the third anniversary, subject to him still
being in the Company’s employment at that time.
(5) Göran Ennerfelt has a beneﬁcial interest in the Company through his connected shareholding in Lexa BV (a wholly-owned subsidiary company of Axel Johnson AB of
which he is also President and Chief Executive) which was the registered holder of 108,398,257 Ordinary shares which were issued, credited as fully paid, as part
consideration for the acquisition of Hekimian Laboratories, Inc. in 2000. Since that time Lexa BV has acquired additional Ordinary shares in Spirent plc.
(6) Since the year end:
– the number of rights to acquire Ordinary shares for My Chung increased by 17,653 on 1 January 2003 through the grant of purchase rights to him under the US
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), an all employee share plan. This is a provisional number only (based on the Company’s share price at the date of grant) 
as the actual number of shares in which participants are interested under the ESPP cannot be determined until maturity of the 12 months savings contract;
– the beneﬁcial interest of My Chung increased by 22,400 to 31,377 Ordinary shares on 1 January 2003 through the exercise of matured purchase rights under the
ESPP. The market price of a Spirent Ordinary share on the date of exercise was 16.75 pence (being the closing market price on 31 December 2002, the London Stock
Exchange having been closed for trading on 1 January 2003). For further information on the ESPP, see note 32 to the Accounts; and
– the Committee determined on 26 February 2003 that the minimum performance conditions for performance units granted under the Long Term Share Purchase
Plan on 11 May 2000 had not been met. The performance units have therefore lapsed without value (see page 29).
27 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 8. Directors’ Interests continued
Options and rights to acquire Ordinary shares under the Company’s various share option, stock appreciation rights and all employee share plans were
as follows :
Exercised (E)/ Exercise
Plan At 31 December Lapsed (L) Granted At 1 January price per Date ﬁrst
type
(1)
2002 during the year during the year 2002 Date of grant share (p) exercisable Expiry date
N Brookes ESOS 221,068 – – 221,068 30.09.96 136 30.09.99 29.09.06
SRSOS – (L) 15,886 – 15,886 21.10.96 109 01.01.02 30.06.02
ESOS 30,410 – – 30,410 23.04.97 118 23.04.00 22.04.07
ESOS 43,922 – – 43,922 27.04.98 152 27.04.01 26.04.08
ESOS 149,590 – – 149,590 11.05.00 334 11.05.03 10.05.10
ESOS 205,000 – – 205,000 09.04.01 305 09.04.04 08.04.11
SRSOS 18,145 – – 18,145 05.10.01 93 01.12.06 31.05.07
ESOS 468,000 – 468,000 – 02.04.02 134 02.04.05 01.04.12
ESOS 774,000 – 774,000 – 02.05.02 113 02.05.05 01.05.12
M Chung ESOS 93,482 – – 93,482 16.07.98 163 16.07.01 15.07.08
ESOS 112,734 – – 112,734 01.04.99 133 01.04.02 31.03.09
SSOP 341,921 – – 341,921 11.05.00 334 11.05.01 10.05.07
ESOS 65,819 – – 65,819 11.05.00 334 11.05.03 10.05.10
SARP 42,740 – – 42,740 12.05.00 335 12.05.01 11.05.10
SSOP 250,000 – – 250,000 08.12.00 613 08.12.01 07.12.07
SSOP 195,000 – – 195,000 09.04.01 305 09.04.02 08.04.08
ESOS 80,000 – – 80,000 09.04.01 305 09.04.04 08.04.11
ESPP
(2)
6,122 – – 6,122 01.01.02 14 01.01.03 01.01.03
SSOP 750,000 – 750,000 – 02.04.02 134 02.04.03 01.04.09
E Hutchinson SRSOS
(3)
– (E) 5,128 – 5,128 21.10.94 76 01.12.01 31.05.02
ESOS 17,652 – – 17,652 27.04.95 108 27.04.98 26.04.05
SRSOS 1,464 – – 1,464 31.10.95 106 01.12.02 31.05.03
ESOS 42,928 – – 42,928 29.04.96 140 29.04.99 28.04.06
ESOS 33,786 – – 33,786 23.04.97 118 23.04.00 22.04.07
ESOS 29,586 – – 29,586 27.04.98 152 27.04.01 26.04.08
SRSOS 12,363 – – 12,363 22.10.98 83 01.01.06 30.06.06
ESOS 75,156 – – 75,156 01.04.99 133 01.04.02 31.03.09
ESOS 55,562 – – 55,562 11.05.00 334 11.05.03 10.05.10
ESOS 105,000 – – 105,000 09.04.01 305 09.04.04 08.04.11
SRSOS 8,693 – – 8,693 05.10.01 93 01.12.08 31.05.09
ESOS 234,000 – 234,000 – 02.04.02 134 02.04.05 01.04.12
ESOS 387,000 – 387,000 – 02.05.02 113 02.05.05 01.05.12
Notes
(1) Key to plan type:
ESOS – Executive Share Option Scheme
ESPP – US Employee Stock Purchase Plan
SARP – Stock Appreciation Rights Plan
SRSOS – UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme
SSOP – Spirent Stock Option Plan 
An explanation of each plan and its operation is given in note 32 to the Accounts.
(2) The ﬁnal exercise price and number of purchase rights under the ESPP, an all employee share plan, cannot be determined until maturity (ie 12 months following the 
date of grant). The 6,122 purchase rights calculation was based on the market price of a Spirent Ordinary share (less a 15 per cent discount) at the date of grant.
In accordance with the rules of the ESPP, these purchase rights were exercised automatically as part of a maturity on 1 January 2003. The actual number of shares
acquired (issued in the form of 5,600 Spirent ADRs) was 22,400 Spirent Ordinary shares. The closing middle market price of a Spirent Ordinary share on the date 
of exercise was 16.75 pence (being the closing market price on 31 December 2002, the London Stock Exchange having been closed for trading on 1 January 2003).
(3) The option was exercised on 3 January 2002 on which date the closing middle market price of a Spirent Ordinary share was 190 pence.
28 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued The number of performance units outstanding under the Long Term Share Purchase Plan (LTSPP) throughout the year were as follows:
Performance Performance Performance
units at Granted during Lapsed during units at unit value at
31 December 2002 the year the year 1 January 2002 Date of grant date of grant (p) Vesting date
N Brookes – – 219,719
(1)
219,719 18.06.99 166 18.06.05
85,480
(2)
–– 85,480 11.05.00 334 11.05.06
123,000
(3)
–– 123,000 09.04.01 305 09.04.07
M Chung 38,893
(2)
–– 38,893 11.05.00 334 11.05.06
50,000
(3)
–– 50,000 09.04.01 305 09.04.07
E Hutchinson 28,849
(2)
–– 28,849 11.05.00 334 11.05.06
62,000
(3)
–– 62,000 09.04.01 305 09.04.07
Notes
Further information on the operation of the LTSPP is provided in paragraph 4(d) above and in note 32 to the Accounts.
(1) The minimum performance conditions attaching to the ﬁrst three year performance period were satisﬁed on 31 December 2001. However, as the market value of a
Spirent Ordinary share on 18 June 2002 (ie the third anniversary of grant) was below the performance unit value of 166 pence, the award was deemed to have lapsed
without value.
(2) The Committee determined on 26 February 2003 that the minimum performance conditions for growth in the price of a Spirent Ordinary share had not been achieved
by 31 December 2002. The performance units have therefore lapsed without value.
(3) The following table shows the Company’s achievement against its performance conditions at 31 December 2002 for outstanding performance units under the LTSPP:
Real share price growth Total shareholder return ranking
Year of grant (min. 5 per cent pa) (min. 60th percentile position)
2001 –97% 3rd
The middle market price of a Spirent Ordinary share on 2 January 2002 (the London Stock Exchange having been closed for trading on 1 January 2002)
and 31 December 2002 was 162 pence and 16.75 pence, respectively, and during that period ranged between a high of 192 pence and a low of 
5.75 pence per share.
All three of the Company’s executive directors, with other employees of the Group, are potential beneﬁciaries of the Employee Share Ownership 
Trust (ESOT). The two UK executive directors, with other employees of the Group, are also potential beneﬁciaries of the Qualifying Employee Share
Ownership Trust (QUEST). As potential beneﬁciaries of the ESOT and the QUEST, the respective directors are deemed by the Companies Act 1985 to 
be interested in the Spirent Ordinary shares held by those Trusts. At 31 December 2002, the shareholdings for the ESOT and the QUEST in which the
executive directors were deemed interested were 9,064,985 and 3,508,136, respectively (31 December 2001 9,064,985 and 4,571,286, respectively).
Save as disclosed, there have been no changes between the year end and 12 March 2003 (the date on which the Accounts have been signed) in the
directors’ beneﬁcial or non-beneﬁcial interests in the Ordinary share or loan capital of the Company or any subsidiary.
9. Shareholder Advisory Resolution in Respect of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration 
In accordance with the Regulations, an ordinary resolution to approve this Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Marcus Beresford
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
12 March 2003
29 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 The Companies Act 1985 requires directors to prepare accounts for each
accounting period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of
the Company and the Group at the end of the accounting period and of
the proﬁt or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing the accounts
the directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
– make judgements and estimates that are both reasonable and
prudent; and
– state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained 
in the notes to the accounts.
The directors are responsible for:
–keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Company and the
Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the
Companies Act 1985; and
– taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the Company’s website on the Internet. Financial information published
on the website is based on legislation in the UK governing the preparation
and dissemination of accounts that may be different from comparable
legislation in other jurisdictions.
30 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts We have audited the Group’s accounts for the year ended 31 December
2002 which comprise the Consolidated Proﬁt and Loss Account,
Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses,
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds, Consolidated
Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Reconciliation of Net
Cash Flow to Movement in Net Borrowings, Company Balance Sheet, the
related notes 1 to 37 and the schedule of Principal Divisions, Subsidiaries,
Joint Venture and Associates. These accounts have been prepared on the
basis of the accounting policies set out therein.We have also audited the
information in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration that is described as
having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Report
on Directors’ Remuneration and the accounts in accordance with
applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out 
in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the accounts.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the Report on
Directors’ Remuneration to be audited in accordance with relevant legal 
and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and 
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority (the Listing Rules).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true 
and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Report on
Directors’ Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our
opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the accounts,
if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for our audit,
or if information speciﬁed by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors’
remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
reﬂects the Company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance speciﬁed for our review by the
Listing Rules, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider
whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited accounts. This other information
comprises the Financial Summary, Our Business at a Glance, Chairman’s
Letter, Chief Executive’s Review, Operating Review, Financial Review,
Board of Directors and Operations Management Team, Directors’
Statement on Corporate Governance, Social Responsibility Statement,
Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Report on Directors’
Remuneration, Financial History, Shareholder Information, Financial
Calendar and Contact Details. We consider the implications for our report
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the accounts. Our responsibilities do not extend to
any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing
Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Report on Directors’
Remuneration to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the
signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the
preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts
and the part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration to be audited 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part
of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration to be audited.
Going Concern
In forming our opinion, we have considered the adequacy of the
disclosures made in note 1 to the accounts concerning the agreement to
sell the Group’s interests in its WAGO joint venture, which is conditional
on shareholder approval and requires the consent of the noteholders and
the parties to the syndicated bank facility. The amendments to the terms
of the loan notes and the syndicated bank facility are conditional upon
completion of the divestment. However, if completion of the divestment
does not occur, the existing borrowing terms will continue to apply. In
such circumstances, and if current levels of trading are not maintained,
the directors would need to consider taking appropriate actions with a
view to maintaining compliance with such existing terms. In the event 
of a breach, the lenders have certain rights which may ultimately result 
in the Group’s debt becoming repayable on demand. In view of the
signiﬁcance of this matter we consider that it should be drawn to your
attention, but our opinion is not qualiﬁed in this respect.
Opinion
In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December 2002 and 
of the loss of the Group for the year then ended, and the accounts and
the part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration to be audited have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered Auditor
London
12 March 2003
31 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Spirent plc 2002 2001 
Year to 31 December £ million £ million
Before
exceptional Exceptional
Notes items items Total Total
Turnover: Group and share of joint venture 634.5 – 634.5 880.1 
Less: share of joint venture’s turnover (75.6) – (75.6) (78.3)
Turnover 2, 3 558.9 – 558.9 801.8
Cost of sales 336.4 4.4 340.8 490.7
Manufacturing Margin 222.5 (4.4) 218.1 311.1
Operating expenses 4 228.1 960.5 1,188.6 1,044.3
Operating Loss 2, 3, 5 (5.6) (964.9) (970.5) (733.2)
Operating exceptional items
Goodwill impairment 6 – 923.3 923.3 724.6
Other 7 – 41.6 41.6 34.9
Goodwill amortisation 56.1 – 56.1 86.6
Operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items 50.5 – 50.5 112.9
Income from interest in joint venture 7.4 – 7.4 9.6
Income from interests in associates 1.0 – 1.0 1.3
Amortisation of goodwill on associate (0.2) – (0.2) (0.1)
Operating Loss of the Group, Joint Venture and Associates 2.6 (964.9) (962.3) (722.4)
Non-operating Exceptional Items
(Loss)/proﬁt on the disposal and closure of operations 35 – (48.4) (48.4) 14.5
Provision against investment in own shares 18 – (30.1) (30.1) –
Loss before Interest 2.6 (1,043.4) (1,040.8) (707.9)
Interest receivable and similar income 4.0 – 4.0 3.4
Interest payable 9 (16.3) – (16.3) (26.2)
Net interest payable (12.3) – (12.3) (22.8)
Loss before Taxation 2 (9.7) (1,043.4) (1,053.1) (730.7)
Taxation 11 8.4 18.5 26.9 32.6
Loss after Taxation (18.1) (1,061.9) (1,080.0) (763.3)
Minority shareholders’ interest – equity 0.1 (0.2)
Minority shareholders’ interest – joint venture 0.3 0.4
Loss Attributable to Shareholders (1,080.4) (763.5)
Dividends
Interim 1.35 pence (2001 1.35 pence) 12.5 12.4
Proposed ﬁnal nil (2001 3.00 pence) – 27.6
12.5 40.0
Loss for the Year 32 (1,092.9) (803.5)
Basic and Diluted Loss per Share 12 (117.12)p (83.43)p
Headline Earnings per Share 12 3.40p 7.76p
The notes on pages 37 to 78 form part of these Accounts.
32 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Consolidated Proﬁt and Loss Account 2002 2001 
Year to 31 December Notes £ million £ million
Loss Attributable to Shareholders (1,080.4) (763.5)
Gain on lapsed options 32 5.2 3.3
Exchange adjustment on subsidiaries, joint venture and associates 32 (23.0) (0.2)
UK current taxation on exchange adjustment 32 0.1 (2.6)
Total Recognised Gains and Losses (1,098.1) (763.0)
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
2002 2001 
Year to 31 December Notes £ million £ million
Total Recognised Gains and Losses (1,098.1) (763.0)
Dividends (12.5) (40.0)
Other movements
New shares issued 32 3.4 4.5
Other 32 (5.9) (6.9)
Goodwill on disposal and impairment of subsidiaries acquired before 1998 32 157.8 65.1
Total movements during the year (955.3) (740.3)
Shareholders’ funds at 1 January 1,094.4 1,834.7
Shareholders’ Funds at 31 December 139.1 1,094.4
The notes on pages 37 to 78 form part of these Accounts.
33 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 2002 2001 
At 31 December Notes £ million £ million
Fixed Assets
Intangible assets 13 113.6 987.7
Tangible assets 14 110.0 137.6
Investments 18 
Investment in joint venture
Share of gross assets 72.9 69.0
Share of gross liabilities (22.8) (24.7)
50.1 44.3
Investment in associates 13.3 18.3
Other investments 2.1 34.1
65.5 96.7
Total Fixed Assets 289.1 1,222.0
Current Assets
Stocks 19 61.5 93.1
Debtors 20 97.3 143.4
Investments 23 0.1 0.3
Cash at bank and in hand 22 83.5 27.6
242.4 264.4
Current Liabilities
Creditors due within one year 24 107.5 166.8
Loans and overdrafts 25 1.8 11.2
109.3 178.0
Net Current Assets 133.1 86.4
Assets less Current Liabilities 422.2 1,308.4
Long Term Liabilities
Creditors due after more than one year 26 (252.6) (210.1)
Provisions for Liabilities and Charges 27 (28.4) (1.5)
Assets less Liabilities 141.2 1,096.8
Capital and Reserves 32 
Called up share capital 31.3 31.1
Share premium account 696.1 728.7
Capital reserve 17.6 27.8
Capital redemption reserve 0.7 0.7
Merger reserve – 264.4
Proﬁt and loss account (606.6) 41.7
Shareholders’ Funds – Equity 139.1 1,094.4
Minority Interests – Equity 2.1 2.4
141.2 1,096.8
Signed on behalf of the Board
Nicholas K Brookes
Director
12 March 2003
The notes on pages 37 to 78 form part of these Accounts.
34 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Consolidated Balance Sheet 2002 2001
Year to 31 December Notes £ million £ million
Net Cash Inﬂow from Operating Activities 8 76.9 141.2
Dividends received from:
Joint venture 0.2 1.6
Associates 0.1 0.2
Returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance 21 (10.8) (23.9)
Taxation 21 (4.2) (21.0)
Capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment 21 (25.8) (57.7)
Acquisitions and disposals 21 6.4 149.6
Equity dividends paid (40.2) (39.8)
Management of liquid resources 21 0.2 3.6
Financing 21 53.8 (152.8)
Net Cash Inﬂow 56.6 1.0
Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Borrowings
2002 2001
Year to 31 December Notes £ million £ million
Net Cash Inﬂow 56.6 1.0
Cash (inﬂow)/outﬂow arising from the change in debt and lease ﬁnancing (51.4) 157.7
Cash inﬂow arising from the change in liquid resources (0.2) (3.6)
Movement arising from Cash Flows 22 5.0 155.1
Loans and ﬁnance leases acquired with subsidiary 22, 34 (0.2) –
New ﬁnance leases 22 (0.2) (0.8)
Exchange adjustment 22 12.7 (7.0)
Movement in Net Borrowings 17.3 147.3
Net borrowings at 1 January 22 (179.1) (326.4)
Net Borrowings at 31 December 22 (161.8) (179.1)
The notes on pages 37 to 78 form part of these Accounts.
35 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 2002 2001 
At 31 December Notes £ million £ million
Fixed Assets
Tangible assets 14 16.3 20.9 
Shares in subsidiaries 16 452.5 1,881.6 
Loans to subsidiaries 17 71.1 142.0 
Investments 18 
Investment in associate 0.1 0.1 
Other investments 2.1 34.1 
2.2 34.2 
Total Fixed Assets 542.1 2,078.7 
Current Assets
Stocks 19 3.7 4.2 
Debtors 20 19.9 18.1 
Cash at bank and in hand 59.1 2.0 
82.7 24.3 
Current Liabilities
Creditors due within one year 24 18.7 46.6 
Loans and overdrafts 25 0.2 9.6 
18.9 56.2 
Net Current Assets/(Liabilities) 63.8 (31.9)
Assets less Current Liabilities 605.9 2,046.8 
Long Term Liabilities
Creditors due after more than one year 26 (383.1) (825.0)
Provisions for Liabilities and Charges 27 (0.7) –
Assets less Liabilities 222.1 1,221.8 
Capital and Reserves 32 
Called up share capital 31.3 31.1 
Share premium account 696.1 728.7 
Capital reserve 17.6 27.8 
Capital redemption reserve 0.7 0.7 
Merger reserve 1.2 215.6 
Proﬁt and loss account (524.8) 217.9 
Total Equity Shareholders’ Funds 222.1 1,221.8 
Signed on behalf of the Board
Nicholas K Brookes
Director
12 March 2003
The notes on pages 37 to 78 form part of these Accounts.
36 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Company Balance Sheet 1. Accounting Policies
Basis of Accounting
The Accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Going Concern
On 12 March 2003, the Group announced the conditional sale of its 51 per cent interests in WAGO, its interconnection joint venture, for a net
consideration of approximately £58.2 million. The divestment is subject to shareholder approval and requires the consent of the noteholders and the
parties to the syndicated bank facility. In addition, to provide the Group with an increase in the level of headroom in relation to certain of its ﬁnancial
covenants, amendments to the terms of the loan notes and syndicated bank facility have been agreed. These amendments are conditional on the
completion of the divestment of WAGO and the use of the net proceeds to pre-pay approximately £45.8 million of the loan notes and pay an
associated contractual make-whole amount of approximately £12.4 million.
The directors are of the opinion that, taking into account the net proceeds from the divestment and the existing facilities available to the Group on
completion of the divestment, the Group has sufﬁcient working capital for its present requirements, that is, for at least the next 12 months. However,
if completion of the divestment does not occur, the existing borrowing terms will continue to apply. In such circumstances and if current levels of
trading are not maintained, the directors would need to consider taking appropriate actions with a view to maintaining compliance with such existing
terms. In the event of a breach, the lenders have certain rights which may ultimately result in the Group’s debt becoming repayable on demand. The
Accounts do not include any adjustments that may result if the divestment were not completed, current levels of trading are not maintained and the
lenders withdraw their support.
As at the date of these Accounts the divestment of WAGO remains subject to shareholder approval, which is being sought at an Extraordinary General
Meeting to be held on 31 March 2003. Further details of the proposed disposal are given in note 36 and of the Group’s syndicated bank facility and
loan notes in notes 29 and 30 to the Accounts.
The directors consider that in preparing the Accounts they have taken into account all information that could reasonably be expected to be available.
On this basis, they consider that it is appropriate to prepare the Accounts on the going concern basis, which assumes that the Group will continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated proﬁt and loss account and balance sheet incorporate the audited accounts of the Company and all its subsidiaries made up to the
balance sheet date. The Company is not required to present a separate proﬁt and loss account as provided by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Results of subsidiaries acquired in the year are consolidated from the date of acquisition. The consolidated accounts include the Group’s share of proﬁts
of its joint venture and associates.
Associates are entities in which the Group has a continuing participating interest, other than subsidiaries, and exercises signiﬁcant inﬂuence over their
operating and ﬁnancial policies. Results are based on management accounts to 31 December.
Entities in which the Group holds an interest on a long term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group and other parties are treated as joint
ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method. Results are based on management accounts to 31 December.
Foreign Currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of transaction. The results of overseas subsidiaries, joint venture and
associates are translated into sterling using average rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Proﬁts and losses arising
from the retranslation of opening net assets of overseas subsidiaries, treating long term intra-group loans as part of the equity investment, and
exchange adjustments arising from the translation of the results of overseas subsidiaries, joint venture and associates, are dealt with through reserves.
All other exchange proﬁts and losses are taken to the proﬁt and loss account, with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings used to
ﬁnance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in overseas subsidiaries, which are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange
differences on the carrying amount of the related investments.
Financial Instruments
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge its exposures to ﬂuctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. The Group’s policy is not
to undertake any trading activity in ﬁnancial instruments. Financial instruments will be accounted for as hedges when designated as hedges at the
inception of the contract.
37 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts 1. Accounting Policies continued
Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign exchange exposures arising on forecast receipts and payments in foreign currencies. The rates
under these contracts are used to record the hedged item, and as such gains and losses on foreign currency contracts are off-set against the foreign
exchange gains and losses on the related ﬁnancial assets and liabilities.Where the contract is a hedge against future transactions, gains and losses 
are deferred until the transaction occurs.
Interest rate swaps are occasionally used to hedge the Group’s exposure to movements in interest rates. Receipts and payments on interest rate
instruments are recognised on an accruals basis, over the life of the underlying ﬁnancial instrument. Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value 
or shown in the Group balance sheet at the year end but are disclosed in the fair value table in note 30.
Gains or losses arising on hedging instruments, which are cancelled due to termination of the underlying exposure, are taken to the proﬁt and loss
account immediately.
Finance costs associated with debt issuances are charged to the proﬁt and loss account over the life of the instruments.
The aggregate fair values at the balance sheet date of the hedging instruments described above are disclosed in note 30.
Liquid resources include short term deposits, government securities and similar securities, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash.
Short term debtors and creditors that meet the deﬁnition of a ﬁnancial asset or liability, respectively, have been excluded from all analyses prepared
under Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 13 ‘Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosures’, including numerical disclosures except for the
analysis of net currency exposure, as permitted by the Standard.
Turnover
Represents the amounts invoiced to customers for goods and services during the year, excluding tax and intra-group transactions.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue from product sales of hardware and software is recognised at time of delivery and acceptance.
Terms of acceptance are dependent upon the speciﬁc contractual arrangement agreed with the customer. Where the sale is to a new customer and
installation is to be performed, revenue recognition is deferred until acceptance has occurred. Revenue recognition is also deferred until acceptance
where a new product is supplied to an existing customer.
Revenue from multiple element contracts is allocated based on prices charged for each individual element when sold separately.
Revenue from services is recognised ratably over the period of performance.
The Group does not enter into a signiﬁcant number of long term contracts. Revenue and estimated proﬁts on long term contracts are recognised under
the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. When estimates of total contract revenues and costs indicate a loss, a provision for the entire
amount of the contract loss is recognised in the period in which the loss becomes evident.
The Group does not enter into bill and hold transactions.
In addition, revenue is only recognised when collectibility is probable.
Product Development
Expenditure is charged to proﬁt and loss account in the year in which it is incurred.
Pension Contributions
In the United Kingdom the Group operates two pension schemes for the beneﬁt of employees. These schemes require contributions to be made to
separately administered funds, based on triennial actuarial valuations.
Contributions to the pension funds are charged to the proﬁt and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the employees’ working lives
within the Group. Differences between the amounts funded and the amounts charged to proﬁt and loss account are treated as either creditors or
prepayments in the balance sheet.
Variations in the pension costs, which are identiﬁed as a result of actuarial valuations, are amortised over the average expected working lives of employees.
Contributions payable to the other overseas deﬁned contribution plans are charged to the proﬁt and loss account in the year for which they are due.
38 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 1. Accounting Policies continued
Deferred T axation
Deferred taxation is provided on an undiscounted basis on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
except as referred to below. Amounts provided are calculated with reference to tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the 
timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Provision is made for tax that would arise on the remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, only to the
extent that, at the balance sheet date, the dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable proﬁts from which the
future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not provided on gains on fair value adjustments to ﬁxed assets arising at acquisition, or gains on disposal of ﬁxed assets that have been
rolled over into replacement assets, unless there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned. Provision will not be made where it is
considered more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only when the replacement assets
are sold.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the attributable assets and liabilities
acquired, is capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over its estimated useful economic life up to a maximum of 20 years. Goodwill is reviewed
for impairment at the end of the ﬁrst full ﬁnancial year following acquisition and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the
carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill arising prior to 1998 and previously written off against reserves has not been reinstated but, in
accordance with FRS 10 ‘Goodwill and Intangible Assets’, would be charged to the proﬁt and loss account on the subsequent disposal of the business to
which it related.Where impairment has been identiﬁed in accordance with FRS 11, goodwill arising prior to 1998 has also been reviewed for impairment.
Other Intangible Assets
Other separately identiﬁable intangible assets such as patent fees, licence fees and trade marks are capitalised in the balance sheet only when the 
value can be measured reliably or the intangible asset is purchased in the acquisition of a business. Such intangible assets are amortised over their
useful economic lives up to a maximum of 20 years. The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment at the end of the ﬁrst full year
following acquisition and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
T angible Assets
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land. Depreciation is provided to write off all other assets over their estimated useful lives at rates which take
into account commercial conditions at their location. Usual asset lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold properties 50 years or lease period if less
Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years
Fixtures, ﬁttings and equipment: Building installations 20 years or lease period if less
Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years
Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years
Business systems software 4 years 
The carrying values of tangible ﬁxed assets are reviewed for impairment in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value
may not be recoverable.
Capital grants are treated as deferred income and are released to the proﬁt and loss account over the estimated useful lives of the assets to which they relate.
Assets obtained under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet and are depreciated over their estimated useful
lives. The interest elements of the rental obligations are charged to the proﬁt and loss account over the periods of the leases and hire purchase
contracts in proportion to the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the proﬁt and loss account over the period of the lease.
Stocks
Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. Cost includes all costs in bringing each product to its present location and
condition, being the full manufacturing cost on a ﬁrst-in-ﬁrst-out basis, including all attributable overheads based on a normal level of activity. Net
realisable value represents selling price less further costs to be incurred to completion and on sale.
39 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 2. Segmental Analysis
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Turnover
Continuing operations:
Performance Analysis 187.1 245.5
Service Assurance 128.3 185.1
Communications 315.4 430.6
Network Products 164.7 170.4
Systems 53.8 48.6
533.9 649.6
Divested operations:
Systems 25.0 75.4
Discontinued operations:
Sensing Solutions – 76.8
558.9 801.8
Loss before Taxation
Operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
Continuing operations:
Performance Analysis 9.4 38.7
Service Assurance 21.4 44.7
Communications 30.8 83.4
Network Products 15.0 15.3
Systems 3.4 0.5
49.2 99.2
Divested operations:
Systems 1.3 5.6
Discontinued operations:
Sensing Solutions – 8.1
50.5 112.9
Operating exceptional items – goodwill impairment
Continuing operations:
Performance Analysis (330.7) (192.2)
Service Assurance (530.4) (532.4)
Communications (861.1) (724.6)
Network Products (21.7) –
Systems (40.5) –
(923.3) (724.6)
Operating exceptional items – other
Continuing operations:
Performance Analysis (28.3) (26.8)
Service Assurance (8.6) (4.6)
Communications (36.9) (31.4)
Network Products (3.3) (2.9)
Systems (1.4) (0.6)
(41.6) (34.9)
40 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 2. Segmental Analysis continued
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Goodwill amortisation
Continuing operations:
Performance Analysis (20.8) (24.6)
Service Assurance (33.5) (58.7)
Communications (54.3) (83.3)
Network Products (1.5) (1.5)
Systems (0.2) (0.2)
(56.0) (85.0)
Divested operations:
Systems (0.1) (0.4)
Discontinued operations:
Sensing Solutions – (1.2)
(56.1) (86.6)
Operating Loss (970.5) (733.2)
Income from interest in joint venture 7.4 9.6
Income from interests in associates 1.0 1.3
Amortisation of goodwill on associate (0.2) (0.1)
Net interest payable (12.3) (22.8)
(Loss)/proﬁt on the disposal and closure of operations (48.4) 14.5
Provision against investment in own shares (30.1) –
Loss before Taxation (1,053.1) (730.7)
Operating Assets
Continuing operations:
Performance Analysis 115.0 419.5
Service Assurance 68.1 622.0
Communications 183.1 1,041.5
Network Products 96.8 125.1
Systems 5.5 13.9
285.4 1,180.5
Divested operations:
Systems – 27.6
Segmental operating assets 285.4 1,208.1
Investment in joint venture 50.1 44.3
Investment in associates 13.3 18.3
Other investments 2.1 34.1
Corporation tax payable (19.5) (27.0)
Proposed dividend – (27.6)
Operating Assets 331.4 1,250.2
Net borrowings (161.8) (179.1)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (28.4) (1.5)
Deferred tax asset – 27.2
Assets less Liabilities 141.2 1,096.8
41 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 3. Geographical Analysis
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Turnover by Market
Continuing operations:
Europe 144.6 153.8 
North America 302.9 410.5 
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 86.4 85.3 
533.9 649.6 
Divested operations:
Europe 4.8 24.9 
North America 19.5 46.0 
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 0.7 4.5 
25.0 75.4 
Discontinued operations:
Europe – 20.7 
North America – 45.7 
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa – 10.4 
– 76.8 
558.9 801.8 
Turnover by Source
Continuing operations:
Europe 151.4 150.9 
North America 350.2 472.0 
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 32.3 26.7 
533.9 649.6 
Divested operations:
Europe 6.3 32.8 
North America 18.7 42.6 
25.0 75.4 
Discontinued operations:
Europe – 20.6 
North America – 48.3 
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa – 7.9 
– 76.8
558.9 801.8 
42 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 3. Geographical Analysis continued
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Operating Loss
Operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
Continuing operations:
Europe 18.8 17.9 
North America 29.5 79.7 
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 0.9 1.6 
49.2 99.2 
Divested operations:
Europe 0.6 3.7 
North America 0.7 1.9 
1.3 5.6 
Discontinued operations:
Europe – 2.3 
North America – 6.3 
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa – (0.5)
– 8.1
50.5 112.9 
Operating exceptional items – goodwill impairment
Continuing operations:
Europe (19.5) –
North America (901.8) (724.6)
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa (2.0) –
(923.3) (724.6)
Operating exceptional items – other
Continuing operations:
Europe (3.6) (2.5)
North America (37.3) (32.1)
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa (0.7) (0.3)
(41.6) (34.9)
Goodwill amortisation
Continuing operations:
Europe (1.6) (1.4)
North America (54.3) (83.5)
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa (0.1) (0.1)
(56.0) (85.0)
Divested operations:
North America (0.1) (0.4)
Discontinued operations:
Europe – (0.1)
North America – (0.9)
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa – (0.2)
– (1.2)
(56.1) (86.6)
Operating Loss (970.5) (733.2)
43 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 3. Geographical Analysis continued
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Operating Assets
Continuing operations:
Europe 67.8 74.6 
North America 204.9 1,087.3 
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 12.7 18.6 
285.4 1,180.5 
Divested operations:
Europe – 10.8
North America – 16.8
– 27.6
Segmental operating assets 285.4 1,208.1 
4. Net Operating Expenses
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Before Exceptional
exceptional items items Total Total
Selling and distribution 124.6 – 124.6 156.0
Administration 104.1 960.5 1,064.6 889.5
Other operating income (0.6) – (0.6) (1.2)
Net operating expenses including goodwill 
amortisation and exceptional items 228.1 960.5 1,188.6 1,044.3
Included within administration costs above:
Operating exceptional items
Goodwill impairment – 923.3 923.3 724.6
Other – 37.2 37.2 20.7
Goodwill amortisation 56.1 – 56.1 86.6
Net operating expenses before goodwill 
amortisation and exceptional items 172.0 – 172.0 212.4
In 2001 cost of sales of £51.2 million, selling and distribution costs of £11.3 million, administration costs of £7.4 million and other income of £nil were
incurred in respect of discontinued operations.
5. Operating Loss
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Operating loss is arrived at after charging:
Operating exceptional items
Goodwill impairment note 6 923.3 724.6 
Other note 7 41.6 34.9
Goodwill amortisation 56.1 86.6 
Depreciation – owned assets 33.2 36.7
– ﬁnance leased assets 0.4 0.5
Operating lease costs – plant and equipment 0.3 0.4
– land and buildings 10.4 12.3
Product development costs 77.7 95.9
Auditors’ remuneration – Ernst & Young LLP 1.0 0.9
Other fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP 0.7 1.1
Other fees paid to Ernst & Young overseas 0.8 0.2
Other fees comprise taxation and other advice of £1.5 million (2001 £0.7 million) and in 2001 stock exchange regulatory and US listing matters of 
£0.6 million. In addition fees paid to Ernst & Young of £nil (2001 £0.8 million) have been included in expenses for acquisitions.
44 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 6. Goodwill Impairment
In accordance with FRS 10 ‘Goodwill and Intangible Assets’, goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the end of the ﬁrst full ﬁnancial year following
acquisition and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The deterioration in trading in the second half year in the telecommunications market together with the signiﬁcant fall in the Spirent share price have
necessitated a further review of our businesses. This review has resulted in impairment losses totalling £923.3 million being recognised during the
period. A similar impairment loss of £724.6 million was recognised during 2001. These losses are the aggregate from the impairment reviews of each
individual income-generating unit and determined in accordance with FRS 11 ‘Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill’. The impairment loss restates
the assets to value in use and has been measured using pre-tax discount rates of between 15 to 20 per cent, that take account of the particular risks of
the income-generating unit.
Impairment losses of £330.7 million relate to the Performance Analysis division, £530.4 million in respect of the Service Assurance division, £21.7 million
for Network Products and £40.5 million for the Systems group.
In calculating the impairment losses, the directors, in line with best practice, have also reviewed pre-1998 goodwill previously written off to reserves for
those businesses in which an impairment loss had been identiﬁed. An amount of £87.0 million has consequently been reinstated and included in the
total impairment charge of £923.3 million.
7. Operating Exceptional Items – Other
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Restructuring costs 8.6 11.3 
Tangible fixed asset write-downs 3.6 –
Lease provisions 20.2 –
Stock provisions 4.4 14.2 
Receivables provisions – 5.2 
Acquisition retention bonuses 4.8 4.2 
41.6 34.9 
Restructuring costs include the costs of redundancy resulting from the actions taken by the Group in response to the deterioration in trading and are 
primarily within the Communications group. Lease provisions for vacated properties have been charged amounting to £20.2 million, these are primarily
within the Communications group.
8. Reconciliation of Operating Loss to Net Cash Inﬂow from Operating Activities
Operating loss (970.5) (733.2)
Depreciation 33.6 37.2
Loss on disposal of tangible ﬁxed assets 4.1 2.1
Goodwill impairment 923.3 724.6
Goodwill amortisation 56.1 86.6
Acquisition retention bonuses – non-cash 0.5 0.4
Deferred income released (4.8) (17.8)
Decrease in debtors 2.9 29.2
Decrease in stocks 15.2 27.8
Decrease in creditors (1.9) (15.7)
Increase in provisions 18.4 –
Net Cash Inﬂow from Operating Activities 76.9 141.2
9. Interest Payable
Senior unsecured loan notes 11.8 12.6
Bank loans and overdrafts 3.1 9.8
Other loans 0.6 2.3
Interest on ﬁnance leases 0.1 0.1
15.6 24.8
Discount on deferred consideration – 0.6
15.6 25.4
Share of joint venture’s interest 0.7 0.8
16.3 26.2
45 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 10. Employees
2002 2001 
Number Number
The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was:
Manufacturing 3,276 5,535
Selling and distribution 1,397 1,632
Administration 506 645
5,179 7,812
£ million £ million
Their payroll costs were:
Remuneration 176.7 234.5
Social security costs 19.7 23.6
Other pension costs 5.3 8.2
201.7 266.3
Please refer to the Report on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 22 to 29 for disclosures relating to the emoluments, share options and long term
incentive interests and pensions of the directors.
Pension Costs
The Group continues to account for pension costs under Statement of Standard Accounting Practice (SSAP) 24. Disclosures are provided under both
SSAP 24 and under FRS 17 as required by the Standards.
(a) Disclosures under SSAP 24 
The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world. Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes cover 11 per cent of members (2001 19 per cent) and
deﬁned contribution schemes cover 89 per cent (2001 81 per cent). The assets of all the major schemes are held in separate trustee administered 
funds independent of the Group’s ﬁnances.
United Kingdom
The Group operates two United Kingdom pension plans: the Staff Pension Plan which is on a deﬁned beneﬁt basis and the Retirement Cash Plan which
is on a deﬁned contribution basis with a deﬁned beneﬁt underpin.
Pension costs and the assets and liabilities of these plans are reviewed regularly by an independent professionally qualiﬁed actuary. The latest actuarial
valuations of the plans were undertaken as at 1 April 2000 using the projected unit method. The principal results and assumptions were as follows:
Assumption Staff Pension Plan Retirement Cash Plan
Return on investments 7.1% pa 4.8% pa
Salary inﬂation average 4.3% pa 4.3% pa
Price inﬂation 2.8% pa 2.8% pa
Pension increases 3.6% pa 3.6% pa
Market value of assets £109.9 million £8.5 million
Level of funding 106% 113%
Employer contribution rate 11% 4%
The level of funding represents the market value of assets expressed as a percentage of the value of liabilities, on an ongoing basis.
The employer contribution rate was increased at 1 January 2003 to 13.4 per cent for the Staff Pension Plan.
46 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 10. Employees continued
For accounting treatment purposes, the actuarial surpluses are being spread over the average expected remaining service of plan members being
13 years. The pension costs for 2002 for these plans were £1.7 million (2001 £2.8 million). A valuation is due to commence in April 2003 and it is likely
that these surpluses will have been eroded due to declining share values.
The above plans are funded and have full UK Inland Revenue tax-exempt approval by which beneﬁts are limited due to the statutory earnings cap 
(an Inland Revenue limit on the amount of earnings that can be made pensionable under the plans for members who joined after May 1989). Certain
members, whose salaries are in excess of this cap, have had their beneﬁts increased through unapproved, unfunded arrangements, to the level that
would otherwise have applied in respect of the basic salary only. The Company has contractually agreed to pay the additional retirement beneﬁts itself
and a provision is made in respect of this obligation in the balance sheet at 31 December 2002 of £4.3 million (2001 £4.1 million). This represents the
actuarial value as conﬁrmed by the Company’s pension advisers, of the unapproved beneﬁt entitlements accrued at that date. The value is assessed and
reviewed on a Market Value basis in line with the Main Plan Valuation and adjusted each year by the charge for the year (equivalent to a contribution 
to a funded plan) of £0.1 million (2001 £1.0 million) and interest on the unfunded liability of £0.3 million (2001 £0.2 million). The additional death-in-
service beneﬁts over the statutory cap are separately insured by the Company under an unapproved scheme.
Additionally, the Company made a provision in respect of pensions being paid to former directors of the Company in 2001 of £0.4 million, no provision 
is required at 31 December 2002.
United States
The Group maintains deﬁned contribution pension beneﬁt plans for employees of its US subsidiaries. These plans, also known as 401(k) Plans, allow
employees to defer a percentage of their salary for retirement. There are ﬁve different 401(k) Plans within the US Group and each of these plans has
different features regarding Company contributions, maximum deferral percentages and investment choices. The investment choices offered are among
a selection of diversiﬁed mutual funds offering a broad mix of investment return potential with varying levels of risk. In aggregate the Company
contributions to the various US plans totalled $4.8 million for 2002 (2001 $5.6 million). Total assets in the deﬁned contribution plans at the end of
2002 were $137.1 million (2001 $111.0 million). There were no deﬁned beneﬁt plans in the United States at 31 December 2002.
Other jurisdictions
Outside the United Kingdom and the United States employees are provided with pension arrangements determined in accordance with approved local
practice and regulations and are deﬁned contribution schemes. Total contributions for 2002 in respect of these schemes amounted to £0.1 million
(2001 £0.2 million).
The total pension charge for the Group for 2002 was £5.3 million (2001 £8.2 million).
(b) Disclosures under FRS 17
The only signiﬁcant deﬁned beneﬁt plans under FRS 17 are in the United Kingdom and comprise the Staff Pension Plan and Retirement Cash Plan 
as described above. These plans have been combined for the purposes of the following disclosures.
The most recent actuarial valuation at 1 April 2000 has been used and updated by our independent actuaries.
(i) The ﬁnancial assumptions used to calculate the scheme liabilities under FRS 17 were:
UK deﬁned beneﬁt plans
2002 2001
% %
Valuation method Projected unit
Inﬂation 2.3 2.5
Rate of increase in salaries 3.0 4.0
Rate of increase for pensions in payment pre 2001 service 3.0 3.5
Rate of increase for pensions in payment post 2001 service 2.3 2.5
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.3 2.5
Rate used to discount scheme liabilities 5.5 6.0
47 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 10. Employees continued
(ii) The assets and the liabilities in the scheme were as follows:
Long term Long term
rate of return rate of return
expected 2002 expected 2001 
%£ million %£ million
Equities 7.5 52.5 7.5 76.2 
Gilts 4.5 15.7 5.0 12.1 
Bonds 5.0 7.4 6.0 1.3 
Cash 4.0 2.3 3.5 4.7 
Property 6.5 4.3 6.0 3.8 
Other 5.5 6.8 6.5 7.3 
Total market value of assets 89.0 105.4
Actuarial value of liability (130.9) (123.3)
Net deﬁcit in the schemes (41.9) (17.9)
Related deferred tax asset 12.6 5.4
Deﬁcit in the schemes, net of tax (29.3) (12.5)
Actuarial value of unfunded pension liability – fully provided for in these Accounts (4.3) (4.5)
Related deferred tax asset – 1.4
Net pension liability (33.6) (15.6)
The liability at 31 December under FRS 17 does not reﬂect the funding position of the plans which are calculated on an ongoing basis and is used to
determine contribution rates under the scheme.
(iii) 
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Group Company Group Company
Net assets as stated in the balance sheet 141.2 222.1 1,096.8 1,221.8 
Actuarial value of unfunded pension liability 4.3 4.3 4.5 4.5 
Related deferred tax – – (1.4) (1.4)
Net assets excluding unfunded liability 145.5 226.4 1,099.9 1,224.9 
Net pension liability (33.6) (33.6) (15.6) (15.6)
Net assets including amount related to deﬁned beneﬁt assets and liabilities 111.9 192.8 1,084.3 1,209.3 
Proﬁt and loss account excluding pension liability (606.6) (524.8) 41.7 217.9 
Actuarial value of unfunded pension liability 4.3 4.3 4.5 4.5 
Deferred tax on unfunded liability – – (1.4) (1.4)
(602.3) (520.5) 44.8 221.0
Net pension liability (33.6) (33.6) (15.6) (15.6)
Proﬁt and loss account including amounts related to deﬁned beneﬁt assets 
and liabilities (635.9) (554.1) 29.2 205.4
48 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 10. Employees continued
(iv) Had FRS 17 been fully implemented, the amounts that would have been charged to the proﬁt and loss account are:
2002 
£ million
Analysis of amount that would be charged to operating costs:
Current service cost 1.8
Analysis of amount that would be charged to other ﬁnance costs:
Expected return on pension scheme assets 6.7
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (7.0)
Net expense (0.3)
Net proﬁt and loss charge 2.1
Analysis of amount that would be recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (20.3)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme’s liabilities (0.9)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme’s liabilities (2.4)
Actuarial loss recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses (23.6)
Movement in deﬁcit in the year:
Deﬁcit in the schemes at 1 January (17.9)
Movement in the year – current service cost (1.8)
– contributions 1.7
– other ﬁnance costs (0.3)
– actuarial loss (23.6)
Net deﬁcit in the schemes at 31 December (41.9)
(v) History of experience gains and losses
2002
Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (£ million) (20.3)
Percentage of scheme assets (%) (22.8)
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£ million) (0.9)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (%) (0.7)
Total amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (£ million) (23.6)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (%) (18.0)
49 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 11. T axation
(a) Analysis of Charge for the Period
2002 2001
£ million £ million
Current tax:
Corporation tax 4.8 10.1
Overseas taxation (4.4) 18.4
Tax arising on disposals – overseas taxation 3.0 13.2
Over provision in prior years – UK tax (1.3) (0.4)
– overseas taxation (4.9) –
(2.8) 41.3
Share of joint venture’s taxation 2.7 2.7
Share of associates’ taxation 0.6 0.5
Total current tax charge 0.5 44.5
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences 7.4 (11.9)
Reversal of deferred tax assets 19.0 –
Total deferred tax charge 26.4 (11.9)
Total charge for the year 26.9 32.6
The tax effect of the operating exceptional items was a tax credit of £3.5 million. In respect of the non-operating exceptional items a charge of 
£3.0 million arises.
An exceptional deferred tax charge of £19.0 million arises in the period to 31 December 2002 as currently, there is insufﬁcient evidence to support
recognition of a deferred tax asset under FRS 19.
(b) Factors Affecting Tax Charge for the Period
The current tax charge for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30 per cent). The differences are explained as follows:
2002 2001
£ million £ million
Loss before tax (1,053.1) (730.7)
Loss before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30 per cent (2001 30 per cent) (315.9) (219.2)
Expenses not deductible for tax (including goodwill impairment and amortisation) 326.4 243.8
Movements in timing differences (7.4) 11.9
Tax arising on disposals 3.0 8.8
Different tax rates on overseas earnings and other adjustments 0.6 (0.4)
Tax overprovided in previous years (6.2) (0.4)
Total current tax charge 0.5 44.5
(c) Factors That May Affect Future Tax Charges
Deferred tax assets of £23.7 million (2001 £nil) arising principally on timing differences in the US and UK have not been recognised. These assets can
only be realised when they reverse against suitable taxable proﬁts. Although the directors ultimately expect to realise these assets, there is currently
insufﬁcient evidence under FRS 19 to recognise a deferred tax asset in respect of these timing differences.
In addition, the Group has tax losses arising in the US of £25.1 million (2001 £19.9 million) that are available for off-set against future taxable proﬁts.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as their future recovery is uncertain.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and the joint venture nor in respect of the tax deduction
which may be available on the future exercise of stock options.
50 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 12. (Loss)/Earnings per Share
Loss per share is calculated by reference to the loss for the year and the number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year as follows:
2002 2001
£ million £ million
Basic and diluted loss attributable to shareholders (1,080.4) (763.5)
Operating exceptional items
Goodwill impairment 923.3 724.6
Other 41.6 34.9
Goodwill amortisation 56.1 86.6 
Loss/(proﬁt) on disposal and closure of operations 48.4 (14.5)
Provision against investment in own shares 30.1 –
Prior year tax credit (6.2) –
Reversal of deferred tax assets 19.0 –
Attributable taxation on exceptional items (3.5) (10.3)
Attributable taxation on the disposal of operations 3.0 13.2 
Headline earnings attributable to shareholders 31.4 71.0 
Number Number
million million
Weighted average number of shares in issue – basic and headline 922.5 915.1
Dilutive potential of employee share options – –
Weighted average number of shares in issue – diluted 922.5 915.1
The shares in issue used to calculate basic and headline (loss)/earnings per share exclude the shares held by QUEST, Orbis Management Limited and 
by Greenwood Nominees in accordance with FRS 14 ‘Earnings per Share’.
13. Intangible Assets
Goodwill
2002 
£ million
Group
Cost
At 1 January 1,831.0
Increase during the year note 34 51.0
Disposal of operations note 35 (8.1)
Exchange adjustment (31.0)
At 31 December 1,842.9
Amortisation
At 1 January 843.3
Provided during the year 56.1
Goodwill impairment 836.3
Disposal of operations note 35 (1.6)
Exchange adjustment (4.8)
At 31 December 1,729.3
Net book value at 31 December 2002 113.6
Net book value at 31 December 2001 987.7
51 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 14. T angible Assets
2002 
£ million
Land and buildings Fixtures,
Plant and ﬁttings and
Freehold Long lease Short lease machinery equipment Total
Group
Cost
At 1 January 18.2 14.5 25.0 128.4 79.7 265.8
Exchange adjustment (1.9) (0.1) (0.9) (8.6) (6.0) (17.5)
Additions by acquisition note 34 –––– 0.8 0.8
Other additions – owned assets 3.2 0.2 0.9 12.8 10.5 27.6
– leased assets –––– 0.2 0.2
Inter-class transfers (1.5) – – 0.9 0.6 –
Disposals (1.1)(0.1)(0.7)(2.6)(6.4)(10.9)
Disposal of operations note 35 – (3.6) (0.2) (12.9) (8.7) (25.4)
At 31 December 16.9 10.9 24.1 118.0 70.7 240.6
Depreciation
At 1 January 2.7 1.7 2.9 82.7 38.2 128.2
Exchange adjustment (0.3) – (0.3) (4.9) (3.5) (9.0)
Provided during the year 0.4 0.6 1.9 14.4 16.3 33.6
Disposals (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (1.2) (3.4) (5.0)
Disposal of operations note 35 – (0.7) – (10.0) (6.5) (17.2)
At 31 December 2.7 1.5 4.3 81.0 41.1 130.6
Net book value at 31 December 14.2 9.4 19.8 37.0 29.6 110.0
Company
Cost
At 1 January 1.2 12.5 0.4 26.0 7.1 47.2
Additions – – – 1.3 0.5 1.8
Disposals (0.2) (3.7) – – (1.0) (4.9)
Inter-class transfers – 0.2 – – (0.2) –
At 31 December 1.0 9.0 0.4 27.3 6.4 44.1
Depreciation
At 1 January 0.5 1.3 0.1 19.7 4.7 26.3
Provided during the year – 0.4 – 2.0 0.9 3.3
Disposals (0.1) (0.8) – – (0.9) (1.8)
Inter-class transfers – 0.2 – – (0.2) –
At 31 December 0.4 1.1 0.1 21.7 4.5 27.8
Net book value at 31 December 0.6 7.9 0.3 5.6 1.9 16.3
Tangible assets include the following ﬁnance leased assets:
Group
Net book value at 1 January 0.6 0.5 1.1
Depreciation provided during the year 0.1 0.3 0.4
Net book value at 31 December 0.4 0.7 1.1
52 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 15. Capital Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Group Company Group Company
Capital expenditure commitments:
Contracted but not provided 1.4 0.5 4.2 0.2
Contingent liabilities:
Bank guarantees – 2.3 – 2.2
16. Shares in Subsidiaries
2002 
£ million
Company
Cost
At 1 January 2,405.6
Additions 38.4
Transfers to subsidiaries (500.0)
Disposals (37.4)
At 31 December 1,906.6
Provisions
At 1 January 524.0
Increase in provision 930.1
At 31 December 1,454.1
Net book value at 31 December 452.5
The investment in shares in subsidiaries has been written down in accordance with FRS 11 to recoverable amount, which has been calculated as disclosed
in note 6.
17. Loans to Subsidiaries
At 1 January 142.0
Exchange adjustment (13.0)
Advances 2.2
Repayments (60.1)
At 31 December 71.1
18. Fixed Asset Investments
Joint V enture
2002
£ million
Group
At 1 January 44.3
Share of retained proﬁt 3.5
Exchange adjustment 2.3
At 31 December 50.1
53 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 18. Fixed Asset Investments continued
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Proﬁt and loss account
Share of turnover 75.6 78.3
Proﬁt before taxation 6.7 8.8
Taxation 2.7 2.7
Share of proﬁt after taxation 4.0 6.1
Balance sheet 
Fixed assets 34.4 34.7
Current assets 38.5 34.3
Share of gross assets 72.9 69.0
Liabilities due within one year 9.8 11.2
Liabilities due after more than one year 11.3 11.7
Minority interests 1.7 1.8
Share of gross liabilities 22.8 24.7
Share of net assets 50.1 44.3
The joint venture companies at 31 December 2002 and 2001 were as follows:
% holding Nature of business
WAGO Kontakttechnik GmbH 51 Interconnection products
WAGO Contact SA 51 Interconnection products
As referred to in note 36, Spirent announced on 12 March 2003 the divestment of its 51 per cent interests in the WAGO joint venture for net proceeds
of approximately £58.2 million.
Associates
2002
£ million
Group Company
Cost
At 1 January and 31 December 0.1
Goodwill
At 1 January 6.5 –
Acquisition of majority holding (5.8) –
Amortisation (0.2) –
Exchange adjustment (0.5) –
At 31 December ––
Share of retained proﬁts and reserves
At 1 January 11.8 –
Acquisition of majority holding 0.6 –
Exchange adjustment 0.6 –
Share of retained proﬁts for the year 0.3 –
At 31 December 13.3 –
Net book value at 31 December 13.3 0.1
54 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 18. Fixed Asset Investments continued
The associated companies at 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2001 were as follows:
% holding Nature of business
Tyton Company of Japan 49 Cable management products
3M/ECC 20 Cable management products
In addition at 31 December 2001 the Group held a 16 per cent interest in Caw Networks, Inc. (Caw).
On 15 August 2002 the remaining, then, 85 per cent of Caw was acquired by the Group. From this date Caw has been fully consolidated into the Group
accounts.
Investment in Own Shares
2002
£ million
Group Company
Cost
At 1 January 34.1 34.1
Shares transferred to beneﬁcial holders (1.0) (1.0)
Allotted to option holders (0.9) (0.9)
Provision against investment in own shares (30.1) (30.1)
At 31 December 2.1 2.1
The investment in own shares relates to 3,508,136 (2001 4,571,286) shares held by QUEST and 9,064,985 (2001 9,064,985) shares held by Orbis
Management Limited.
Shares held by QUEST will be used to satisfy options under the Company’s various savings related share option schemes. Shares in Orbis are primarily
held to hedge awards under the Long Term Share Purchase Plan and Netcom Stock Appreciation Rights Plan. 625,031 shares held by Greenwood
Nominees at 31 December 2001 were allotted in May 2002 pursuant to the acquisition agreement of Zarak Systems Corporation.
Given the signiﬁcant fall in the Spirent share price in 2002 the directors consider it prudent to make a provision against the carrying value of the shares
held by QUEST and Orbis and accordingly have written them down to the market value at 31 December 2002 of 16.75 pence per share.
19. Stocks
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Group Company Group Company
Raw materials 16.6 0.3 31.4 0.3
Work in progress 8.9 0.1 12.0 0.1
Finished goods 36.0 3.3 49.7 3.8
61.5 3.7 93.1 4.2
55 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 20. Debtors
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Group Company Group Company
Due within one year:
Trade debtors 79.1 6.8 99.8 6.6
Owed by subsidiaries – 7.2 – 5.7
Owed by associates 0.4 0.2 0.3 0.2
Other debtors 6.3 1.2 4.1 2.7
Tax recoverable – 2.4 ––
Prepayments and accrued income 9.5 2.0 9.3 1.7
95.3 19.8 113.5 16.9
Due after one year:
Other debtors 0.2 – 0.5 –
Deferred taxation note 27 –– 27.2 1.0
Prepayments 1.8 0.1 2.2 0.2
2.0 0.1 29.9 1.2
Total debtors 97.3 19.9 143.4 18.1
21. Notes to the Cash Flow Statement
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Returns on Investments and Servicing of Finance
Interest received 4.0 3.3 
Interest paid (14.7) (27.1)
Interest element of ﬁnance lease rental payments (0.1) (0.1)
Net cash outﬂow for returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance (10.8) (23.9)
Taxation
Corporation tax paid (11.9) (4.3)
Overseas tax received/(paid) 7.7 (16.7)
Tax paid (4.2) (21.0)
Capital Expenditure and Financial Investment
Capital expenditure (27.6) (59.4)
Receipts from sales of tangible assets 1.8 1.1 
Sale of own shares – 0.6 
Net cash outﬂow for capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment (25.8) (57.7)
Acquisitions and Disposals
Acquisition of subsidiaries note 34 (49.2) 7.2 
Acquisition of associates – (6.4)
Disposal of shares in subsidiaries note 35 55.6 148.8 
Net cash inﬂow for acquisitions and disposals 6.4 149.6 
Management of Liquid Resources
Sale of investments 0.2 3.6 
Financing
Issue of share capital 2.4 4.9 
New loans 75.7 28.5 
Repayment of loans (23.6) (185.4)
Repayment of capital element of ﬁnance lease rentals (0.7) (0.8)
Net cash inﬂow/(outﬂow) from ﬁnancing 53.8 (152.8)
56 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 22. Analysis of Changes in Net Borrowings
£ million
1 January Cash Non-cash Exchange 31 December
2002 ﬂow changes adjustment 2002 
Cash at bank and in hand 27.6 56.8 – (0.9) 83.5
Overdrafts (0.4) (0.2) – – (0.6)
Net cash 27.2 56.6 – (0.9) 82.9
Current asset investments 0.3 (0.2) – – 0.1
Bank loans due within one year (10.0) 9.6 – – (0.4)
Other loans and ﬁnance lease obligations due within one year (0.8) 0.2 (0.2) – (0.8)
Net liquid funds 16.7 66.2 (0.2) (0.9) 81.8
Senior unsecured loan notes due after one year (148.9) – – 13.9 (135.0)
Bank loans due after one year (24.2) (75.5) – 0.3 (99.4)
Other loans and ﬁnance lease obligations due after one year (22.7) 14.3 (0.2) (0.6) (9.2)
Net borrowings (179.1) 5.0 (0.4) 12.7 (161.8)
23. Current Asset Investments
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Group Company Group Company
Listed 0.1 – 0.2 –
Unlisted –– 0.1 –
0.1 – 0.3 –
Market value listed securities 0.1 – 0.2 –
Market value unlisted securities – – 0.1 –
The investments are US and UK Treasury Stock.
24. Creditors Due Within One Y ear
Trade creditors 23.6 4.9 29.7 4.8
Payments received on account 0.4 – 0.2 –
Bills of exchange payable – – 0.1 –
Owed to subsidiaries – 1.4 – 1.2
Owed to joint venture 0.3 – 0.2 –
Owed to associates 0.6 – 0.4 –
Other creditors 8.7 1.4 12.3 2.1
Accruals and deferred income 50.1 9.8 65.3 9.8
Proposed dividend –– 27.6 27.6
Corporation tax – UK and overseas 19.5 0.2 27.0 –
Other taxes and social security costs 4.3 1.0 4.0 1.1
107.5 18.7 166.8 46.6
57 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 25. Loans and Overdrafts
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Group Company Group Company
Bank overdrafts:
Secured 0.5 – 0.4 –
Unsecured 0.1 0.1 ––
Bank loans due within one year note 28 0.4 – 10.0 9.6
Other loans and ﬁnance lease obligations due within one year note 28 0.8 0.1 0.8 –
1.8 0.2 11.2 9.6
Where applicable, overdrafts are secured either by mortgages on the freehold properties or by ﬂoating charges on the assets of the borrowing subsidiaries.
26. Creditors Due After More Than One Y ear
Senior unsecured loan notes note 29 135.0 135.0 148.9 148.9
Bank loans note 28 99.4 95.4 24.2 19.6
Other loans and ﬁnance lease obligations note 28 9.2 – 22.7 13.7
Owed to subsidiaries – 147.6 – 637.9
Other creditors 1.6 – 6.3 –
Deferred income 2.6 0.4 3.4 0.5
Pension 4.8 4.7 4.6 4.4
252.6 383.1 210.1 825.0
27. Provisions for Liabilities and Charges
Deferred T axation
At 1 January (25.7) (1.0)
Exchange adjustment 1.4 –
Disposal of subsidiaries note 35 0.3 –
Charged during the year note 11 26.4 1.0
At 31 December 2.4 –
Deferred taxation provided:
Capital allowances in advance of the corresponding charges for depreciation 1.7 – 1.1 0.4
Short term timing differences on stock options – – (6.5) –
Other short term timing differences 0.7 – (20.3) (1.4)
2.4 – (25.7) (1.0)
Debtors greater than one year – deferred taxation note 20 –– (27.2) (1.0)
Provisions for liabilities and charges – deferred tax liability 2.4 – 1.5 –
2.4 – (25.7) (1.0)
In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of tax losses arising in the US of £25.1 million (2001 £19.9 million).
In addition deferred tax assets of £23.7 million (2001 £nil) arising principally in respect of timing differences, have not been recognised (see note 11).
Lease Provisions
Charged during the year 20.2 –
Transfers in 9.0 0.9
Utilised during the year (1.8) (0.2)
Exchange adjustment (1.4) –
At 31 December 26.0 0.7
Provisions for liabilities and charges at 31 December 28.4 0.7 1.5 –
58 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 28. Loans and Finance Lease Obligations
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Group Company Group Company
Secured:
Bank loans not wholly repayable within ﬁve years 2.2 – 2.8 –
Bank loans wholly repayable within ﬁve years 2.1 – 2.2 –
Finance lease obligations 9.5 – 9.3 –
13.8 – 14.3 –
Unsecured:
Bank loans wholly repayable within ﬁve years 96.2 96.1 30.4 30.4
Other loans not wholly repayable within ﬁve years – – 3.0 2.5
Other loans wholly repayable within ﬁve years 0.5 0.1 11.2 11.2
96.7 96.2 44.6 44.1
Less debt issuance costs (0.7) (0.7) (1.2) (1.2)
109.8 95.5 57.7 42.9
Repayment schedules for amounts due at 31 December are as follows:
Bank loans:
After ﬁve years 2.2 – 2.8 –
Between two and ﬁve years 1.3 – 21.9 20.5
Between one and two years 96.6 96.1 0.4 –
Due after more than one year 100.1 96.1 25.1 20.5
Less debt issuance costs (0.7) (0.7) (0.9) (0.9)
Due after more than one year note 26 99.4 95.4 24.2 19.6
Due within one year 0.4 – 10.3 9.9
Less debt issuance costs – – (0.3) (0.3)
Due within one year note 25 0.4 – 10.0 9.6
Total bank loans 99.8 95.4 34.2 29.2
Other loans and ﬁnance leases:
After ﬁve years 7.1 – 9.3 2.5
Between two and ﬁve years 1.5 – 9.9 8.3
Between one and two years 0.6 – 3.5 2.9
Due after more than one year note 26 9.2 – 22.7 13.7
Due within one year note 25 0.8 0.1 0.8 –
Total other loans and ﬁnance leases 10.0 0.1 23.5 13.7
Total loans 109.8 95.5 57.7 42.9
Where applicable loans are secured either by mortgages on the freehold properties or by ﬂoating charges on the assets of the borrowing subsidiaries.
The long term secured loan is repayable in annual instalments of £214,000 until the year 2008 and bears interest at an average rate of 7.0 per cent.
59 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 29. Senior Unsecured Loan Notes
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Group Company Group Company
7.94% Senior unsecured loan notes 2006 6.2 6.2 6.8 6.8
8.06% Senior unsecured loan notes 2009 39.4 39.4 43.4 43.4
8.16% Senior unsecured loan notes 2009 71.4 71.4 78.8 78.8
8.75% Senior unsecured loan notes 2009 18.4 18.4 20.3 20.3
135.4 135.4 149.3 149.3
Less debt issuance costs (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Due after more than one year note 26 135.0 135.0 148.9 148.9
At 31 December 2002 the following loan notes were in issue:
(a) $10.0 million bearing interest at 7.94 per cent repayable on 23 November 2006;
(b) $63.4 million bearing interest at 8.06 per cent repayable on 23 November 2009;
(c) $115.0 million bearing interest at 8.16 per cent repayable on 23 November 2009;
(d) $29.6 million bearing interest at 8.75 per cent repayable on 23 November 2009. An interest rate derivative was entered into in 1999 to reduce the
effective interest rate to 8.28%.
Loan notes are repayable:
(a) at maturity; or 
(b) at any time at the Company’s option in an amount of not less than 5 per cent of the aggregate principal amount then outstanding plus a ‘make
whole’ amount, if applicable.
As discussed in note 36, post 31 December 2002 certain amendments, dependent on the divestment of our 51 per cent interests in the WAGO joint
venture, will be made to the terms of these loan notes.
A ﬁve year interest rate swap for $115 million entered into on 23 November 2001 was called by the counterparties in November 2002 and replaced
with an interest rate swap for $163.4 million. The counterparties have the option to call the swap at six monthly intervals commencing May 2003.
This swap has been transacted with two counterparties split $100 million and $63.4 million between them. The terms of the $100 million swap allow
for either party to exercise a break on 23 November 2005 or 23 November 2008. The swap for $63.4 million has an option for either party to exercise 
a break at 23 November 2005 only. If a break should occur a mark to market settlement will be made.
30. Financial Risk Management
The Group’s approach to managing ﬁnancial risk is described in the Financial Review on pages 11 to 14.
(a) Interest Rate Risk
The interest rate proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities at 31 December after taking into account interest rate swaps was as follows:
2002 
£ million
At ﬂoating Non-interest
interest rates bearing Total
Financial assets
Sterling 61.1 0.1 61.2
US dollars 10.1 1.0 11.1
Euro 5.6 1.3 6.9
Other 3.5 1.1 4.6
80.3 3.5 83.8
60 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 30. Financial Risk Management continued
2001
£ million
At ﬂoating Non-interest
interest rates bearing Total
Financial assets
Sterling 4.4 0.1 4.5
US dollars 9.3 1.7 11.0
Euro 7.8 0.9 8.7
Other 2.5 1.7 4.2
24.0 4.4 28.4
The ﬁnancial assets of the Group comprise:
2002 2001
£ million £ million
Debtors due after more than one year (excluding prepayments) note 20 0.2 0.5
Current asset investments note 23 0.1 0.3
Cash at bank and in hand note 22 83.5 27.6
83.8 28.4
Floating rate ﬁnancial assets comprise cash deposits on money market deposit at call, seven day and monthly rates.
The weighted average period to maturity for ﬁnancial assets on which no interest is paid is less than one year.
2002 
£ million
At ﬁxed At ﬂoating Non-interest
interest rates interest rates bearing Total
Financial liabilities
Sterling – 84.4 – 84.4
US dollars 37.8 112.3 1.6 151.7
Euro 10.1 0.4 – 10.5
Other 0.2 0.2 – 0.4
48.1 197.3 1.6 247.0
2001
£ million
At ﬁxed At ﬂoating Non-interest
interest rates interest rates bearing Total
Financial liabilities
Sterling – 18.4 – 18.4
US dollars 75.0 104.7 4.7 184.4
Euro 10.0 0.3 – 10.3
Other 0.2 – – 0.2
85.2 123.4 4.7 213.3
61 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 30. Financial Risk Management continued
2002 2001 
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted 
Average average period average period Average average period average period
interest rates to maturity to maturity interest rates to maturity to maturity
of ﬁxed rate of ﬁxed rate of non-interest of ﬁxed rate of ﬁxed rate of non-interest
liabilities liabilities bearing liabilities liabilities liabilities bearing liabilities
%years years %years years
Financial liabilities
Sterling 11.5 3.3 – 16.3 0.6 –
US dollars 8.3 6.2 4.9 8.0 7.5 3.1
Euro 5.8 13.3 – 5.9 14.8 –
Other 13.9 2.8 – 13.0 3.6 –
Group 7.8 7.7 4.9 7.8 8.3 3.1
2002 2001
£ million £ million
The ﬁnancial liabilities of the Group comprise:
Bank overdrafts, current instalment of loans and ﬁnance lease obligations note 25 1.8 11.2
Senior unsecured loan notes due after more than one year note 26 135.0 148.9
Bank loans due after more than one year note 26 99.4 24.2
Other loans and ﬁnance lease obligations due after more than one year note 26 9.2 22.7
Other creditors falling due after more than one year note 26 1.6 6.3
247.0 213.3
The ﬂoating rate liabilities at 31 December 2002 comprise primarily $163.4 million (2001 $115.0 million) of the senior unsecured loan notes for 
which an interest rate swap is in place. Also included is £96.2 million (2001 £20.5 million) drawn under the syndicated credit facility. Other ﬂoating 
rate liabilities bear interest at various rates set with reference to the prevailing LIBOR or equivalent for the time period and country.
(b) Maturity of Financial Liabilities
2002 2001
£ million £ million
The maturity proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December was as follows:
In one year or less, or on demand 1.9 11.9
In more than one year but not more than two years 96.5 6.2
In more than two years but not more than ﬁve years 9.0 38.9
In more than ﬁve years 139.6 156.3
247.0 213.3
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities
Expiring in one year or less 24.8 175.7
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 73.4 27.4
Expiring in more than two years – 156.8
98.2 359.9
The committed borrowing facilities comprise primarily:
–$152 million ﬁve year amortising multi-currency revolving credit facility with a ﬁnal maturity date of 21 July 2004 of which $18 million was drawn at 
31 December 2002;
– £100 million multi-currency ﬁve year revolving credit facility of which £85.0 million was drawn at 31 December 2002.
The $152 million multi-currency revolving credit facility is amortising and reduces as follows:
– $40 million on 15 January 2003;
– $56 million on 15 January 2004;
– $56 million on the ﬁnal maturity date, 21 July 2004.
As discussed in note 36, post 31 December 2002 certain amendments, dependent on the divestment of our 51 per cent interests in the WAGO joint
venture, will be made to the terms of these borrowing facilities.
62 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 30. Financial Risk Management continued
(c) Currency Exposure of Financial Assets and Liabilities
The table shows the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of Group companies at 31 December. These monetary assets and liabilities are not
denominated in their functional currency and therefore give rise to exchange gains and losses in the proﬁt and loss account.
2002 
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) £ million
Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total
Functional currency of Group operation
Sterling – 0.2 1.0 (0.1) 1.1
US dollar (0.3) – (0.1) – (0.4)
Euro 0.3 0.3 – 0.2 0.8
Other (0.4) 2.8 – 0.1 2.5
(0.4) 3.3 0.9 0.2 4.0
2001
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) £ million
Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total
Functional currency of Group operation
Sterling – 1.8 1.9 0.2 3.9
US dollar –– 1.8 – 1.8
Euro (0.1) 0.3 – 0.4 0.6
Other (0.3) 2.3 – 0.1 2.1
(0.4) 4.4 3.7 0.7 8.4
(d) Fair Value of Financial Instruments
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
Primary ﬁnancial instruments held or issued to ﬁnance the Group’s operations
Short term borrowings and current portion of long term borrowings (1.8) (1.8) (11.2) (11.2)
Long term senior unsecured loan notes (135.0) (153.1) (148.9) (159.4)
Other long term borrowings (108.6) (107.7) (46.9) (44.5)
Cash and other liquid funds 83.5 83.5 27.6 27.6 
Current asset investments 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 
Other ﬁnancial assets 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.5 
Other ﬁnancial liabilities (1.6) (1.6) (6.3) (6.3)
(163.2) (180.4) (184.9) (193.0)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency proﬁle
Interest rate swaps – 0.4 – (1.3)
Forward foreign exchange contracts – 0.5 – 0.1
(163.2) (179.5) (184.9) (194.2)
The derivative ﬁnancial instruments are as follows:
(a) Interest rate swaps for $163.4 million (£101.5 million). The swaps have a seven year term and can be cancelled at the bank’s option at six monthly
intervals, no earlier than May 2003. A break can be exercised on $100 million of the swap by either party on 23 November 2005 and 2008, and on
$63.4 million of the swap at 23 November 2005. If a break should occur a mark to market settlement will be made.
(b)Forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge material transactional exposures.
63 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 30. Financial Risk Management continued
(e) Hedges
As explained in the Financial Review on pages 11 to 14, it is the Group’s policy to hedge a proportion of its transactional currency exchange exposures
using forward foreign currency contracts and its interest rate exposures by using interest rate swaps. Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging
are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged itself is recognised.
Unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are as follows:
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Total net Total net
Gains Losses gains/(losses) gains/(losses)
Unrecognised gains/(losses) at 1 January 0.2 (1.4) (1.2) –
Gains/(losses) arising in previous years recognised in the year 0.2 (1.4) (1.2) –
Gains/(losses) arising before 1 January that were not recognised in the year – – – –
Gains/(losses) arising in the year that were not recognised 1.1 (0.2) 0.9 (1.2)
Unrecognised gains/(losses) on hedges at 31 December 1.1 (0.2) 0.9 (1.2)
Expected to be recognised:
In one year or less 0.7 (0.2) 0.5 0.1
In later years 0.4 – 0.4 (1.3)
1.1 (0.2) 0.9 (1.2)
31. Operating Lease Commitments
Annual commitments which expire:
2002 2001 
£ million £ million
Group Company Group Company
In respect of land and buildings (subject to periodic rent reviews):
Within one year 0.6 – 0.9 –
In the second to ﬁfth years 5.7 – 8.8 –
Over ﬁve years 5.8 0.8 7.7 0.8 
12.1 0.8 17.4 0.8 
In respect of plant and equipment:
Within one year 0.1 – ––
In the second to ﬁfth years 0.4 – 0.4 –
0.5 – 0.4 –
64 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 32. Capital and Reserves
2002
£ million
Called up Share Capital Proﬁt 
share premium Capital redemption Merger and loss 
capital account reserve reserve reserve account
Group
At 1 January 31.1 728.7 27.8 0.7 264.4 41.7 
Exchange adjustment on subsidiaries, joint venture
and associates ––––– (23.0)
Taxation on exchange adjustment ––––– 0.1
New shares issued 0.1 5.7 (4.3) – – –
New shares issued – restricted stock 0.1 1.8 – – – –
Obligation to issue share capital – stock compensation – – 0.2–––
Obligation to issue share capital – acquisition expense – – 0.1–––
Shares transferred from trust – – (1.0) – – –
Loss for the year ––––– (1,092.9)
Goodwill on disposal and impairment of subsidiaries
acquired before 1998 ––––– 157.8
Lapsed acquisition related options – – (5.2) – – 5.2
Reclassiﬁed to merger reserve – (40.1) – – 40.1 –
Transfer on disposal and impairment –––– (304.5) 304.5
At 31 December 31.3 696.1 17.6 0.7 – (606.6)
Company
At 1 January 31.1 728.7 27.8 0.7 215.6 217.9 
New shares issued 0.1 5.7 (4.3) – – –
New shares issued – restricted stock 0.1 1.8 – – – –
Obligation to issue share capital – stock compensation – – 0.2–––
Obligation to issue share capital – acquisition expense – – 0.1–––
Shares transferred from trust – – (1.0) – – –
Loss for the year ––––– (1,002.4)
Lapsed acquisition related options – – (5.2) – – 5.2
Reclassiﬁed to merger reserve – (40.1) – – 40.1 –
Transfer on disposal and impairment –––– (254.5) 254.5
At 31 December 31.3 696.1 17.6 0.7 1.2 (524.8)
The Company’s proﬁt and loss account of £524.8 million deﬁcit (2001 £217.9 million surplus) includes non distributable reserves of £51.1 million 
(2001 £139.5 million).
At 31 December 2002 the cumulative amount of goodwill charged to reserves since 1977 net of goodwill relating to subsidiaries disposed of or impaired,
is £43.9 million (2001 £201.7 million).
The loss after taxation for the year dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £989.9 million (2001 £398.3 million).
65 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 32. Capital and Reserves continued
Authorised Issued and fully paid
2002 2001 2002 2001
£ million £ million £ million £ million
Called up share capital: Ordinary shares of 3
1
⁄ 3 pence each 41.7 36.7 31.3 31.1
Changes during the year in the Ordinary share capital were as follows:
Number of Ordinary shares
million
Issued and fully paid at 1 January 2002 933.2
Allotted pursuant to share options and purchase rights exercised 3.5
Allotted on acquisition of Caw Networks, Inc* 2.7
Issued and fully paid at 31 December 2002 939.4
*2,712,811 shares were issued, credited as fully paid, on 15 August 2002 in connection with the rollover of Caw Common Stock under a Caw employee stock plan into
Spirent Ordinary shares. The mid market closing price of a Spirent Ordinary share on 15 August 2002 was 70.25 pence.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 2 May 2002, shareholders gave authority for the Company to purchase up to 46,668,535 of its own Ordinary
shares in the market subject to certain speciﬁed conditions. As at 12 March 2003, no purchases have been made or are contracted to be made under
such authority.
In accordance with the rules of the following share schemes, options and purchase rights were exercised during the year which resulted in new shares
being allotted by the Company or existing shares being transferred from Spirent QUEST Limited as follows:
Number of Consideration 
Ordinary received
shares £000
Discretionary Schemes 71,515 78.2
Netcom Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan 2,049,378 460.9
Net-HOPPER Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan 161,590 93.3
Zarak Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan 138,283 95.1
Caw Amended and Restated Stock Plan
(1)
23,744 2.8 
All Employee Share Schemes 1,841,358 1,641.4
4,285,868 2,371.7
Note
(1) The exercise consideration for options under this plan is paid in US dollars and has been converted into sterling in the above table at an exchange rate of £1 = $1.61,
being the exchange rate on 31 December 2002.
During the year 1,063,150 shares were transferred from Spirent QUEST Limited to option holders against the valid exercise of share options under the
Company’s UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
On 1 January 2003, 3,254,422 Ordinary shares were allotted following the automatic exercise of purchase rights under the Company’s US Employee
Stock Purchase Plan and the Global All Employee Share Purchase Plan. With the exception of the foregoing, there has been no material increase in 
the issued share capital, whether by exercise of options, purchase rights or otherwise, between the year end and 12 March 2003, the date on which
these Accounts have been signed.
At 31 December 2002 the following options and purchase rights over Ordinary shares have been granted and remained outstanding under the
Company’s various employee share schemes. Figures for the options outstanding and the exercise price per Ordinary share have each been adjusted 
for the 3:1 subdivision of share capital in 2000 and, where relevant, for the rights issues effected in 1993 and 2000, in accordance with the individual
scheme rules.
66 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 32. Capital and Reserves continued
Exercise Number of
Option/purchase price per outstanding options/
Option Scheme right exercise dates share (p) purchase rights
Discretionary Schemes
1985 Executive Share Option Scheme (a) 15.04.96–26.04.05 91–108 148,229
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme (a) 29.04.99–02.05.12 72–598 17,710,099
International Executive Share Option Scheme (b) 11.04.98–10.04.05 104 174,139
Spirent Stock Option Plan (c) 11.05.01–12.12.09 6–617 79,642,643
Acquisition Related Schemes
Netcom Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (d) 23.07.99–19.07.09 15–151 12,914,034
Zarak Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (e) 14.11.00–12.11.10 79–572 1,051,317
Caw Amended and Restated Stock Plan (f) 15.08.02–26.06.12 17.7–23.6
(1)
1,086,103
All Employee Share Schemes
(2)
UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme (g) 01.12.02–31.05.10 41–583 5,341,079
US Employee Stock Purchase Plan
(3)
(h) 01.01.04 14 3,500,000
Global All Employee Share Purchase Plan
(3)
(i) 01.01.04 14 350,000
Total 121,917,643
Notes
(1) Exercise prices per share for options under the Caw Amended and Restated Stock Plan are denominated in US dollars and are expressed as US cents in the above table.
(2) The Company has taken advantage of the exemption within Urgent Issues Task Force (UITF) Abstract 17 in accounting for all employee share schemes.
(3) The exercise price and number of shares subject to the purchase rights outstanding cannot ultimately be determined until the maturity of each respective offering
period (ie normally 12 months following the date of grant). The exercise price and number of purchase rights outstanding as shown above are based on the market
price of a Spirent Ordinary share (less the applicable 15 per cent discount) as at the date of grant.
(a) 1985 and 1995 Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS)
The Inland Revenue approved 1995 ESOS was introduced on the automatic expiry of the 1985 ESOS and incorporates the guidelines issued by the
Association of British Insurers (ABI) at that time. It was subsequently amended by the Board to facilitate the award of unapproved share options both 
in the UK and overseas. There are currently 351 participating executives in the ESOS.
Awards under the 1995 ESOS, normally determined annually, are at the sole discretion of the Remuneration Committee after considering
recommendations made to it by the Chief Executive. No price is payable on the grant of an option and no options have been, or can be, granted 
at a discount to the market price.
The normal exercise period for options granted under the 1985 and 1995 ESOS is between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant. Options
awarded under the 1995 ESOS are subject to the achievement of an Earnings per Share (EPS) performance condition before they can be exercised.
The condition is that over a period of three consecutive ﬁnancial years, there has been an increase in the Company’s headline EPS (as deﬁned in the
Statement of Investment Practice No. 1 of the United Kingdom Society of Investment Professionals) which is at least 6 per cent more than the increase
in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
All ESOS grants made after 11 May 2000 to the executive directors and senior management (principally members of the Company’s Operations
Management Team) are subject to enhanced performance conditions on exercise. These are more fully explained in the Report on Directors’
Remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee may in future impose different performance targets which they consider to be no less demanding. Options granted
under the 1985 ESOS are exercisable unconditionally.
(b) International Executive Share Option Scheme (IESOS)
Certain US executives have previously been granted unapproved options under the IESOS with participation and awards being at the discretion of the
Remuneration Committee. Options are exercisable unconditionally and normally between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant. Again,
no options have been granted at a discount to the market price. The IESOS is closed and has been replaced by the unapproved arrangements to the
1995 ESOS referred to in (a) above.
67 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 32. Capital and Reserves continued
(c) Spirent Stock Option Plan (SSOP)
The SSOP was introduced following shareholder approval at the Company’s 2000 Annual General Meeting. This discretionary plan is primarily targeted
at selected employees in the Communications group (particularly in the US) with grants normally determined annually by reference to the seniority
and contribution of the individual, together with the performance of the relevant business and prevailing local market practice. Under the SSOP, grants
are also permitted to selected newly hired and promoted employees on a monthly basis.
Options normally vest over four years, provided that the employee remains in employment. The options become 25 per cent exercisable on the ﬁrst
anniversary of the date of grant, and thereafter in equal proportions on a monthly basis. Any options not exercised will lapse on the seventh anniversary
of grant. No pre-exercise performance conditions attach to options granted under the SSOP.
In December 2002, approximately 12.5 million options were granted under the SSOP to key selected employees for market competitive, motivation
and retention purposes. This grant provided for accelerated phased vesting over two years instead of the usual four year period. No executive directors
participated in this grant.
The number of options available for grant each year, subject to a 9 per cent total dilution limit, is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee
having regard to competitive market practice and the performance of the businesses. No further grants may be made under the SSOP after the 2003
Annual General Meeting. However, the Remuneration Committee is currently reviewing medium and long term incentive arrangements for employees
within the Communications group and shareholders will be informed as appropriate with regards to any new initiatives which require shareholder approval.
No price is payable on the grant of an option and no options have been, or can be, granted at a discount to the market price.
(d) Netcom Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (NARSOP)
Spirent completed the acquisition of Netcom Systems Inc. (Netcom) in July 1999. $44.5 million of the total consideration was satisﬁed through the
rollover of outstanding vested and unvested options over Netcom shares, primarily held by Netcom employees, into options over approximately 23.8
million new Spirent shares (as adjusted) on substantially similar terms under the NARSOP as previously existed. The outstanding unvested options vest
monthly from the date of acquisition during the remaining term of each individual grant and are not subject to any pre-exercise performance
condition. The ﬁnal unvested options will vest in July 2003 and all options have a ten year life from the original date of grant.
(e) Zarak Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (ZARSOP)
Out of a total consideration of approximately 44.9 million new Spirent shares issued for the acquisition of Zarak Systems Corporation (Zarak) in
November 2000, approximately 3.8 million arose in connection with the rollover of outstanding options over Zarak shares into options over Spirent
shares which will vest over a period expiring in 2004 on substantially similar terms under the ZARSOP as previously existed. These options are primarily
held by Zarak employees and have either a ﬁve or ten year life from the original date of grant.
Unvested rolled over options are capable of immediate exercise (ie prior to their respective vesting date) and any shares arising from such an event are
held in trust until the relevant vesting date. The option holder is entitled to the beneﬁcial (but not legal) interest in the shares whilst they are held in
trust but they remain subject to forfeiture (with the original option exercise prices being refunded to the participant) if the participant’s employment 
is terminated prior to the vesting date.
(f) Caw Amended and Restated Stock Plan (CARSP)
Out of a total initial consideration for the acquisition of Caw Networks, Inc. (Caw) in August 2002 of $49 million, approximately $4 million was in
respect of Spirent Ordinary shares and options which arose on the rollover of outstanding options and shares under the previous Caw employee stock
plan. The options and shares will vest over a period expiring in 2006 on substantially similar terms under the CARSP as previously existed. The options
are held by Caw employees and have a ten year life from the original date of grant. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement for Caw, an additional
cash payment of 78.8 cents is payable as each share vests or upon the vesting of an exercised option.
Pursuant to individual agreements signed by participating Caw employees, any Ordinary shares issued under the CARSP are restricted until they have
vested or are not at risk from forfeiture under the plan rules. Unvested rolled over options are capable of immediate exercise (ie prior to their respective
vesting date) and any shares arising from such an event are held in trust until the relevant vesting date. The option holder is entitled to the beneﬁcial
(but not legal) interest in the shares whilst they are held in trust but they remain subject to forfeiture (with the original option exercise prices being
refunded to the participant) if the participant’s employment is terminated prior to the vesting date.
In accordance with the rules of the Executive Share Option Schemes noted in (a) above, the Spirent shares subject to rolled over options for the
acquisition of Netcom, Zarak, Caw and Net-HOPPER (now expired), or granted under the SSOP, do not count toward ABI scheme limits. The plans
mentioned in (d) to (f) above are now closed to new entrants and no further awards of options can be made under them. Ongoing awards of
discretionary options to Communications group employees are now being facilitated through the SSOP as described in paragraph (c).
68 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 32. Capital and Reserves continued
(g) UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme (SRSOS)
The SRSOS is an Inland Revenue approved scheme and is open to all UK full and part time employees, subject to a qualifying service period. The
employee enters into a Save-As-You-Earn contract with the Company’s savings carrier to save a regular sum of between £5 and £250 per month 
for a ﬁxed period of either three or ﬁve years.
No price is payable on the grant of an option. The option exercise price is calculated by reference to the middle market price of a Spirent share on 
the last business day prior to the beginning of the Invitation Period discounted by up to 20 per cent at the Board’s discretion. Options are normally
exercisable within six months of the third, ﬁfth or seventh anniversary of the contract commencement date as elected by the option holder at the 
start of the contract.
The Company has established a qualifying employee share ownership trust (QUEST) to honour the contractual commitment to deliver Spirent shares
against the valid exercise of outstanding options under the SRSOS. Spirent QUEST Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Spirent plc, acts as sole
trustee to the QUEST. During the year 1,063,150 shares were transferred to participants. Spirent QUEST Limited has waived all rights to receive
dividends payable on its registered shareholding except for 0.01 pence per annum in aggregate and accordingly such shareholding is not included in 
the Company’s EPS calculation as referred to in note 12.
(h) US Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP)
The ESPP operates on a broadly similar basis to the SRSOS. It enables the Company to grant eligible US employees the right to acquire Spirent shares
using proceeds of a savings contract. When joining the ESPP, participants enter into a contract to save up to 15 per cent of basic salary (gross), subject
to an individual maximum of $1,000 (net) per month, over a contract period of 12 months by way of regular payroll deductions.
No price is payable on the grant of a purchase right. The purchase price will be the market value of a Spirent share either on the ﬁrst day of the 
Offering Period or on the last day of the Offering Period, whichever is lower, less a 15 per cent discount or, where shares are to be subscribed,
their nominal value (if greater).
(i) Global All Employee Share Purchase Plan (GAESPP)
The GAESPP was approved by shareholders in 2001 and offers employees in countries other than the UK or US an opportunity to share in the
Company’s performance through share ownership. The GAESPP was implemented in Canada in January 2002 and operates on similar terms to the 
ESPP above, with participants entering into a 12 month contract to save up to 15 per cent of basic salary (gross), subject to an individual maximum 
of Cdn $1,000 (net) per month.
The Company also operated the following incentive schemes during 2002, both of which utilise shares purchased in the market (ie they have not
involved the issue of new Spirent shares). No awards were made under either plan in the year to 31 December 2002.
(j) Stock Appreciation Rights Plan (SARP)
The SARP was introduced in September 1999 as an interim incentive arrangement for the employees of Netcom following the closure of the NARSOP
described in (d) and subsequently for certain other employees in the Communications group. Under the SARP, recruitment, promotion and recognition
awards over Spirent shares have been made in line with historic and local competitive market practice on a quarterly basis at the discretion of a
committee of senior executives. The operation of the SARP reﬂects as far as practicable the now closed NARSOP. Accordingly, rights under the SARP 
vest over four years, 25 per cent vesting one year after the date of grant and the remainder vesting on a monthly basis over a further 36 months.
Rights granted are not subject to the fulﬁlment of any pre-exercise performance conditions.
The SARP will deliver the appreciation value (ie the aggregated increase in the market value of a Spirent share over the rights price) in the form of
existing Spirent shares which have been purchased in the market by the Company’s Employee Share Ownership Trust. The maximum number of shares
over which SARP awards can be made is 5.25 million. Discretionary stock option grants to Communications group employees are now facilitated
through the SSOP (see paragraph (c)).
At 31 December 2002, the following rights were outstanding under the SARP:
Rights exercise dates Rights price (p) Number of rights outstanding
10.09.00–29.06.10 182–416 3,821,097
69 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 32. Capital and Reserves continued
(k) Long Term Share Purchase Plan (LTSPP)
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 2 May 2002, shareholders approved the closure of the LTSPP and the substitution of its
future annual awards with a supplemental grant of options of equivalent value under the ESOS (see (a) above). These supplemental grants are subject
to enhanced exercise performance conditions under the ESOS (see the Report on Directors’ Remuneration for further details).
The LTSPP was introduced, following approval by shareholders at the Company’s 1999 Annual General Meeting, to ensure continuing competitiveness
and with the aim of motivating and giving participants a more focused incentive to perform at the highest levels which, in turn, delivers sustainable
performance and enhanced shareholder return. Only executive directors and senior management (principally members of the Operations Management
Team) were eligible to participate in the LTSPP. It is administered by the Remuneration Committee.
Grants under the LTSPP have a six year performance period comprising two periods of three years each. Performance units, equivalent to shadow
options, granted at the outset will only vest (in the form of an award split between Spirent shares and cash) at the end of the ﬁrst performance period.
This is provided that the challenging performance criteria of both total shareholder return (TSR), as measured against a comparator group of companies
(or other relevant index), and real share price growth (ie after taking inﬂation into account) have been met. One-third of the award must be retained in
the form of shares until the end of the second performance period. These shares will be matched on a ratio of two shares for every one share retained.
In order to encourage superior performance and to strengthen further the alignment of interest of participants with those of shareholders, participants
may choose to invest some or all of their remaining cash award (ie up to two-thirds of the award) in shares and these will be matched on a higher ratio
of up to four shares for each one retained. No reward under the LTSPP can be made at the end of either performance period unless the Company’s real
share price growth is at least 5 per cent per annum and also its TSR performance is ranked above the 60th percentile against the comparator group.
Because of these variables, the exact number of shares available for award, if any, cannot be determined until the ﬁnal vesting date (the sixth
anniversary of the date of grant).
The Company has established an Employee Share Ownership Trust as one method through which it can deliver Spirent shares committed under the
LTSPP with shares being held in trust prior to any vesting of awards. Any shares delivered under the LTSPP will be met by the trustees either purchasing
existing shares in the market or by the Company issuing new shares or a combination of these. In this way, full ﬂexibility is retained to ensure that the
objective of acting in shareholders’ best interests is achieved at the time of delivery.
No price is payable on the grant of a LTSPP performance unit, no performance units have been granted at a discount to the market price.
At 31 December 2002, the following performance units were outstanding under the LTSPP:
Performance unit vesting dates Value of performance unit (p) Number of performance units
11.05.06–09.04.07 305–334 483,024
Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT)
At 31 December 2002 the ESOT held 11,870,877 Spirent Ordinary shares to satisfy awards under various share based incentive schemes as 
described above. Of this number, 1,245,229 Ordinary shares were unconditionally vested at 31 December 2002.
70 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 33. Analysis of Changes in Financing During the Y ear
2002
£ million
Share capital Senior Loans and
(including unsecured ﬁnance
premium and loan lease
merger reserve) notes obligations Total
At 1 January 1,024.2 148.9 57.7 1,230.8 
Cash inﬂow from ﬁnancing note 21 2.4 – 51.4 53.8
Inception of ﬁnance lease contracts – – 0.2 0.2
Acquisitions –– 0.2 0.2
Restricted stock 1.9 – – 1.9
Transfer from capital reserve 4.3 – – 4.3
Transferred to proﬁt and loss account (304.5) – – (304.5)
Transfer from QUEST (0.9) – – (0.9)
Exchange adjustment – (13.9) 0.3 (13.6)
At 31 December 727.4 135.0 109.8 972.2
34. Acquisition of Subsidiaries
2002 2001
£ million £ million
Tangible assets 0.8 –
Stocks 0.6 –
Debtors 3.6 –
Creditors (1.5) –
Cash 3.2 –
Loans and ﬁnance leases (0.2) –
Minority interest 0.4 –
Net assets 6.9 –
Less: previously included as an associate (5.2) –
Goodwill 51.0 (0.8)
52.7 (0.8)
Consideration:
Restricted stock 1.2 –
Options to acquire shares 0.1 –
Cash (including expenses) 53.4 1.2 
Accrued (0.9) (2.0)
Consideration to be charged as compensation expense (1.1) –
52.7 (0.8)
The cash ﬂows in respect of the purchase of subsidiaries are as follows:
Cash (including expenses) (53.4) (1.2)
Cash (accrued in prior years) 1.0 8.4 
Cash and overdrafts acquired 3.2 –
Net cash (outﬂow)/inﬂow on acquisitions (49.2) 7.2 
Acquisitions made during 2002 were Caw Networks, Inc., certain assets of the remote special services test product line of Anritsu Company US and a
product line and certain intellectual property rights from UbiNetics. All three acquisitions were in the Communications group.
There are no fair value or accounting policy adjustments being made to the book value of the assets acquired.
The book values in respect of the assets acquired from Anritsu Company US are provisional and may require adjustment in 2003.
71 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 35. Disposal of Operations
2002 2001
£ million £ million
Net assets disposed of:
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 6.5 23.6
Tangible assets 8.2 17.9
Stocks 13.0 16.6
Debtors 13.0 20.1
Creditors (7.8) (11.4)
Taxation – (0.9)
Cash – 0.5
Overdrafts – (0.7)
Deferred taxation 0.3 0.4
Minority interest – (0.8)
Net assets 33.2 65.3
Goodwill reinstated 70.8 65.1
104.0 130.4
(Loss)/proﬁt on disposal and closure of operations (48.4) 14.5
55.6 144.9
Satisﬁed by:
Cash (less expenses) 55.6 148.6
Accrued – (3.7)
55.6 144.9
The cash ﬂows in respect of the sale of subsidiaries are as follows:
Cash received net of expenses 55.6 148.6
Cash less overdrafts included within net assets disposed of – 0.2
Net cash inﬂow from disposals 55.6 148.8
The businesses sold during the year contributed £0.3 million to the Group’s operating cash ﬂows, contributed £nil in respect of net returns on
investments and servicing of ﬁnance, paid £0.4 million of taxation and utilised £0.4 million for capital expenditure.
During the year the Group disposed of its aerospace component businesses, Switching Systems International Inc and Monitor Labs Incorporated all
from within its Systems group.
36. Post Balance Sheet Events
On 12 March 2003, Spirent announced the divestment of its 51 per cent interests in WAGO, its interconnection joint venture, for net proceeds of
approximately £58.2 million. The divestment is subject to shareholder approval and requires the consent of the noteholders and parties to the
syndicated bank facility. In addition, to provide the Group with an increase in the level of headroom available in relation to certain of its ﬁnancial
covenants, amendments to the terms of the loan notes and syndicated bank facility have been agreed. These amendments are conditional on the
completion of the divestment and the use of the net proceeds to pre-pay approximately £45.8 million of the loan notes and pay an associated
contractual make-whole amount of approximately £12.4 million.
Under the revised terms relating to the syndicated bank facility Spirent will have a committed line of £75 million available, which will reduce to 
£60 million by 31 December 2003. The bank facility remains repayable in July 2004. The interest rate will be increased to an initial margin over LIBOR
of 1.75 per cent, which may decrease in certain circumstances.
Following the application of the net proceeds from the divestment of WAGO it is expected that $144.5 million of loan notes will remain outstanding
with unchanged maturities principally in 2009. The applicable interest rate will be increased to a weighted average of 9.45 per cent which will decrease
if certain ﬁnancial requirements are satisﬁed. There is a coupon uplift of 1.25 per cent to the original coupons on the loan notes, which will be reduced
to 1 per cent when certain ﬁnancial ratios are met.
If completion of the divestment of WAGO does not occur, the existing borrowing terms will continue to apply.
72 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 37. US GAAP
The Group’s consolidated accounts are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP), which
differ in certain respects from those generally accepted in the United States (US GAAP). The following are the main differences between UK GAAP and
US GAAP which are relevant to the Group’s accounts.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Fixed Assets
Under UK GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1998 was written off to retained earnings on acquisition. In accordance with FRS 10, goodwill
arising on acquisitions subsequent to 1 January 1998 is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life which is deﬁned as the period
over which the value of the underlying business acquired is expected to exceed the values of its identiﬁable net assets and is presumed to be limited to
20 years. The estimated useful lives are between 10 and 20 years. In reconciling to US GAAP, amounts of goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1998
written off to retained earnings on acquisition, have been capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives, until 1 January 2002.
Under US GAAP, with the adoption of Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) 142, effective 1 January 2002, goodwill is no longer amortised but is subject
to periodic review for impairment. Prior to 1 January 2002 purchased goodwill was amortised over the estimated period which beneﬁted from the
original purchased goodwill, which was typically in the range of seven to ten years, except for goodwill recorded on acquisitions made after 30 June 2001
where the non-amortisation provisions of FAS 142 apply.
Upon adoption of FAS 142, the Group was required to perform a transitional goodwill impairment test based on the carrying amount of goodwill at 
1 January 2002. At that date, the fair values of the Group’s reporting units equalled or exceeded their carrying values and therefore the transitional
goodwill impairment test did not result in any impairment being recorded.
Other intangible assets included in, and accounted for as, goodwill under UK GAAP but reclassiﬁed as intangibles under US GAAP continue to be
amortised over their individually determined estimated useful economic lives, subject to the provisions of FAS 141, which clariﬁes the criteria to
recognise these intangible assets separately from goodwill, and FAS 144 which requires review for impairment if events or changes in circumstances
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The Group considered these criteria to have been met and obtained independent valuations as at
30 November 2002 for FAS 144 purposes which ultimately resulted in impairment of other intangible assets and goodwill within Service Assurance.
Under UK GAAP, FRS 10 requires goodwill to be reviewed for impairment at the end of the ﬁrst full ﬁnancial year following acquisition and in other
periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Under US GAAP, FAS 142 requires periodic review of
goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit basis. The Group identiﬁed its reporting units for FAS 142 purposes and obtained independent valuations 
as at 30 November 2002. These valuations resulted in impairment of goodwill in Performance Analysis, in addition to the impairment in Service Assurance
under FAS 144.
Under UK GAAP, impairment charges on goodwill and other intangible assets are recorded as an increase in accumulated amortisation. Under US GAAP,
impairment charges are recorded as a reduction in cost. The presentation of goodwill and other intangible assets within the reconciliation of
shareholders’ equity reﬂects this classiﬁcation difference.
Stock-based Compensation
UK corporate governance recommends the inclusion of performance criteria in UK stock plans. Accordingly, the UK ESOS plan includes certain
performance criteria which gives rise to variable accounting under US GAAP. Notwithstanding these performance criteria, under UK GAAP no
compensation expense arises under the Group’s various share option plans, with the exception of the Caw Amended and Restated Stock Plan.
In reconciling to US GAAP, the Group has elected to use the intrinsic value basis of calculating compensation expense for the ESOS plan, as set forth in
Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) 25, determined by reference to Spirent’s share price at each reporting date. An expense also arises under US
GAAP in respect of the Caw Amended and Restated Stock Plan and the Zarak Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan, based upon the intrinsic value
of unvested stock awards at the date of acquisition, recognised over the remaining future vesting period.
Disposal of Operations
The different treatment of goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1998 under UK GAAP and US GAAP, together with the use of different goodwill
amortisation periods and the adoption of FAS 142, result in adjustments to the proﬁt or loss on disposal of businesses as the determination of the
proﬁt or loss on disposal takes into account the unamortised balance of goodwill released. In addition, under US GAAP, the proﬁt or loss on disposal 
is stated net of any related cumulative currency retranslation differences and the effect of pension curtailment under FAS 88.
73 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 37. US GAAP continued
Pensions
Under UK GAAP, provision is made for the cost of retirement beneﬁts payable by the Group’s signiﬁcant deﬁned pension schemes as assessed by
external actuaries and is charged to the proﬁt and loss account so as to spread the cost over the period during which the employer derives beneﬁt from
the employee’s services. Under US GAAP, the projected beneﬁt obligation is matched against the fair value of the pension plan’s assets and adjusted 
to reﬂect any unrecognised obligations or assets in determining the pension cost or credit for the year. Recognition of an additional minimum liability 
is required if the accumulated beneﬁt obligation exceeds the fair value of plan assets.
Vacation Accrual 
An accrual is made under UK GAAP in respect of certain subsidiaries for vacation earned but not taken at the year end. Under US GAAP, this accrual
must be calculated to include all subsidiaries within the Group.
Derivative Financial Instruments
Under UK GAAP, the fair value of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are not reported on the Group balance sheet and the gain or loss arising is reported
in earnings as the instrument crystallises. Under US GAAP, in accordance with FAS 133, the fair value of all derivative ﬁnancial instruments must be
recorded as part of shareholders’ equity. As none of the Group’s derivative ﬁnancial instruments have been designated as hedges under FAS 133, any
changes in the fair value of the derivative ﬁnancial instrument must be reported through net income.
Investment in Joint Venture
Under UK GAAP, the Group’s interests in WAGO, its Interconnection joint venture are accounted for using the gross equity method which requires 
the Group to recognise its share of the gross assets and liabilities, off-set by minority interest, and certain components of income and expenses of the
joint venture in the Group’s consolidated accounts. Under US GAAP, in accordance with APB 18, the Group’s interest in its joint venture is accounted
for under the equity method which only requires the Group to recognise its share of the after tax proﬁts or losses of the joint venture. Therefore, in
reconciling to US GAAP it is necessary to adjust for the Group’s share of any differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP with respect to the after tax
proﬁts and the shareholders’ equity of the joint venture. The only differences arising relate to share based compensation and the application of FAS 133
in the joint venture’s US GAAP basis ﬁnancial statements.
Deferred T axation
Under UK GAAP, the Company provides for deferred tax in accordance with FRS 19 on all timing differences with the exception of gains on revaluations
of ﬁxed assets or where potentially taxable amounts have been rolled over and there is no commitment to dispose of the relevant asset. Deferred tax
assets are recognised where it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable proﬁts from which to off-set the timing differences.
Under US GAAP, deferred taxation is provided on a full liability basis on all temporary differences between the book and tax bases of the Group’s assets
and liabilities.
Investment in Own Shares
Under UK GAAP, company shares held by an employee share trust are recorded on the balance sheet as ﬁxed asset investments and provision is made
where the carrying value of the shares may not be recoverable. Under US GAAP such shares are treated as treasury stock and recorded on the balance
sheet at cost as a reduction of shareholders’ equity.
Unamortised Debt Issue Costs
Under UK GAAP, debt issue costs are shown as a reduction in the associated capital proceeds and amortised over the life of the related debt. Under 
US GAAP, these costs are disclosed as a separate asset and similarly amortised. Accordingly, a reclassiﬁcation from borrowings has been made to show
these costs in other debtors for US GAAP disclosure purposes.
Dividends
Under UK GAAP, dividends are recorded in the accounts for the period to which the dividend relates. Under US GAAP, the liability for dividends 
is recorded in the accounts when they are declared.
74 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued 37. US GAAP continued
Net Loss Under US GAAP
The following is a summary of the adjustments to loss attributable to shareholders which would be required if US GAAP were to be applied instead 
of UK GAAP.
2002 2001
£ million £ million
Loss attributable to shareholders in accordance with UK GAAP (1,080.4) (763.5)
Adjustments:
Goodwill and other intangible ﬁxed assets 197.6 (70.5)
Stock-based compensation 0.2 18.3 
Disposal of operations 49.4 35.8 
Provision against investment in own shares 30.1 –
Pension costs (2.6) (0.4)
Vacation payroll costs 0.5 0.4 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 2.1 (1.2)
Income from interest in joint venture 0.2 0.3 
Deferred taxation on above adjustments 28.6 7.1 
Total adjustments 306.1 (10.2)
Net loss as adjusted to accord with US GAAP (774.3) (773.7)
Arising from:
Continuing operations (774.3) (816.0)
Discontinued operations 
Result for the year – 2.5
Loss on disposal – 39.8
Net loss (774.3) (773.7)
Net (loss)/earnings per share (pence)
Basic and diluted:
Continuing operations (83.93) (89.17)
Discontinued operations – 4.62
(83.93) (84.55)
Net (loss)/earnings per ADS (pence)
Basic and diluted:
Continuing operations (335.72) (356.68)
Discontinued operations – 18.48
(335.72) (338.20)
75 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 37. US GAAP continued
Shareholders’ Equity Under US GAAP
The following is a summary of the adjustments to shareholders’ funds which would be required if US GAAP were to be applied instead of UK GAAP.
2002 2001
£ million £ million
Shareholders’ funds in accordance with UK GAAP 139.1 1,094.4 
Adjustments:
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Cost (1,797.4) (713.9)
Accumulated amortisation 1,729.3 510.1 
(68.1) (203.8)
Other intangible assets
Cost 96.8 155.0 
Accumulated amortisation (47.9) (31.1)
48.9 123.9 
Other investments
Investment in own shares (2.1) (34.1)
Investment in joint venture 0.8 0.5 
(1.3) (33.6)
Current assets
Other debtors 1.1 1.6 
Current liabilities
Proposed dividends – 27.6 
Accruals – contingent compensation 1.4 1.9 
Accruals – vacation (1.0) (1.5)
Borrowings – (0.4)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 0.9 (1.2)
1.3 26.4 
Long term liabilities
Accrued pension beneﬁt liability (41.2) (8.6)
Borrowings (1.1) (1.2)
(42.3) (9.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Deferred taxation
On above adjustments (15.1) (34.8)
Methodology – 0.4 
(15.1) (34.4)
Total adjustments (75.5) (129.7)
Shareholders’ equity as adjusted to accord with US GAAP 63.6 964.7
76 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Notes to the Accounts continued % held at 
31 December 2002 Principal activity
Communications 
Performance Analysis division
Caw Networks, Inc 100 Communications performance analysis systems
Sunnyvale, California, USA
Spirent Communications (Scotland) Ltd* 100 Communications network fault detection systems
Hamilton, Glasgow, UK
Spirent Communications Inc 100 Communications performance analysis systems
Calabasas, California, USA
Honolulu, Hawaii, USA
Sunnyvale, California, USA
Eatontown, New Jersey, USA
Spirent Communications of Ottawa Ltd 100 Communications performance analysis systems
Nepean, Ontario, Canada
Spirent Communications (SW) Ltd* 100 Satellite simulation systems
Paignton, Devon, UK
Service Assurance division
Spirent Communications of Rockville, Inc. 100 Communications service assurance systems
Rockville, Maryland, USA
Spirent Communications Ltd* 100 Communications service assurance and performance
Crawley, West Sussex, UK analysis systems
Network Products
Trading divisions of Spirent plc:
HellermannTyton Electrical and data network cable management and connectivity
Aldridge, West Midlands, UK products and systems
Plymouth, Devon, UK
Wythenshawe, Manchester, UK
HellermannTyton (Pty) Ltd 90 Electrical and data network cable management and connectivity
Johannesburg, South Africa products and systems
HellermannTyton SA 100 Electrical and data network cable management and connectivity
Paris, France products and systems
HellermannTyton AB 100 Electrical and data network cable management and connectivity
Järfälla, Sweden products and systems
HellermannTyton GmbH 100 Electrical and data network cable management and connectivity
Vienna, Austria products and systems
HellermannTyton GmbH 100 Electrical and data network cable management and connectivity
Tornesch, Germany products and systems
HellermannTyton Ltda 100 Electrical and data network cable management and connectivity
Jundaí, Brazil products and systems
77 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Principal Divisions, Subsidiaries, Joint Venture and Associates % held at 
31 December 2002 Principal activity
HellermannTyton Pte Ltd 75 Electrical and data network cable management and connectivity
Yishun, Singapore products and systems
HellermannTyton Data Ltd* 90 Data network connectivity and cable management products
Northampton, UK and systems
HellermannTyton Corporation 97 Electrical and data network cable management and connectivity
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA products and systems
Tyton Company of Japan Ltd* 49 Electrical and data network cable management and connectivity
Tokyo, Japan (Associate) products and systems
Systems
PG Drives Technology Ltd 100 Controllers for medical and industrial mobility products
Christchurch, Dorset, UK
PG Drives Technology Inc 100 Controllers for medical and industrial mobility products
Anaheim, California, USA
Spirent Systems San Diego Inc 100 Maintenance and operations information systems
La Jolla, California, USA
Spirent Systems Wichita Inc 100 Aircraft instruments and cockpit voice recorders
Wichita, Kansas, USA
WPDS Software Ltd* 100 Maintenance, repair and overhaul management 
Yeovil, Somerset, UK information systems
The Flight Data Company Ltd 100 Aircraft performance analysis and information 
West Drayton, Middlesex, UK systems integration
Spirent Systems (Ottawa) Ltd 100 Flight crew training and debrieﬁng systems
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
Financial
Spirent BV 100 Investment company
Rotterdam, Netherlands
Spirent GmbH 100 Investment company
Tornesch, Germany
Spirent Holdings Corporation 100 Investment company
Hauppauge, New Y ork, USA
Interconnection Joint Venture†
WAGO Contact SA 51 Terminals, connectors and electronic modules
Domdidier, Switzerland
WAGO Kontakttechnik GmbH 51 Terminals, connectors and electronic modules
Minden and Sondershausen, Germany
Notes
The above companies operate and are incorporated in the countries listed. All shareholdings in the companies are held indirectly by Spirent plc, except where indicated by
an asterisk (*) where the shareholding is held directly by Spirent plc. The principal activity mentioned is indicative and not comprehensive.
The percentage held reﬂects the proportion of shares controlled and not the beneﬁcial interest.
† Spirent announced on 12 March 2003 its intention to dispose of its interests in the Interconnection Joint Venture. Completion of the disposal is expected in April 2003.
78 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Principal Divisions, Subsidiaries, Joint Venture and Associates continued £ million
2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 
Consolidated Proﬁt and Loss Account
Turnover: Group and share of joint venture 634.5 880.1 772.7 611.5 530.1
Less: share of joint venture’s turnover (75.6) (78.3) (76.0) (67.0) (59.9)
Turnover 558.9 801.8 696.7 544.5 470.2
Operating (Loss)/Proﬁt (970.5) (733.2) 110.0 81.4 70.1 
Goodwill impairment 923.3 724.6 – – –
Exceptional items – other 41.6 34.9 2.2 – –
Goodwill amortisation 56.1 86.6 25.7 8.6 0.9 
Operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 50.5 112.9 137.9 90.0 71.0 
Joint venture’s proﬁt 7.4 9.6 13.3 9.5 11.5 
Associate’s proﬁt net of goodwill amortisation 0.8 1.2 2.7 2.3 1.7 
Non-operating Exceptional Items
(Loss)/proﬁt on disposal and closure of operations (48.4) 14.5 (18.1) (6.7) –
Provision against investment in own shares (30.1) ––––
Proﬁt on disposal of tangible ﬁxed assets – – 3.2 – –
(Loss)/Proﬁt before Interest (1,040.8) (707.9) 111.1 86.5 83.3 
Net interest payable (12.3) (22.8) (29.3) (12.8) (2.1)
(Loss)/Proﬁt before Taxation (1,053.1) (730.7) 81.8 73.7 81.2 
Taxation 26.9 32.6 30.6 30.2 27.3 
Minority interest 0.4 0.2 0.5 – –
(Loss)/Proﬁt Attributable to Shareholders (1,080.4) (763.5) 50.7 43.5 53.9 
Dividends 12.5 40.0 36.1 27.1 24.9 
(Loss)/Proﬁt for the Year (1,092.9) (803.5) 14.6 16.4 29.0 
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Intangible assets 113.6 987.7 1,816.8 321.3 25.7 
Tangible assets 110.0 137.6 136.2 107.0 95.4 
Investments 65.5 96.7 87.0 59.1 49.5 
Working capital (excluding cash, overdrafts and deferred tax) 42.3 28.2 111.1 33.6 44.0 
Operating Assets 331.4 1,250.2 2,151.1 521.0 214.6 
Net borrowings (161.8) (179.1) (326.4) (274.6) (30.2)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (28.4) (1.5) (2.1) (0.7) (3.1)
Deferred tax asset – 27.2 15.8 8.5 –
Assets less Liabilities 141.2 1,096.8 1,838.4 254.2 181.3 
Shareholders’ Funds 139.1 1,094.4 1,834.7 250.3 178.9 
Minority Interest – Equity 2.1 2.4 3.7 3.9 2.4 
141.2 1,096.8 1,838.4 254.2 181.3 
Investment
Acquisitions net of disposals (2.9) (145.7) 1,534.0 282.7 29.2 
Capital expenditure – owned assets 27.6 59.4 44.8 35.5 38.2 
– leased assets 0.2 0.8 2.5 7.3 0.6 
Depreciation 33.6 37.2 25.1 21.9 18.3 
Product development 77.7 95.9 60.3 39.1 26.6 
79 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Financial History 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 
Share Information
Basic (loss)/earnings per share† (pence) (117.12) (83.43) 7.40 6.67 8.33
Headline earnings per share† (pence) 3.40 7.76 12.61 9.18 8.47
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (pence) (117.12) (83.43) 7.18 6.39 8.29
Dividend per share (pence) 1.35 4.35 4.35 4.13 3.82 
Fully paid Ordinary shares in issue at year end (million) 939.4 933.2 926.5 622.5 614.4 
†The weighted average number of shares in issue used to calculate (loss)/earnings per share excludes the shares held by QUEST, Orbis Management Limited and 
Greenwood Nominees.
£ million
Segmental Analysis
Turnover
Performance Analysis 187.1 245.5 283.7 114.7 52.4
Service Assurance 128.3 185.1 5.5 – –
Communications 315.4 430.6 289.2 114.7 52.4
Network Products 164.7 170.4 181.4 155.4 145.7
Systems 53.8 48.6 45.0 45.4 47.1
533.9 649.6 515.6 315.5 245.2
Disposals** 25.0 152.2 181.1 229.0 225.0
558.9 801.8 696.7 544.5 470.2
Operating Proﬁt*
Performance Analysis 9.4 38.7 97.1 43.0 18.4
Service Assurance 21.4 44.7 1.5 – –
Communications 30.8 83.4 98.6 43.0 18.4
Network Products 15.0 15.3 25.3 21.5 20.2
Systems 3.4 0.5 (4.2) (1.3) 5.0
49.2 99.2 119.7 63.2 43.6
Disposals** 1.3 13.7 18.2 26.8 27.4
50.5 112.9 137.9 90.0 71.0
Operating (Loss)/Proﬁt by Source
Europe 18.8 17.9 15.3 16.9 18.2
North America 29.5 79.7 101.7 45.7 23.3
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 0.9 1.6 2.7 0.6 2.1
49.2 99.2 119.7 63.2 43.6
Disposals** 1.3 13.7 18.2 26.8 27.4
50.5 112.9 137.9 90.0 71.0
Exceptional items – other (41.6) (34.9) (2.2) – –
Goodwill impairment (923.3) (724.6) – – –
Goodwill amortisation (56.1) (86.6) (25.7) (8.6) (0.9)
(970.5) (733.2) 110.0 81.4 70.1
Earnings before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation, Amortisation 
and Exceptional Items 84.1 150.1 163.0 111.9 89.3
Impact of Exchange Rate Movement on Proﬁt before Taxation*
(Cost)/beneﬁt (1.1) 1.9 6.1 0.8 (1.1)
Notes
* Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
** Disposals include discontinued operations and other less signiﬁcant disposals and closures.
80 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Financial History continued Rates against Sterling
2002 2001 2000 1999 1998
Average Exchange Rates for Major Currencies
US dollar 1.51 1.44 1.51 1.62 1.66 
Euro 1.59 1.61 1.64 1.52 1.49 
Japanese yen 187.86 175.50 163.47 183.78 216.14 
Number
Average Employment by Geographical Area
Europe 1,909 2,730 2,826 2,854 2,993
North America 2,622 3,608 2,894 2,786 2,748
Asia Paciﬁc, Rest of Americas, Africa 648 1,474 1,230 942 788
5,179 7,812 6,950 6,582 6,529
81 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 Shareholder Analysis
At 12 March 2003, the number of registered shareholders was 8,916 and the number of Ordinary shares in issue was 942.8 million.
Number Percentage of Percentage of
of holdings total shareholders Number of shares share capital
Range of holdings:
1 – 5,000 5,947 66.70 9,640,388 1.02
5,001 – 10,000 1,136 12.74 8,634,576 0.92
10,001 – 50,000 1,249 14.01 26,755,907 2.84
50,001 – 100,000 177 1.99 13,296,559 1.41
100,001 – 250,000 144 1.62 21,970,853 2.33
250,001 – 500,000 76 0.85 28,211,896 2.99
500,001 – 1,000,000 61 0.68 42,391,249 4.50
1,000,001 – Highest 126 1.41 791,859,549 83.99
Total 8,916 100.00 942,760,977 100.00
Held by:
Individuals 6,436 72.18 52,093,053 5.53
Institutions 2,48027.82890,667,92494.47
Total 8,916 100.00 942,760,977 100.00
Lloyds TSB Registrars*
Enquiries concerning shareholdings, change of address or other particulars should be directed in the ﬁrst instance to the Company’s Registrar,
Lloyds TSB Registrars on +44 (0)870 600 3964. They also provide a range of on-line shareholder information services at www.shareview.co.uk,
where shareholders can check their holdings and ﬁnd practical help on transferring shares or updating their details.
Dividend Mandate
Shareholders who wish to have any future dividends paid directly into their nominated bank or building society account and who have not already
done so should request a BACS dividend mandate from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
Spirent operates a DRIP under which shareholders can mandate to invest any future cash dividends in Spirent shares, which are purchased in the market
at competitive dealing rates. Application forms and further information can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars who administer the plan on behalf
of the Company.
Spirent Single Company ISA
Lloyds TSB Registrars (a division of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority) operate a Single Company Individual
Savings Account (ISA) in which Spirent Ordinary shares can be held in a tax efﬁcient manner. Full details and an application form can be obtained 
from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Postal Share Dealing Service – Cazenove & Co. Ltd*
An execution-only service is available for the sale and purchase of the Company’s shares by private investors in a simple, cost-effective manner.
Dealing forms may be obtained from, and enquiries directed to, Cazenove & Co. Ltd.
Share Price Information
The Spirent share price is available via the Company’s website (www.spirent.com) and also in various newspapers published in the UK.
82 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Shareholder Information UK Capital Gains T ax
For the purposes of capital gains tax, the market value of a Spirent plc Ordinary share on 31 March 1982, as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation
issues, was 97.233 pence per share.
American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) – The Bank of New Y ork*
The Company’s shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: SPM) in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS) and these are
evidenced by ADRs, each one of which represents four Ordinary shares. The Bank of New York is the authorised Depositary bank for the Company’s 
ADR programme. The Company’s ADS price is quoted daily in the Wall Street Journal and can be obtained from either the Spirent website or via the
New York Stock Exchange website at www.nyse.com.
Spirent Website at www.spirent.com
The Spirent website provides further information about Spirent and its operating groups and also provides access to annual reports, press releases,
share price information and links to other Spirent operating group websites.
Unsolicited Mail
The Company is obliged by law to make its share register available upon request to the public and to other organisations, which may use it as a mailing
list, resulting in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail. Shareholders wishing to limit the receipt of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference
Service, Freepost 22, London W1E 7EZ or call +44 (0)8457 034599 for an application form or visit www.mps-online.org.uk.
ShareGIFT
Shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, where dealing costs make it uneconomical to sell them, may wish to consider donating them 
to charity through ShareGIFT, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation. The relevant share transfer form can be obtained
from Lloyds TSB Registrars. Further information is available at www.sharegift.org or telephone +44 (0)20 7337 0501.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.00 noon on Tuesday, 20 May 2003 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London
WC2A 3ED.
Advisers
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP*
Banker
HSBC Bank plc
Brokers
Cazenove & Co. Ltd*
Schroder Salomon Smith Barney 
Financial Adviser
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
Legal Advisers
Linklaters (UK)
Debevoise & Plimpton (USA)
*contact details appear on page 84
83 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002 2003
Annual General Meeting 20 May
Announcement of 2003 Interim Results August
Financial Year End 31 December
84 Spirent plc Annual Report 2002
Financial Calendar
Head Ofﬁce and Registered Ofﬁce
Spirent plc
Spirent House
Crawley Business Quarter
Fleming Way
Crawley
West Sussex RH10 9QL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1293 767676
Fax: +44 (0)1293 767677
Email: plc@spirent.com
Spirent plc
Registered in England No: 470893
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
Becket House
1 Lambeth Palace Road
London SE1 7EU
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7951 2000
Website: www.ey.com
Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
Service Helplines:
Tel: +44 (0)870 600 3964 (General enquiries)
Fax: +44 (0)870 242 4244 (ISA enquiries)
Website: www.lloydstsb-registrars.co.uk
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
Share Dealing Facility
Cazenove & Co. Ltd
12 Tokenhouse Y ard
London EC2R 7AN
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7606 1768
Website: www.cazenove.com
ADR Depositary
The Bank of New York
American Depositary Receipts
101 Barclay Street
22 West Floor
New Y ork
NY 10286
USA
Tel: +1 888 BNY ADRS (269 2377)
Email: shareowner-svcs@bankofny.com
Website: www.bankofny.com
Contact Details The name ‘Spirent’ and its logo device are registered
trademarks or trademarks pending registration in
accordance with the relevant national laws worldwide.
All rights reserved.
Designed and produced by CGI BrandSense.
Front cover photography by Ric Gemmell.
Printed by royle corporate print.
The paper used in this report is elemental
chlorine-free. www.spirent.com
Spirent plc, Spirent House, Crawley Business Quarter, Fleming Way, Crawley, West Sussex RH10 9QL, United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)1293 767676  Fax +44 (0)1293 767677
