 HELPING  
THE WORLD  
CONNECT
Spirent Communications plc
Annual Report 2013
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2013 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
2
Welcome
Welcome to the Spirent Group  
annual report for 2013. 
 
This interactive PDF allows you to 
easily access the information that you 
require. Use the document controls 
located at the top of each page to 
navigate through the report and the 
contents and signposting throughout. STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
3
Search the document  
by keyword
Return back to the
contents at the beginning 
of the document
Print a single page
or whole sections
Next page
Previous page Spirent is a global leader in communications test and 
measurement listed on the London Stock Exchange.
At Spirent we develop innovative hardware and software 
solutions and test methodologies for the communications 
industry. Our solutions shorten our customers’ product 
development lifecycle, improve the quality and reliability 
of their new and existing services, whilst reducing their 
associated cost and risk.
Spirent employs 1,500+ talented people working in 
15 countries who serve our 1,200 customers worldwide.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements which are made in good faith and are based on 
current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events. You can sometimes, but not 
always, identify these statements by the use of a date in the future or such words as “will”, “anticipate”, 
“estimate”, “expect”, “project”, “intend”, “plan”, “should”, “may”, “assume” and other similar words. By their 
nature, forward-looking statements are inherently predictive and speculative and involve risk and uncertainty 
because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future. You should not place 
undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are not a guarantee of future performance and are 
subject to factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by 
these statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements 
contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
1
Spirent VR5 quality assurance
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 8
Our CEO discusses the market trends in 2013 
and explains the organisational changes made 
following his appointment in September 2013.
OUR STRATEGY 16
In this section we discuss the key components 
of our strategy, what we have achieved in  
2013 and what we plan to achieve in 2014 in 
order to ultimately realise our vision.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated financial statements
Independent auditor’s report to the  
members of Spirent Communications plc 80
Consolidated income statement 82
Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income 83
Consolidated balance sheet 84
Consolidated cash flow statement 85
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 86
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 87
Parent Company financial statements
Independent auditor’s report to the  
members of Spirent Communications plc 121
Parent Company balance sheet 122
Notes to the parent Company financial 
 statements 123
Principal divisions and subsidiaries 135
OTHER INFORMATION
Financial history 136
Shareholder information 138
Glossary 140
Contact details ibc
1 2 3
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chairman’s statement 2
Results and highlights 4
Spirent at a glance 6
Chief Executive’s review 8
Market trends 10
What we test 12
Our business model 14
Our strategy 16
Key performance indicators 18
Our principal risks and uncertainties 20
Financial review 26
Operational review 30
Our employees 36
Corporate social responsibility statement 38
GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s introduction 44
Board of directors 46
Directors’ statement on corporate governance  48
Nomination Committee  53
Audit Committee 54
Report on directors’ remuneration 58
Report of the directors 77
Directors’ responsibilities statement 79 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
2
Chairman’s statement
The changes made in 2013 will take 
time to be fully reflected in the 
financial performance of the Company, 
but it is planned to restore revenue to 
growth in 2014 which will fund the 
necessary investment in product 
development and in the expansion of 
the sales and marketing activities for 
the long term growth of the business.
Total dividend
3.54¢
+10%
Alex Walker
Chairman 3
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2013 is a year that marks a turning point for the Company. The impact 
on the business due to the significant changes in our markets and 
accelerating shifts in the structure of the industry we serve has 
been marked. These trends manifested themselves through intense 
competition in the data center market, wireless device vendors 
seeing lower profitability combined with a lull in new technology and 
service launches. In addition, under investment in development of 
new test systems in some parts of the business in previous years 
and the lack of expansion of our products into new markets has 
had a negative impact. In response, we have undertaken a radical 
reorganisation of the activities within Spirent with the key strategic 
objective to create long term value by harnessing Spirent’s leading 
capabilities and talent. It will take time to be fully reflected in the 
financial performance of the Company, but it is planned to restore 
revenue to growth in 2014 which will fund the necessary investment 
in product development and in the expansion of the sales and 
marketing activities for the long term growth of the business.
Group revenue reduced to $413.5 million (2012 $472.4 million). This 
resulted in a considerable fall in reported profit before tax to $39.1 
million (2012 $108.4 million). The first half-year saw revenue fall by 
19 per cent, but the rate of decline slowed in the second half-year with 
revenues down by 6 per cent and underlying stability in order intake. The 
order book increased by $21.4 million in 2013 (2012 a reduction of $14.5 
million). Operational highlights included the release of next-generation 
products for Ethernet test, the launch of our advanced applications and 
security test system Avalanche NEXT and the delivery of test solutions 
for China’s regional satellite navigation system, BeiDou.
Return on sales based on adjusted operating profit was 12 per cent for 
the Group, down from 25 per cent last year, reflecting the impact of the 
fall in revenues and the investment in the business to drive recovery 
and long term growth. This investment was in the expansion of our 
operating capabilities: product development expenditure has been 
increased by $14.4 million and sales and marketing by $4.9 million. 
Basic earnings per share for the continuing Group decreased in 2013 
to 5.10 cents per share (2012 12.11 cents). Adjusted basic earnings 
per share was 5.71 cents (2012 13.02 cents); this is before charging 
exceptional items, acquisition related costs, acquired intangible 
asset amortisation and share-based payment. 
The Group’s free cash flow generation was $43.9 million in 2013, 
(2012 $84.0 million); this is a cash conversion ratio of 1.3 times 
reported earnings (2012 1.1 times continuing operations). The 
Company has no debt and cash balances were $216.2 million at 
31 December 2013.
The Board aims to achieve a high return on capital employed in the 
business. The operating return on capital employed in the continuing 
Group in 2013 was 16 per cent, excluding cash balances. The target 
set for return on investment in acquired businesses is 16 per cent. 
Returns are low to negligible on cash balances, which are retained to 
allow surety of completion for acquisition negotiations. Whilst the 
Company continues to expect to invest in acquisitions which are in line 
with the strategy, it is also committed to returning surplus capital as 
appropriate. To that end, during 2013 the balance of the proceeds of 
the divestment of the Systems business, approximately $33 million, 
was applied to the repurchase of Spirent shares in the market for 
cancellation and the programme extended beyond this. In total 
29.2 million shares were repurchased for $55.5 million in 2013. 
No further buybacks are currently planned.
I am delighted to report the completion of the acquisition of the 
business of DAX Technologies Corp. (“DAX”) for a cash consideration 
of $37.0 million. The acquisition of DAX will enable Spirent to combine 
measurements and data from its solutions in the lab and in live 
networks, delivering high value solutions and expertise that help 
customers deploy and manage complex new networks and services 
faster and more effectively. 
In addition, today we are announcing the completion of the acquisition 
of a majority stake of 58 per cent of Testing Technologies IST GmbH 
(“Testing Tech”) for a cash consideration of Euro 2.0 million. This 
acquisition, although small in size, is an important step in the 
progression of Spirent’s strategy to enter the automotive market.
We very much welcome the employees of both these companies into 
the Spirent Group.
The final dividend recommended is 2.01 cents per share compared with 
1.83 cents per share in 2012. This brings the total dividend for 2013 to 
3.54 cents per share compared with 3.22 cents for 2012. The increase in 
total dividend per share is 10 per cent. In sterling terms this represents 
an increase in the distribution to our shareholders of 5 per cent.
Board changes
September 2013 saw a change in senior management with Bill Burns 
stepping down as Chief Executive Officer and replaced in the role by 
Eric Hutchinson. Rachel Whiting, who has extensive financial 
experience and long service with Spirent, was welcomed to the 
Board in February 2014 as Chief Financial Officer.
Outlook
The disruption and structural changes experienced in our markets 
in the first half of 2013 stabilised during the second half-year. 
The reorganisation of the Group in the fourth quarter of 2013 has 
released creativity and energy, which is driving a dynamic change 
in the responsiveness and agility of our businesses. We continue to 
see opportunities arising through infrastructure investment in the 
wireless networks worldwide and in the development and rollout 
of virtual and cloud based services. 
In 2014, we anticipate that Spirent’s revenue will be linked to recovery in 
China, growth in the Americas and expected stability in the European 
market and we look to achieve high single digit organic growth.
This year the Group intends to make an additional investment of 
around $33.0 million in future growth, in particular through a 15 per 
cent increase in product development, extending the sales channel 
to break into new areas, expanding Spirent’s capabilities in the 
core markets that it serves and by entering new markets including 
automotive and enterprise. Whilst there continue to be near term 
uncertainties, activity levels at the beginning of 2014 are in line with 
our expectations. The Board remain confident that progress will be 
achieved and that the Group will benefit from the investment to 
create long term strategic value. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
4
Basic earnings per share
4
 (cents)
09
10
11
12
13
10.80
13.07
12.11
5.10
12.92
Adjusted basic earnings per share
1,2,4
 (cents)
09
10
11
12
13
10.92
12.81
13.02
5.71
10.39
Dividend per share (cents)
09
10
11
12
13
2.50
2.93
3.22
3.54
1.93
Revenue
4
 ($ million)
09
10
11
12
13
422.8
470.5
472.4
413.5
369.4
Adjusted operating profit
1,4
 ($ million)
09
10
11
12
13
104.4
116.1
118.3
50.1
79.8
Free cash flow
3,4
 ($ million)
09
10
11
12
13
75.5
69.3
84.0
43.9
76.4
Results and highlights
The disruption and structural changes experienced in our markets in the first 
half of 2013 stabilised during the second half-year. The reorganisation of the 
Group in the fourth quarter of 2013 has released creativity and energy, which is 
driving a dynamic change in the responsiveness and agility of our businesses. 
Notes
1 Before exceptional items, acquisition related costs, acquired intangible asset 
amortisation and share-based payment.
2 Before tax effect of items in note 1 and prior year tax.
3 Operating cash flow after tax, net interest and net capital expenditure.
4 Continuing operations. 5
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
• Group revenue of $413.5 million (2012 $472.4 million); with a sequential 
improvement of 17% in the second half-year compared with the first half 
of 2013.
• Book to bill ratio was 105 (2012 97) reflecting the improving market dynamics 
in the second half of 2013 and Spirent’s key product launches.
• Group adjusted operating profit of $50.1 million (2012 $118.3 million)  
on lower revenue and after increased investment in product development 
and sales and marketing of $19.3 million compared to the prior year.
• Dividend increased by 10%. Final dividend proposed of 2.01 cents per 
Ordinary Share, giving a full year dividend of 3.54 cents per Ordinary Share. 
• Free cash flow of $43.9 million (2012 $84.0 million); cash closed at  
$216.2 million after share buybacks and dividends totalling $76.9 million.
Financial
Operational and strategic
There were strong headwinds in certain market segments and geographies 
exacerbated by historical under investment in certain parts of the business 
given the significant changes in the industry:
• Intense competition in the data center market and spending shifting to virtual 
and cloud based services.
• Wireless device vendors experienced lower profitability and a lull in new 
technology and service launches.
• Adverse macro-economic conditions in Europe coupled with spending caution  
by Chinese customers earlier in the year.
In spite of these challenges there were areas of progress:
• Structural reorganisation of the Group into business units to create maximum 
focus on meeting customers’ changing needs as reported in January 2014.
• Service providers increased infrastructure spending on high density core 
routers and 100G Ethernet.
• Spirent introduced a family of next-generation high speed Ethernet test 
solutions, incorporating market leading realism and scale, to address 
increasing complexity and the explosion of data traffic in service provider 
and data center networks.
• Launched Avalanche NEXT, a powerful, easy-to-use solution that tests the 
performance, scalability and security of application-aware network 
infrastructures with positive feedback from customers.
• Underscored our industry leadership in GNSS testing with the first 
commercially available support for the Chinese BeiDou satellite navigation 
system.
• Acquisition of the business of DAX Technologies Corp. (“DAX”) for a cash 
consideration of $37 .0 million announced on 18 February 2014. DAX is a 
leading provider of customer experience management solutions and will 
be reported within our Service Assurance division.
• Completion of the acquisition of a majority stake of 58% in Testing 
Technologies IST GmbH for a cash consideration of Euro 2.0 million on 
20 February 2014. The company, based in Berlin, Germany, develops and 
markets standards based and customer-specific software testing tools which 
support the development of mission-critical products and workflow steps.
Post balance sheet events SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
6
Spirent at a glance
Spirent has a broad portfolio of innovative 
products and services and is organised into 
three operating segments:
Networks & Applications
Spirent’s networks and applications solutions put 
innovation to the test within labs, networks and 
IT organisations. 
We enable our customers’ success in development and deployment  
of communications networks, services and applications. Our broad 
solutions portfolio addresses data centers, cloud computing, 
virtualized environments, security, high speed Ethernet networks 
and services, and infrastructure test optimization.
Wireless & Service Experience
Spirent’s wireless and service experience solutions apply 
our innovation to functional and performance testing of 
4G/LTE and 3G mobile devices, services and infrastructure, 
and satellite positioning devices, under real-world 
conditions in the lab prior to commercial launch. 
The portfolio also includes tools and services for end-to-end 
measurement of the mobile experience on live networks, on any  
device and on any operating system. These solutions help our 
customers to minimise the risks associated with deployment  
of new technologies, devices and services. 
Service Assurance
Spirent’s service assurance solutions allow service 
providers to diagnose, troubleshoot and determine how 
to resolve issues with networks and systems within the 
live network. 
Building on the expertise gained through testing technologies and 
systems in the lab, Spirent enables service providers to deploy 
and maintain efficient, cost effective and high performing networks, 
helping to reduce subscriber churn by providing better quality 
of experience.  STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
7
1
2
3
1 Americas 55%
2 Asia Pacific 32%
3 Europe, Middle 
 East and Africa 13%
We serve 1,200 customers worldwide and have  
built a world-class organisation that enables 
Spirent to develop and maintain strong customer 
relationships around the globe.
Revenue 
$413.5M
(2012 $472.4M)
1
2
3
1 Americas 63%
2 Asia Pacific 25%
3 Europe, Middle 
 East and Africa 12%
Employees by location
1,525
(2012 1,486)
Page 30 for the full Operational review for Networks & Applications
Revenue
$213.4M
(2012 $259.5M)
Divisional focus
 – Ethernet
 – Data center/cloud computing
 – Applications and security
 – Test optimization
 – Wireless infrastructure
Page 34 for the full Operational review for Service Assurance
Divisional focus
 – Ethernet business services
 – Wireless backhaul
 – Field test solutions
 – Customer experience management
Revenue
$32.4M
(2012 $38.4M)
Page 32 for the full Operational review for Wireless & Service Experience
Divisional focus
 – Wireless devices
 – Wireless channel emulation
 – Satellite navigation and global positioning
 – Wireless service experience
Revenue
$167 .7 M
(2012 $174.5M)
Note
1  Before exceptional items, acquisition related 
costs, acquired intangible asset amortisation 
and share-based payment.
1
2
3
1 Networks & Applications 24%
2 Wireless & Service Experience 60%
3 Service Assurance 16%
Operating profit by division
1
$50.1M
(2012 $118.3M) SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
8
Chief Executive’s review
The key objectives in reorganising 
the Group are to enable agile decision 
making, to unleash the creativity and 
innovation of Spirent’s expert and 
talented people and to devolve 
responsibility and accountability to 
customer facing management teams. 
The result will be an organisation that 
is more effective in delivering expert 
solutions that are easy-to-use by 
customers to manage and deploy 
their complex systems.
Product development
$100.5M
+17 %
Eric Hutchinson
Chief Executive Officer 9
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wireless & Service Experience and Service Assurance. Each segment 
is comprised of business units focused on delivery of particular 
technology solutions. Each of these business units are led by a 
management team under a general manager responsible for all the 
activities required to serve customers.
Networks & Applications
The businesses in Networks & Applications specialise in Ethernet 
test, applications test and network performance, cyber security, 
Wi-Fi offload and mobile packet core. The development of virtual 
test solutions to address the emerging needs of software-defined 
networks (“SDN”) and network functions virtualization (“NFV”) are 
a key part of the division’s product portfolio. In addition, a new 
Infrastructure Test Optimization (“ITO”) & Solutions business unit 
has been created to deliver test automation and professional 
services. This business unit will address the demands by customers 
for greater efficiency and effectiveness through providing lab 
management tools, expert analysis of data from test and 
measurement systems and testing services. Another new business 
unit has been established to apply our test technology expertise, 
including cloud based testing-as-a-service, to enterprise customers.
Wireless & Service Experience
Within this division the wireless business unit serves the test needs of 
the wireless device ecosystem. This business unit is in transition as the 
key served market centred on carrier acceptance test for mobile 
devices, 3G CDMA and UMTS mobile test requirements, has moved into 
long term decline, being replaced by the development and deployment 
of 4G/LTE technologies. Solutions now under development in the 
wireless business unit address the needs of those developing and 
deploying the next-generation of services enabled by 4G/LTE 
technologies and which provide for the evaluation of the mobile user’s 
service level of experience. The positioning test business unit designs 
the world’s leading satellite navigation simulation systems for use by 
equipment manufacturers and system developers that utilise the 
various different global and regional satellite navigation and 
positioning technologies. The service experience business unit’s focus 
is on the performance of devices in the live carrier network, providing 
detailed analysis of the subscriber experience that allows wireless 
service providers and their suppliers to successfully roll out new 
devices and services. A new business unit has also been set up to 
develop solutions for emerging needs in the automotive technology 
market, including related connectivity challenges.
Service Assurance
For Service Assurance the primary business is the provision of live 
network monitoring systems for diagnostics and assurance of service 
levels for wireline, wireless service providers and multi-service 
cable operators. 
The key objectives in reorganising the Group are to enable agile 
decision making, to unleash the creativity and innovation of Spirent’s 
expert and talented people and to devolve responsibility and 
accountability to customer facing management teams. The result 
will be an organisation that is more effective in delivering expert 
solutions that are easy-to-use by customers to manage and deploy 
their complex systems. This will enable the Group to return to growth 
and to enhance the long term value of its business.
Market conditions
It has been a challenging year for Spirent; revenues have decreased 
and profit has been impacted significantly. The Company has lost 
some market share in its core markets. Technologies have been in a 
rapid transition and some customers have faced great difficulties, 
with the business performance of a number of major customers 
declining markedly, reducing demand for our test systems. There has 
been a structural change in the shape of the wireless mobile device 
industry, resulting in a market characterised by a very small number 
of profitable manufacturers. The rapid shift to deployment of a single 
global standard for wireless technologies, 4G/LTE, while continuing 
to represent an opportunity for Spirent, has also eroded the 3G 
technology niches where Spirent had a high market share. Regionally 
demand has been weak in Europe, China and in some market 
segments in North America. The impact of the market challenges 
described above was exacerbated by historical under investment 
by Spirent in the development of core technologies, in channels 
to market and in customer support. 
Strategy and organisational structure
The vision for Spirent is to consolidate its position as the leading 
expert in test and measurement for information technology 
communications worldwide. In order to achieve this aim, a number 
of areas are an important focus of Spirent’s future investment. 
These include: the development of new product solutions in its 
core businesses in Networks & Applications, Wireless & Service 
Experience and Service Assurance; establishment of an enterprise 
sales channel; enhancements to Spirent’s cyber security test 
offering; and new solutions directed towards automotive 
technologies and related connectivity testing.
Furthermore, better alignment of the business internally will allow 
Spirent to maximise the growth areas that offer the most significant 
future opportunities. To this end, a number of management changes 
have been completed to provide a streamlined, decentralised and 
simplified organisational structure. These internal changes have 
been made to create a more agile and responsive business that better 
serves customer needs as well as to sharpen the business’ focus 
on anticipating customers’ requirements for the future. The Group 
is managed as three operating segments: Networks & Applications, 
Cloud data center traffic will grow at a faster rate 
than traditional data center traffic (zettabytes per year)
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
69%
31%
54%
46%
14 16 15 13 17 12
+25%
CAGR 2012-17
 
 
Traditional data center  
(12% CAGR)
Cloud data center  
(35% CAGR)
Source: Cisco Global Cloud Index. 10
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Market trends
2013 was a turning point for our 
industry as the shift from network and 
transport to applications and services 
accelerated, with a renewed focus on 
the user experience. We moved 
beyond just getting connected towards 
the age of hyper-connectivity, the 
internet of things and machine-to- 
machine (“M2M”) communications, 
and global connectedness is just 
getting started...
Ethernet cemented its role as the common building block for service 
provider, enterprise and critical infrastructure networks. Cloud 
moved from being a convenience to an essential part of many 
people’s lives as the disruptive business models of cloud service 
providers made a major impact. The cloud and data center 
segments were also impacted by new technologies such as 
software-defined networking (“SDN”). 
The move to virtualization accelerated, including strong service provider 
interest in the potential for network functions virtualization (“NFV”) to 
lower costs, raise efficiency and increase agility. The entire industry 
faced continuing escalation of cyber-security threats, with frequent 
reports of high profile attacks. Security was also an issue in the 
Positioning technologies market, as concern grew over the vulnerability 
of Global Navigation Satellite System (“GNSS”) applications.
Although smartphone growth continued, its focus shifted to 
emerging markets which caused profitability challenges for all but a 
very few device vendors. 4G/LTE networks were deployed at a rapid 
pace around the world, as the industry prepared for widespread roll 
outs of important new services such as Voice over LTE (“VoLTE”), 
looking to ensure a positive experience for users. 
As a result, the testing needs of our customers have continued to 
increase in complexity. With its broad portfolio of products and 
services in the lab and in live networks, Spirent is uniquely 
positioned to help address this complexity, enabling the shift to 
application and user experience testing. 
2000
1ST 
smartphone
Key 
BN Billion
EB Exabyte
GB Gigabyte
M Million
1BN 
people using the 
internet
0.4EB 
mobile data  
traffic
5.6BN 
mobile
subscribers
10M 
new connected 
vehicles
954M 
new 
smartphones
9BN 
connected 
devices
2.7BN 
people using the 
internet
2005 2008 2011 2012 2013  11
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
47% 
entertainment 
info in the cloud
24BN 
connected 
devices
3.1
connected 
devices per person
2020
300M
smartmeters
1.6BN 
new 
smartphones
10BN 
mobile 
subscribers
67M 
new connected 
vehicles
52EB 
mobile data  
traffic
1.6GB 
monthly per  
smartphone user
1.4
mobile devices 
per person
2018 2015 2016 2017
Nigel Wright
Vice President International  
Sales and Marketing
“ With our expertise, 
solutions and 
global reach we’re a 
strong partner to our 
customers, helping 
them to address the 
internet of things, cloud 
and virtual roll outs.”
Source: Cisco VNI, ITU, GSMA, Gartner, US Census Bureau, Berg Insight, 
and others. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
12
What we test
The boundaries of how fast, far and 
accurately voice and data can be 
transmitted have yet to be reached,  
or even defined – but Spirent is  
leading the way.
Spirent Communications is where the world’s leading communications 
companies come to test and evaluate their next-generation devices 
and applications. In fact, most of the industry’s significant advances 
have been made using our tests as the benchmark.
In an environment where everything is connected, Spirent provides 
hardware and software solutions, services and test methodologies 
that address customers’ testing needs – from network equipment 
in a cloud data center to mobile device performance and user 
experience in the lab and on live networks.
Spirent is a leader in testing network equipment which utilises Ethernet 
at ever-increasing scale, including switches, routers, firewalls, load 
balancers, data center fabrics and intrusion detection/prevention.
Spirent addresses the demands of virtualized data centers by testing 
performance, availability, security and scalability, emulating the 
actions of millions of real-world subscribers and services to help 
ensure the quality of experience is maintained.
Spirent is leading the validation of software-defined networking 
(“SDN”)/network functions virtualization (“NFV”) technologies with 
unparalleled realism and scale and accelerating their adoption in 
service provider, data center and enterprise environments. We 
develop test methodologies to deliver business benefits without 
impacting the quality of service (“QoS”) of the network or the 
user experience.
We address the testing needs of all layers of service provider 
networks, including access, Wi-Fi offload, mobility and performance 
of the mobile packet core, cloud infrastructure and applications.
Spirent also provides live network monitoring systems for diagnostics 
and assurance of service levels for wireline, wireless service 
providers and multi-service cable operators, helping them to deploy 
and maintain efficient, cost effective and high performing networks 
and to reduce subscriber churn.
Spirent’s services help customers around the world 
accelerate development and deployment by maximising 
their investment in Spirent test solutions through 
support, education and professional services. 
Spirent’s infrastructure test optimization solutions help 
address the challenges of bringing quality products  
to market faster in the face of rapid change and  
increasing complexity.
With its broad portfolio of solutions and services 
Spirent is uniquely positioned to address its customers’ 
complex testing needs in areas that include: STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
13
Networks & Applications
Wireless & Service Experience
Service Assurance
Cloud Computing
Services moving to the cloud require 
end user experience to be validated as 
data centers are upgraded with high 
speed Ethernet and technologies 
such as SDN are introduced.
Applications & Security
Addressing the proliferation of 
application and vulnerability concerns 
for enterprise, government and service 
provider networks, Spirent’s security 
test solutions offer unprecedented 
realism and ease-of-use.
Mobility
Spirent’s unique mobility test 
solutions and methodologies 
address the mobile data explosion, 
growth in applications, and mobility 
across LTE, 2G/3G and Wi-Fi with 
realism and scale.
Enterprise Business
Spirent’s solutions enable tuning of 
enterprise networks across multiple 
sites to maintain maximum 
performance, reduce IT spending, 
enhance scalability and resolve 
issues faster.
Positioning Technologies
Spirent is the global leader in testing 
multiple positioning technologies 
such as GPS in mobile devices and 
other receivers used in an 
ever-increasing range of commercial 
and government applications.
Voice over LTE (“VoLTE”)
Launching complex new 4G services 
like VoLTE puts extraordinary 
demands on networks and devices. 
Spirent is a leader in ensuring the 
successful end-to-end deployment of 
VoLTE and other IMS services. 
Device Performance
Spirent works with the world’ s leading 
carriers to develop methodologies, 
automated solutions and services that 
ensure device performance meets 
strict acceptance criteria in the lab 
and on live networks. 
Service Experience
In an age of exploding complexity 
and growth in mobile services, 
Spirent’s solutions objectively 
predict end user quality of 
experience on any device, any 
operating system and any network.
Network Service Assurance
Spirent’s service assurance solutions 
allow service providers around the 
world to diagnose, troubleshoot and 
determine resolution of issues within 
mobile backhaul, business services 
and global IP networks to support 
Ethernet service delivery.
Field Testing
Spirent’s field test product for service 
providers enables qualification of the 
service and troubleshooting of 
transport and service related issues 
within the consumer’s home and in 
the outside plant.
Customer Experience 
Management
Spirent’s customer experience and 
service quality management solution 
for service providers, aggregates and 
analyses data from sources including 
probes, network equipment, end user 
devices, and business systems 
providing real-time insights into their 
customers’ experience. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
14
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
VALUE-CREATING CULTURE
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS
INNOVATION
Spirent is an expert in communications 
test and measurement technology. 
How Spirent creates value 
Spirent’s customers are the global network equipment 
manufacturers, service providers, mobile device manufacturers, 
government and enterprises, all of whom face numerous challenges 
to satisfy the ever-increasing demand for data capacity, reliability and 
security by all members of society.
Spirent’s solutions enable customers to increase their revenues by 
reducing their time to bring new products and services to market, 
with higher quality and reliability while reducing associated cost and 
risk. Our test solutions, which span the entire product lifecycle from 
concept to commercial availability, deliver efficiency and 
effectiveness to development engineers to make better use of their 
scarce resources. Much of our revenue comes from follow on 
business with our customers, who have worked with us for many 
years. This is a result of a combination of our ability to innovate to 
meet their needs and on our emphasis on providing first class 
professional services and support. All of the above, with the optimal 
utilisation of our own resources, supports the sustainability of the 
margins Spirent achieves. Annual support and maintenance fees are 
an important source of continuing revenue for Spirent. Most of our 
manufacturing is outsourced to sub-contractors and our business is 
not capital intensive; hence the conversion of earnings into cash is 
high for the business.
An industry expert
Our highly skilled people are our major resource; it is they who 
provide the expert knowledge needed to develop these complex 
solutions. Our value-creating culture is critical in providing the right 
environment to foster their innovation.
We maintain and build on our expertise through investment in 
product development engineering, the extension of our engagement 
with industry standards bodies, and close alignment with our 
customers who lead innovation in the industries we serve. 
Shareholder returns 
Our focus on value-creation through investment in the business, 
whether that be organically through product development, by 
acquisition of technology, or access to new served markets, is 
aimed at delivering capital growth and cash generation to service 
distributions through dividends and share repurchase. 
Our business model
Caroline Lee
EMEA HR Director STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
15
Customer relationships Innovation
Value-creating culture Intellectual property
Customer relationships are key. 
Spirent’s customers are the leading 
providers of new technologies for 
data communications in the world. 
Our strategy is focused on providing 
our customers with easy-to-use 
solutions for testing and measuring 
their complex systems. We also 
strive to provide our customers with 
the highest quality of support and 
service possible.
In October 2013 Spirent joined 
network equipment vendor, Huawei 
and independent testing lab, EANTC 
to conduct a large scale, high density 
6.4 terabit/second core router test  
at Huawei’s IP Technology Gala  
and the Broadband World Forum. 
This test verified the performance, 
scalability and resiliency of Huawei’s 
NetEngine 5000E core router with  
a fully loaded 400G line card.
We innovate through the endeavours 
of our highly skilled and creative 
people who build on decades of 
experience. External inputs are 
important through our technology 
partners as is being located in the 
world’s leading centres for 
technological development.
In September 2013 Spirent launched 
Avalanche NEXT, a powerful, easy- 
to-use solution that tests the 
performance, scalability and  
security of today’s application- 
aware network infrastructures by 
generating authentic traffic and 
attacks. The new interface is simple 
and streamlined, but leverages all 
the power of Spirent’s Avalanche 
and Studio Performance traffic 
generation engines.
We have embedded a culture  
aimed at creating value for 
stakeholders and shareholders, 
which encourages rational risk 
taking. We attract and retain  
talented people, offering career 
development, a non-discriminatory 
workplace and fair and competitive 
remuneration, within a 
non-bureaucratic culture.
In 2013 Spirent’s Positioning 
operation received the Investors  
in People Silver award. This was 
achieved through good planning, 
strong leadership and people 
management, excellent learning and 
development support, and good 
evaluation processes, all of which 
ensure we get the very best from  
our employees.
We have created a large body of 
intellectual property, patented and 
proprietary raising the barriers of entry 
to competition. Our new developments 
are evolutionary in nature and build 
on our existing expertise as well as 
expanding our capabilities both 
organically and through acquisition. 
Successful deployment of VoLTE 
requires voice quality and call 
performance to be as good as, and 
preferably better than, the services 
they are replacing. In August 2013 we 
launched an integrated test solution 
capable of fully quantifying the end 
user quality of experience and testing 
with realistic scenarios prior to 
commercial deployment. This solution 
is backed by years of voice quality 
measurement expertise in live networks 
from Metrico, a market leading company 
acquired by Spirent in 2012.
Our key strengths
At the cornerstone of Spirent’s business model are the key strengths which support the strategy and are the enablers for the creation of value 
for shareholders and other stakeholders:
Test in progress using Avalanche NEXT.
Spirent’s Positioning team 
Paignton, Devon.
Top: Tech-X Flex in-home test solution 
from Service Assurance.
Bottom: Acoustic lab at Service 
Experience facility.
Gene Zhang – VP and General 
Manager APAC. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
16
Embed a culture of responsible and 
sustainable business practices
Expand the markets 
we serve
Through extension of our test product portfolio to serve network 
and applications security, mobile communications quality of service 
in the live network, development of microchip technologies for data 
communications, and monitoring systems for live network deployments 
for service providers and enterprise.
Key achievements in 2013 
We expanded our solutions portfolio and served markets with an 
integrated applications and security test platform, as well as innovative 
test solutions for software-defined networking (“SDN”)/OpenFlow, Wi-Fi 
offload and mobile device R&D. We applied our expertise to the needs of 
the enterprise market with a new powerful, easy-to-use network test 
platform. We also integrated the measurement tools for live networks 
acquired with Metrico with test solutions from our Wireless business to 
address the lab-based quality of experience testing requirements of our 
mobile device customers. 
Plan 2014 
We plan to further extend our cloud and data center capabilities in SDN and 
network functions virtualization (“NFV”), differentiate in end-to-end testing, 
expand into new verticals including machine-to-machine (“M2M”), critical 
infrastructure, enterprise and automotive, add value to our customers with 
automation and infrastructure test optimization (“ITO”), and offer more 
analytics that provide actionable answers from our customers’ “Big Data”.
Acquire new capabilities 
and technologies
Through expansion of our portfolio through partnerships, licensing 
technologies and/or the purchase of businesses.
Key achievements in 2013 
Although there were no acquisitions in 2013, good progress was made 
in the integration of technology and expertise acquired in 2012 with Mu 
and Metrico. In September 2013 Avalanche NEXT was launched which 
combines the powerful performance testing of Spirent Avalanche with 
Spirent Studio’s threats and application emulation using capabilities 
acquired with Mu. In August an integrated test solution capable of 
quantifying the mobile end user quality of experience and testing with 
realistic scenarios prior to commercial deployment was released, taking 
advantage of the expertise in user experience testing in live networks 
acquired with Metrico. 
Plan 2014 
Further expansion of our partnership programme will take place in 2014 
and targeted technology acquisitions are planned in areas of strategic 
importance. In 2014 to date, two acquisitions have been announced. 
Our vision provides a simple definition of Spirent’s ultimate goal  
and our strategy describes how we will achieve this vision.
Vision
To be the leading experts in test and 
measurement technology in the data 
communication market worldwide.
Spirent operates in a rapidly changing business environment and 
therefore we regularly review our strategy to ensure it has a clear 
focus and direction based on the expected future market trends, 
opportunities and the challenges we face. In September 2013 Eric 
Hutchinson was appointed as CEO which led Spirent to refresh the 
strategy and the key actions for its achievement.
Strategy 
To continuously innovate in test and 
measurement technologies to develop 
leading products and services for fixed 
and mobile voice, data and video 
applications and networks.
To be recognised by customers for 
the ease-of-use and simplicity of our 
solutions for testing and measuring 
their complex systems.
Key actions
We have identified a number of key actions that we believe are critical 
in order for Spirent to achieve the strategy and ultimately the vision, 
recognising at the same time that Spirent must utilise its resources as 
efficiently as possible. 
Progress made during 2013 and what we are aiming to achieve in 
2014 are summarised in this section:
Our strategy
Pages 26 to 29 for Financial review for more details on these acquisitions STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
17
It is important that in the execution of our strategy we act responsibly and consider our impact on all of our stakeholders. 
In this way Spirent will remain an efficient, well managed and well respected organisation – a business that our employees, 
customers and communities delight in engaging with.
Invest in our people
Spirent is its employees. Finding, keeping and engaging highly qualified 
and skilled employees is central to our ability to deliver on our strategy 
and to the success of our business.
Key achievements in 2013 
We established an employee value proposition in order to clearly 
communicate our brand to current and prospective employees, and 
thereby retain and attract the best people. Leadership bench strength was 
developed through various programmes including 360 degree feedback, 
succession management, organisational and individual accountability 
and financial acumen training. Employees in all regions around the globe 
participated in courses, designed to enhance our ability to service the 
customer and to create innovative, leading products. 
Plan 2014 
Expansion of our training and development programmes is included in our 
operating budget for 2014. In order to align all levels of the organisation 
with our vision and strategy as we respond to the rapidly changing 
business environment, emphasis will be placed upon communicating the 
Company’s key objectives to every individual, and driving the culture and 
technical expertise needed to attain them.
Maintain financial 
strength and flexibility
Having a robust balance sheet and strong cash generation gives Spirent 
the ability to invest in organic growth, pursue strategic acquisitions and 
pay sustainable progressive dividends to shareholders. We operate in 
markets that deliver high operating returns and operating performance 
and cash generation are closely aligned.
Key achievements in 2013 
Free cash flow for 2013 was $43.9 million, representing 1.3 times 
reported earnings and the closing cash balance was $216.2 million 
and there was no debt. Share buybacks and dividends to shareholders 
amounted to $76.9 million. The strong balance sheet ensured that 
Spirent was still able to meet its product development investment 
plans despite the lower levels of trading in 2013.
Plan 2014 
In 2014 Spirent plans to make an additional investment of around 
$33 million to support the future organic growth of the business. 
This additional expenditure will be funded from cash generated from 
operating activities.
Deepen our customer 
relationships
Through emphasis on quality of service, delivery and support. Our 
partnership with our customers will be strengthened through new 
innovative solutions for their future needs and by extending the 
capabilities of our in-house expertise. New relationships will be 
established with the expansion of our sales and marketing reach  
into new vertical segments and geographic regions.
Key achievements in 2013 
A Customer Engagement programme focused on customer satisfaction 
and improved alignment with our key service provider and equipment 
manufacturer customers and has resulted in market share gains in 
some of our most important accounts. Customer satisfaction was also 
enhanced through an integrated approach of on-site resources and 
collaborative testing that drove improved quality of our solutions. 
Plan 2014 
We will align our services teams more closely with the critical technology 
developments of our customers. We will expand our resources to put 
our experts closer to our customers and enhance our response to their 
growing challenges with the complexity of systems and networks 
through software automation and expert test methodologies.
Employees pages 36 to 37 and CSR pages 38 to 43 for further information
Establish and maintain 
technology leadership
Through investment in product development engineering expertise, the 
extension of our engagement with industry standards bodies, and close 
alignment with our customers who lead innovation in the industries we 
serve. We will expand our competencies in test automation, efficiency and 
methodology, high performance test, scalability and in the replication of 
and use of live real-world traffic and conditions.
Key achievements in 2013 
In 2013 we increased our investment in product development engineering 
by $14.4 million over the prior year. In 2013 Spirent released multiple 
important new products and additions to functionality in key areas such 
as SDN/NFV, applications and security, Ethernet service assurance and 
satellite positioning.
Plan 2014 
We plan to expand our capabilities by increasing investment in product 
development by an additional $15 million, by growing our recognition  
as experts in test and measurement though enhancing our global 
presence and driving more industry standards, through the acquisition  
of intellectual property and by the acquisition of new software and 
solution capabilities. 18
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Book to bill ratio
09
10
11
12
13
105
103
97
105
102
Adjusted operating profit
1
 ($ million)
09
10
11
12
13
104.4
116.1
118.3
50.1
79.8
Revenue ($ million)
09
10
11
12
13
422.8
470.5
472.4
413.5
369.4
Return on sales
1
 (%)
09
10
11
12
13
24.7
24.7
25.0
12.1
21.6
Key performance indicators
The Board has identified the following 
key performance indicators (“KPIs”) to 
measure the Group’s strategic progress.
 
Spirent’s strategy focuses on medium to long term growth and 
therefore its achievement cannot just be measured by looking at 
performance in 2013 compared to the prior year, trends over a 
number of years must also be considered. KPIs relate to continuing 
operations only.
To read about the strategic 
points associated with 
these KPIs go to pages 16 
and 17
Description
The ratio of orders booked to revenue 
billed is a measure of the visibility of 
future revenues at current levels of 
activity and provides an indication of 
the underlying trend in Spirent’s future 
revenue stream.
The Group aims to maintain a book to 
bill ratio of 100 or higher.
Commentary
The ratio was 105 for 2013 (2012 97) 
which reflects the improving levels 
of demand experienced by the Group 
during the second half of 2013 as 
customers began to increase their 
investment in new technologies 
and Spirent launched some key new 
products.
Description
Adjusted operating profit is the 
measure used to evaluate the overall 
performance of the Group as well as 
each of our operating segments.
The goal is to achieve year-on-year 
growth.
Commentary
Adjusted operating profit fell to $50.1 
million in 2013, due to the loss of high 
gross margin on reduced revenue, 
and increased investment in product 
development and sales and marketing 
for future growth.
Description
This is a measure of our overall 
profitability. Spirent operates in 
markets which have high operating 
returns and we strive to achieve best-
in-class operating returns compared 
with our peers. The ability to sustain 
these returns is dependent on 
maintaining a strong market position 
and good cost management, but to 
also be mindful of the need to invest for 
future growth.
Commentary
Return on sales was lower at 12.1 
per cent as a result of the 12 per cent 
reduction in revenue in 2013 and the 
planned increase in investment in 
product development and sales and 
marketing of $19.3 million.
Description
Growth in revenue measures Spirent’s 
ability to expand its markets and 
grow its customer base. The goal is 
to achieve year-on-year growth in 
revenue.
Commentary
Revenue for the Group reduced by 12 
per cent in 2013. Trading was mixed 
due to changing market dynamics 
exacerbated by historical under 
investment in some parts of the 
business. There was strategic progress 
and growth in certain market segments 
such as the mobility testing market  
and Positioning.
Pages 30 to 35 for Operational review 19
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Engineering and product milestones achieved (%)
10
11
12
13
100
94
94
87
Adjusted basic earnings per share
1,2
 (cents)
09
10
11
12
13
10.92
12.81
13.02
5.71
10.39
Free cash flow
3
 ($ million)
09
10
11
12
13
75.5
69.3
84.0
43.9
76.4
Voluntary employee turnover (%)
10
11
12
13
5.9
6.8
7.7
8.3
Product development as a percentage of revenue (%)
09
10
11
12
13
17.9
17.7
18.2
24.3
19.2
Description
Long term growth in EPS is a 
fundamental driver to increasing 
shareholder value. Consequently, 
Spirent’s aim is to achieve growth in 
adjusted EPS year-on-year. 
A component of the executive directors’ 
incentives is dependent on achieving 
an EPS target.
Commentary
Adjusted basic EPS was 5.71 cents 
down from 13.02 cents for 2012, and 
reduced as a result of all the factors 
previously discussed. 
Description
To maintain its competitive position 
Spirent must continue to invest in 
order to support future organic growth 
initiatives in line with the strategic 
objectives. 
Commentary
We grew our investment in product 
development in 2013 by $14.4 million 
to $100.5 million. However, under 
investment in previous years has 
been noted as a contributing factor to 
the 2013 performance.
Description
The Board sets quarterly engineering 
milestones and dates by which these 
should be achieved. These are selected 
to represent the next critical stages in 
the achievement of Spirent’s long term 
strategic objectives. These milestones 
are included as targets in its executive 
directors’ incentive plans. 
This measure has been tracked  
since 2010.
Commentary
Of the 30 milestones set in 2013, 26 
were achieved on time. The remaining 
four were achieved, but slightly later 
than planned mainly due to technical 
issues. Many of these engineering 
targets are linked to Spirent’s 
formalised Gate Process whereby 
a development project is split into 
individual stages each of which  
must be passed before moving  
onto the next.
Description
Cash generation is a measure of the 
quality of Spirent’s earnings. The aim 
is to achieve a high conversion of 
earnings into cash each year. Having 
strong cash generation allows Spirent 
to maintain its financial strength and 
flexibility. 
Commentary
Cash generation reflects the lower 
operating result but cash conversion 
was good with free cash flow of  
$43.9 million for 2013, which represents 
1.3 times reported earnings. At  
31 December 2013 cash balances  
were $216.2 million (31 December 2012 
$248.6 million) and there was no debt. 
In 2013 Spirent used $22.2 million of 
cash for dividends and $54.7 million  
for share buybacks. 
Description
Spirent’s success is dependent on 
its people, it is therefore important 
that we attract and retain talented 
employees by appropriately managing 
and rewarding them. We monitor our 
success in terms of voluntary employee 
turnover which is a good indicator of 
staff retention. This measure has been 
tracked since 2010.
Commentary
Although up on the prior year staff 
turnover remained low at 8.3 per cent. 
In 2013 succession planning and talent 
management processes were further 
enhanced to ensure that Spirent has 
the right people in order to deliver 
on the strategy. At 31 December 
2013 there were 1,525 employees 
(2012 1,486).
Notes
1 Before exceptional items, acquisition 
related costs, acquired intangible asset 
amortisation and share-based 
payment.
2 Before tax effect of items in note 1 and 
prior year tax.
3 Operating cash flow after tax and net 
capital expenditure.
Pages 16 and 17 fo Our strategy
Pages 58 to 76 for Report on directors’ remuneration
Pages 30 to 35 for Operational  
review for discussion on product 
launches and development in 2013
Pages 58 to 76 for Report on directors’ remuneration SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
20
Like all businesses, Spirent is exposed to a number 
of risks and uncertainties. 
These risks may arise from internal factors, but 
some will be a result of external factors over which 
the Group has little or no direct control. It is the 
effective management of these risks that supports 
Spirent in delivering on its strategic objectives, 
safeguards the Group’s assets and, over time, will 
also enhance shareholder value. The processes 
to identify and manage the principal risks and 
uncertainties of the Spirent Group are an integral 
component of the internal control system and are 
described below. 
The principal risks and uncertainties which the directors believe are 
currently faced by the Spirent Group are discussed below together 
with the actions which have been developed to mitigate the effects.
It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect the business 
and the actions described below to mitigate those risks cannot 
provide absolute assurance that the risk will not occur or adversely 
affect the operating or financial performance of the Group. 
The Board has classified the principal risks by the impact the risk 
would be expected to have on the Group should it occur, and the 
anticipated likelihood that the risk may occur using the following 
classifications:
Impact    High/Medium/Low
Likelihood of occurrence Likely/Possible/Unlikely
Likelihood of occurrence is based on qualitative factors such as past 
experience and current market conditions. Impact is based on the 
estimated degree of change in financial KPIs. The Board’s view of 
the change in likelihood of occurrence and/or in the impact on the 
Group (combined) of each risk compared to the prior year has also 
been provided.
Our principal risks and uncertainties
Identifying, evaluating and managing risk 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee reviews and monitors the 
Group’s risk process and reports to the Board 
on its effectiveness. Risk is considered by the 
Audit Committee at least three times per year, at 
which time risk registers for both the Group and 
the individual businesses are reviewed by the 
Committee. The Audit Committee challenge and 
debate the risks with reference to risk tolerance 
and appetite, as set by the Board. Progress made 
and any further actions to be taken regarding 
mitigation plans, as well as any changes to the 
risk profile, are discussed in detail.
Group Risk Review Committee
The risk registers from the businesses are 
reviewed regularly by the Group Risk Review 
Committee. The purpose of the Committee 
is to identify which risks are critical to the 
Spirent Group and also to highlight corporate 
wide risks that may not have been otherwise 
considered. The Committee, which comprises 
the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer, the Executive Vice President (“EVP”) 
Networks, Applications & Infrastructure, the 
EVP Wireless & Service Experience and the 
Vice President Group Finance, challenge and 
debate the individual business risks and meet 
with each business periodically to discuss the 
risk assessment process. The Committee will 
assess each risk and rank each according to the 
estimated impact on the Group and the likelihood 
of occurrence. They are also responsible for 
developing and ensuring that appropriate risk 
mitigation processes are in place for each risk. 
This Committee is responsible for preparing the 
Corporate Risk Register to present to the Audit 
Committee and to the Board.
Individual business risk committees
The risk assessment process starts in the 
businesses where up-to-date risk registers are 
maintained as an integral part of the normal 
operating and control procedures. Each 
business identifies its key risks and nominates 
a risk owner. The impact and the likelihood of 
occurrence of each risk is ranked, which assists 
the Group Risk Review Committee in assessing 
the importance of each risk to the Spirent Group 
as a whole. Once risks have been assessed 
an appropriate risk mitigation response is 
determined for each risk identified. The individual 
businesses are required to update their risk 
registers as new or emerging risks are identified.
Pages 54 to 57 for Audit Committee
The Board
The Board has overall responsibility for internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Pages 54 to 57 for Audit Committee for further information on 
Spirent’s internal control systems. Pages 48 to 52 for Directors’ 
statement on corporate governance STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
21
Operational
 
Risk 
Macro-economic and industry sector
Spirent is a global business exposed to the current 
world economic conditions, over which it has no 
control. The business is also exposed to government 
spending priorities, principally in the United States. We 
are particularly exposed to conditions in the 
telecommunications sector into which we sell many of 
our products and services and which has experienced 
significant downturns in the past. 
 
Potential impact 
Deterioration in economic or sector conditions may 
lead to a reduction in the level of demand for Spirent’s 
products and services and cause customers to delay 
their purchasing decisions.
During 2013 disruption and structural changes were 
experienced in our markets which have impacted  
Spirent’s performance.
Mitigation actions 
The Group closely monitors both market and 
geographic trends in order to respond to changes in 
demand and be in a position to take timely actions to 
protect profitability where possible.
In addition, Spirent has a broad product portfolio of 
innovative test solutions and a large number of 
geographically diverse customers which may mitigate 
the impact.
Impact/
Likelihood
High/Likely
 
Change*
 
Risk 
Competition
All Spirent’s businesses operate in highly competitive 
markets which experience rapid technological 
changes. The Group faces competition from new 
market start-ups as well as the more established and 
well-resourced companies.
Industry consolidation amongst our direct competitors 
may bring about a shift in competitive advantages.
 
Potential impact 
Actions by competitors and increased competition can 
bring about pressure on Spirent’s gross margin. These 
factors will also affect Spirent’s competitive position, 
thereby reducing revenue and consequently affecting 
the financial results.
Mitigation actions 
In 2013 we saw intense competition in some of our 
markets and lost some market share. The Group’s 
broad solution portfolio, market leading capabilities 
and customer focus continue to address this risk.
Spirent aims to maintain market leading positions 
through significant investment in product development 
which is being stepped up in 2014.
Competitor activity is closely monitored with a view to 
maintaining clear differentiation based on Spirent’s 
products, services and global reach.
Impact/
Likelihood
Medium/
Possible
 
Change*
     *  The Board’s view of how the 
likelihood of occurrence and/
or impact has changed 
compared to the prior year. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
22
Our principal risks and uncertainties continued
Operational
 
Risk 
Customer dependence
The Group sells its solutions and services to a wide 
range of companies and seeks to continually expand 
its customer base. In 2013 no one customer accounted 
for 10 per cent or more of Group revenue although the 
top ten customers represented 38 per cent of Group 
revenue. In some of our markets certain customers 
have a dominant market share, which makes doing 
business with these customers critical to the success 
of our business.
In addition, many of the companies with which 
we do business are some of the largest global 
telecommunications corporations and therefore 
meeting our development obligations, producing 
high quality products, and in an appropriate time 
scale, are vital to Spirent’s reputation and success.
The industry continues to experience consolidation 
which can disrupt the spending patterns of those 
customers affected.
 
Potential impact 
Loss of one or more of Spirent’s major customers could 
have a substantial impact on Spirent’s financial results.
Significant failings in either quality or being able to 
deliver in the appropriate timescale could cause long 
lasting damage to Spirent’s reputation and relationships.
Customer consolidation could result in delays in 
spending thereby reducing demand for Spirent’s 
solutions and services and also reduce the potential 
number of customers to whom those solutions and 
services could be sold. 
Mitigation actions 
Spirent’s strong customer relationships are critical 
as is providing innovative solutions which meet 
customers’ needs and Spirent’s emphasis on providing 
professional service and support. Many customers 
have worked with the Group for a number of years.
One of the Group’s strategic objectives is to deepen 
our customer relationships. We place engineers on-site 
with our customers, undertake site surveys of the use 
and intended plans for the use of test solutions in their 
business. We seek to establish thought leadership in 
our industry through participation in standards bodies 
and industry forums, which in turn creates additional 
links with customers. Our strategy is to play a key part 
in the ecosystem of supply in our served markets by 
aligning with early adopters of technology and with 
chip developers.
Impact/
Likelihood
Medium/
Possible
 
Change*
New  
Risk STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
23
Operational
 
Risk 
Business continuity risks 
Operational risks are present in the Group’s 
businesses. These risks include the risk of failed 
internal and external processes and systems, 
human error and external events, such as a natural 
disaster. For example, a significant portion of our 
communications operations are located in California 
which has in the past experienced natural disasters, 
including earthquakes and wildfires.
Contract manufacturers are used for the manufacture 
of a substantial amount of Spirent’s products. The 
major contract manufacturer is located in Thailand.
 
Potential impact 
A significant natural disaster could disrupt the 
Group’s ability to conduct business and impact 
adversely revenue and operating results.
Disruption or financial problems of contract 
manufacturers or limitations in the manufacturing 
capacity at contract manufacturers could either limit 
supply or increase cost.
Mitigation actions 
An important component of Spirent’s corporate 
governance is its integrated risk management strategy 
and its regular self-assessment of risks encompassing 
all business units.
IT disaster recovery plans are in place for all core 
business systems and ensure that the wider operations 
are all fully covered. In addition, the Group’s largest 
manufacturing subcontractor has worldwide multiple 
sites and comprehensive business continuity plans. 
Regular meetings are held with contract manufacturers 
and a regular on-site presence is maintained. To minimise 
the effect on supply that could be caused by disruption at 
contract manufacturers there are contingency plans in 
place to transfer manufacturing to other locations.
Impact/
Likelihood
High/
Possible
 
Change*
 
Risk 
Intellectual property
Spirent’s success is dependent in part on proprietary 
technology which may be infringed by others 
inadvertently or otherwise. Protecting the Group’s 
proprietary technology is important in enabling Spirent 
to compete successfully.
Companies in the telecommunications industry often 
aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual 
property rights and may assert infringement claims 
against Spirent. 
 
Potential impact 
Such claims can result in significant defence costs, and 
may affect Spirent’s ability to market its products.
Mitigation actions 
Spirent has active intellectual property protection 
programmes in place to obtain appropriate intellectual 
property protection in a cost effective manner. 
There are procedures in the development of new 
products that include consideration of intellectual 
property rights of third parties. The Group also 
consults internal and external legal counsel 
experienced in intellectual property matters.
Impact/
Likelihood
Low/
Possible
 
Change*
*  The Board’s view of how the 
likelihood of occurrence and/or 
impact has changed compared 
to the prior year. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
24
Our principal risks and uncertainties continued
Strategic
 
Risk 
Expand the markets we serve
An important component of the Group’s strategy is 
to leverage Spirent’s competencies and capabilities 
into new and expanding markets and new vertical 
market segments.
 
Potential impact 
Failure to identify, and execute on, these new market 
opportunities will limit Spirent’s capability to achieve 
its strategy, grow its revenue and maintain its 
market share. 
Mitigation actions 
Organisational changes have been made in 2013 to 
better align the businesses internally so that Spirent can 
more effectively identify those areas which offer the 
most significant growth opportunities. In addition, in 
order to further facilitate knowledge of new market 
areas outside our served market, individual managers 
are designated responsibility for investigation, review 
and to develop action plans arising from such initiatives.
Impact/
Likelihood
Medium/
Possible
 
Change*
New  
Risk
 
Risk 
Establish and maintain technology leadership 
Spirent sells complex solutions in industries that are 
characterised by rapid technological changes. Keeping 
at the forefront of these key future technologies is 
critical to our success and to ensure that we remain 
competitive in our markets.
 
It is critical that our product development investment 
is directed at the right areas to enable Spirent to 
develop those solutions that our customers need 
in a timely manner.
 
Potential impact 
If product development investment does not keep pace 
with the speed of change in technology, or if it is not 
directed at the right key areas, our competitive 
position and financial performance will suffer. 
If Spirent’s solutions take longer to develop than 
anticipated or longer to develop than our competitors 
then our competitive position and financial 
performance will also suffer. 
Mitigation actions 
Under investment in previous years is one of the 
factors that caused revenue to fall in 2013. This is 
being addressed by increasing our investment in 
product development in order to underpin our organic 
growth initiates and by reorganising the structure of 
the business, to sharpen our focus on anticipating 
our customers’ requirements for the future.
We also intend to grow our recognition as experts 
in test and measurement through our increased 
engagement with industry standards bodies and 
our close alignment with our customers.
Impact/
Likelihood
High/Likely
 
Change* STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
25
Strategic
 
Risk 
Invest in our people
Spirent is its employees. So attracting and retaining 
highly qualified and skilled employees is essential in 
enabling the Group to deliver on its strategy and to the 
success of the business. 
 
Potential impact 
Intense competition is faced for personnel from other 
companies and organisations and the loss of key 
employees, the failure to attract and retain other highly 
skilled employees, or the failure to adequately plan 
for succession may impair Spirent’s ability to run and 
expand the business effectively.
Mitigation actions 
Investing in people is at the core of the Group’s strategy. 
The aim is to find, keep and engage the highest calibre 
of employees and encourage their contribution and 
development. An environment that fosters innovation 
and collaboration is critical to Spirent’s success as is 
ensuring incentive plans are competitive. 
Succession planning for senior posts in the Company 
is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition 
programmes are developed for both technical and 
non-technical staff. 
Pages 36 to 37 for further information on Our employees
Impact/
Likelihood
Medium/
Possible
  
Change*
 
Risk 
Acquire new capabilities and technologies 
A key element of Spirent’s strategy is to acquire 
new capabilities and technologies, and this may be 
through acquisition.
 
Potential impact 
Integration of acquisitions can be a complex process 
and the results expected from acquisitions may not be 
achieved due to problems encountered in integration, 
changes in market conditions or sometimes 
deficiencies arising in the due diligence processes.
Mitigation actions 
Rigorous strategic and financial evaluations of all 
acquisition opportunities are carried out. Detailed 
financial and commercial due diligence are performed. 
The Board will only authorise transactions after all due 
diligence has been successfully completed and where 
the financial hurdles are within the agreed guidelines.
Integration plans and processes are carefully 
considered prior to acquisition.
The Board regularly reviews post-acquisition 
performance.
Impact/
Likelihood
Medium/
Possible
 
Change*
*  The Board’s view of how the 
likelihood of occurrence and/or 
impact has changed compared 
to the prior year.
*  The Board’s view of how the 
likelihood of occurrence and/or 
impact has changed compared 
to the prior year. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
26
Financial review
The following table shows the key financial performance indicators monitored by the Board in order to measure the performance of the Group:
2013 2012
1
Change (%)
Continuing operations
Book to bill ratio
2
105 97
Revenue ($ million) 413.5 472.4 (12)
Gross profit margin (%) 69.4 71.3
Operating profit
3
 ($ million) 50.1 118.3 (58)
Return on sales
3
 (%) 12.1 25.0
Adjusted basic earnings per share
4
 (cents) 5.71 13.02 (56)
Free cash flow
5
 ($ million) 43.9 84.0 (48)
Notes
1 Restated for the implementation of IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”.
2 Ratio of orders booked to revenue billed.
3 Before exceptional items, acquisition related costs, acquired intangible asset amortisation and share-based payment.
4 Adjusted basic earnings per share is based on adjusted earnings as set out in note 13 of Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
5 Operating cash flow after tax, net interest and net capital expenditure.
Spirent’s policy on capital structure is 
to maintain a strong balance sheet to 
support operational flexibility and fund 
investment for long term growth.
Rachel Whiting
Chief Financial Officer 27
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A review of the Group’s organisational structure has resulted in a 
change to the segmental reporting in 2013 as explained in note 2 
of Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Spirent is now 
reporting three operating segments: Networks & Applications; 
Wireless & Service Experience (previously referred to as Wireless 
& Positioning in our 2013 Half-Year Report) and Service Assurance. 
Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Revenue
Group revenue was down 12 per cent compared to the prior year at 
$413.5 million (2012 $472.4 million). Although trading was mixed as 
a consequence of structural changes in Spirent’s markets, there were 
some bright spots, namely an improvement in the mobility testing 
market and also for our GNSS products, driven by a recovery in 
government spending, new high end testing needs and the BeiDou 
Chinese satellite system. Spirent’s professional services and support 
revenues also grew year-on-year by 15 per cent and now represents 
31 per cent of Group revenue. Market conditions are described in the 
operational review which follows. After a poor first half of 2013, in 
which revenue was down 19 per cent, trading improved in the second 
half-year as customers began to increase their investment in new 
technologies and Spirent launched some key new products. 
Geographically, the United States is our largest market and accounts 
for 52 per cent of Group revenue. Revenue decreased 10 per cent 
period-on-period in this region. Asia Pacific is a major market for 
Spirent, and one in which we have seen significant growth in previous 
years. Revenue in this region declined 12 per cent, being particularly 
weak in both China and India. Asia Pacific represents 32 per cent 
of Group revenue. Europe represents 12 per cent of Group revenue 
and was 24 per cent lower compared with 2012 as difficult macro-
economic conditions persisted in this region, although there was 
some improvement towards the end of the year. The rest of the 
world represents the remaining 4 per cent. 
$ million 2013 % 2012 %
United States 215.8 52 239.2 51
Asia Pacific, Rest of 
World 146.9 36 166.0 35
Europe 50.8 12 67.2 14
413.5 100 472.4 100
Order intake was 5 per cent lower overall for the continuing 
Group compared with 2012. Order intake from several of our major 
customers increased, whilst others did not repeat the high levels 
of spend seen in 2012 or deferred projects until 2014. The resulting 
book to bill ratio was 105 compared with 97 for 2012, with order book 
growing by $21.4 million over the position at 31 December 2012. 
Operating profit
Reported operating profit for continuing operations was $39.1 million 
compared with $108.1 million in 2012. Operating profit before 
exceptional items, acquisition related costs, acquired intangible 
asset amortisation and share-based payment (“adjusted operating 
profit”), which is the measure of profit used by the Group to evaluate 
performance, decreased by 58 per cent to $50.1 million compared 
with $118.3 million in 2012 as a result of the loss of high gross 
margin on lower turnover as well as a significant increase in product 
development investment of $14.4 million to drive future growth. 
A reconciliation is set out below:
$ million 2013 2012
Adjusted operating profit 50.1 118.3
Exceptional items:
 Inventory provision – Service Assurance – (1.4)
 Reorganisation costs – Service Assurance – (1.5)
 Review of Group’s organisational structure (3.4) –
 Abortive acquisition costs (0.4) –
Acquisition related costs – (1.2)
Acquired intangible asset amortisation (8.4) (4.5)
Share-based payment 1.2 (1.6)
Reported operating profit 39.1 108.1
Return on sales, based on adjusted operating profit was 12.1 per cent 
(2012 25.0 per cent). 
Cost of sales and operating expenses
Gross margin reduced to 69.4 per cent (2012 71.3 per cent) due to 
lower volumes, product mix and also the effect of a full year’s sales 
contributed by the former Metrico Wireless business, which attract 
slightly lower margins. 
Spirent’s strategic priority is to generate growth both organically 
as well as through acquisitions. Additional investment is critical for 
Spirent to accelerate the development of its existing capabilities as 
well as to expand the markets we serve and to ensure that Spirent 
brings products to market in a timely manner in order to meet the 
needs of its customers. Investment in product development was 
increased in 2013 by 17 per cent to $100.5 million, representing 
24 per cent of revenue, from $86.1 million and 18 per cent of 
revenue in 2012. 
Other operating expenses were higher at $147.2 million in 2013 
compared with $142.5 million in 2012, 36 per cent of sales (2012 
30 per cent). These costs include exceptional items of $3.8 million in 
2013 of which $3.4 million relates to a number of management and 
structural changes which were made in the period. The balance of 
$0.4 million is in respect of abortive acquisition costs. In 2012 
exceptional reorganisation expenses of $1.5 million were charged 
within Service Assurance.
Other operating expenses also include acquired intangible asset 
amortisation of $8.4 million (2012 $4.5 million) which reflects a full 
year charge for the 2012 acquisitions of Mu Dynamics and Metrico 
Wireless, and in 2012 a charge of $1.2 million for the expenses for 
these acquisitions. Share-based payment is a credit of $1.2 million 
(2012 charge $1.6 million) as the expense has been reversed for 
certain awards which are now not expected to vest.  28
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Excluding exceptional items, acquisition related costs, acquired 
intangible asset amortisation and share-based payment, other 
operating costs were $136.2 million compared with $133.7 million 
in 2012, an increase of 2 per cent.
In 2014 Spirent plans to make an additional investment of around 
$33.0 million in future growth. This increase comprises of:
• Product development – up $15 million.
• Sales and marketing – up $12 million.
• Support services – up $6 million.
Of the total increase $16 million will support our core business and 
$17 million is to fund new initiatives.
The areas where this additional spend will be focused include virtual 
test systems, software-defined networking solutions, expansion of 
the enterprise channel, enhancements to Spirent’s cyber security test 
offering as well as advancements in automotive software and related 
connectivity testing.
Corporate costs
Corporate costs are those expenses which cannot be attributed to the 
Group’s operating segments and comprise the costs of the Board and 
other corporate activities. These costs were $5.9 million (2012 $6.5 
million) before exceptional items for the year. Corporate costs for 
2012 have been restated for the effect of the revised Accounting 
Standard IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” which was implemented in 
2013. The effect of this standard for Spirent for 2013 has been an 
increase in corporate costs of $0.7 million and an increase in net 
interest expense of $1.2 million. 
Currency impact
The effect of fluctuating exchange rates is relatively minimal as the 
Group’s revenue and profits are primarily denominated in US dollars 
or US dollar-linked currencies.
Finance income and costs
Finance income for 2013 was $0.9 million compared with $0.8 million 
in 2012. Surplus funds are held principally in the United Kingdom 
and United States and earn market rates of interest which 
remain negligible. 
Finance costs comprise $0.9 million (2012 $0.5 million) of net 
defined benefit pension plan interest cost. 
It is estimated that there will be no net interest expense for the 
pension plans for 2014.
Tax
For the Group taxable profits principally arise in the United States. The 
tax charge for the continuing Group in 2013 was $6.4 million (2012 
$29.0 million), representing a current year effective tax rate of 25.8 per 
cent (2012 28.4 per cent) of pre-tax profit, excluding a prior year 
tax credit of $3.7 million (2012 $1.8 million). This rate is lower than 
the prior year principally due to the benefit of 2012 Research and 
Experimental tax credits in the United States which fall into 2013 and 
the spread across different territories. At 31 December 2013 deferred 
tax assets amounting to $18.3 million (31 December 2012 $28.4 
million) have been recognised on the balance sheet. At 31 December 
2013 there are deferred tax assets amounting to a tax value of $17 .7 
million (31 December 2012 $16.3 million) which remain unrecognised.
For 2014 it is expected that the effective tax rate will be in the region 
of 28 per cent.
Earnings per share
Adjusted basic earnings per share was 5.71 cents compared with 
13.02 cents for 2012. There were 640.6 million (2012 655.7 million) 
weighted average Ordinary Shares in issue. Basic earnings per share 
was 5.10 cents for 2013 compared with 12.11 cents for 2012. 
A reconciliation of adjusted profit is provided below for continuing 
operations:
$ million 2013 2012
Profit for the period attributable to owners of 
the parent Company 32.7 79.4
Exceptional items 3.8 2.9
Acquisition related costs – 1.2
Acquired intangible asset amortisation 8.4 4.5
Share-based payment (1.2) 1.6
Tax effect on the above items (3.4) (2.4)
Prior year tax credit (3.7) (1.8)
Adjusted profit for the period attributable to 
owners of the parent Company 36.6 85.4
Adjusted basic earnings per share 5.71 13.02
Financial risk management
The key objective of the Group’s treasury department is to manage 
the financial risks of the business and to ensure that sufficient 
liquidity is available to the Group. All treasury activity operates 
within a formal control framework. The Board has approved treasury 
policies and guidelines and periodically reviews treasury activities. 
Additionally, it is the Group’s policy that speculative treasury 
transactions are expressly forbidden. 
Spirent’s financial risk management objectives and policies and 
its exposure to risks are discussed in note 26 of Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Financing and cash flow
Cash and cash equivalents were $216.2 million at 31 December 2013 
compared with $248.6 million at 31 December 2012. Spirent 
continues to be debt free. Cash and cash equivalents are held as 
cash on demand or in short term bank deposits and 84 per cent of 
the balance was denominated in US dollars.
Spirent remains cash generative, despite the lower revenue in 2013, 
and this gives Spirent the financial flexibility to invest in organic 
growth, pursue strategic acquisitions and pay sustainable, 
progressive dividends to shareholders. 
In 2013 operating activities generated $73.5 million (2012 $120.3 
million continuing operating activities) of cash during the year. Free 
Financial review continued 29
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
cash flow conversion represents 1.3 times (2012 1.1 times) reported 
earnings. Working capital reduced by $12.1 million (2012 increased 
by $6.2 million) during the year.
Free cash flow for continuing operations is set out below:
$ million 2013 2012
Cash flow from operations 73.5 120.3
Tax paid (6.1) (23.1)
Cash inflow from operating activities 67.4 97.2
Net interest received 0.8 0.6
Net capital expenditure (24.3) (13.8)
Free cash flow 43.9 84.0
Net capital expenditure has increased in 2013 to $24.3 million from 
$13.8 million in 2012 in line with investment plans. In 2012 the net 
cash outflow from acquisitions and disposal of businesses was $32.1 
million. In 2013 there were no acquisitions or disposals.
The cash generated has been utilised to pay dividends to shareholders 
and for the return of capital through the share buyback programme. 
In 2013 a final dividend for 2012 and an interim dividend for 2013 
totalling $22.2 million (2012 $20.3 million) were paid. Share 
repurchases during the year have resulted in a cash outflow of 
$54.7 million (2012 $31.6 million). 
Defined benefit pension plans
The Group operates two funded defined benefit pension plans which 
are in the United Kingdom. Both of these schemes were closed some 
time ago to new entrants and the main plan now has less than ten 
active members. 
The accounting valuation of these plans at the end of 2013 was a net 
deficit of $2.5 million compared with a net deficit of $24.8 million at 
31 December 2012 and was based on the latest triennial actuarial 
valuation at 1 April 2012. The improvement in the deficit is a result 
of changes in the underlying assumptions and a rise in the value of 
the assets.
The triennial actuarial valuation of the plans at 1 April 2012 was 
completed in the period. To fund the deficit the Company has agreed 
to pay additional contributions of £2.8 million ($4.6 million) per 
annum, which will be paid on a monthly basis together with a one-off 
contribution of £1.0 million ($1.6 million) which was paid in July 2013. 
A further one-time contribution of £2.5 million ($4.2 million) is also 
payable no later than 1 July 2016 depending on the funding of the 
plan at that time.
The Group has also reported a liability of $0.8 million (31 December 
2012 $0.8 million) in respect of United Kingdom unfunded 
plan liabilities.
Capital structure 
Spirent’s policy on capital structure is to maintain a strong balance 
sheet to support operational flexibility and fund investment for long 
term growth.
During 2013 the balance of the proceeds from the divestment of the 
Systems business, approximately $33 million, were applied to the 
repurchase of Spirent shares in the market for cancellation and the 
programme extended beyond this. In total during 2013 the Company 
repurchased 29.2 million shares at a cost of $55.5 million (2012 13.4 
million at a cost of $30.8 million) of which $0.8 million was settled in 
2014. Shares were repurchased at an average share price of 119 
pence per share. All shares repurchased were cancelled. Since the 
period end a further 9.7 million shares have been repurchased at a 
cost of $15.6 million. No further buybacks are currently planned.
Dividend
The Board are recommending the payment of a final dividend for 2013 
of 2.01 cents (1.20 pence) per Ordinary Share which, with the interim 
dividend of 1.53 cents (1.01 pence) per Ordinary Share paid in 
September 2013, brings the full year dividend to 3.54 cents (2.21 
pence) per Ordinary Share. The dividend is covered 1.6 times by 
adjusted earnings. This is an increase of 10 per cent over the full year 
dividend for 2012 of 3.22 cents per Ordinary Share.
Subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 25 April 2014 to Ordinary 
shareholders on the register at 7 March 2014. Payment to ADR 
holders will be made on 2 May 2014.
Events after the balance sheet date
On 19 February 2014 Spirent completed the acquisition of the 
business of DAX Technologies Corp. (“DAX”), privately held by 
Dragos Alexe and others, for a cash consideration of $37.0 million. 
Based in Matawan, New Jersey, DAX is a leading provider of customer 
experience management solution software that enables mobile and 
wireline service providers to understand and quantify services as 
experienced by their customers.
The addition of DAX positions Spirent well to help service providers 
with the unprecedented challenges they face when developing and 
managing new services in mobile and wireline network environments 
of rapidly increasing complexity. This acquisition will enable us to 
strengthen our Service Assurance portfolio, expanding Spirent’s 
addressable market in the live network. 
On 20 February 2014 Spirent completed the acquisition of 58 per cent 
of the share capital of Testing Technologies IST GmbH (“Testing 
Tech”) which was in private ownership, for a cash consideration of 
Euro 2.0 million. The company develops and markets standardised 
and customer-specific software-based testing tools which support 
the development of mission-critical products and workflow steps. 
Testing Tech also participates in the connected vehicle market which 
will facilitate Spirent’s progress in this market. The minority stake of 
42 per cent of the share capital is the subject of a put and call option 
which expires on 31 March 2016. The consideration is based on the 
2015 performance of Testing Tech and set at a minimum amount of 
Euro 1.4 million. Testing Tech will be reported within our Wireless & 
Service Experience division.
As both acquisitions have only very recently completed neither the 
fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired, nor the 
consideration, have yet been determined. 30
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Operational review
Networks & Applications
Networks & Applications develops innovative 
solutions for functional and performance testing of 
next-generation networks and applications that 
simulate real-world conditions in the lab, before a 
commercial launch.
Market conditions
– Intense competition in data center
– 4G/LTE driving mobile data and signalling growth
– Virtualization on the rise everywhere
– Intense interest in cyber security, SDN and NFV
 
In 2013, 4G/LTE network rollouts drove continued rapid growth in 
mobile data as well as in signalling traffic, due to the proliferation 
of “chatty” applications. We saw access networks evolving to 
accommodate the growth, employing small cells and Wi-Fi offload, 
which led to new mobility testing needs. Mobile also played a role in 
driving service provider infrastructure spending growth, with intense 
competition amongst multiple players for next-generation high 
density core router and 100G Ethernet optical transport network 
(“OTN”) business. In the cloud and data center market we saw the 
rise of software-defined networking (“SDN”) and of cloud service 
providers with innovative business models, while virtualization and 
intense competition led to price erosion in the traditional switch 
market. In the applications and security space, cyber security and 
bring your own device to work (“BYOD”) continued to grab headlines, 
leading to intense interest in the enterprise, government and large 
service provider space and to advances in next-generation firewalls. 
Virtualization continues to be a major trend across all our markets, 
with the move to network virtualization and strong service provider 
interest in network functions virtualization (“NFV”).
Performance
– Growth in mobility revenue offset by decline in 
data center 
– Built leadership in SDN and NFV
– Regional challenges in APAC and EMEA
– Historical under investment in parts of the business
Revenue
On the back of the mobile trends identified above, we saw growth 
in our mobility solutions in 2013. Service provider infrastructure 
business was also up modestly, while revenue in our application and 
security market was flat. However, the growth was more than offset 
by a sharp fall in data center revenue, with customer investments 
shifting to virtual and intense competition. From a regional perspective, 
revenue was flat in North America, slightly down in APAC and 
considerably down in EMEA, although we saw a modest rebound in 
APAC and EMEA during the fourth quarter. Under investment in 
new test systems and lack of expansion into new markets in prior 
years also had an effect on the results of this business in 2013. 
Our Infrastructure Test Optimization (“ITO”) business saw growth 
on the back of Spirent professional services and large service 
providers standardising on our iTest
®
 solution. Revenue was down  
at $213.4 million from $259.5 million in 2012, while we built the  
order book with a book to bill ratio of 105 (2012 94).
Profitability
Operating profit before exceptional items was down to $13.2 million 
from $59.7 million in 2012 on the reduced revenue and with an increased 
investment in product development of $5.3 million compared with the  31
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Results
(from left to right ) Ahmed Murad – General Manager                                             
Angus Robertson – Senior Director of Segment Marketing.
$213.4M
(2012 $259.5m ) 
$13.2M
(2012 $59.7m ) 
6.2 %
(2012 23.0%)
Revenue
Operating profit 
before exceptional 
items
Return on sales 
before exceptional 
items
previous year. Exceptional items of $1.6 million were charged in 
relation to reorganisation expenses in the fourth quarter.
Product development
In January 2013 Spirent launched Axon, a new solution for the enterprise 
market that enables new applications and services to be deployed more 
quickly and with greater confidence. In May, we launched a family of 
next-generation high speed Ethernet test solutions, with new high 
density 10/40/100G test modules to address increasing complexity and 
exploding data traffic in service provider and data center networks with 
market leading realism and scale. In September we launched Spirent 
Avalanche NEXT, a powerful, easy-to-use solution that tests the 
performance, scalability and security of today’s application-aware 
network infrastructures by generating realistic traffic and attacks. We 
also built a leadership position in SDN/OpenFlow, which included 
hosting the Open Networking Foundation PlugFest at our Sunnyvale, 
California facility in November.
Strategy
– Invest in mobility, especially VoLTE and Wi-Fi
– Increase investment in application and cyber 
security testing
– Gain leadership in virtual, SDN and NFV
For 2014, we plan to shift our investment focus to better align with 
that of our customers. For mobility, we will address new opportunities 
presented by VoLTE and Wi-Fi. We also plan to increase our investment 
in applications and security, building out our Avalanche NEXT solution, 
focusing on cyber security and critical infrastructure, developing the 
government market, and growing cloud based testing-as-a-service 
offerings. Our service provider infrastructure focus will be on next-
generation core routers and SDN/NFV rollouts, with leadership in 
coverage and scale. We also plan to play a key role in technology and 
standards definition for 400G Ethernet. In cloud and data center we will 
target the fast growing cloud service provider space, and gain 
leadership in virtual and SDN. We have established a focused ITO & 
Solutions business to address key service provider ecosystems and 
align with market trends including lab consolidation and agile 
development. Our Enterprise business will build out its channels to 
market and develop customer demand.
Page 14 for Our  
business model
Strategy in action
Innovation runs 
throughout our 
organisation. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
32
Wireless & Service Experience
Wireless & Service Experience develops solutions 
for functional and performance testing of next-
generation mobile wireless and satellite positioning 
devices in the lab before commercial launch, and 
for measurement of the mobile experience on 
live networks.
Market conditions
– Many smartphone vendors experiencing 
business challenges
– New 4G voice services poised for widespread 
deployment
– BeiDou and vulnerability concerns drive 
Positioning markets 
In our Wireless & Service Experience markets, the focus of 
smartphone growth shifted to more price sensitive regions which, 
coupled with the increasing dominance of a few manufacturers, 
led to profitability challenges for many vendors. 2013 saw initial 
deployments of important new 4G services and technologies, 
including VoLTE and LTE-Advanced, with large scale rollouts expected 
in 2014. China awarded its 4G licences in December, mandating the 
use of TD-LTE technology. Wireless machine-to-machine (“M2M”) 
connectivity continued to expand into everything from domestic 
appliances to medical and vehicle applications. In our Positioning 
markets, the application of multi-GNSS technologies grew, with the 
Chinese BeiDou system joining established GPS and GLONASS. 
Another market driver was the growing concern over the vulnerability 
of GNSS receivers to jamming and other attacks. 
Performance
– Wireless revenue declines on weak carrier driven 
business
– Service Experience flat in an integration year
– Positioning benefits from government spending 
Revenue
Wireless experienced a sharp decline in its mobile device test 
markets as a result of device vendors’ profitability challenges, a lull 
in new technology and service launches, fierce competition and 
continued investment shift from 3G to 4G/LTE technologies. Service 
Experience had a flat year as we focused on integrating the Metrico 
business, acquired in September 2012. Positioning experienced 
growth in its markets as a result of US government business recovery, 
new high end testing needs from applications and the BeiDou 
Chinese satellite navigation system. Including a full year contribution 
from the Metrico business of $25.8 million (2012 $6.4 million), 
overall revenue was down by $6.8 million to $167.7 million from 
$174.5 million in 2012. Book to bill ratio grew to 101 from 97 at the 
end of 2012.
Profitability
Operating profit was $33.8 million compared with $56.7 million in 
2012 due to loss of high gross margin on the reduced revenue 
together with an increase in investment in product development of 
$8.3 million. The resulting operating margin reduced to 20.2 per cent 
compared with 32.5 per cent in 2012.
Product development
Our Wireless & Service Experience businesses invested to address 
the industry’s needs as it prepared for large scale deployment of  
4G/LTE-enabled services such as VoLTE. We released lab-based test 
Operational review continued 33
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Results
Revenue
Operating profit
Return on sales
solutions for VoLTE and other IMS services, as well as tools and 
services for both the lab and live networks that measure audio 
quality (including HD voice and VoLTE), video performance and 
battery life as experienced by mobile subscribers. Other new 
solutions addressed E911 emergency requirements for VoLTE in the 
US, and the TD-LTE technology testing needs of markets such as 
China and India. Our Positioning business underscored its industry 
leadership with the first commercial release of test solution support 
for the Chinese BeiDou satellite navigation system.
Strategy
– Invest in machine-to-machine market opportunities
– Expand our offerings that ensure performance of 
new devices and services
– Focus on new positioning technologies and high 
end applications 
Our Wireless business will focus on enabling our customers to 
improve both the realisation and management of their mobility 
services through application of technology, expertise, and analytics. 
We also will apply the wireless and application expertise gained in 
the smartphone cellular market to the M2M connectivity market. 
Our Service Experience business will add more analytics to its 
portfolio of services and solutions that help network operators ensure 
the performance of new devices and services as they come to market, 
as well as focusing on business development in Asia Pacific and 
Europe. Our Positioning business will focus on the expanding high 
end, leading edge technologies that lead to new applications, as 
well as on the challenges surrounding the vulnerability of GNSS in 
critical infrastructure.
$167.7 M
(2012 $174.5m ) 
$33.8M
(2012 $56.7m ) 
20.2 %
(2012 32.5%)
Strategy in action
Innovation runs 
throughout our 
organisation.
(from left to right)
Pat Petillo – Vice President Sales, Wireless
Rob VanBrunt – General Manager, Wireless
Guy Merritt – Vice President of the Wireless Products Group. 
Page 16 for Our 
strategy 34
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Service Assurance
Service Assurance provides solutions which allow 
service providers to diagnose, troubleshoot and 
determine how to resolve issues with networks and 
systems within live networks and to monitor live 
network performance.
Market conditions
–  Continued caution by service providers around 
legacy spending
–  In-home complexity drives more field testing needs 
–  Downward pressure on support contract renewals
Service providers remain cautious with their spending, particularly 
around legacy technologies, and are also applying greater pricing 
pressure on support contract renewals. The growth in mobile data 
subscribers and 4G/LTE technology is driving Ethernet speeds ever 
higher and requiring better data analytics. Increasing in-home 
complexity for triple play services resulted in a need for better tools 
to manage this, one of the most challenging parts of the distribution 
network. The rapid evolution of cloud services, data center 
virtualization, SDN and NFV is greatly increasing the importance of 
in-network testing.
Performance
–  Revenue down due to legacy and service 
contract pressure
–  Strong growth in Ethernet space
–  New field test solution attracts large order, 
$12.0 million revenue delayed until 2014
Revenue
Overall revenue was down, primarily due to continued carrier caution 
in their legacy TDM, triple play in-network probes and support 
contract spend. Ethernet was a strong growth area for Service 
Assurance in 2013, particularly in the intelligent software areas. 
Although field test revenue fell, 2013 saw a large order from a major 
North American service provider for a new version of our Tech-X Flex 
product, for which revenue will not be recognised until 2014. Overall 
revenue fell $6.0 million to $32.4 million in 2013, compared with 
$38.4 million in 2012. The book to bill was 127 due to large revenue 
deferrals around field test and Ethernet solutions, hence the outlook 
for Service Assurance revenue heading into 2014 is positive. 
Operational review continued
Strategy in action
Innovation runs 
throughout our 
organisation.
Page 12 for What 
we test 35
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Results
Revenue
Operating profit 
before exceptional 
items
Return on sales 
before exceptional 
items
Profitability
Operating profit increased in Service Assurance to $9.0 million from 
$8.4 million in the prior year despite the lower revenue in 2013. 
The increase in profit is mainly due to abnormally high gross margin 
as a result of a higher proportion of service revenue, as well as lower 
overhead costs. Gross margin for 2014 is likely to be in the region of 
75 per cent. Our investment in product development has increased in 
this division by $0.8 million compared to 2012.
Product development
Development focus remained on Ethernet service assurance as well 
as expansion of our field test solutions and an entry into the service 
provider data center market. The capabilities of Spirent TestCenter 
Live, our Ethernet service assurance solution, are expanding to 
include performance monitoring for LTE and VoLTE, as well as a 
new  100G Ethernet probe and software to enable testing further 
up the protocol stack. We developed a greatly enhanced version of 
our Tech-X Flex field test unit which will ship to customers early in 
2014. We also invested in development of Data Center Live, our 
comprehensive virtual network monitoring and troubleshooting 
solution aimed at the latest highly complex and versatile data center 
networks, building on Spirent’s wide ranging expertise to test every 
aspect of a data center cloud, which we will also bring to market 
in 2014.
Strategy
–  Invest in solutions for mobile and enterprise services
–  Launch new field test tool to address in-home issues
–  Enter the service provider data center market 
Spirent will invest in our customers’ most pressing operational issues 
in the core of the Ethernet network, in the field and with emerging 
cloud/data center networks. Spirent TestCenter Live will continue to 
benefit from service provider investments that remain focused on 
growth areas such as 4G/LTE mobile and higher bandwidth enterprise 
business services. We will go to market with our enhanced field test 
tool to greatly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of installation 
and maintenance teams when addressing in-home network issues. 
Lastly, as service providers ramp up their investments in their cloud 
services and associated data centers we will introduce a solution 
that allows them to dissect problems inside and outside the data 
center simultaneously. 
$32.4M
(2012 $38.4m ) 
$9.0M
(2012 $8.4m )
27.8%
(2012 21.9%)
(From left to right) 
Jeff Schmitz – Executive Vice President, Wireless & Service Experience
Brian Ketchum – Vice President Engineering and Product Development, 
Service Assurance. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
36
Spirent is its employees – it is our highly 
skilled, motivated and empowered 
employees that drive the success of 
the business. For more than 75 years, 
Spirent has sustained a globally 
effective organisation and provided  
a great place to work through career 
advancement opportunities,  
workforce diversity and transparent 
communication. 
Our employees
Employees in our 
Crawley, West Sussex 
Corporate office.
Our 1,500+ talented employees, working in 29 locations in 15 
countries, provide a matchless competitive advantage for us creating 
innovative products for our customers. To sustain our competitive 
advantage and bring together this culturally diverse group of 
employees, Spirent has built a global culture based on four values 
– being creative, competitive, customer focused and collaborative. 
These values form the foundation of Spirent’s ability to inspire 
innovation and enrich the lives of millions of people around 
the world. 
To attract, keep and grow our people, we constantly review and 
improve our benefits, retention, development programmes and 
career growth opportunities. Our efforts continue to bear positive 
fruit, with global voluntary turnover at 8 per cent.
Rewarding our people
Our compensation and benefit schemes are aligned with performance 
and are regularly benchmarked to ensure that Spirent rewards 
employees competitively in every country in which we operate. 
Spirent believes in sharing its success with its employees, with 
all employees participating in some form of variable compensation 
tied to the achievement of key goals such as revenue growth and 
profitability: Growth Sharing Plan for individual contributors through 
managers; Sales Commission Plan for sales employees; and 
Management Incentive Plan for senior managers and above.
Another way in which we reward and recognise excellence is through 
our Global Recognition Programme, which provides Spot, Excellence 
and Executive Awards. These awards are one-time cash incentives as 
recognition for exemplary contributions that demonstrate one or 
more of our key values. 
Our key values
Competitive
Engage and develop our employees to relentlessly 
out-execute the competition every time, whilst 
maintaining the highest ethical standards.
Creative
Innovation that inspires our customers, our customers’ 
customers, our employees and shareholders.
Customer focused
Dedicated to every customer’s, every employee’s  
and every shareholder’s success.
Collaborative
One global team, sharing knowledge, ideas, 
technology, resources and talents to achieve and 
sustain profitable growth. 37
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1
2 Board diversity
 2013 2012
1 Male   5  5
2 Female   1  1 
1 Male 83%  83%
2 Female 17%  17%
Employee diversity
 2013 2012
1 Male   1,194  1,172
2 Female   331  314 
1 Male 78%  79%
2 Female 22%  21%
1
2
1
1
2
Senior manager diversity
 2013 2012
1 Male   157  160
2 Female   51  48 
1 Male 75%  77%
2 Female 25%  23%
In addition, we provide project based incentives to recognise and 
reward employees for extraordinary work that results in significant 
overachievement of critical projects. The Patent Award programme 
rewards employees for being innovative, while protecting the 
Company’s investment and intellectual property rights. In 2013 
Spirent awarded 20 patent based incentives to our employees.
Growing our talent
We recognise that our competitive advantage can only be maintained 
by developing our own talent internally as well as recruiting the best 
skills from outside of our organisation.
In 2013 we established an Employee Value Proposition in order 
to clearly communicate our brand to current and prospective 
employees, and thereby retain and attract the best people. Spirent 
is large enough to provide a wide range of career possibilities, but 
small enough for individuals to be noticed and recognised, we offer 
an ideal environment for people to unleash their innovative spirits 
and collaborate to discover the future together. 
Throughout 2013, we continued to support education by offering 
internships and work experience programmes that not only help 
students develop professional knowledge, but also to provide 
future talent for our entire organisation. In 2013 Spirent offered 
28 internships in the US, seven in Europe and 20 in Asia.
 
Our challenging work environment inspires innovation, with continuous 
learning as an essential part of our human resources philosophy.
In 2013 employees in all regions around the globe participated in 
courses designed to enhance our ability to service the customer and 
to create innovative, leading products. Leadership bench strength 
was developed through various programmes including 360 degree 
feedback, succession management, organisational and individual 
accountability, and financial acumen. Our career development 
emphasises tailored, flexible pathways that give employees the 
opportunity to explore their potential in the right direction and 
at the right speed. 
Employee engagement 
At Spirent we recognise the importance of two-way communication. 
Our employees’ opinions matter to us. We regularly invite our 
employees for their views on a wide range of issues. Based on 
the feedback, we develop specific action plans to increase the 
engagement of our employees and foster a stronger organisational 
culture. In addition, informal meetings between many of Spirent’s 
executives and small groups of employees continue to be held on a 
regular basis, with the aim of sharing perspectives among a broad 
cross section of our team members. Other tools aimed at facilitating 
two-way communication include regular all employee meetings with 
our Chief Executive Officer and other executives, employee focused 
group meetings and the continued expansion of our employee intranet.
Diversity
Spirent is committed to upholding human rights and fully believes 
that diversity fuels business success in a multicultural world. Our rich 
diversity is reflected in our work environment – including ethnicity, 
race, gender, age, sexual orientation, faith, culture and global 
experiences. We believe that this variety of backgrounds, 
experiences, beliefs, personalities, knowledge, skills and ideas not 
only creates an enriching experience for our employees, diversity also 
yields the innovation and creativity demanded by our customers.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all 
existing and prospective employees without unlawful discrimination 
on the basis of religion, disability, gender, age, marital status, sexual 
orientation, race, ethnicity or any other protected status.
Disabled persons
Disabled persons, whether registered or not, are accorded equal 
opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their 
aptitudes and abilities. In addition to complying with legislative 
requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly 
treated in respect of training and career development. With regard 
to employees who become disabled during the course of their 
employment, the Group is supportive and will take all reasonable steps 
to ensure that they can remain in employment wherever practicable. 38
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Corporate responsibility is integral to 
the way Spirent conducts its business 
and we are committed to advancing 
our policies and systems across the 
Group to ensure that we address 
all aspects of corporate social 
responsibility (“CSR”).
Our responsibility framework
Ethics
Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted 
in compliance with high ethical standards of 
business practice. We apply these standards to 
all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers 
and other stakeholders.
Health and safety
Spirent is committed to continually improving its 
health and safety performance and is also committed 
to employee wellbeing by encouraging the adoption 
of healthier lifestyles by its staff members.
Sustainability and environmental
The Group is committed to the concepts of pollution 
prevention, minimising environmental impacts and 
eco-efficiency.
Community
Spirent aims to build stronger and healthier global 
communities through education, charitable donations 
and support of non-profit agencies in the communities 
in which we operate.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR with a fundamental 
commitment to create and sustain long term value for shareholders, 
recognising that acting responsibly and sustainably creates value. 
Spirent’s CSR strategy covers our accountability to all of our 
stakeholders, this includes striving for the highest ethical standards 
of business practice; how we support, develop and reward our 
employees; how we minimise our impact on the environment; and 
how we support and engage in the communities in which we operate.
Corporate social responsibility statement  39
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Ethics
Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance 
with high ethical standards of business practice. We apply these 
standards to all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers 
and other stakeholders.
Spirent has continued to ensure that all its systems, controls and 
training comply with the anti-bribery and corruption legislation in all 
the countries where we operate and that a culture of prevention and 
detection of all forms of bribery and corruption is in place. This policy 
applies to Spirent’s subsidiaries and business partners.
The Group’s Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the Board, is 
available on our website at http://corporate.spirent.com. Our Ethics 
Policy has been developed to ensure that the Group’s business is 
conducted in adherence with high ethical and legal principles and 
sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and 
operations worldwide.
The following is a summary of the Ethics Policy:
• all employees have the right and responsibility to ensure that 
Spirent’s business is conducted with high ethical and legal 
principles;
• our policy is to operate within applicable laws;
• discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated;
• as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations;
• no bribes shall be given or received;
• conflicts of interest must be avoided;
• we aim to be a responsible partner within our local communities; and
• employees are encouraged and supported to report, in 
confidence, any suspected wrongdoings (“whistleblowing”).
Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Group’s 
internal control process.
Health and safety
The Chief Financial Officer is the director appointed by the Board to 
have responsibility for the health and safety performance of the 
Group. No major health and safety issues were reported by the Chief 
Financial Officer to the Audit Committee and Board during the year.
The health and safety risk profile of the Group remained low during 
2013. The main risks of the Group continue to be based around final 
test and assembly of products and working environment issues such 
as ergonomics and repetitive strain injury. 
The Group continued to have very low accident rates in 2013 and no 
incidents required any hospitalisation.
The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for the 
management of health and safety on local management who are 
supported by local external advisers where necessary. It is the 
Group’s policy that each business unit should have a senior 
individual designated as being responsible for ensuring the business 
unit conforms to local statutory health and safety regulations as well 
as the Group Policy. An annual questionnaire on health and safety 
performance is completed by our business units and any issues 
are addressed and resolved. Independent external reviews of the 
Company’s health and safety performance are conducted annually 
at selected business units. Regular designated health and safety 
awareness training programmes are also carried out.
Spirent recognises that it is important that health and safety is 
managed to high standards successfully throughout all levels of the 
organisation. Successful health and safety management contributes 
to Spirent’s overall success by preserving and developing staff and 
physical resources, thereby reducing costs and liabilities. It is an 
essential element of its corporate responsibility.
Spirent is committed to continually improving its health and safety 
performance and to employee wellbeing by encouraging the adoption 
of healthier lifestyles by its staff members. Regulatory requirements 
and the outline of care form the basis upon which Spirent’s 
commitment is achieved. By realistic planning, review and 
development, Spirent maintains a successful health and safety 
management programme and appropriate resources are made 
available for this purpose. 40
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Sustainability and environmental
The Group continues to make significant progress in integrating 
sustainability and environmental strategy into its operations. 
Environmental and sustainability performance has improved in a 
number of areas throughout 2013 with the focus reflecting the issues 
considered material by the Group. Existing initiatives on logistics and 
power consumption in products were extended, and several energy 
efficient and low-carbon technologies have been installed across the 
Group’s global estate. The Group has also continued to implement 
the recommendations of a major review of environmental strategy 
that was commissioned in 2011. 
Environmental policy and compliance
The Group Environmental Policy applies to the Company and to all 
subsidiaries worldwide. It commits the Group to prevention and 
control of pollution, minimising environmental impacts, eco-
efficiency, and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
The Group is also committed to compliance with all applicable 
environmental regulation in all of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
To meet these objectives, the Group endeavours to continuously 
improve environmental performance and to make robust 
environmental management integral to its overall strategy.
The full policy can be found at: http://corporate.spirent.com.
As in previous years, the Group’s main direct environmental impacts 
result from offices, laboratories and assembly sites accommodating 
employees, IT systems, and travel. Business units across the Group 
continue to take measures to reduce impacts, including installation 
of energy efficient and low-carbon technologies, and improved 
waste management. There have also been a number of initiatives 
at different business units to reduce environmental impacts, 
particularly those related to energy consumption. The Group has 
also continued to reduce total floor space used:
2013 2012
Floor space reduction (%) 10.4 4.2
Almost all products continue to be produced by external contract 
manufacturers and the environmental performance of suppliers 
is monitored through audits and surveys. Our largest contract 
manufacturer is responsible for 65.5 per cent of our production and 
they have an ISO 14001 certified environmental management 
system, alongside an extensive carbon reduction programme. The 
table below shows their emissions performance for the last two years 
for which data is available.
2012 2011
Change in greenhouse gas emissions in CO
2
e (%) +11 –9
Product design and manufacturing processes take into consideration 
the recycling and disposal of products at the end of their life, as far as 
is possible. Product design also seeks to reduce power consumption 
in use. For our 10G products, the following reductions in watts per 
port have been achieved:
2013 2012
Reduction in 10G product power  
consumption (%) 9 33
The Group’s business units comply with the Waste Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment Regulations, the Batteries Directive and the 
California Electronic Waste Recycling Programme. New products are 
designed to meet the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive 
(“RoHS”), also known as Directive 2011/65/EU, even though Spirent 
Communications’ hardware products are classified as Category Nine, 
(Monitor and Control Equipment) and are therefore currently out of 
scope with the RoHS Directive. All Spirent Communications’ hardware 
products will be in compliance with the RoHS Directive at such time 
they are brought in to scope.
The Group is not directly required to comply with or report under 
Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the US Conflict Minerals Law. 
However, it has robust procedures to ensure that it would be in 
compliance if it were brought in within the scope of this legislation.
Environment strategy and materiality
The Group commissioned external consultants to perform a 
comprehensive review of our sustainability strategy and management 
in 2011. The review included a materiality assessment identifying the 
business critical sustainability issues and this study continues to 
inform the Group’s understanding of the impacts that it has on the 
environment and on the communities in which it operates. 
The following material issues were identified:
• greenhouse gas emissions and climate change;
• energy consumption in offices and manufacturing;
• environmental management; and
• environmental reporting.
The key environmental issues of energy consumption and greenhouse 
gas emissions continued to be the main focus of the Group’s efforts 
in 2013.
Significant progress was made in 2013 by the Group managing 
sustainability issues and improving performance, building on the 
work of 2011 and 2012 to act on greenhouse gas emissions in the UK 
business and to broaden our sustainability project to cover more of 
our global estate. 
Corporate social responsibility statement continued 41
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2013 work progamme
During 2013 the emphasis of the project has been on driving forward 
the Group’s strategic sustainability objectives and taking concrete 
steps to improve sustainability performance. The Group has also 
continued the programme begun in 2012 to develop the Paignton 
location as a low carbon centre of excellence.
The 2013 work programme comprised:
• continuing performance improvement at the low carbon centre of 
excellence at the site at Paignton, UK;
• site energy audits at the Group’s corporate headquarters in the UK 
and at four major US sites;
• environmental legal compliance reviews at the Group’s corporate 
headquarters in the UK and at four major US sites; and
• participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project for the first time, 
completing both the Investor Climate Change return and the 
Supply Chain return.
Paignton: low carbon centre of excellence
The Positioning site located in Paignton, UK, has had an ISO 14001 
certified environmental management system for several years and 
has a good track record in improving environmental performance. 
This location was therefore selected to act as a low carbon centre of 
excellence for the Group in 2012 and it has since piloted a number of 
sustainability initiatives. LED lighting has been installed across the 
site and ceiling insulation, voltage optimization and smart metering is 
scheduled to occur in early 2014.
The installation of a solar PV array in late 2012 has been successful 
in its first full year of operation and the array generated the following 
in 2013:
kWh generated
% of electricity 
consumption
Greenhouse gas 
emissions avoided 
(kg CO
2
e)
2013 39,658 10.9 17,667
There has also been a revitalisation of employee engagement and the 
employee Green Team at Paignton in 2013. Regular internal reporting 
of environmental KPIs and a committed team are in place to ensure 
that the position of the Paignton site as a centre of excellence is 
maintained and that environmental performance continues to improve.
Site energy audits and environmental compliance reviews
Energy audits were carried out at the corporate headquarters in 
Crawley, UK, and in four of the Group’s largest US sites during the 
year. These audits consisted of a thorough review of the buildings, 
building services and associated energy use and opportunities to 
improve energy efficiency were identified at each site. A preliminary 
review of the potential for on-site renewables was also carried out, 
based on local climatic, market and regulatory factors.
Environmental compliance reviews were also carried for these sites 
to ensure that the Group had the necessary understanding of 
environmental regulatory requirements and to identify any areas where 
practices could be improved. It was found that overall knowledge of 
and compliance with environmental requirements was strong with 
no material issues noted. Some opportunities to improve current 
practices were noted and these are currently being addressed.
The actions resulting from the energy audits and the compliance 
reviews form the basis of the 2014 work programme for sustainability 
at these sites. The toolkits developed for these reviews will also be 
rolled out to the rest of the Group’s material locations over the course 
of 2014.
Carbon disclosure project and greenhouse gas reporting
The Group responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project for the first 
time in 2013, completing both the Climate Change and Supply Chain 
questionnaires for the calendar year 2012.
The Group also reports greenhouse gas emissions for 2012 and 2013 
in its Annual Report this year for the first time.
Global GHG emissions data for the year ended 31 December 2013
Emissions from:
2013 tonnes  
of CO
2
e
2012 tonnes 
of CO
2
e
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 238 216
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased 
for own use 6,268 6,359
Total emissions 6,506 6,576
Company’s chosen intensity measurements: 
Emissions reported above normalised per 
square metre of gross internal area of our 
facilities 0.15 0.15
Emissions reported above normalised per 
£ million of revenues 15.76 13.92 42
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Methodology
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013. These sources fall within our consolidated 
statements. We do not have responsibility for any emission sources 
that are not included in our consolidated statements. 
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (revised edition), data gathered to fulfil our requirements 
under these Regulations, and emission factors from UK Government’s 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
2014 work programme
The work programme for 2014 has three main areas of focus:
• implementing recommended actions from the 2013 site energy 
audits and environmental compliance reviews;
• undertake energy and compliance audits on all other material 
sites across the Group’s estate; and
• review and update of environmental strategy and management.
As discussed above, a significant part of the 2014 project will consist 
of implementing the recommendations generated from the in-depth 
site reviews carried out in 2013 and further driving environmental 
performance improvement at these locations.
The toolkits that were developed for these reviews in 2013 will 
also be utilised at the Group’s other locations to embed sustainable 
business processes across the Group and ensure that potential 
environmental impact and cost reductions are identified and realised.
In addition to these specific measures to reduce the impact of the 
global estate, the Group will also review and update environmental 
strategy. This exercise was last undertaken in 2011 and an update 
will enable the Group to incorporate changes in the strategic 
landscape and continue to focus on the material issues for the 
Group and its key stakeholders.
In October, several employees from the Fort Worth, USA office chose 
to make a difference in their community by joining forces with the 
Trinity Habitat for Humanity programme. The employees spent a full 
day framing out the interior and roof of a home already in progress. 
The teamwork was grueling and challenging for all involved but the 
progress made towards the completed project was worth the reward 
of contributing towards a safe and decent place for an 
underprivileged family to live. 
To help students prepare for the future, Spirent works with local 
public and private non-profit educational organisations. 
In addition to internships, our managers routinely work with local 
universities and industry groups to assist in other ways. 
Corporate social responsibility statement continued
Employees from our Fort Worth office join with the Trinity Habitat for 
Humanity programme.
Community
Spirent supports technical education and local charitable 
programmes, and encourages employee volunteerism and 
participation within the communities where they live and work. 
Employees not only donate their time – they enthusiastically embrace 
the true spirit of volunteerism in their local communities, where they 
support a broad variety of causes. These include organisations, and 
activities ranging from health organisations, educational 
programmes, food banks and environmental causes. They serve 
in many different ways: as fundraisers, board members, coaches 
and mentors. 
In 2013 we introduced the Voluntary Time Off (“VTO”) policy, part 
of the Giving Back programme. The purpose of this programme is 
to support activities that enhance and serve communities in which 
we live and work. The VTO policy encourages employee involvement 
in volunteer efforts supporting the community. At the same time, 
participating in these sorts of activities enriches the lives 
of employees.  STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
43
The Ashington Cougars under 13s football team are supported by Spirent.
Employees from the Eatontown office used some of their VTO to 
participate in an event coordinated by Jersey Cares, enabling local 
corporations to support the community where they live. 
In September 21 Spirent employees and family members participated 
in one of the largest volunteer events in California, Coastal Cleanup 
Day. During the three hour event, volunteers collected tons of rubbish 
and debris from shorelines and inland locations.
In total during 2013, Spirent made charitable cash donations 
of $104,000.
Spirent supports organisations that serve the local community 
in the vicinity of its offices worldwide. In 2013 this included the 
sponsorship of the Ashington Cougars Football Club under 13s 
football team in Sussex. Ashington Cougars FC is an FA Charter 
Development Standard club which provides children from the 
ages of 5 to 16 with the opportunity to play football in a safe 
and enjoyable environment.
Pages 2 to 43 form part of the Strategic Report.
By Order of the Board
Rachel Whiting
Company Secretary
27 February 2014
Spirent has a long history of helping those in need and throughout 
2013, continued to provide aid to charitable and non-profit 
organisations through corporate sponsorships and contributions. 
Following the devastation of Typhoon Haiyan, we responded with a 
donation of $10,000 to the International Committee of the Red Cross 
to assist with the disaster relief efforts in the Philippines.
Spirent is proud of its employees, who generously donate their 
time, expertise, and money to many different organisations around 
the globe. 
Our Calabasas team raised $17 ,434 for the American Cancer Society’s 
Relay for Life of Calabasas. Employees and their families from all 
departments participated in the 24-hour walk in support of the 
Society’s efforts in research, education, advocacy and patient services. 44
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
“Chairmen are encouraged to report 
personally in their annual statements 
how the principles relating to the role 
and effectiveness of the board have 
been applied.”
UK Corporate Governance Code, 2012
Chairman’s introduction
Alex Walker
Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
In the revised UK Corporate Governance Code issued in September 
2012, company chairmen were encouraged to relate the role and 
effectiveness of their company’s board to the opening sections of the 
Code dealing with leadership and effectiveness so allow me to take this 
opportunity of so doing.
During 2013, your Board continued to focus on strategy and 
business development, with a dedicated strategy summit held at 
our Germantown, MD facility in May. We reviewed and analysed 
market conditions and technology trends and openly debated 
issues such as risk, strategic direction and allocation of product 
development investment. It is critical that as a Board we have a deep 
understanding of, and remain close to, our businesses and regular 
site visits give us the opportunity to talk directly with Spirent’s 
employees and also its customers.
Prior to the start of each financial year the Board reviews and approves 
management’s plan for the coming year, making sure that stretching 
but realistic targets are put in place. The priorities for discussion this 
year were revenue growth, margins, earnings growth and cash 
generation (some of our key performance indicators as set out more 
fully on pages 18 to 19 as well as ensuring that sufficient investment 
is made in product development opportunities so that Spirent’s one 
year plan aligns with its long term strategy.
At each Board meeting the executive directors update the Board 
on market trends and conditions together with the Company’s 
performance against the one year plan and, where necessary, present 
revised forecasts which are again openly challenged and debated. 
Consideration of the significant risks that affect the Company, both 
internal and external, their mitigation and the effectiveness of internal 
control is an essential component of corporate governance and these 
issues are deliberated by the Board at meetings throughout the year.
Further details of the Board’s activities during the year can be found 
on page 49 of this Report.
As discussed in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 43 of this 
Annual Report, 2013 marks a turning point for the Company and in 
response to the challenges experienced we have undertaken a radical 
reorganisation of the activities within Spirent. Your Board are confident 
that, in our Executive Directors, we have two highly-skilled, capable 
individuals who we are pleased to have had the opportunity to work 
with. Eric and Rachel, while both relatively new to their current roles, 
have deep knowledge and experience of the Company, its operations 
and history. They are both committed to delivering an agile, responsive 
Spirent and I look forward to the Board playing a full and constructive 
role in the development and determination of the Group’s strategy and 
overall commercial objectives. 45
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
The role of chairman is a vital one. We can provide a sounding board 
for our non-executive directors, while also maintaining a dialogue 
with our executive directors, so that the board’s focus and debate 
can be developed both within the boardroom and also between 
meetings. Board effectiveness should not just be about ticking 
boxes on a checklist; just as important is a robust culture of 
openness and respect, which I have certainly been witness to 
at Spirent board meetings.
As a Board, we are conscious of our obligations to think deeply, 
thoroughly and on a continuing basis regarding our duties. Our 
Non-executive Directors do so from a strong position of independence, 
scrutinised on a regular basis by reflecting specifically on the definition 
of independence contained within the Code. Our Executive Directors 
also must challenge their teams to encourage this positive debate 
throughout the Company.
Spirent is fortunate to have Non-executive Board members with 
extensive experience in areas critical to the long term future success 
of the Company, covering a deep understanding of our industry, 
technology, corporate strategy, finance and investment.
This experience enables the Non-executives to add entrepreneurial 
leadership, with open and rigorous debate that provides a valuable 
external and balanced perspective to the proceedings. We believe that 
our Board members complement each other, delivering a broad and 
appropriate balance of skills. Biographical details of our directors 
can be found on pages 46 to 47 of this Report.
We are well aware that Spirent’s greatest resource is its employees: 
Spirent’s people create and drive our innovation. The Board will 
continue to follow a policy of ensuring that we appoint the best people 
for the relevant roles and recognise the importance and benefits of 
greater diversity both at Board level and throughout the Group and will 
take this into account when considering any particular appointment.
As I have already mentioned, our new Chief Executive Officer and 
new Chief Financial Officer have both been internal promotions who 
have extremely detailed knowledge of the Company’s operations. 
The Board receives updates on developments in market trends, 
developments in law, corporate governance and best practice and are 
actively encouraged to ask questions or seek training on any matter 
they feel could advantage them and the Board. A fuller description of 
induction and development can be found on page 51 of the Report.
The Board are in agreement with the recommendation of the Code that 
all directors should be submitted to re-election at regular intervals and, 
indeed, all Spirent directors have stood for re-election since 2011. 
It is a failing of our industry as a whole that technology companies 
have a tendency to live in a world of jargon and acronym and every year 
we make an extra effort to present our Annual Report in a way that is 
accessible to all our stakeholders. The glossary on pages 140 to 142 
goes some way to help on the technology side, but we also work to 
make our Corporate Governance and Financial Statements clearer. 
It is not just in order to comply with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code that we strive for our Annual Report to be fair, balanced and 
understandable; if we are truly to “help the world connect”, we 
must do as we say in all our areas of communications.
Alex Walker
Chairman
27 February 2014 46
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Board of directors
1. Alex Walker Chairman
Alex joined the Board in December 2006 and was appointed Chairman 
of the Company in March 2010. He chairs the Nomination Committee 
and attends other Committee meetings by invitation.
He is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring that it operates in 
an effective manner. As Chairman, he sets Board agendas and ensures 
sufficient time is available for discussing all agenda items, particularly 
key strategic issues. He is also responsible for promoting a culture of 
openness and debate within the Board, ensuring constructive relations 
between the executive and non-executive directors and encouraging 
effective communication with shareholders.
Until August 2006 Alex was Chief Executive of Yule Catto & Co. plc and 
until April 2010 he was a Non-executive Director, Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit and Nomination 
Committees of Rotork plc.
Alex is a Non-executive Director of Zotefoams plc.
2. Eric Hutchinson Chief Executive Officer
Eric was appointed to the Board in January 2000 as Chief Financial 
Officer and appointed Chief Executive Officer in September 2013.
He is responsible for formulating the Group’s objectives and strategy 
for approval by the Board. Working with the Chief Financial Officer, he 
sets the annual budget and medium term plan and is responsible for 
reporting performance against plan to the Board. Eric also plays a key 
role in identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals.
4
5 6
7
3
1
2 47
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Before this appointment, Eric had been Spirent’s Chief Financial Officer 
since January 2000, having joined the Company in 1983, working in 
various roles within the finance function.
Eric holds a degree in History from the University of Leicester and 
undertook postgraduate research in Contemporary History at Trinity 
College, Oxford. He is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified 
Accountants and a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
3. Rachel Whiting Chief Financial Officer
Rachel was appointed to the Board in February 2014.
She is responsible for overseeing the financial operations of the Group 
and setting its financial strategy in conjunction with the Audit 
Committee and the Board. She also oversees the overall framework for 
financial forecasting, planning, analysis and reporting.
Before her appointment to the Board, Rachel was Company Secretary 
and Head of Group Tax and will continue to be Company Secretary until 
a successor can be appointed. She joined the Company in 1986 and 
worked in various roles within the finance function, before being 
appointed Head of Group Tax in 2003 adding the role of Company 
Secretary in 2009.
Rachel holds a degree in Economics from the University of Bristol. She 
is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales 
and an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Taxation and of the 
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
4. Ian Brindle Senior Independent Non-executive Director
Ian was appointed to the Board in December 2006. He is Chairman 
of the Audit Committee and serves on the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
As Senior Independent Director, he is responsible for meeting with 
the other non-executives to review the Chairman’s performance and 
is available to shareholders to discuss their concerns.
He was Senior Partner of Price Waterhouse from 1991 to 1998 and 
Chairman of Pricewaterhouse Coopers until 2001. Ian was also a 
member of the Accounting Standards Board between 1992 and 2001 
and Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel between 
2001 and 2008.
Ian serves as a Non-executive Director of Elementis plc.
5. Duncan Lewis Independent Non-executive Director
Duncan was appointed to the Board in July 2007 . He is a member of the 
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He has wide-ranging experience in the telecommunications industry 
and provides advice and counsel to the Board on major strategic issues.
Until March 2011, Duncan was Chief Executive Officer of Vislink plc and 
until October 2008 was Senior Adviser to The Carlyle Group, assisting 
them in developing strategy and identifying investments in the 
telecommunications and media sectors worldwide.
Prior to joining The Carlyle Group, Duncan served as Chief 
Executive Officer and President of GTS/Ebone, Managing Director 
of Equant NV and Chief Executive Officer at Granada Media Group 
and Mercury Communications.
After serving in Senegal for Voluntary Service Overseas, Duncan 
studied at Cambridge University and was also a visiting Professor 
of Business Management at Strathclyde University.
Duncan is Chairman of NextiraOne EU and Workshare Limited, 
Non-executive Director of euNetworks Group Limited and director 
of several other companies.
6. Tom Maxwell Independent Non-executive Director
Tom was appointed to the Board in October 2007 . He is Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
He has considerable fund management and investment trust 
experience and, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, is 
responsible for developing the Company’s policy on remuneration 
of executive directors and other senior managers.
Until September 2007 , Tom was Investment Director and Head of 
the UK Growth & Income Product Group at Martin Currie Investment 
Management in Edinburgh. He is a Member of the Chartered Institute 
of Bankers in Scotland and a Member of the Society of Investment 
Professionals & CFA Institute.
Tom is a Non-executive Director of Foresight 3 VCT plc and is Chairman 
of their Audit Committee.
7. Sue Swenson Independent Non-executive Director
Sue was appointed to the Board in February 2012. She is a member 
of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
She has a wealth of international experience and expertise in the 
telecommunications and technology sector which she brings to the 
development of the strategic vision of the Company.
From March 2008 until her retirement in April 2011, Sue served as 
President and CEO of Sage Software, Inc., the North American division 
of The Sage Group plc. Before joining Sage Software, she held 
positions as the COO of Atrinsic, Inc. (formerly known as New Motion, 
Inc.), Amp’d Mobile, Inc., and T-Mobile, was President and COO of Leap 
Wireless International, Inc., and President and CEO of Cellular One.
Sue is a Non-executive Director of Wells Fargo and sits on their 
Audit and Examination Committee and Governance and Nominating 
Committee. She also serves as Non-executive Director on the boards 
of Harmonic, Inc., serving as Chair of the Nominating and Governance 
Committee and sitting on their Audit and Examination Committee, 
and Novatel Wireless, Inc., sitting on their Compensation 
Committee. In August 2012, Sue was appointed by the US National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration as a founding 
Board member of the First Responder Network Authority. 48
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Directors’ statement on corporate governance
Shareholders
3,557 shareholders 
as at 27 February 2014
Nomination 
Committee
Non-executive Chairman
Four independent  
non-executive directors
Primary responsibility  
for succession planning,  
Board/director selection and  
Board composition
Committee report –  
page 53
Audit 
Committee
Four independent  
non-executive directors
Provides oversight and  
governance over the Group’s 
annual reporting, internal controls, 
risk management and relationship 
with external auditors
Committee report –  
pages 54 – 57
Remuneration 
Committee
Four independent  
non-executive directors
Agrees remuneration policy and 
sets individual compensation 
levels for executive directors  
and senior management
Committee report –  
pages 58 – 76
Board
Non-executive Chairman
Two executive directors
Four independent  
non-executive directors
Compliance statement
The Board fully supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 
September 2012, which applies to financial years beginning on or after 
1 October 2012 (the “Code”) and is available at www.frc.org.uk.
This Report describes how the principles of the Code are applied and 
reports on the Company’s compliance with the Code’s provisions.
The Board considers that it has been in compliance with the provisions 
of the Code throughout the period under review except for Code 
Provision D.1.5 in relation to Eric Hutchinson’s fixed term contract, 
as described more fully in the Report on directors’ remuneration 
on page 64.
Governance framework 49
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Strategy
• identification and 
evaluation of strategic 
options for near and long 
term
Governance
• the Group’s treasury 
policy
• the Group’s tax policy
• the Group’s risk appetite
• Board evaluation
Shareholder relations
• investor feedback 
following investor 
presentations and 
meetings
Board and Committees
Diversity and talent
• talent management and 
development across the 
Group
Business performance
• operational performance 
of each business unit
Financial
• the Group’s annual 
budget and additional 
investment in research 
and development
Values and standards
• updates on legal 
developments, 
compliance and ethics 
training
• development and 
update of the Group’s 
anti-bribery programme
Board
Leadership
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision 
which was reviewed and updated during the course of the year. The 
Board’s primary responsibility is to promote the long term success of 
the Company by creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value. 
The Board seeks to achieve this through setting out its strategy, 
monitoring its strategic objectives and providing oversight and 
direction to the management team. The Board considers the impact of 
its decisions on wider stakeholders including employees, suppliers and 
the environment.
Division of responsibilities
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the Company between the 
running of the Board, undertaken by the Non-executive Chairman, and 
the executive responsibility for the running of the Company’s business, 
which is in the hands of the Chief Executive Officer. This division of 
roles is reviewed and approved by the Board.
Senior Independent Director
The role of Senior Independent Non-executive Director (“SID”) provides 
a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the other 
non-executive directors, if needed. The SID is also available to meet 
with shareholders upon request if they feel that they have concerns 
which contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or an 
executive director has failed to resolve or for which such contact would 
be inappropriate.
Board activity during the period
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer presents a 
comprehensive update on the performance, strategy and business 
issues across the Group and the Chief Financial Officer presents a 
detailed analysis of the financial performance of the business units. 
Senior executives below Board level attend relevant parts of Board 
meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of 
responsibility; this gives the Board access to a broader group of 
executives and helps the directors make assessments of the Group’s 
succession plans. The Board has a rolling programme of visits to 
business unit locations to deepen its appreciation of the different 
opportunities and challenges that each unit faces, in order that 
strategy discussions can reflect a greater understanding.
During the period under review, the Board in particular reviewed: 50
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Directors’ statement on corporate governance continued
1
2
3
Board composition
1
1 . Chairman
2. Independent non-executive directors (4)
3 . Executive directors (2)
1
2
Length of tenure of directors
1
1 . Less than 3 years (2) 
2. More than 5 years (5)
1
2
Gender diversity
1
1 . Male (5)
2. Female (2)
Note
1 At the date of this Annual Report.
Composition of the Board
At the date of this Report, the Board comprises a non-executive 
Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two 
executive directors.
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors contribute 
entrepreneurial leadership and external expertise and experience in 
areas of importance to the Company, such as strategic investments, 
corporate finance, general finance and corporate governance. They 
also contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Board’s 
deliberations, and assist in the development of the Company’s 
strategy, scrutiny of the performance of management in meeting 
agreed goals and targets, and satisfying themselves of the integrity 
of the Company’s internal controls and risk management systems. 
The Board believes that all of the directors devote sufficient time 
and attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
Independence
The independence of each director is reviewed on appointment and at 
least annually with particular reference to the considerations set out 
in Code Provision B.1.1. The Board determined that the non-executive 
directors are each independent in character and judgement; none have 
been employed by the Company previously in any capacity or have any 
material business relationship with any Group company. Non-executive 
directors at Spirent receive no remuneration from the Company other 
than their fees (detailed in the Report on directors’ remuneration on 
page 65), and each non-executive director has confirmed that they 
do not represent any significant shareholder in the Company. No 
individual or group of individuals dominates the Board’s decision 
making and Code Provision B.1.2, stating that at least half of the Board 
(excluding the Chairman) should comprise independent non-executive 
directors, is satisfied.
Board procedures
During 2013, ten Board meetings were held. The agenda is set by the 
Chairman together with the Chief Executive Officer and all members of 
the Board are supplied in advance with appropriate, clear and accurate 
information in a timely manner covering matters which are to be 
considered. Minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members and, 
subject to their agreement, approved at the following Board meeting.
Attendance
The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings held during 
2013 was as follows:
Number of 
meetings held
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Alex Walker (Chairman) 10 10
Bill Burns
1
5 5
Eric Hutchinson 10 10
Ian Brindle
2
10 8
Duncan Lewis 10 10
Tom Maxwell 10 10
Sue Swenson 10 10
Notes
1 Mr Burns stepped down from the Board on 3 September 2013.
2 Mr Brindle was unable to attend two ad hoc meetings of the Board as they conflicted 
with meetings already in his diary for other listed companies. Mr Brindle received all 
papers relating to the meetings and had the opportunity to discuss issues arising 
directly with the Chairman. He also appointed Alex Walker as his proxy for the duration 
of the meetings.
Biographical details for each of the directors are set out on pages 46 
and 47 and can also be found on the Company’s website at 
http://corporate.spirent.com/About-Us/Our_Board_of_Directors.
Re-election of directors
In accordance with Code Provision B.7 .1, all directors will be subject 
to election or annual re-election by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. 
The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of all 
directors retiring at the 2014 AGM on the basis that they are all 
effective directors of the Company and demonstrate the appropriate 
level of commitment in their respective roles. 51
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Service contracts and letters of appointment
The terms of executive directors’ service contracts are disclosed in 
the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 58 to 76. Directors’ 
interests in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 70.
Executive directors’ service contracts and non-executive directors’ 
letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office and will be available at the AGM, which will take place 
on 23 April 2014.
Induction and development
Following the appointment of any new director, the Chairman and 
Company Secretary ensure that a full, formal and tailored induction to 
the Company is made available. The Company Secretary is on hand to 
answer any questions which may arise. All directors receive regular 
updates on key administrative issues and changes in the law, corporate 
governance and best practice. Directors are given the opportunity to 
highlight specific areas where they feel their skills or knowledge would 
benefit from development as part of the Board evaluation process.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary, who was appointed by the Board, is 
responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board 
on corporate governance matters as well as ensuring that there is a 
smooth flow of information to enable effective decision making. 
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and can take independent professional advice in respect 
of their duties, at the Company’s expense.
Directors’ indemnification
In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted a qualifying 
third party indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each director. 
The Company also maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance.
These provisions are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as 
defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. Neither the 
Company’s indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event 
that a director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Board performance evaluation
Every year, the Board and its committees (Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration) evaluate their performance in accordance with Code 
Provision B.6.1. In 2012, the evaluation was conducted by Useful 
Thinking Ltd. (Useful Thinking Ltd has no other connection with the 
Company). The Board reflected on the points raised by the process and 
during 2013 focused in particular on the development of strategic 
planning and increasing the diversity both on the Board itself and 
within the Company’s executive team. This year the process was 
managed internally in the form of a confidential questionnaire which 
focused on all areas of Board and Committee activities. The results 
were discussed by the Board and as a result of this year’s evaluation, 
the Board intends to look at the following during 2014:
• to continue to review and advance strategic planning;
• to provide more opportunities for non-executive directors to meet 
with executives and senior managers below Board level to assist in 
the identification of internal talent for succession planning;
• to build greater visibility and connection with the business units to 
develop a mutual understanding of roles and challenges; and
• to strengthen the Board with the appointment of additional 
non-executive directors in order to ensure orderly succession for 
appointments and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Chairman communicates regularly with the non-executive directors 
and this contact provides an ongoing opportunity to assess 
performance and to discuss the performance of the executive directors 
and any other matters. The Chairman has concluded that during the 
year under review the commitment and application of the non-
executive directors was of a high standards, including each having 
sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively. 52
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director met with the other 
independent Non-executive Directors on 6 November 2013, in the 
absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairman’s effectiveness. 
After considering and discussing the tasks undertaken by the Chairman 
during the period under review, the independent Non-executive 
Directors agreed that Mr Walker gave appropriate time and 
commitment to his role as Chairman of the Company and was 
effective in that role throughout 2013. 
Directors’ conflicts
Under the Companies Act 2006, the directors have a statutory duty to 
avoid a situation where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect 
interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the 
Company. Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts and 
potential conflicts where appropriate, if the Articles of Association 
contain a provision to this effect.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and 
is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as directors 
of the Company.
The Board believes that the following process shown below and 
established to monitor conflicts of interest is operating effectively.
Shareholder engagement
The Board is committed to maintaining good communications with 
shareholders. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer have regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders 
in order to develop an understanding of their views which is then 
discussed with the Board. All directors are offered the opportunity to 
meet with major shareholders to listen to their views and Executive 
Directors receive regular reports prepared by an independent capital 
markets advisory firm which provides comprehensive information 
relating to the Company’s major shareholders.
Directors are required to review 
and approve a register of potential 
conflicts on appointment and 
annually thereafter
Any conflicts identified are 
presented to the Board for 
consideration and, as appropriate, 
authorised in accordance with the 
Companies Act and the Company’s 
Articles of Association
Directors are responsible for 
notifying the Company Secretary  
if they become aware of any  
actual or potential conflict 
situations or a change in 
circumstances relating to an 
existing authorisation
Presentations are made to analysts, investors and prospective 
investors covering the full-year and half-year results and the Company 
seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which monitor the 
Company’s governance policies and procedures. The Strategic Report 
on pages 2 to 43 details the financial performance of the Company as 
well as setting out the risks it faces.
The Company is always keen to hear the views of its private 
shareholders and we encourage them to use our shareholder mailbox 
– investor.relations@spirent.com – for detailed enquiries and to access 
our website – www.spirent.com – for our Company reports and 
business information.
Any concerns raised by shareholders, whether directly or expressed 
through voting patterns at the Company’s AGM are discussed by the 
directors and an appropriate response given.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 23 April 
2014 at the offices of UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP.
At the AGM, the Chief Executive Officer gives an update on the 
positioning and outlook for the Company. Shareholders are invited  
to ask questions formally during the meeting and to follow up these 
discussions with directors on a one-to-one basis afterwards. The 
Chairmen of each of the committees of the Board and the Senior 
Independent Director will be in attendance and will be available 
to respond to questions at the AGM.
The Board looks forward to welcoming all our shareholders to our 2014 
AGM and to updating them on our business developments.
Directors’ statement on corporate governance continued 53
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Responsibilities
The Nomination Committee’s main focus is on strengthening, balancing 
and understanding the range of skills, experience and diversity of the 
Board, its Committees and key roles below Board level.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at 
http://corporate.spirent.com/Governance/Board_Committees or from 
the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Composition of the Committee
At the date of this Report, the Nomination Committee comprises the 
Company Chairman, who also acts as Committee Chairman, and four 
independent Non-executive Directors.
Meetings and attendance
The Committee meets at least two times each year and at other times 
as necessary. During 2013, three meetings were held, with individual 
members’ attendance as follows:
Number of 
meetings held
Number of  
meetings attended
Alex Walker (Chairman) 3 3
Ian Brindle
1
3 2
Duncan Lewis 3 3
Tom Maxwell 3 3
Sue Swenson 3 3
Note
1 Mr Brindle was unable to attend an ad hoc Committee meeting as it conflicted with a 
meeting already in his diary for another listed company. Mr Brindle received all papers 
relating to the meeting and had the opportunity to discuss issues arising direct with the 
Chairman. In this instance, he also appointed Alex Walker as his proxy for the duration 
of the meeting.
Committee activity during the period
The Committee considered and made recommendations to the Board in 
respect of:
• the appointment of Eric Hutchinson as Chief Executive Officer;
• the appointment of Rachel Whiting as Chief Financial Officer and to 
the Board;
• the appointment of senior executives resulting from the Group’s 
internal reorganisation;
• matters relating to succession planning in the light of the tenure of 
current non-executive directors; and
• the results of the evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the 
directors, including the review of the continued independent status 
of the non-executive directors.
Appointment of directors
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the 
appointment of new directors to the Board under which the Committee 
interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either by existing 
Board members or by an executive search firm. The search for 
candidates is conducted, and appointments made, on merit, against 
objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity. 
When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, the Committee 
proposes the appointment to the whole Board, which retains 
responsibility for all such appointments.
Careful consideration is given to ensure that proposed appointees for 
non-executive roles have enough time available to devote to the role 
and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board 
is maintained. When discussions relate to the appointment of the 
Company Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-executive Director 
chairs the Committee.
On 3 September 2013, when Bill Burns stepped down as Chief 
Executive Officer, the Nomination Committee considered the skills and 
experience of the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, Eric Hutchinson, in 
particular his knowledge of the Company and its operations, and 
unanimously recommended to the Board his appointment as Chief 
Executive Officer.
After a period of adjustment and internal reorganisation, the 
Committee reviewed the role of Chief Financial Officer and generated a 
set of criteria upon which to base recruitment. As an internal candidate, 
Rachel Whiting was already well-known to the Board and Committee, 
however, in order to validate her skills and experience against the 
criteria, the Committee appointed Spencer Stuart to carry out a 
benchmarking process on her suitability for the role. On receiving a 
formal report substantiating her suitability for the role of Chief Financial 
Officer, the Committee was pleased to unanimously recommend her 
appointment as Chief Financial Officer and to the Board. Spencer Stuart 
has no other connection with Company.
Following the internal reorganisation undertaken by the Chief Executive 
Officer in the second half of 2013, the Committee will be developing an 
updated succession plan in 2014 to take account of new roles and 
reporting lines.
Diversity
The Committee and, indeed, the Board, recognises the benefits of 
having diversity across all areas of the Group and believes that this 
contributes to the Company’s strategic advantage. Neither the 
Committee nor the Board sets specific targets or objectives for 
diversity. However, when considering the optimum composition of the 
Board, the benefits of a diverse Board are appropriately reviewed and 
balanced, where possible, including in terms of differences in skills, 
industry experience, business model experiences, gender, race, 
disability, age, nationality, background and other contributions that 
individuals may bring. The Committee continues to focus on 
encouraging diverse skill sets, capabilities and experience, recognising 
that directors from different geographical and cultural backgrounds 
may enhance the performance of the Board.
When identifying suitable candidates, the Committee will seek 
candidates from a range of backgrounds, with the final decision being 
based on merit over objective criteria.
With the appointment of Rachel Whiting to the Board on 1 February 
2014, women currently represent 29% of our Board; further details of 
the gender diversity within the Company can be found in the “Our 
Employees” section on pages 36 to 37 of this Annual Report.
Committee performance evaluation
Having reviewed the results of the Board’s and the Committee’s 
performance evaluations, the Committee has confirmed to the Board 
that the present Board and its Committees continue to operate 
effectively and that all of the non-executive directors remained 
independent in accordance with the Code and should stand for 
re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Nomination Committee 54
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Audit Committee
Ian Brindle
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Dear Shareholder,
In this Audit Committee report, you will find details of the work of the 
Audit Committee (“the Committee”) during the year and in particular 
details of how it has discharged its responsibilities as set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code in respect of the following three principal 
areas of focus:
• how the significant accounting issues that the Committee has 
considered in relation to the financial statements for the year have 
been addressed;
• how the Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the external 
audit process and the approach that has been taken to the 
appointment of EY as external auditor; and 
• how EY’s objectivity and independence has been safeguarded 
in relation to their provision of non-audit services.
In addition, during 2013, the Board and the Committee have been 
briefed on and considerable attention has been given to the recently 
introduced governance requirements for the Annual Report taken as 
a whole to be fair balanced and understandable. The Board and 
Committee understand that ‘fair’ should mean reasonable and 
impartial, ‘balanced’ should mean even handed in terms of being 
positive and negative and ‘understandable’ should mean simple, 
clear and free from jargon or unnecessary clutter.
The Board and Committee consider that the Annual Report for 2013, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, with 
appropriate signposting being made throughout the various sections 
to assist shareholders and others understand the information and 
disclosures contained within them.
The Committee’s focus areas for the rest of 2014 are:
• monitoring revenue recognition policy;
• challenging the corporate risk appetite as it moves into  
new business areas and testing the risk tolerance of the  
Company’s strategy; and
• assessing the Company’s response to the changing regulations 
relating to the tendering of the external audit.
Also in 2014, we are welcoming a new Chief Financial Officer, Rachel 
Whiting, to the Board. Rachel has worked in several roles at Spirent and 
has a deep-rooted understanding of the financial reporting structure 
throughout the Company and the Committee is confident that she will 
provide a robust approach to the high standards that it has come to 
expect from the Finance team. 
Ian Brindle
Chairman of the Audit Committee
27 February 2014 55
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Responsibilities
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility for 
overseeing the financial reporting, internal risk management and 
control functions and for making recommendations to the Board in 
relation to the appointment of the Company’s external auditors.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at http://
corporate.spirent.com/Governance/Board_Committees or from the 
Company Secretary at the registered office.
Composition of the Committee
At the date of this Report, the Audit Committee comprises four 
independent non-executive directors, one of whom acts as  
Committee Chairman.
The Board considers that two members of the Committee, Ian Brindle 
(who acts as Committee Chairman) and Tom Maxwell, provide recent, 
significant and relevant financial experience.
Further biographical details of the Committee members can be found 
on pages 46 and 47 .
Meetings and attendance
The Committee meets at least two times each year and at other times 
as necessary. During 2013, three meetings were held, with individual 
members’ attendance as follows:
Number of 
meetings held
Number of  
meetings attended
Ian Brindle (Chairman) 3 3
Duncan Lewis 3 3
Tom Maxwell 3 3
Sue Swenson 3 3
The Company’s external auditor, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Financial Officer, Group Vice President, Finance, Head of Financial 
Reporting and Company Secretary, who is Secretary to the Committee, 
were in attendance at each meeting of the Committee.
In addition, the Committee meets regularly with the Company’s 
external auditor and with the Group Vice President, Finance without 
management present.
Committee activity during the period
The Committee discharged its responsibilities to the Board and 
communicated with them on the following matters during the period 
under review:
• review of the full-year and half-year financial statements, key 
accounting policies and significant financial reporting judgements 
contained therein (with particular reference to the critical 
accounting assumptions and judgements as set out in Note 2 of the 
consolidated financial statements on pages 87 to 93) and 
recommendation of such financial statements to the Board for 
approval;
• review of whether the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable and forming an opinion thereon prior 
to recommending it to the Board;
• review and consideration of assumptions in relation to the going 
concern basis for preparation of financial statements;
• review of the external auditor’s report on the interim review and 
year end audit and management’s responses to the issues raised;
• review of the policy on the engagement of EY to supply non-audit 
services;
• review and recommendation to the Board of the re-appointment of 
EY as external auditor and approval of their fees, in particular in 
light of the UK Corporate Governance Code’s recommendations 
regarding the tender of the external audit contract;
• review of recommendations on segmental reporting in accordance 
with IFRS 8 and the impact of IAS19 (revised);
• review and approval of restructuring of the Finance team in light of 
business unit reorganisation;
• monitoring and review of internal control and risk management 
systems;
• review and approval of the internal audit programme for 2013;
• review of risk assessment of cyber security;
• review of the Company’s Whistleblowing Policy and anti-bribery and 
corruption procedures; and
• review of regular reports on taxation, treasury operations and 
health and safety.
The Committee Chairman reports any significant findings or identified 
weaknesses to the Board.
Financial reporting and significant financial issues
Following discussions with management with regard to their own review 
of accounting policies and internal controls, the Audit Committee 
concluded that there were two significant financial issues arising from 
the financial statements which would require particular consideration 
during the year:
• Revenue recognition 
Having discussed the impact that complex commercial 
arrangements entered into by the Group could have on the 
recognition of revenue and associated balances, the Committee 
noted that a review of current procedures in the light of current 
trading should be undertaken. As part of their audit procedures EY 
would examine the allocation of revenue and review specific large 
and complex transactions to ensure that revenue has been 
recognised appropriately.
• Tax accounting 
The Committee recognises that the complexity associated with the 
Group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions may lead to an 
incorrect tax charge being recognised in the income statement for 
the period and deferred tax assets being inappropriately 
recognised. The Committee noted that EY would be performing a 
detailed review of the deferred tax recognised and tax provisions to 
ensure the appropriateness of tax disclosures in the Group accounts 
as part of their audit review.
The Committee noted that EY had included these areas of significant 
risk in the Auditor’s Report on pages 80 to 81 of this Annual Report and 
was satisfied with the results of the procedures followed. 56
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
The Group Vice President, Finance is responsible for ensuring that the 
finance department employs a level of management and specialists 
appropriate for maintaining financial records and processes that provide 
financial information that is relevant, reliable, complies with the 
applicable laws and regulations, and is distributed both internally and 
externally in a timely manner. A review of the consolidation and financial 
statements is undertaken by senior management to ensure that the 
financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected. 
All financial information published by the Group is subject to the 
approval of the Audit Committee prior to it being approved by the Board.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed the 
effectiveness of this system and this review did not reveal any 
significant issues or weaknesses. The Board confirms that this system 
of internal control and risk management was in place throughout the 
year under review and up to the date of approval of this Report. 
The primary aim of the Group’s internal controls is to operate a system 
which is appropriate to the business and which can support the Group 
in delivering its strategic objectives, safeguard the Group’s assets and, 
over time, enhance shareholder value. The system is designed to 
identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the 
Group rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Group consists 
of a limited number of entities and the Board and Audit Committee 
continue to consider that currently there is no need for a dedicated 
internal control and risk management department.
As disclosed in the “Our principal risks and uncertainties” section on 
pages 20 to 25, the Group risk review committee reviews the key risks 
facing the business. Membership of the Group risk review committee, 
which includes representation from each of the key business areas, 
is currently:
• Chief Executive Officer;
• Chief Financial Officer;
• Executive Vice President, Networks, Applications and 
Infrastructure;
• Executive Vice President, Wireless and Service Experience; and
• Group Vice President, Finance
Members of the Group risk review committee meet with each business 
unit periodically to challenge and debate the assessment of risk within 
each business unit, who then submit local risk registers for the 
committee to analyse and rank together with company-wide risks to 
form a robust corporate risk register. This corporate risk register is then 
presented to the Audit Committee at each of its meetings. Actions 
arising from the Audit Committee’s review of the corporate risk register 
can then be fed back to the business units for their management.
Audit Committee continued
Day-to-day responsibility for effective internal control and risk 
management and monitoring rests with senior management at 
business unit level. The Group Vice President, Finance attends all Audit 
Committee meetings to report on internal control and risk management 
and to apprise the Committee of any control weaknesses, control 
failings and risks, their impact and the actions taken to deal with the 
issues. The Group Vice President, Finance, is independent of any 
business unit and is therefore able to provide an objective view and 
continual assessment of the effectiveness of internal control and risk 
management throughout the Group. Detailed updates on specific 
areas, such as cyber security or business continuity, are provided by 
the Group Vice President, Finance at the Committee’s request.
Risk management
The Board and Audit Committee consider that having the following key 
elements in place are critical to underpinning the overall internal 
control environment:
Operating Structure  
and Controls
An organisational structure 
with clear operating procedures, 
defined lines of responsibility and 
delegated levels of authority
Financial Control Structure A comprehensive strategic 
planning, financial control and 
budgeting system which is properly 
documented and regularly 
reviewed
Ethics Policy A policy that sets standards of 
professionalism and integrity for 
all employees and operations
Anti-Bribery Policy A policy to ensure that all of 
Spirent’s systems, controls and 
training comply with the 
anti-bribery and corruption 
legislation in all the countries 
where we operate and that a 
culture of prevention and detection 
of all forms of bribery and 
corruption is in place
Whistleblowing Policy A whistleblowing procedure 
whereby employees may report, 
in confidence, suspected 
wrongdoings
Acquisitions and Divestments A disciplined due diligence process 
and post-acquisition integration 
programme 57
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
External audit
The Committee places great importance on ensuring that high 
standards of quality and effectiveness are maintained within the 
external audit process. It considers a number of areas in relation 
to the external auditors: their performance in discharging the audit 
and interim review of financial statements, their independence and 
objectivity, and their reappointment and remuneration.
Consideration of the effectiveness of the external auditors also forms 
part of the Audit Committee’s performance evaluation questionnaire 
and is discussed regularly with management to enable prompt 
feedback to be given.
The Company’s external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP (“EY”), provided 
the Committee with their plan for undertaking the year end audit at 
the Committee meeting in November 2013. This highlighted the 
proposed approach and scope of the audit for the year and identified 
the areas of significant risk and other financial statement risk, 
including the audit approach for these areas in some detail. The areas 
of significant risk were primarily identified as issues of judgement 
and complexity and included revenue recognition and tax accounting. 
The Committee reviewed and appropriately challenged the basis for 
these before agreeing the proposed approach and scope of the 
external audit identified.
EY prepared a detailed report of their audit findings, which was 
presented to the Committee at its meeting in February 2014. The findings 
were reviewed and discussed in detail by the Committee, in particular in 
relation to the areas that had been highlighted at the planning stage. As 
part of the review, the external auditor was questioned and challenged 
by the Committee about the work undertaken, its findings and what key 
assumptions had been made during the audit, especially with regard to 
the key areas of audit risk identified.
Prior to recommending their re-appointment as external auditors, the 
Committee considers EY’s independence and objectivity in the light of 
relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements, specifically in 
the light of the Competition Commission’s investigation into the market 
for statutory audit services for large companies and also the EU’s 
review of the audit services market. EY have been the Company’s 
external auditors for more than 25 years and the audit has not been 
tendered during that time, although it was noted that as a result of EY’s 
policy on rotating audit partners there had been a new Audit Partner in 
2011. The Committee determined that given the developing nature of 
the regulations relating to audit tendering provisions from the 
Competition Commission and the EU, and that there are no contractual 
obligations that restrict the Company’s current choice of external 
auditor, it would not be appropriate to instigate a tender process at 
the present time.
Policy on non-audit services
The Committee’s responsibility to monitor and review the objectivity 
and independence of the external auditor is supported by a policy in 
relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor. 
Taking into account relevant ethical guidance this policy precludes 
a number of non-audit services including services relating to the 
accounting records and financial statements, internal audit, IT 
consulting, legal and investment services and other services deemed 
by regulators to be precluded. The policy is reviewed and financial 
limits for the provision of non-audit services, including audit-related 
fees, tax-related fees and other fees, are set on an annual basis (2013 
$0.6 million (2012 $0.6 million)). Any amounts in excess of this limit 
must be approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
Requests for approval of any permitted non-audit service are reviewed 
and, if necessary challenged by the Company Secretary, who reports to 
the Committee all non-audit services undertaken at each Committee 
meeting so that it can monitor the types of services being provided and 
the fees incurred. Details of the fees paid to the external auditor for 
non-audit services can be found in Note 5 to the consolidated financial 
statements. The Committee considers that notwithstanding the 
non-audit services provided during the year totalling $0.2 million (2012 
$0.4 million), EY’s objectivity as external auditor was not impaired.
Ian Brindle
Chairman of the Audit Committee
27 February 2014 58
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Report on directors’ remuneration
Tom Maxwell
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder,
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present 
our Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Last year’s Remuneration Report anticipated many of the new 
remuneration reporting requirements which were in draft form at that 
time. This Report has been prepared in accordance with the now 
finalised requirements and we hope that you find it comprehensive, 
clear and informative. 
The Committee aims to operate a simple and transparent remuneration 
structure comprising base salary, a cash incentive plan and a long term 
incentive plan which provide a clear link between remuneration and the 
Group’s strategic priorities. In support of this, the Committee aims to 
ensure that remuneration packages are offered which:
• set the total remuneration package at an appropriate level to reflect 
the competitive markets in which the Group operates;
• link a significant proportion of the total remuneration package to 
the achievement of demanding performance targets;
• structure the reward of executive directors and senior management 
to align their interests with those of shareholders over the long 
term;
• encourage the retention and stability of the management team; and
• underpin a high performance culture throughout the Group.
As a Committee, we believe it is essential that directors’ remuneration 
is aligned with the Company’s strategic framework, the interests of 
shareholders and the external competitive market. 
As outlined earlier in this Annual Report, it has been a challenging year 
for Spirent, with decreasing revenues and a significant impact on profit. 
2013 also marks a turning point for the Company and this was reflected 
in the activities for the Committee which, in addition to routine matters 
set out in the report, included:
• reviewing and settling Bill Burns’ termination arrangements in line 
with his service agreement; and
• reviewing the future policy for cash incentive arrangements for 
executive directors and determining that to drive longer term focus, 
cash incentives will now be based on annual performance only with 
no quarterly incentive.
With the introduction of the new reporting requirements there 
continues to be a significant focus on transparency of reporting on 
executive pay. The Committee is strongly committed to open and 
transparent dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters and 
takes every opportunity to engage with key shareholders, to 
understand their views on our remuneration arrangements and to 
discuss our policy going forward. As set out later in this Report, our 
2012 Report on directors’ remuneration received a strong level of 
support at the Company’s AGM in May 2013 with 98.77 per cent of 
shareholders voting in favour of the advisory resolution. STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
59
The main priorities for the Committee for 2014 are:
• to continue to review remuneration policy in the light of evolving 
best practice, consulting with shareholders as appropriate;
• to ensure that the executive directors are fairly rewarded for both 
individual and Company performance; 
• to set incentive targets that support the long term strategy for the 
Group, are stretching, appropriate, and achievable;
• to commence a review of our Employee Incentive Plan which is due 
to expire in 2015, seeking investor views as appropriate before 
seeking shareholder approval in 2015; and
• reviewing malus and clawback provisions to ensure that we are in 
line with best practice.
On behalf of the Committee I hope that you find this Report 
comprehensive, clear and informative.
Tom Maxwell
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
27 February 2014
Compliance statement
This Report on directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 
2013 has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Remuneration 
Committee in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-
sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) as amended in 
2013, the relevant sections of the Companies Act 2006 and meets the 
requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
The Report also describes how, except with regard to Eric Hutchinson’s 
service contract, as more fully described on page 64, the Board has 
complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
issued in September 2012.
The Report is presented in two parts: 
Part A sets out the Remuneration Policy and provides the details of the 
remuneration policy that we propose will apply following the 2014 AGM 
subject to obtaining shareholder approval at the AGM on 23 April 2014.
Part B sets out the Directors’ annual remuneration report and includes 
details of how our remuneration policy was implemented for the year 
ended 31 December 2013 and how it will be applied for the year ended 
31 December 2014.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 April 2014 there will be 
two resolutions in respect of this Remuneration Report:
• the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report set out in Part A on pages 
59 to 67 will be put to a binding shareholder vote; and 
• the Directors’ Annual Report on Remuneration in Part B on pages 68 
to 76 will be put to an advisory shareholder vote.
Part A: Remuneration Policy
Components of executive director remuneration
The Committee’s policy is to set remuneration levels which ensure 
that executive directors are fairly and responsibly rewarded in return 
for high levels of performance. The remuneration policy set by the 
Committee aims to encourage a performance based culture which 
reinforces behaviour that will lead to the continued long term 
successful development of the business, is sufficient to attract, retain 
and motivate high calibre executive directors and senior managers and 
aligns their interests with those of shareholders. The Committee 
believes that the aims of the policy are achieved by ensuring that a 
significant proportion of total remuneration is linked to the 
achievement of stretching corporate and individual targets both in the 
short and long term. 60
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Report on directors’ remuneration continued
Future policy table
The table below sets out the executive remuneration policy that we intend to apply, subject to shareholder approval, from 24 April 2014 and 
summarises the various elements of executive remuneration:
 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics
Base salary
Fixed pay
To provide fixed 
remuneration for each 
role which reflects the 
size and scope of the 
executive director’s 
responsibilities and their 
individual skills and 
experience
Set at levels to attract and 
retain the high calibre 
talent necessary to 
develop and deliver the 
Group’s strategy
Base salaries are normally 
reviewed annually, with changes 
effective from 1 January
Salaries are typically set after 
considering the salary levels in 
companies of a similar size and 
complexity, the responsibilities 
of each individual role, 
progression within the role, 
individual performance and 
experience and with regard to 
salary levels in the country in 
which the executive resides. Our 
overall policy, having had due 
regard to the factors noted, is 
normally to target salaries at the 
median market level
Salary levels for current incumbents 
for the 2014 financial year are:
Chief Executive Officer £400,000 per 
annum
Chief Financial Officer £250,000 per 
annum
Salaries may be adjusted and any 
increase will ordinarily be (in 
percentage of salary terms) in line 
with those of the wider workforce 
having particular regard to the 
increases in the country in which the 
individual resides
Increases beyond those granted to 
the wider workforce (in percentage of 
salary terms) may be awarded in 
certain circumstances, for example 
where there is a change in 
responsibility, progression in the role, 
experience or a significant increase in 
the scale of the role and/or size, value 
and/or complexity of the Group
Individual and business performance 
are considered when determining 
salary levels, together with 
experience, scope of responsibility 
and salary increases of employees in 
the country of residence of the 
director
Benefits
To provide market levels 
of benefits on a cost-
effective basis
To support personal 
health and well-being
May include private health cover 
for the executive and their family, 
life insurance cover, typically up 
to four times annual base salary, 
permanent health insurance and 
a car allowance
Other benefits may be offered 
from time to time broadly in line 
with local market practice in the 
country of residence of the 
executive director
Global relocation support and any 
associated costs or benefits may 
also be provided if considered by 
the Committee to be appropriate 
and reasonable to meet the 
requirements of the business
Private health care benefits are 
provided through third party 
providers and therefore the cost to 
the Company and the value to the 
director may vary from year to year
It is intended that the maximum 
value of benefits offered will remain 
broadly in line with market practice
None STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
61
 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics
Pension (or cash allowance)
Fixed pay
To provide cost-effective 
and competitive 
post-retirement benefits
Defined contribution scheme or 
cash allowance in lieu of 
Company pension contributions 
or a combination of both
Other post-retirement benefits 
may be offered from time to time 
broadly in line with local market 
practice in the country of 
residence of the executive 
director
An annual taxable cash allowance of 
20% of base salary is provided to 
the Chief Executive Officer and 14% 
of base salary is provided to the 
Chief Financial Officer either as a 
contribution to a defined 
contribution plan or as a taxable 
salary supplement in lieu of pension
Base salary only is pensionable but 
the percentage allowance may 
increase in line with market practice 
None
Annual incentive
Variable pay
To reward and incentivise 
the achievement of annual 
financial and strategic 
goals
The performance 
measures are selected to 
align the strategy of the 
business with shareholder 
value creation
Measures and targets are set 
annually, payments are then 
determined by the Remuneration 
Committee after the year end 
based on performance against 
those targets
The annual incentive is payable 
in cash
On target opportunity of 100% of 
base salary for Chief Executive 
Officer subject to a cap of 150% of 
base salary
On target opportunity of 50% of 
base salary for Chief Financial Officer 
subject to a cap of 75% of salary
The Remuneration Committee may, 
in exceptional circumstances, 
amend the payments should this 
not, in the view of the Committee, 
reflect overall business performance 
or individual contribution but they 
would not exceed the maximum 
opportunity set out above
For 2014, the annual incentive is 
based on financial targets only, 
reflecting the focus for the Group. 
Future annual incentives may be 
based on a mix of financial and 
individual business objectives with 
the majority of the weighting being 
given to financial metrics
A sliding scale between 0% and 100% 
of the maximum incentive applies for 
achievement between threshold and 
maximum performance under the 
annual incentive. 
The exact measures, weightings and 
targets are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee each year 
taking into account the Group’s key 
strategic priorities and the approved 
budget for the year
Long term incentives
To incentivise executives 
to achieve enhanced 
returns for shareholders
To encourage long term 
retention of key 
executives
To align the interests of 
executives and 
shareholders
Discretionary awards of 
conditional awards, nil cost 
options or stock appreciation 
rights (“SARS”) may be granted 
annually as a percentage of base 
salary. Vesting is based on 
performance measured over 
three years. The performance 
period normally starts at the 
beginning of the financial year in 
which the grant is awarded in 
respect of EPS conditions or 
shortly before the date of award 
in respect of TSR conditions 
Limits of 250% and 125% of base 
salary for awards of SARs or share 
options and Performance Shares 
respectively
Limit of 250% of base salary for 
combined awards where one 
Performance Share is equivalent to 
two SARs or share options
Award levels and performance 
conditions are reviewed before each 
award cycle to ensure they remain 
appropriate. If employment ceases 
during a performance period, awards 
may be tested on a pro rata basis 
under certain “good leaver” 
circumstances at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee
A full description of the performance 
conditions applicable to long term 
incentive awards under the Employee 
Incentive Plan (“EIP”) can be found 
below this table 62
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Report on directors’ remuneration continued
 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics
All-Employee share plans
Variable pay
To provide all employees 
with the opportunity to 
become shareholders on 
similar terms
Executive directors are eligible to 
participate, on the same basis as 
other employees, in the 
Company’s HMRC-approved 
Share Incentive Plan (known as 
the Employee Share Purchase 
Plan) or any other all-employee 
share plan operated in the future
Employee Share Purchase Plan:
All eligible employees in 
participating locations are 
invited to participate
Partnership shares are held in 
trust and can be released at any 
time subject to appropriate tax 
treatment of proceeds
Participation by all employees in any 
all-employee share plan operated 
now or in the future is limited to the 
maximum award levels permitted by 
relevant legislation
None
Relocation
To offer assistance to 
executive directors who 
are required to relocate by 
the Company to enable 
the Company to attract 
and retain talent
Global relocation support and 
any associated costs or benefits 
may be provided
The Company may also provide 
tax equalisation arrangements
There are a number of variables 
affecting the amount that may be 
payable, but the Committee would 
pay no more than it judged 
reasonably necessary in the light of 
all applicable circumstances
None
Share ownership
To align the interests of 
executive directors with 
shareholders and promote 
a long term approach
Executive directors are expected 
to hold shares in the Company to 
the value of a minimum of 100% 
of base salary over time. These 
can include shares and 
unfettered share incentive 
awards
Except for those sold to cover 
subscription costs, income tax 
and national insurance 
contributions, executive 
directors are encouraged to 
retain shares arising from share 
schemes until the minimum level 
of ownership has been achieved
None None STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
63
Notes to the policy table
Performance conditions for awards under the Employee Incentive Plan (“EIP”)
The Committee reviews the appropriateness of performance parameters for each award under the EIP and sets stretching performance conditions 
in the light of the Company’s current and expected performance over the vesting cycle.
2014 Policy on share incentive awards
The Committee expects to approve an award of Performance Shares to Eric Hutchinson and Rachel Whiting equivalent to 125 per cent and  
60 per cent of annual base salary respectively.
Performance conditions for awards expected to be made in 2014
Having reviewed the appropriateness of the performance parameters for awards under the EIP, the Committee has determined that for awards to 
be made in 2014, the following parameters are apposite:
Performance shares
The performance conditions for Performance shares will be calculated over a three year performance period as set out in the following table:
50% of award:
Growth in EPS
1
 over the performance period (%) Proportion of Performance shares vesting (%)
Below 15 0
15 30
Above 15 and below 30 On a straight line basis between 30 and 100
30 or above 100
Note
1 EPS means Adjusted Basic Earnings per Share after expensing of share-based payments.
50% of award:
Absolute TSR Proportion of Performance shares vesting (%)
Up to 25% growth 0
At 25% growth but below 65% growth On a straight line basis between 30 and 100
At or above 65% growth 100
In determining TSR for the Company, share prices will be averaged over the 90 day period immediately prior to, and at the end of, the  
performance period.
SARs and share options
The performance condition for SARs and share options, where awarded, would continue to be based on the rate of growth in the Company’s EPS 
over the three year performance period.
Growth in EPS
1
 over the performance period (%) Proportion of SARs/share options vesting (%)
Below 15 0
15 30
Above 15 and below 30 On a straight line basis between 30 and 100
30 or above 100
Note
1 EPS means Adjusted Basic Earnings per Share after expensing of share-based payments.
Shareholder approval for EIP
Shareholder approval was given in 2005 to operate the EIP until 2015, subject to further shareholder approval being required on the use of new 
issue shares and any material changes to the plan. No material changes to the EIP are proposed and therefore no specific shareholder approval is 
required at the 2014 AGM to continue to operate this plan. However, we expect to seek shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM for an extension to 
the EIP’s operating period. 64
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Report on directors’ remuneration continued
Approach to recruitment remuneration
In the event that the Company recruits a new executive director (either from within the organisation or externally), when determining the appropriate 
remuneration arrangements, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors (including but not limited to quantum, the type of 
remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction which the candidate was recruited from) to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both 
the shareholders and the Company without paying more than is necessary to recruit an executive of the required calibre.
The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration package offered with our remuneration policy outlined in the table above. 
However, the Committee retains discretion to make proposals on hiring a new executive director which are outside the standard policy. In the first 
year of appointment, the Committee may offer additional remuneration arrangements that it considers appropriate and necessary to recruit and 
retain the individual. Such remuneration may be in the form of cash or share-based awards which may vest immediately or at a future point in 
time. Vesting may be subject to performance conditions selected by the Committee.
The Committee may make awards on appointing an executive director to “buy-out” remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous 
employer. In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to those awards, the 
form in which they were granted and the time over which they would have vested. Generally buy-out awards would be made on a comparable 
basis to those forfeited.
In the event of recruitment, the Committee may also grant an award to a new executive under Listing Rule 9.4.2 which allows for the granting 
of awards, specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of an executive director, without seeking prior 
shareholder approval.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new executive directors would normally be in line with the maximum level of variable 
pay set out in the policy table on pages 60 to 62 but in any event would be limited to 400 per cent of base salary, excluding any buy-out awards.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the previous role may either continue on its original terms or be 
adjusted to reflect the new appointment.
When recruiting non-executive directors, the remuneration arrangements offered would normally be in line with those paid to existing 
non-executive directors, details of which are set out on page 65.
Service contracts
Executive directors
In normal circumstances, it is the Company’s policy that service contracts for executive directors have no fixed term and are capable of termination 
on no more than 12 months’ notice from either the Company or the executive director. It is intended that this policy would also apply to new 
appointments of executive directors. However, following the termination of Bill Burns’ service agreement on 3 September 2013, the Board 
determined that in order to provide certainty and stability, it was in the best interests of promoting the long-term success of the Company not to 
comply with Code Provision D.1.5. of the UK Corporate Governance Code with regard to the length of service agreements for executive directors. 
The Company therefore entered into a fixed term contract with Eric Hutchinson, which at the date of this Report has an unexpired term of 15 months 
and will expire on 31 May 2015. Following its expiration in 2015, and in line with normal policy, the service agreement with Eric Hutchinson would 
be renewed on 12 months’ notice.
Both Eric Hutchinson and Rachel Whiting currently have a service agreement with Spirent Communications plc, and, being UK resident, both their 
contracts are in line with UK employment practice and are governed by the laws of England. Rachel Whiting’s service agreement, dated 1 February 
2014 may be terminated on 12 months’ notice from the Company and six months notice from Rachel. Eric Hutchinson’s service agreement may be 
terminated on six months from Eric.
Until his termination on 3 September 2013, Bill Burns had a service agreement with Spirent Communications Inc. governed by the laws of California.
The Company recognises that its executive directors may, from time to time, be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and 
that such appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience, to the benefit of the Company. At the date of this Report, neither Eric 
Hutchinson nor Rachel Whiting holds any such external positions.
The service agreements of the executive directors are available for inspection on request and will be available for inspection at the 2014 AGM. 65
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Non-executive directors
All non-executive directors have a letter of appointment with the Company for a period of not more than three years, subject to the Company’s 
Articles of Association. However, since 2011 and in accordance with the Code, all directors stand for re-election at each AGM.
Details of individual appointments are as follows:
Director First appointed a director Current appointment due to expire
Ian Brindle 22 December 2006 2015 AGM
Duncan Lewis 1 July 2007 2014 AGM
Tom Maxwell 1 October 2007 2014 AGM
Sue Swenson 1 February 2012 2015 AGM
Alex Walker 22 December 2006 2015 AGM
The letters of appointment are available for inspection on request and will be available for inspection at the 2014 AGM. An example of a letter of 
appointment for a non-executive director is available on the Company’s website at http://corporate.spirent.com/Governance.
Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors 
The Board aims to recruit high calibre non-executive directors, with broad commercial, international or other relevant experience.
The Company’s remuneration policy with regard to fees for non-executive directors, including the Chairman, is to pay fees which are in line with 
market practice for companies of a similar size and complexity. Fees for the non-executive directors are normally reviewed by the Board once 
every three years and were last reviewed on 1 January 2012, having been frozen since 1 January 2008. It was determined that the basic annual fee 
for non-executive directors would be set at £40,000 per annum for 2012 to 2014 inclusive. Fees for the Chairman, which are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee, were set at £160,000 per annum for 2012 to 2014 inclusive, having been frozen since 1 January 2009. The Chairmen of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees each receive additional fees of £11,000 and £9,000 per annum respectively. It is considered that 
non-executive director fees are at the median level for comparable companies. Fees for non-executive directors and the Chairman will next be 
reviewed on 1 January 2015.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in cash incentive or share incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify for 
pension or other benefits. No element of their fee is performance related.
When recruiting non-executive directors, the remuneration arrangements offered will generally be in line with those set out above.
Exit payment policy
The Committee is committed to ensuring that it does not pay more than is necessary when executives leave the Group and its policy on exit 
payments is and will continue to be in line with market practice in the country in which the executive director resides:
• Service contracts contain provisions for the removal of the director without compensation for poor performance or material misconduct;
• Payment in lieu of notice may be paid under service contracts if the relevant notice period is not given to the director or if, having received 
notice from the director, the employer does not wish him/her to serve it;
• Unless provided for in the service contract, the Company would seek to apply practical mitigation measures to any payment of compensation 
on termination, for example by reducing payments to reflect payments received in respect of alternative employment, taking into account all 
relevant circumstances;
• Service contracts do not contain provision for additional compensation on termination following a change of control (as detailed in the Change 
of Control provisions set out on page 78);
• Service contracts do not contain provision for liquidated damages of any kind;
• Service contracts contain appropriate provisions to protect the legitimate interests of the Company with respect to preventing any terminated 
director from working in a business which competes against the Company; and
• Incentives:
 – Cash incentives: unless otherwise provided in the service contract, to be consistent with market practice in the country in which the 
executive resides, executives are not entitled to accrued cash incentives payable following termination;
 – Employee Incentive Plan (EIP): Leaver provisions were approved by shareholders when they approved the EIP . Unvested awards will 
generally lapse at the point of exit. Participants who leave due to special circumstances including redundancy, ill-health, injury or disability, 
retirement, death, the Participant’s employing company ceasing to be under the Control of the Group, a transfer of the undertaking in which 
the Participant works and any other reason, if the Committee so decides in general or in any particular case may be considered ‘good 
leavers’ under the EIP Plan Rules. In such circumstances, performance conditions are assessed by the Committee at the point of exit by 
testing the performance conditions up to the date of exit for TSR performance and to the end of the most recent financial period for EPS 
performance. Vesting is then pro rated for time and vested awards may be exercised within 12 months following the date of termination  
of employment. 66
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Illustrations of the application of our remuneration policy in 2014
The charts below show an illustration of the proportion of total remuneration made up of each component of the remuneration policy and the 
value of each component.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each executive director:
Minimum performance • Fixed remuneration
1
• No cash incentive
2
• No vesting under the Employee Incentive Plan
3
On target performance • Fixed remuneration
1
• 100% of target cash incentive paid
2
• 65% vesting under the Employee Incentive Plan
3
Maximum performance • Fixed remuneration
1
• 150% of target cash incentive paid
2
• Full vesting under the Employee Incentive Plan
3
Notes 
1 Fixed remuneration comprises salary and benefit provision as set out in the policy table.
2 Cash incentive is annual bonus for 2014 as set out in the policy table.
3 Vesting of awards under the Employee Incentive Plan assumes full vesting for awards subject to EPS performance conditions for on target and maximum performance. The share price 
is assumed to increase in line with the implied price earnings ratio at 31 December 2013. For awards subject to Absolute TSR performance conditions, vesting is assumed to be 30 per 
cent for on target performance and 100 per cent for maximum performance. The share price is assumed to increase in line with the performance condition required under each 
scenario. Depending on share price performance, the actual outcome may be different.
Long term incentive £000 Cash incentive Fixed
Chief Executive Officer policy for 2014
497
1,310
1,816
100%
38% 30% 32%
27% 40% 33%
Long term incentive £000 Cash incentive Fixed
Maximum performance
On target performance
Minimum performance
Maximum performance
On target performance
Minimum performance
Chief Financial Officer policy for 2014
286
535
689
Long term incentive £000 Cash incentive Fixed
100%
54% 23% 23%
42% 31% 27%
Consideration of employee remuneration arrangements elsewhere in the Group
When setting the policy for directors’ remuneration, the Committee has regard to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere within the Group, 
particularly in the jurisdictions in which the executive directors are based. The Committee is kept informed on a regular basis of salary increases 
for the general employee population and takes these into account when determining salary increases for executive directors. No salary increase 
has been awarded for the role of either Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer for 2014.
While the Committee does not directly consult with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay, the Committee does receive 
updates and feedback on employee engagement surveys and takes these into account when reviewing executive pay. An employee engagement 
survey is scheduled for 2014.
Further details of employee remuneration arrangements can be found in the “Our Employees” section on pages 36 to 37 of this Annual Report.
Report on directors’ remuneration continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
67
Consideration of the views of shareholders in setting remuneration policy
The Committee is mindful of the views of shareholders in determining appropriate levels of remuneration and in ensuring that shareholder  
and director interests are aligned. The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and seeks shareholder views when  
any significant changes are proposed to remuneration arrangements. In particular, the Committee consulted with major shareholders regarding 
the appropriate performance measures for awards granted under the Employee Incentive Plan in both 2010 and 2013 and will continue to do so 
when changes are proposed to ensure both shareholder and directors’ interests are aligned. In particular, the Committee expects to consult key 
shareholders in relation to the possible extension of the Employee Incentive Plan’s operating period, prior to making a decision on whether to
seek approval by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Dilution
The Committee is strongly committed to managing shareholder dilution in a responsible manner. No new shares were issued during the year, with 
all vesting and exercises of share incentives being satisfied by the transfer of shares held by the Company’s ESOT. At the date of this Report, the 
ESOT holds 0.7 million Ordinary Shares for the purpose of satisfying the exercises of current and future awards by employees and former 
employees of the Group. Overall shareholder dilution resulting from the Company’s share incentive plans (on a rolling ten year basis) has fallen by 
0.1 per cent when comparing the positions at 31 December 2013 (8.9 per cent) and 31 December 2012 (9.0 per cent). The overall number of share 
incentives outstanding has fallen by 0.3 million during the year to 5.5 million at 31 December 2013 (2012 5.8 million).
Legacy matters
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into 
with current or former directors (such as the payment of pension or the unwinding of legacy share schemes) that have or will have been disclosed 
to shareholders in remuneration reports before this Policy takes effect. Details of any payments will be set out in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration as they arise.
Committee discretion
The Committee has powers delegated by the Board under which it operates. In addition, it complies with rules which have either been approved 
by shareholders (the Employee Incentive Plan) or by the Board (annual cash incentives). These rules provide the Committee with certain 
discretions which serve to ensure that the implementation of the Remuneration Policy is fair both to the individual director and to shareholders, 
taking overall performance and the position of the Company into account. The Committee also has discretions to set components of remuneration 
within a range from time to time. The extent of such discretions are set out in the relevant rules or in the maximum opportunity and performance 
metrics sections of the Policy Table.
In addition, the Committee requires discretion to deal with genuinely exceptional or unforeseen circumstances. This form of discretion will only  
be applied in the best interests of the Company and is intended to provide for changed circumstances or strategy that has not been provided for  
in the Remuneration Policy, when it would be disproportionate to seek specific approval from a general meeting of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee will not exercise discretion to reward failure and will report on any exercise of discretion that changes the amount  
of remuneration paid in any year. 68
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Part B: Annual Report on Remuneration for 2013
Audited Information
Single figure of total remuneration for 2013
The table below provides a single figure of total remuneration for 2013 and 2012 for the executive directors:
2013
Salary
1
 
$000
Benefits
2
 
$000
Performance 
related cash 
incentive
3
 
$000
Long term 
incentive
4
 
$000
Pension
5
 
$000
Total  
2013 
$000
Bill Burns
6
586.2 29.6 – – 10.2 626.0
Eric Hutchinson
7
540.8 27.0 38.1 – 108.0 713.9
2012
Salary
1
 
$000
Benefits
2
 
$000
Performance 
related cash 
incentive
3
 
$000
Long term 
incentive
4
 
$000
Pension
5
 
$000
Total  
2012 
$000
Bill Burns 700.0 29.2 425.5 307.6
8
10.0 1,472.3
Eric Hutchinson 495.1 26.2 150.2 123.6
8
98.9 894.0
Notes
1 Salary and fees: cash paid in respect of the year.
2 Benefits: taxable value of all benefits in respect of the year which comprise private healthcare, permanent health insurance, life insurance and car allowance.
3 Performance related incentive: cash incentive payable in respect of the year.
4 Long term incentive: value of Performance shares vesting in the year based on the performance condition that ends in the year.
5 Pension: cash value in lieu of pension or US 401(k) plan contribution.
6 Bill Burns stepped down as CEO on 3 September 2013.
7 Eric Hutchinson became CEO on 3 September 2013.
8 On 30 November 2012, 129,260 and 51,926 Performance Shares vested and were alloted to Bill Burns and Eric Hutchinson respectively, which at a fair market value of 150.6 pence 
resulted in a gain of £194,666 ($307,572) for Mr Burns and £78,201 ($123,557) for Mr Hutchinson.
Quarterly and annual performance incentives
During 2013, the cash incentive plan continued to be structured so that two-thirds of the incentive target could be earned in respect of quarterly 
targets and one-third in respect of annual targets.
Growth targets in the Company’s EPS and order intake, representing 70 per cent and 30 per cent of the incentive respectively, determined the 
maximum incentive which could be earned in respect of the annual incentive element.
Quarterly incentives were structured in two stages. Growth targets in the Company’s quarterly EPS and order intake formed the first stage and 
determined the maximum incentive which could be earned in respect of each quarter. Performance against key strategic goals including 
engineering and product milestones, and other financial targets, determined the actual incentive earned by each executive director in each 
quarterly performance period. The engineering and product milestones in particular provide the roadmap to the Group’s long term strategic 
direction and success.
The annual growth targets for EPS and order intake for an on target award for 2013 were 5.6 per cent and 10.3 per cent respectively. These targets 
were not achieved and accordingly no award was earned. The quarterly targets for EPS, order intake and individual goals are set prior to the 
commencement of each quarter. The targets set for EPS and order intake were not met in the first three quarters of 2013 and accordingly, no 
award was earned in respect of those quarters. In the fourth quarter, the EPS and order intake goals were partially met and all engineering and 
other personal goals were achieved, resulting in an award of £24,400 to Eric Hutchinson. Engineering and product milestone goals were 84 per 
cent achieved during the year. Other specific target detail for quarterly incentives is considered to be commercially sensitive. In the prior year, 
cash incentive payments of $425,500 and $150,200 were paid to Bill Burns and Eric Hutchinson respectively.
For 2014, cash incentives will only be available to executive directors on an annual basis, with a maximum total cash incentive available for  
Eric Hutchinson and Rachel Whiting of 150 per cent and 75 per cent of base salary respectively.
Report on directors’ remuneration continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
69
Total pension entitlements
During 2013 and prior to his termination, Bill Burns participated in the Spirent Communications 401(k) Pension Plan (“the Plan”), which is  
a defined contribution plan established under the provisions of Section 401(k) of the US Internal Revenue Code (“US IRC”). The Group makes 
matching contributions of up to 4 per cent of the maximum compensation permitted for these purposes under the US IRC. For 2013, the maximum 
permitted compensation was $255,000 and accordingly the contribution made to the Plan for the period up to Bill Burns’ termination was 
$10,200 (2012 contribution $10,000). Eric Hutchinson receives a taxable cash allowance in lieu of pension of 20 per cent of base salary.  
For 2013, the allowance paid was £69,233 ($108,000 at an average exchange rate of $1.56:£1) (2012 £62,570 ($98,860 at an average exchange 
rate of $1.58:£1)).
Payments to past directors
There were no payments to past directors during the year under review.
Payments for loss of office
Bill Burns stepped down as Chief Executive Officer on 3 September 2013. His termination payments are as set out in his service agreement and as 
disclosed in previous Reports on director’s remuneration. He received one month’s base salary ($60,000) as pay in lieu of notice and will receive 
11 months’ base salary ($660,000) in ten equal monthly instalments of $66,000 each commencing in December 2013, subject to set-off for any 
base salary earned from alternative employment during the 12 month period following termination on 3 September 2013 (the “Severance 
Period”). Monthly COBRA premium payments of $1,840 are also being paid for the duration of the Severance Period subject to a set off for health 
insurance provided by an alternative employer during the Severance Period. The Company paid $8,000 in respect of Bill Burns’ legal fees. All 
outstanding unvested share awards granted to Bill lapsed on termination, however, the Committee exercised its discretion under the Plan Rules 
of the EIP to allow Bill’s vested and unfettered share awards to continue to be exerciseable during the 12 month period following termination  
as these awards had been retained by Bill as part of his shareholding to meet the Committee’s shareholding guideline for executive directors.
Non-executive director fees
Details of fees paid to non-executive directors in 2013 and 2012 are as follows:
2013 
£000
2012 
£000
Alex Walker (Chairman) 160.0 160.0
Ian Brindle 51.0 51.0
Duncan Lewis 40.0 40.0
Tom Maxwell 49.0 49.0
Sue Swenson 40.0 36.6
Total 340.0 336.6
Shareholding guidelines for executive directors
The Committee believes that to further align their interests with those of shareholders, executive directors should have a significant shareholding 
in the Company equivalent to at least 100 per cent of their base salary in the form of shares and unfettered share incentive awards which may be 
built up over time following appointment as an executive director. The table below sets out the holdings of the executive directors who served 
during the year at 31 December 2013 and to the date of this Report at their respective date of termination, 31 December 2013 or date of 
appointment as applicable.
Guideline holding
Beneficially  
owned shares
Unfettered  
share incentives Guideline met?
Bill Burns
1
100% of base salary
223,484 374,000 n/a
Eric Hutchinson 1,302,775 56,600 Yes
Rachel Whiting
2
83,353 60,348 No
Note
1 The holding shown for Bill Burns is as at the date when he stepped down as CEO, 3 September 2013.
2 The holding shown for Rachel Whiting is as at the date of her appointment to the Board, 1 February 2014. 70
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Statement of Directors’ share holdings and share interests
The beneficial interests of the directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company are set out below:
At 31 December 2012
Ordinary Shares
1
At 31 December 2013 
Ordinary Shares
At 27 February 2014
Ordinary Shares
2
Executive directors
Eric Hutchinson 1,300,379 1,302,775 1,303,285
Rachel Whiting n/a n/a 83,475
3
Bill Burns 218,850 223,484
4
n/a
Non-executive directors
Ian Brindle 4,525 4,525 4,525
Duncan Lewis – – –
Tom Maxwell 26,955 50,000 50,000
Sue Swenson – – –
Alex Walker 80,481 180,481 180,481
Notes
1 Directors’ beneficial interests do not form part of the remuneration provided by the Company.
2 Events since 31 December 2013:
 On 24 January 2014, Eric Hutchinson acquired 266 Ordinary Shares under the UK Employee Share Purchase Plan at a price of 93.8381 pence per share.
 On 24 February 2014, Eric Hutchinson acquired 244 Ordinary Shares and Rachel Whiting acquired 122 Ordinary Shares, both under the UK Employee Share Purchase Plan at a price of 
102.46 pence per share.
3 Rachel Whiting joined the Board on 1 February 2014.
4 The holding shown for Bill Burns is as at the date when he stepped down as CEO, 3 September 2013.
Report on directors’ remuneration continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
71
Outstanding share incentive awards
1
The share incentive interests of executive directors who served during the period 1 January 2013 to the date of this Report are set out below:
Eric Hutchinson
Plan Type EIP EIP EIP EIP EIP
Award Type SAR PS PS PS SAR
Award date 25 August 2005 23 March 2011 21 March 2012 8 May 2013 8 May 2013
At 1 January 2013 (or at date of appointment) 56,600 109,366 142,235 – –
Granted during the period – – – 172,531 86,266
Vested during the period – – – – –
Exercised during the period – – – – –
Lapsed during the period – – – – –
Any other adjustments during period – – – – –
At 31 December 2013 (or at date of cessation) 56,600 109,366 142,235 172,531 86,266
Market price at date of award (£) 0.53 1.432 1.531 1.291 1.291
Face value of award granted in period (£) – – – 222,737 111,369
Exercise price (£) 0.53 Nil
2
Nil
2
Nil
2
1,291
Subject to performance conditions? Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Performance condition EPS 50% EPS, 50% TSR 50% EPS, 50% TSR 50% EPS, 50% TSR EPS
Performance condition testing date
3
25 August 2008 23 March 2014 21 March 2015 8 May 2016 8 May 2016
Result of performance condition testing 100% vest – – – –
Market price at vesting date (£)
4
0.80 – – – –
Exercise date – – – – –
Market price at exercise date (£) – – – – –
Gain on exercise (£) – – – – –
Expiry date 24 August 2015 23 March 2014 21 March 2015 8 May 2016 8 May 2023
Rachel Whiting
Plan Type EIP EIP EIP EIP
Award Type SAR PS PS PS
Award date 5 May 2006 23 March 2011 21 March 2012 8 May 2013
At 1 January 2013 (or at date of appointment)
5
60,348 21,873 19,928 –
Granted during the period – – – 24,262
Vested during the period – – – –
Exercised during the period – – – –
Lapsed during the period – – – –
Any other adjustments during period – – – –
At 31 December 2013 (or at date of cessation) 60,348 21,873 19,928 24,262
Market price at date of award (£) 0.475 1.432 1.531 1.291
Face value of award granted in period (£) – – – 31,322
Exercise price (£) 0.475 Nil
2
Nil
2
Nil
2
Subject to performance conditions? Yes Yes Yes Yes
Performance condition EPS 50% EPS, 50% TSR 50% EPS, 50% TSR 50% EPS, 50% TSR
Performance condition testing date
3
5 May 2009 23 March 2014 21 March 2015 8 May 2016
Result of performance condition testing 100% vest – – –
Market price at vesting date (£)
4
0.595 – – –
Exercise date – – – –
Market price at exercise date (£) – – – –
Gain on exercise (£) – – – –
Expiry date 5 May 2016 23 March 2014 21 March 2015 8 May 2016 72
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Bill Burns
Plan Type EIP EIP EIP EIP EIP
Award Type SAR PS PS PS SAR
Award date 7 November 2008 23 March 2011 21 March 2012 8 May 2013 8 May 2013
At 1 January 2013 (or at date of appointment) 374,000 255,859 287,287 – –
Granted during the period – – – 360,183 180,091
Vested during the period – – – – –
Exercised during the period – – – – –
Lapsed during the period – 255,859 287,287 360,183 180,091
Any other adjustments during period – – – – –
At 31 December 2013 (or at date of cessation)
6
374,000 – – – –
Market price at date of award (£) 0.505 1.432 1.531 1.291 1.291
Face value of award granted in period (£) – – – 464,996 232,498
Exercise price (£) 0.505 Nil
2
Nil
2
Nil
2
1.291
Subject to performance conditions? Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Performance condition EPS 50% EPS, 50% TSR 50% EPS, 50% TSR 50% EPS, 50% TSR EPS
Performance condition testing date
3
7 November 2011 3 September 2013 3 September 2013 3 September 2013 3 September 2013
Result of performance condition testing 100% vest 0% vest 0% vest 0% vest 0% vest
Market price at vesting date (£)
4
1.246 1.346 1.346 1.346 1.346
Exercise date – – – – –
Market price at exercise date (£) – – – – –
Gain on exercise (£) – – – – –
Expiry date 3 September 2014 3 September 2013 3 September 2013 3 September 2013 3 September 2013
Notes
An explanation of each share plan and its operation is given in Note 29 to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group and Note 14 to the parent Company financial statements.
1 Key to share plan and type of award:
 EIP SAR – 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Stock Appreciation Rights.
 EIP PS – 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Performance Shares awarded as conditional share awards.
2 There is no exercise price payable for a Performance share upon vesting. Further details on Performance shares are provided above.
3 Awards which have passed the date first exercisable have vested and are unfettered, having passed the relevant performance conditions.
4 The market price on date of grant is the price of an Ordinary Share at the close of business on the day before the date of grant.
5 Rachel Whiting was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2014, the awards shown were awarded prior to her appointment as Chief Financial Officer.
6 Bill Burns stepped down from the Board on 3 September 2013.
Scheme interests awarded during the year
In 2013, the Committee approved combined awards of Performance shares and SARs to Mr Burns and Mr Hutchinson equivalent to 250 per cent 
and 150 per cent of base salary respectively, with one Performance share being equivalent to two share options or SARs.
Policy for Performance shares granted in 2013
The performance conditions for Performance shares awarded in 2013 under the EIP are calculated over a three year performance period as set out 
in the following table:
50% of award:
Growth in EPS
1
 over the performance period (%) Proportion of Performance shares vesting (%)
Below 15 0
15 30
Above 15 and below 30 On a straight line basis between 30 and 100
30 or above 100
Note
1 EPS means Adjusted Basic Earnings Per Share after expensing of share-based payments.
50% of award:
TSR Ranking Proportion of Performance shares vesting (%)
Below median 0
Between median and upper quartile On a straight line basis between 30 and 100
At or above upper quartile 100
Report on directors’ remuneration continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
73
The comparator group for determining TSR comprises the 30 largest companies by market capitalisation in the FTSE TechMARK 100 Index, 
excluding those companies who were also constituents of the FTSE 100 Index at the commencement of the performance period, together with one 
non-UK listed direct competitor. The Committee considered that the selected comparator group provided a suitable benchmark for the Company’s 
TSR rating. In determining the TSR for the Company and its comparator group, share prices will be averaged over the 90 day period immediately 
prior to, and at the end of, the performance period.
Policy for SARs and share options granted in 2013
The performance condition for SARs and share options awarded in 2013 under the EIP is based on the rate of growth in the Company’s EPS over 
the three year performance period.
Growth in EPS
1
 over the performance period (%) Proportion of SARs/share options vesting (%)
Below 15 0
15 30
Above 15 and below 30 On a straight line basis between 30 and 100
30 or above 100
Note
1 EPS means Adjusted Basic Earnings Per Share after expensing of share-based payments.
Share interests vesting during 2014
Awards which are due to vest on 23 March 2014 and are subject to an EPS performance condition have not passed that condition and will lapse 
on that date. 
Awards which are due to vest on 23 March 2014 and are subject to a TSR performance condition will have that performance condition tested on 
23 March 2014.
Unaudited Information
Total Shareholder Return performance
The graph below shows the TSR performance for the last five financial years of Spirent Communications plc against the FTSE 250 Index and the 
FTSE TechMARK 100 Index, excluding those companies who were also constituents of the FTSE 100 Index at the commencement of the period. 
The Committee believes that these provide broad equity market indices against which the performance of the Company can be fairly compared, 
and that the FTSE TechMARK 100 Index provides a particularly representative collection of comparator companies.
Five-year TSR performance – Spirent vs FTSE TechMARK 100
1
 and FTSE 250
Dec 13 Dec 12 Dec 11 Dec 10 Dec 09 Dec 08
600
500
400
300
200
Rebased Index
100
Spirent FTSE TechMARK 100
1
FTSE 250
Note
1 As of 1 January 2009, excluding FTSE100 companies.
The middle market price of an Ordinary Share at the close of business on 2 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 (being the first and last days the 
London Stock Exchange was open for trading in 2013) was 153.8 pence and 103.8 pence, respectively, and during that period ranged between a 
high of 169.2 pence and a low of 98.5 pence. 74
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
2012 2013
Percentage change in the remuneration of the 
director undertaking the role of CEO compared 
to the percentage change in remuneration 
of all Group employees
1
 
 
Percentage change 
in Group employee 
cash remuneration
Percentage change 
in CEO cash 
remuneration
2%
0%
–25%
–21%
163.6 163.4
2012 2013
 
 
Remuneration 
paid to all 
employees
Remuneration paid to all employees ($m) 
during 2013
2
10.2
12.0
55.5
30.8
10.9
9.4
2012
51.1
2013
77.7
 
 
Returns to shareholders ($m) during 2013
Final dividend
(paid May 2013)
4
On-market share
repurchase
3
Interim dividend
(paid September
2013)
4
 
Report on directors’ remuneration continued
Table of CEO remuneration
Year CEO
CEO single figure  
of total remuneration
Annual bonus payout against 
maximum opportunity %
Long term incentive vesting 
rates against maximum 
opportunity
2013 Eric Hutchinson 291.5
1
12.0 –
2013 Bill Burns 626.0
2
– –
2012 Bill Burns 1,472.3 40.5 34
2011 Bill Burns 2,095.4 93.3 84
2010 Bill Burns 1,971.1 100.0 100
2009 Bill Burns 1,566.5 93.9 100
Notes
1 Eric Hutchinson took up the position of Chief Executive Officer on 3 September 2013.
2 Earnings disclosed are to 3 September 2013, when Mr Burns stepped down as Chief Executive Officer.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2014
The following components of remuneration are effective from 1 January 2014 or date of appointment if later:
Salary
Eric Hutchinson £400,000
Rachel Whiting £250,000
Benefits
Private healthcare cover for executive and family
Permanent health insurance
Life insurance cover of four times annual base salary
Car allowance (CEO only)
Notes
1 The graph shows the change in CEO’s annual cash remuneration, defined as base salary, taxable  
benefits and cash incentive, compared to that of the average Group employee for 2012 and 2013.
2 Total as set out in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Total as set out in Note 28 to the consolidated  financial statements.
4 Total as set out in Note 14 to the consolidated  financial statements. 75
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Retirement benefits
Eric Hutchinson will receive a taxable cash sum in lieu of pension at a rate of 20% of base salary.
Rachel Whiting will receive a contribution to a defined contribution arrangement of her choice or a taxable cash sum in lieu of pension at a rate of 
14% of base salary.
Annual cash incentive
The Committee has set stretching targets for the year focused on order intake and earnings per share growth. Although the target detail is 
considered commercially sensitive, the weightings for the year ended 31 December 2014 are as follows:
Earnings per share 20%
Order intake 80%
On target and maximum annual cash incentive payments are as follows:
On target performance % of base salary Maximum % of base salary
Eric Hutchinson 100 150
Rachel Whiting 50 75
Award under Employee Incentive Plan (EIP)
It is anticipated that awards will be made under the EIP in 2014 as follows:
Anticipated value of award £000
Eric Hutchinson 500
Rachel Whiting 150
The awards are valued on the basis of performance shares, which are valued at the share price on the date of grant.
The performance measures and targets are set out on page 63 of this Report.
Statement of shareholder voting
At the 2013 AGM on 1 May 2013 the results of the advisory vote regarding the Report on directors’ remuneration for the year to 31 December 2012 
were:
Votes for
1
Votes against
Number % Number % Votes cast Votes withheld
2
512,859,440 98.77 6,407,015 1.23 519,266,455 645,149
Notes
1 The “For” vote includes those giving the Company Chairman discretion.
2 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes “For” and “Against” the resolution.
Votes “For” and “Against” are expressed as a percentage of total votes cast. 76
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Remuneration Committee
Responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for determining all elements of the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, Company Secretary and 
senior executives of the Group, reviewing remuneration policy and overseeing the operation of the Company’s share incentive plans.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at http://corporate.spirent.com/Governance/Board_Committees or from the Company 
Secretary at the registered office.
Composition of the Committee
At the date of this Report, the Remuneration Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors, one of whom acts as 
Committee Chairman.
Meetings and attendance
The Committee meets at least four times each year and at other times as necessary. During 2013, five meetings were held, with individual 
members’ attendance as follows:
Number of  
meetings held
Number of  
meetings attended
Tom Maxwell (Committee Chairman) 5 5
Ian Brindle
1
5 4
Duncan Lewis 5 5
Sue Swenson 5 5
Note
1 Mr Brindle was unable to attend an ad hoc Committee meeting as it conflicted with a meeting already in his diary for another listed company. Mr Brindle received all papers relating to the 
meeting and had the opportunity to discuss issues arising direct with the Committee Chairman. In this instance, he also appointed Alex Walker as his proxy for the duration of the meeting. 
The Company’s Chairman was also in attendance at each of the meetings. 
Advisers to the Committee
Kepler Associates Limited, who were appointed by the Committee some years ago, provided the results of TSR testing to determine the vesting  
of share incentives.
Kepler Associates Limited is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its voluntary Code of Conduct in respect of  
the provision of remuneration consulting services, details of which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com and has no other 
connection to the Company. The Committee considers them to be independent in their approach.
The fees paid to Kepler Associates Limited to carry out work during 2013 for the Remuneration Committee totalled £17 ,460 and were based on 
time and materials.
During the year the Committee also consulted with the Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Company 
Secretary but not on matters relating to their own remuneration.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Tom Maxwell
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
27 February 2014
Report on directors’ remuneration continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
77
Companies House or by writing to the Company Secretary. The 
Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a special 
resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. The most recent 
changes to the Articles of Association were approved at the 2010 AGM 
and became effective at the close of that meeting on 5 May 2010.
The Company has established two employee benefit trusts in 
connection with the operation of the Company’s share incentive 
plans: the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust (“ESOT”) and the 
Spirent Sharesave Trust (“SST”). The trustees of both trusts have 
waived their right to receive dividends on any Ordinary Shares held by 
them except for a nominal amount of 1 pence other than for those 
Ordinary Shares held in the ESOT which are the beneficial property of 
an employee/shareholder. For further details on the employee benefit 
trusts see “Investment in own Ordinary Shares” in Note 28 to the 
consolidated financial statements and Note 14 to the parent Company 
financial statements. Trustees of both trusts do not vote their 
Ordinary Shares, except for those Ordinary Shares held in the ESOT 
that are the beneficial property of an employee/shareholder, which 
the trustees will vote in accordance with the instructions received 
from the beneficial owner.
Restrictions on share transfers
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the 
capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may from 
time to time be imposed by law, for example, insider trading law. In 
accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, 
certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company 
prior to dealing in its securities.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on 
voting rights. The Company is also not aware of any contract of 
significance between itself or any subsidiary undertaking and 
a controlling shareholder.
Powers for issue of new shares
During the year to 31 December 2013 and to the date of this Report, 
no new Ordinary Shares have been allotted as a result of the exercise 
of options and rights pursuant to the Company’s share incentive plans.
At each annual general meeting, the directors seek authority to allot 
shares for cash and to disapply pre-emption rights within prescribed 
limits. At the 2014 AGM, authority will be sought to allot new Ordinary 
Shares up to a nominal value of £6,797 ,132, which is equal to 33.3 per 
cent of the Company’s issued share capital as at 7 March 2014.
Return of capital
The Company was first authorised to repurchase up to 14.99 per cent of 
its own issued Ordinary Shares, within certain limits and as permitted 
by the Company’s Articles of Association, at the 2006 AGM. This 
authority has been renewed at each subsequent AGM, reducing to 9.99 
per cent at the 2010 AGM and subsequent AGMs. The authority from 
the 2013 AGM remains valid until the earlier of the 2014 AGM or 30 
June 2014. Since the Company began returning capital to shareholders 
in May 2006, a total of £260.8 million has been returned, through the 
repurchase of 387 .9 million Ordinary Shares.
Pages 44 to 79 inclusive (together with the sections of the Annual 
Report incorporated by reference) form part of the Directors’ Report 
which is presented in accordance with, and with reliance upon, 
applicable English company law. The liabilities of the Directors in 
connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and 
restrictions provided by such law.
Other information, which forms part of the Directors’ Report, can be 
found in the following sections of the Annual Report:
Information
Location in 
Annual Report
Acquisitions 29
Audit Committee Report 54
Board and Committee Membership 46
Corporate Governance Report 48
Directors’ biographies 46
Directors’ responsibilities statement 79
Financial risk management 28
Treasury policy 28
Future developments 16
Development costs 93
Disability 37
Diversity 37
Greenhouse gas emissions 40
Nomination Committee Report 53
Employees 36
Pension schemes 98
Post balance sheet events 120
Results and dividends 4
Share capital 77
Corporate Social Responsibility 38
Sustainable development 40
Directors’ indemnity arrangements 51
Political donations
In accordance with the Group’s Ethics Policy, no political donations 
were made during the year (2012 nil).
Share capital
The Company has a single class of share which is divided into Ordinary 
Shares of 3
1
/ 3 pence each. Each Ordinary Share carries one vote and all 
of the Ordinary Shares rank pari passu. There are no special control 
rights relating to any of the Ordinary Shares. At the date of this Report, 
611.9 million Ordinary Shares of 3
1
/ 3 pence each had been issued 
which are fully paid up and are listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
The Company also operates a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt 
(“ADR”) programme with each ADR representing four Ordinary Shares. 
The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter market and The Bank of 
New York Mellon is the authorised depositary bank for the programme. 
Further details on share capital are set out in Note 28 to the 
consolidated financial statements and Note 14 to the parent 
Company financial statements.
The rights, including those relating to voting, obligations and any 
restrictions on transfer relating to the Company’s Ordinary Shares, 
as well as the powers of the Company’s directors, are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association, a copy of which can be found on 
our website at http://corporate.spirent.com/ or can be obtained from 
Report of the directors 78
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
During 2013 29.2 million Ordinary Shares, each with a nominal value 
of 3
1
/ 3 pence were repurchased for an aggregate consideration of 
£34.9 million and cancelled immediately following repurchase. This 
represents 4.49 per cent of the Company’s issued Ordinary Share 
capital at the beginning of 2013. The Company repurchased a further 
10.0 million Ordinary Shares between 1 January 2014 and the date of 
this Report.
The Company will seek authority to repurchase up to 9.99 per cent of 
its own Ordinary Shares at the 2014 AGM to facilitate any further return 
of capital if the Board concludes that it is in the best interests of 
shareholders to do so.
Substantial shareholdings
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6(2), the Company has been 
notified of the following significant interests in its Ordinary Shares 
pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5:
As at 31 December 2013:
Date of notification Total holding
% of 
Company’s
total
voting
rights
Prudential plc 9 September 2013 70,463,646 11.34
BlackRock Inc. 11 July 2013 64,825,665 10.43
AXA Investment 
Managers SA 18 October 2011 47,515,946 7.65
Aviva plc 16 December 2013 40,696,410 6.55
Schroders plc 5 August 2013 34,270,136 5.52
Artemis Investment 
Management Limited 17 September 2010 32,940,888 5.30
Standard Life 
Investments Ltd 27 January 2011 32,370,026 5.21
Ameriprise  
Financial, Inc. 11 December 2013 31,590,545 5.08
Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada  
(UK) Ltd 5 December 2008 23,382,347 3.76
Norges Bank 30 May 2013 19,516,804 3.14
The following notifications have been received during the period 
1 January 2014 to 27 February 2014:
Date of notification Total holding
% of 
Company’s
total
voting
rights
Aviva plc 22 January 2014 40,597,969 6.57
Prudential plc 29 January 2014 67,877,796 11.00
Change of control provisions
The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee 
that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment 
resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Company’s 
share incentive plans may cause outstanding unvested options and 
awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on a takeover 
as follows:
Share incentive plan
Change 
of control 
provisions in 
the rules
Effect on 
vesting
Performance 
condition
2005 Employee Incentive Plan Yes Pro-rated Still applies
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan No None n/a
The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is 
party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the 
Company following a takeover.
Post balance sheet events
Details of post balance sheet events are included in Note 35 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries and taking into account the  
matters set out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on 
pages 20 and 25 of this Annual Report, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,  
they continue to adopt the going concern basis on preparing the 
financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditor
Each of the directors of the Company at the date of this Report  
confirms that:
• so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by the 
Company’s auditor in connection with preparing their report of 
which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• he (she) has taken all the steps that he (she) ought to have taken as 
a director in order to make himself (herself) aware of any 
information needed by the Company’s auditor in connection with 
preparing their report and to establish that the Company’s auditor is 
aware of that information.
Independent auditors
As described in more detail on page 57 of the Audit Committee report, 
the Board will be proposing a resolution to re-appoint EY as auditiors at 
the 2014 AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The 2014 AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 23 April 2014  
at the offices of UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP.
By Order of the Board
Rachel Whiting
Company Secretary
27 February 2014
Spirent Communications plc
Company number: 470893
Report of the directors continued 79
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report 
on directors’ remuneration, the consolidated financial statements of the 
Group and financial statements of the parent Company.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law they are required to prepare the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by 
the European Union (“EU”) and have elected to prepare the parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles and applicable law.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group are required by 
law and IFRSs to present fairly for each financial period the financial 
position and performance of the Group; the Companies Act 2006 
provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in the 
relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair 
view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent Company.
In preparing each of the consolidated financial statements of the 
Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are 
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state for the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group 
whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU;
• state for the parent Company financial statements whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
Company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume the Group and the parent Company will 
continue in operational business for the foreseeable future.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above 
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Group and the parent Company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, for the Group, Article 4 of the International Accounting 
Standards Regulation. They have general responsibility for taking such 
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a strategic report, a directors’ report, 
a directors’ remuneration report and a statement on corporate 
governance that comply with the law and those regulations. They 
are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the Company’s website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 
to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
This Annual Report complies with the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules (“DTR”) of the Financial Conduct Authority in respect of the 
requirement to produce an annual financial report.
The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements are the 
responsibility of, and have been approved by, the directors.
Each of the directors confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
• the consolidated financial statements of the Group and parent 
Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, financial position and the profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
• the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
By Order of the Board
Rachel Whiting
Chief Financial Officer
27 February 2014
Directors’ responsibilities statement 80
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Spirent 
Communications plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of Spirent 
Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which 
comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated 
balance sheet, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, 
the Consolidated cash flow statement and the Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 35. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 79, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on 
the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and 
directing the efforts of the engagement team: 
• revenue recognition, in relation to correct allocation to components 
for multi-element contracts and appropriate cut off; and 
• tax accounting, as the Group operates in a number of jurisdictions 
with different tax regulations and available credits there is an 
increased risk of non-compliance with local tax regulations which 
may result in the understatement of tax provisions and liabilities 
including those arising from penalties and charges. In addition, 
there is a risk that inappropriate use of brought forward tax losses 
and volatility in forecast sales may result in incorrect recognition 
and risks around recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing 
our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit 
and on the financial statements. For the purposes of determining 
whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement 
we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it 
probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable 
person, relying on the financial statements, would be changed or 
influenced. We also determine a level of performance materiality which 
we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an 
appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of 
uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a 
magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be 
material for the financial statements as a whole. We determined 
materiality for the Group to be $2.25 million (2012 $5.7 million), 
which is approximately 5% of profit before tax for the year ending 
31 December 2013. On the basis of our risk assessments, together 
with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our 
judgement is that overall performance materiality for the Group should 
be 75% of materiality, namely $1.7 million (2012 $4.3 million). Our 
objective in adopting this approach is to ensure that total detected and 
undetected audit differences do not exceed our planning materiality of 
$2.25 million for the financial statements as a whole. This provided a 
basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment 
procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material 
misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of 
further audit procedures.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all audit differences in excess of $0.1 million (2012 $0.3 
million) and differences below that threshold which, in our view 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the 
Group financial statements, we have scoped in 10 locations which 
present the principal business units within the Group’s three 
reportable segments; Networks and Applications, Wireless and Service  81
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Experience and Service Assurance and account for 94% of the Group’s 
total assets and 94% of the Group’s profit before tax. 
The audit work at the 10 locations was performed at a materiality level 
calculated by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate 
to the relative scale of the business concerned. 
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned 
visits that has been designed to ensure that senior members of the 
audit team including the Senior statutory auditor visit certain material 
or high risk locations on a rotational basis. All material or high risk 
locations have been visited during the current year aside from Asia 
which was visited in the prior year. For all in-scope locations, the Group 
audit team participated in the component team’s planning event 
including discussion of fraud and error. 
The principal ways in which we responded to the risks described 
above included:
Revenue recognition:
• we have carried out audit procedures on the allocation of revenue 
in relation to sales contracts specifically focusing on the service 
element of multiple element sales contracts as well as contracts 
with separate components consisting of hardware and subsequent 
software upgrades;
• we have carried out audit procedures on specific large and complex 
transactions together with a sample of regular transactions at 
each location;
• we have carried out audit procedures on deferred revenue and other 
revenue associated balances to ensure they have been recognised 
in accordance with Group accounting policies and IFRS as adopted 
by the EU; and
• we have carried out audit procedures on cut off in relation to 
revenue recognised close to year end and with particular focus in 
China and India which might be caused by import challenges.
Tax Accounting:
• we have assessed the consistency and robustness of tax 
provisions, particularly in the light of any expected resolution of 
older issues; and
• we have reviewed the future profit forecasts and the underlying 
assumptions and we have assessed the utilisation of unrecognised 
brought forward losses to calculate the recognition of deferred 
tax assets.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic report and 
the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the Group 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group 
financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
• is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified 
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit 
and the Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is 
fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the 
Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 78, in relation to going 
concern; and 
• the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial 
statements of Spirent Communications plc for the year ended 
31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors’ 
remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
Karl Havers (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
27 February 2014
Notes
1 The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website is the 
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditor does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility 
for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were 
initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
82
Notes
2013 
$ million
Restated
2012
1
 
$ million
Continuing operations
Revenue 3, 4 413.5 472.4
Cost of sales (126.7) (135.7)
Gross profit 286.8 336.7
Product development 4 (100.5) (86.1)
Selling and distribution (96.6) (91.7)
Administration (50.6) (50.8)
Operating profit 4 39.1 108.1
Finance income 8 0.9 0.8
Finance costs 9 (0.9) (0.5)
Profit before tax 4, 5 39.1 108.4
Tax 12 (6.4) (29.0)
Profit for the year after tax for continuing operations 32.7 79.4
Discontinued operations 6 – 47.1
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company 32.7 126.5
Earnings per share (cents) 13
Continuing operations
 Basic 5.10 12.11
 Diluted 5.09 12.07
Discontinued operations
 Basic – 7.18
 Diluted – 7.15
Total Group
 Basic 5.10 19.29
 Diluted 5.09 19.22
Note
1  Restated for the implementation of IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”.
The notes on pages 87 to 120 and page 135 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated income statement
 Year to 31 December 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
83
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
 Year to 31 December 2013
Notes
2013  
$ million
Restated
2012
1
 
$ million
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company 32.7 126.5
Other comprehensive income
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss:
 Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations (0.7) 3.2
 Exchange differences recycled on disposal 33 – 1.2
(0.7) 4.4
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss:
 Re-measurement of the net defined benefit pension liability 11 17.8 (11.7)
 Income tax effect 12 (4.2) 2.5
13.6 (9.2)
Other comprehensive income 12.9 (4.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company 45.6 121.7
Note
1 Restated for the implementation of IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”.
The notes on pages 87 to 120 and page 135 form part of these financial statements. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
84
Notes
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Assets
Non‑current assets
Intangible assets 15 198.8 207.4 
Property, plant and equipment 16 39.6 34.1 
Trade and other receivables 20 4.4 4.9 
Cash on deposit 21 0.1 0.4 
Defined benefit pension plan surplus 11 0.6 – 
Deferred tax 23 18.3 28.4 
261.8 275.2 
Current assets
Inventories 19 31.6 34.0 
Trade and other receivables 20 102.7 95.6 
Cash and cash equivalents 21 216.2 248.6 
350.5 378.2 
Total assets 612.3 653.4 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (130.7) (107.3)
Current tax (3.6) (8.5)
Provisions and other liabilities 25 (6.0) (4.4)
(140.3) (120.2)
Non‑current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 (15.2) (11.4)
Defined benefit pension plan deficit 11 (3.9) (25.6)
Provisions and other liabilities 25 (0.5) (0.6)
(19.6) (37.6)
Total liabilities (159.9) (157.8)
Net assets 452.4 495.6 
Capital and reserves 28
Share capital 34.4 35.3 
Share premium account 33.5 32.9 
Capital redemption reserve 21.3 19.4 
Other reserves (3.2) (1.6)
Translation reserve 23.3 24.0 
Retained earnings 343.1 385.6 
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Company 452.4 495.6 
The notes on pages 87 to 120 and page 135 form part of these financial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Eric Hutchinson
Director
27 February 2014   
Consolidated balance sheet
 At 31 December 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
85
Notes
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash flow from operations 31 73.5 128.2
Tax paid (6.1) (23.1)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 67.4 105.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.8 0.9
Transfer from long term deposit 0.3 0.3
Purchase of intangible assets 15 (2.4) –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 16 (22.9) (16.4)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 1.0 2.1
Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses 32 – (92.0)
Net proceeds from the disposal of operations 33 – 59.9
Net cash used in investing activities (23.2) (45.2)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid – (0.3)
Dividend paid 14 (22.2) (20.3)
Proceeds from the issue of share capital and employee share ownership trust 0.2 2.2
Share repurchase (54.7) (31.6)
Net cash used in financing activities (76.7) (50.0)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (32.5) 9.9
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 248.6 236.5
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 2.2
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 21 216.2 248.6
The notes on pages 87 to 120 and page 135 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated cash flow statement
 Year to 31 December 2013 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
86
$ million
Share 
capital
Share 
premium 
account
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Other  
reserves
Translation 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
At 1 January 2012 34.3 31.3 17.7 2.7 19.6 316.6 422.2
Profit for the year (restated
1
) – – – – – 126.5 126.5
Other comprehensive income (restated
1
) (a) – – – – 4.4 (9.2) (4.8)
Total comprehensive income – – – – 4.4 117.3 121.7
Share-based payment note 30 – – – – – 1.6 1.6
Tax on share incentives note 12 – – – – – (1.0) (1.0)
Employee share ownership trust note 28 – – – – – 2.2 2.2
Share cancellation note 28 (0.7) – 0.7 – – – –
Share repurchase note 28 – – – – – (30.8) (30.8)
Equity dividends note 14 – – – – – (20.3) (20.3)
Exchange adjustment 1.7 1.6 1.0 (4.3) – – –
At 1 January 2013 35.3 32.9 19.4 (1.6) 24.0 385.6 495.6
Profit for the year – – – – – 32.7 32.7
Other comprehensive income (b) – – – – (0.7) 13.6 12.9
Total comprehensive income – – – – (0.7) 46.3 45.6
Share-based payment note 30 – – – – – (1.2) (1.2)
Employee share ownership trust note 28 – – – – – 0.2 0.2
Share cancellation note 28 (1.5) – 1.5 – – – –
Share repurchase note 28 – – – – – (55.5) (55.5)
Share buyback obligation note 28 – – – – – (10.1) (10.1)
Equity dividends note 14 – – – – – (22.2) (22.2)
Exchange adjustment 0.6 0.6 0.4 (1.6) – – –
At 31 December 2013 34.4 33.5 21.3 (3.2) 23.3 343.1 452.4
Note
1  Restated for the implementation of IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”.
(a) The amount included in other comprehensive income for 2012 of $9.2 million represents re-measurement losses of the net defined benefit 
pension liability of $11.7 million net of a tax credit of $2.5 million.
 The amount included in the translation reserve of $4.4 million represents other comprehensive income related to the translation of foreign 
operations of $3.2 million and exchange differences of $1.2 million recycled on the disposal of operations.
(b) The amount included in other comprehensive income for 2013 of $13.6 million represents re-measurement gains of the net defined benefit 
pension liability of $17 .8 million net of a tax charge of $4.2 million.
 The amount included in the translation reserve of $0.7 million represents other comprehensive income related to the translation of 
foreign operations.
The notes on pages 87 to 120 and page 135 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
87
1. Corporate information 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 
27 February 2014. Spirent Communications plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. 
The Company’s Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As required by the European Union’s (“EU”) IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006, the Group has prepared its consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the EU and issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). 
The Company has elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards. These are presented 
on pages 122 to 135 and the accounting policies in respect of the Company are set out on pages 123 to 126.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except unless otherwise indicated.
The Group has prepared its financial statements under IFRSs. The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated 
financial statements are set out below and the accounting policies adopted are consistent with those applied in the consolidated financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 other than in relation to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” discussed below.
Change to segmental reporting
IFRS 8 “Operating Segments” requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker. The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been determined, in Spirent’s case, to be the Chief Executive Officer, as he is primarily 
responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and the assessment of the performance of segments.
A review of the Group’s organisational structure, which was completed in 2013, has resulted in a change to the segmental information provided 
to the Chief Operating Decision Maker and this has required a change to Spirent’s segmental reporting structure. Spirent is now reporting three 
operating segments: Networks & Applications; Wireless & Service Experience; and Service Assurance. Previously Networks & Applications and 
Wireless & Service Experience were reported as one segment, Performance Analysis. Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
New accounting standards
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been adopted by the Group with no significant impact on 
its consolidated results or financial position other than in relation to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”.
International Accounting Standards (“IAS/IFRS”)
IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1 – Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income
IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1 – Clarification of the Requirements for Comparative Information
IAS 16 Amendments to IAS 16 – Classification of Servicing Equipment
IAS 19 Employee Benefits
IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32 – Tax Effect of Distribution to Holders of Equity Instruments
IAS 36 Amendments to IAS 36 – Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets
IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 – Borrowing Costs
IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 – Government Loans
IFRS 7 Amendments to IFRS 7 – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
Annual Improvements 2009–2011 Cycle
IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”
With effect from 1 January 2013 the Group has implemented the amendments to the accounting standard IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” in relation 
to its United Kingdom defined benefit pension plans. Comparative numbers have been restated accordingly.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
88
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Under the revised accounting standard, the principal change is that the expected returns on defined benefit pension plan assets are not 
recognised in profit or loss. Instead, interest on the net defined benefit pension obligation is recognised in profit or loss, calculated using the 
discount rate used to measure the pension obligation. For Spirent this change has caused net interest income on the defined benefit pension 
plans, under the previous standard, to become a net finance cost, under the revised standard. In addition, certain administrative expenses of 
running the plans are expensed to operating costs, having been deducted from the return on assets under the previous standard. Plan asset 
administration costs are recognised as re-measurement adjustments in other comprehensive income.
The implementation of IAS 19 has had no effect on the prior year consolidated balance sheet or consolidated cash flow statement.
Impact on total comprehensive income for the year of application
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Impact on profit for the year
Increase in administration costs (0.7) (1.1)
Decrease in finance income (0.3) (0.7)
Increase in finance expense (0.9) (0.5)
Tax 0.4 –
Decrease in profit for the year (1.5) (2.3)
Impact on other comprehensive income
Increase in re-measurement of the net defined benefit pension liability 1.9 2.3
Income tax effect (0.4) –
Increase/(decrease) in total comprehensive income for the year – –
Impact on earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (cents) (0.23) (0.35)
Diluted earnings per share (cents) (0.23) (0.35)
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each 
year. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting 
policies. 
Results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred out of the Group. All intra Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries, representing the excess of cost over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised as an intangible asset. Goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is subject to an annual review for impairment. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating 
units monitored by management. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, 
an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Separately identifiable intangible 
assets such as patent fees, licence fees, trademarks and customer lists and relationships are capitalised on the balance sheet only when 
the value can be measured reliably, or the intangible asset is purchased as part of the acquisition of a business. Such intangible assets are 
amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line basis. The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Product development
Research expenditure is recognised in the year in which it is incurred. Intangible assets arising on the Group’s various product development 
projects are recognised only if the recognition criteria of IAS 38 “Intangible Assets” are met. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
89
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Product development costs are expensed as incurred until the technological feasibility of the product under development has been established. 
Technological feasibility in Spirent’s circumstances occurs when a working model is completed. For software development technological 
feasibility is not established until the process of developing the software is complete. After technological feasibility is established, additional 
costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life.
At 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 no amounts have met the recognition criteria.
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment. Depreciation is not provided on 
freehold land. Depreciation is provided to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of all other assets over their estimated useful lives on a 
straight line basis at rates which take into account commercial conditions at their location. Usual asset lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years
Fixtures, fittings and equipment
 Building installations 20 years or lease period if less
 Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years
 Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years
 Business systems software 4 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying 
value may not be recoverable.
Impairment of assets 
Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment at each reporting date where there is an 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are assessed at least annually. When an 
impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of the expected cash flows 
(value in use) of the relevant cash-generating unit or asset and the fair value less cost to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is 
written down to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with 
the function of the impaired asset.
Where an impairment loss has been recognised against an asset, it may be reversed in future periods where there has been a change in the 
estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised, but only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment 
loss been recognised in prior years. Such a reversal is recognised in the income statement. This does not apply for goodwill, for which an 
impairment loss must not be reversed in any circumstances. 
Leases 
Operating leases are leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset and are not finance leases. 
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for obsolescence. Cost includes all costs incurred in 
bringing each product to its present location and condition, being the full manufacturing cost on a first-in-first-out basis, including all attributable 
overheads based on a normal level of activity. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recorded when the Group has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle by an outflow of resources and for which a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. 
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. 
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision shall be the present value of the expenditures expected to be 
required to settle the obligation.  SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
90
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Foreign currencies 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Group’s presentation currency. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. All exchange differences are taken to the 
consolidated income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are measured in terms of historical 
costs using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction.
The functional currencies of the Group’s operations are principally US dollar, sterling or euro. On consolidation the assets and liabilities of the 
Group’s foreign operations are translated into the Group’s presentation currency at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The results 
of foreign operations are translated into US dollars using average rates for the period. The exchange differences arising on retranslation are 
classified as a separate component of equity, the translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as part of the profit or loss 
on disposal should an operation be disposed of. The Group has elected to apply the exemption in IFRS 1 “First Time Adoption of International 
Financial Reporting Standards” which allows the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be deemed to be zero at the 
date of transition to IFRSs, being 1 January 2003. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at original invoiced amount less an appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable 
amounts. Such allowances are based on an assessment of debtor ageing, past experience or known customer exposures.
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits which usually have an original 
maturity of three months or less. For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash 
equivalents as defined above. There are no bank overdrafts.
Trade payables
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at the original invoiced amount. 
Equity instruments 
Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Spirent Communications plc Ordinary Shares held by the 
Group are classified in equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost and included as a deduction from retained earnings. Consideration 
received for the sale of such treasury shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost 
being taken to retained earnings. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses forward foreign currency exchange contracts to manage exposures arising on receipts and payments in foreign currencies relating 
to firm commitments. 
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the contract is entered into, and are 
subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reported balance sheet date. The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is 
calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. The Group has not adopted the hedge 
accounting rules. Consequently all gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts. 
Retirement benefits
The Group operates two funded defined benefit pension plans which are in the United Kingdom, all other pension plans are defined contribution 
in nature. For the defined contribution plans the amount charged to the income statement is the employers’ contributions paid or payable during 
the year.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
91
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
For defined benefit pension plans full actuarial valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit method, and updates 
are performed at each balance sheet date. Re-measurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of changes to the asset ceiling (if 
relevant) and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the balance sheet liability or asset with a charge or credit 
recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Re-measurement recognised in other comprehensive income will 
not be reclassified to profit or loss. Past service cost is recognised in profit or loss in the period of plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by 
applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit pension liability or asset, taking account of any changes in the 
net defined benefit pension liability during the period as a result of contribution and benefit payments. Defined benefit pension costs are 
categorised as:
• service cost (including current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on curtailments or settlements);
• net interest expense or income; and
• re-measurement.
The Group presents the first two components of defined benefit pension costs in profit or loss. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group, the revenue can be reliably measured and when the 
Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership. In addition, revenue is only recognised when collectability 
is probable. 
For the sale of services, revenue is recognised in accounting periods in which the service is rendered. Revenue from maintenance contracts is 
recognised over the period of performance on a straight line basis.
Revenue from product sales of hardware and software is recognised at the time of delivery and acceptance and when there are no significant 
vendor obligations remaining. It is not until acceptance has occurred that the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. Terms 
of acceptance are dependent upon the specific contractual arrangement agreed with the customer.
Contractual arrangements are accounted for as two or more separate transactions only where the commercial substance is that the individual 
components operate independently of each other, because they are capable of being provided separately from one another and it is possible 
to attribute reliable fair values to every component. To the extent that a separate component comprises a product sale of hardware or software, 
revenue is recognised as described above. Revenue is recognised on other components as the Group fulfils its contractual obligations and to the 
extent that it has earned the right to consideration. 
Employee benefits 
When an employee has rendered services to the Group during an accounting period, short term benefits expected to be paid in exchange for 
those services are recognised in the same accounting period. 
Share-based payment
The Group operates various equity-settled share-based compensation plans and accounts for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 
“Share-based Payment”.
The fair value of these awards is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period together with a corresponding 
change in equity. The fair value is measured using the Hull-White trinomial model by reference to the share price, and taking into account the 
terms and conditions of the award, excluding non-market vesting conditions, at the date the awards were granted. The charge is reassessed at 
each balance sheet date to reflect the expected and actual levels of vesting, due to achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions. Awards 
where vesting is conditional upon satisfying a market condition or non-vesting condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market 
or non-vesting condition has been satisified.
The Group has an employee share trust for the granting of certain share incentives to employees. Shares in the Group held by the employee share 
trust are treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
Tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 
extent that it relates to items in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustments to tax payable for previous years. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
92
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the 
financial statements, with the following exceptions:
• where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill (taxable temporary differences only) or of an asset or liability 
in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss; 
• in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Dividends paid
The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the period in which it is paid, and the final dividend in the period it is approved by 
the shareholders at an annual general meeting.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect items reported. Such estimates and 
assumptions are based on management’s best knowledge of current facts, circumstances and future events, actual results may differ, possibly 
significantly, from those estimates. The areas requiring a high degree of judgement or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
consolidated financial statements are discussed below. 
Goodwill impairment
The Group tests annually by cash-generating unit whether goodwill has suffered impairment and more frequently when events or circumstances 
indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based 
on value in use calculations which require the use of estimates and assumptions. These are described in note 15.
Defined benefit pension plans
The pension cost and the defined benefit pension obligation of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans are based on a number of selected 
assumptions, these include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth and longevity. Differences arising from actual experience or future 
changes in assumptions will be reflected in future periods. The effect of changing these assumptions is described in note 11.
Revenue recognition
For revenue recognition purposes contractual arrangements are accounted for as two or more separate transactions only where the commercial 
substance is that the individual components operate independently of each other, because they are capable of being provided separately from 
one another and it is possible to attribute reliable fair values to every component. To the extent that a separate component comprises a product 
sale of hardware or software, revenue is recognised as described above. Revenue is recognised on other components as the Group fulfils its 
contractual obligations and to the extent that it has earned the right to consideration. Management exercises a degree of judgement in setting the 
criteria used for determining when revenue which involves several elements should be recognised and the fair values allocated to each element.
Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of tax jurisdictions and judgement is applied in determining the worldwide provision for income 
taxes. There are many transactions for which the final tax determinability is uncertain. For example liabilities are recognised for anticipated tax 
audit issues based on whether additional taxes are likely to be due based on the facts and circumstances known at the time the financial 
statements are prepared. Where the final outcome differs from the amounts that were initially recorded the differences will be recorded in the 
future period in which the determination is made.
Deferred taxes
The extent to which deferred tax assets can be recognised is based on current forecasts and estimates prepared by management. A change to 
these forecasts and estimates could result in a different recognition outcome. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are disclosed in note 23.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
93
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
New standards and interpretations not applied
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for the Group after the date of these 
financial statements:
International Accounting 
Standards (“IAS/IFRS”)
Effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after
IAS 19 Amendments to IAS 19 – Employee Contributions 1 July 2014
IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32 – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments to be confirmed
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014
IFRS 10,12 and IAS 27 Amendments to IFRS 10 and 12 and IAS 27 – Investment Entities 1 January 2014
IAS 39 and IFRS 9 Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 9 – Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of  
Hedge Accounting 1 January 2014
IFRIC 21 Levies 1 January 2014
Annual Improvements  
2010–2012 Cycle 
2011–2013 Cycle
1 July 2014 
1 July 2014
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s financial 
statements in the period of initial application.
3. Revenue 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Sale of goods 286.2 362.0
Maintenance and support services 127.3 110.4
Total revenue from continuing operations 413.5 472.4
Revenue for discontinued operations principally relates to the sale of goods.
4. Operating segments
The Group’s organisational structure is based on differences in the products and services offered by each segment and information regularly 
reviewed by the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, its chief operating decision maker, is presented on this basis. The Group’s operating segments 
follow this structure.
As explained in note 2 the Group has amended its operating segments for 2013 and comparative information has been restated. The Group’s 
continuing reportable operating segments are Networks & Applications, Wireless & Service Experience and Service Assurance. Its Systems 
segment was sold during 2012 and is disclosed as a discontinued operation. The Group evaluates segment operating profit before exceptional 
items, acquisition related costs, acquired intangible asset amortisation and share-based payment. Finance income and finance costs are not 
allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate is not an operating segment and costs are separately reported and not allocated to the 
reportable segments. 
Information on segment assets and segment liabilities is not regularly provided to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer and is therefore not 
disclosed below.
The principal activities of each of the continuing reportable operating segments are as follows:
• Networks & Applications develops innovative solutions for functional and performance testing of next-generation networks and applications 
that simulate real-world conditions in the lab, before a commercial launch.
• Wireless & Service Experience develops innovative solutions for functional and performance testing of next-generation mobile wireless and 
satellite positioning devices in the lab before a commercial launch, and measurement of the mobile experience on live networks.
• Service Assurance provides solutions to allow service providers to diagnose, troubleshoot and determine how to resolve issues with networks 
and systems within the live network and to monitor live network performance. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
94
4. Operating segments continued
Segmental information is provided below for continuing operations, discontinued operations are dealt with in note 6. 
2013  
$ million
Networks & 
Applications
Wireless 
& Service 
Experience
Service 
Assurance Corporate Total
Revenue
External revenue 213.4 167.7 32.4 – 413.5
There were no inter-segment sales.
Profit before tax
Total reportable segment profit/(loss) before exceptional items 13.2 33.8 9.0 (5.9) 50.1
Exceptional items note 7 (1.6) – – (2.2) (3.8)
Total reportable segment profit/(loss) 11.6 33.8 9.0 (8.1) 46.3
Unallocated amounts
 Acquired intangible asset amortisation (8.4)
 Share-based payment note 30 1.2
Operating profit 39.1
Finance income 0.9
Finance expense (0.9)
Profit before tax 39.1
Other information
Product development 55.1 37.6 7.8 – 100.5
Expenditure on intangibles note 15 – 2.4 – – 2.4
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment 10.7 11.2 1.0 – 22.9
Intangible asset amortisation – other – 1.5 – – 1.5
Depreciation 8.7 6.6 1.0 0.2 16.5
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
95
4. Operating segments continued
Restated
2012  
$ million
Networks & 
Applications
Wireless 
& Service 
Experience
Service 
Assurance Corporate Total
Revenue
External revenue 259.5 174.5 38.4 – 472.4
There were no inter-segment sales.
Profit before tax
Total reportable segment profit/(loss) before exceptional items 59.7 56.7 8.4 (6.5) 118.3
Exceptional items note 7 – – (2.9) – (2.9)
Total reportable segment profit/(loss) 59.7 56.7 5.5 (6.5) 115.4
Unallocated amounts
 Acquisition related costs (1.2)
 Acquired intangible asset amortisation (4.5)
 Share-based payment note 30 (1.6)
Operating profit 108.1
Finance income 0.8
Finance costs (0.5)
Profit before tax 108.4
Other information
Product development 49.8 29.3 7.0 – 86.1
Expenditure on intangibles note 15 38.6 51.4 – – 90.0
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment 9.5 6.2 0.1 0.1 15.9
Intangible asset amortisation – other – 1.6 – – 1.6
Depreciation 8.4 5.0 1.1 0.1 14.6
Geographical information
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Revenue by market
United States 215.8 239.2
Asia Pacific, Rest of World 146.9 166.0
Europe 50.8 67.2
413.5 472.4
Europe includes United Kingdom revenue of $9.8 million (2012 $13.4 million).
Revenues are attributed to countries based on customer location. 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Non‑current assets
United States 228.0 232.4 
Asia Pacific, Rest of World 7.1 5.7 
Europe 3.3 3.4 
238.4 241.5 
Europe includes United Kingdom non-current assets of $2.1 million (2012 $2.2 million).
No one customer accounted for 10 per cent or more of total Group revenue in either 2013 or 2012.  SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
96
5. Profit before tax 
The following items have been charged or (credited) in arriving at profit before tax and are disclosed for continuing and discontinued operations: 
2013 
$ million
Restated
2012 
$ million
Employee benefit costs note 10 183.8 186.2
Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 82.3 119.6
Write-down of inventories to net realisable value note 19 0.3 3.7
Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 9.9 6.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 Owned assets note 16 16.5 15.2
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.1
Operating leases
 Minimum lease payments 8.4 7.7
 Sublease income – (0.1)
Product development costs 100.5 90.1
Net foreign exchange charge 0.4 0.8
Services provided to all of the operations of the Group by the auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, and its associates: 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Audit services
Group audit fee 0.8 0.8
Other fees to auditors
Taxation advisory services 0.2 0.2
Taxation advisory relating to corporate finance transactions – 0.2
0.2 0.4
1.0 1.2
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 57 and includes an explanation of how 
auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
6. Discontinued operations
The assets and liabilities of the Systems division were sold to Curtiss-Wright Corporation on 1 November 2012 for a cash consideration of 
$63.2 million.
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Revenue – 43.9
Cost of sales – (27.6)
Gross profit – 16.3
Expenses – (12.0)
Operating profit – 4.3
Profit on sale of operations note 33 – 44.5
Profit before tax – 48.8
Tax note 12 – (1.7)
Profit for the year after tax for discontinued operations – 47.1
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
97
6. Discontinued operations continued
The net cash flows for discontinued operations were as follows:
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Operating note 31 – 7.9
Investing – (0.5)
Net cash inflow – 7.4
Revenue by market for discontinued operations was as follows:
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Revenue by market
United States – 17.3
Asia Pacific, Rest of World – 15.6
Europe – 11.0
– 43.9
Europe includes United Kingdom revenue of nil (2012 $1.5 million).
Revenues are attributed to countries based on customer location.
7. Exceptional items
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Review of the Group’s organisational structure 3.4 –
Reorganisation expenses – Service Assurance – 1.5
Excess inventory provision – Service Assurance – 1.4
Abortive acquisition costs 0.4 –
3.8 2.9
In the fourth quarter of 2013 the Group undertook a review of its operational structure. This resulted in a number of management and structural 
changes being made in order to deliver a streamlined, decentralised and more simplified business. These internal changes have been made to 
create a more agile and responsive organisation to better serve Spirent’s customers as well as sharpen the business’s focus on anticipating 
customers’ requirements for the future.
The tax effect of exceptional items is a credit of $0.8 million (2012 $1.0 million).
8. Finance income 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Bank interest receivable 0.9 0.8
9. Finance costs 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Net defined benefit pension plan interest note 11 0.9 0.5
10. Employees 
The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: 
2013 
Number
2012 
Number
Manufacturing 339 363
Product development 596 581
Selling and distribution 394 419
Administration 185 182
1,514 1,545 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
98
10. Employees continued
Employee benefit costs were:
2013 
$ million
Restated
2012 
$ million
Remuneration 163.6 163.4
Social security costs 14.9 14.3
Pension and other related costs 6.5 6.9
(Credit)/expense of share-based payment note 30 (1.2) 1.6
183.8 186.2
Employee numbers and costs include discontinued operations in 2012.
Please refer to the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 58 to 76 and note 34 for disclosures relating to the emoluments, share incentives 
and pensions of the directors.
11. Pensions
Defined benefit plans
i) Characteristics and risks associated with the Plans
The Group sponsors two funded defined benefit pension plans in the United Kingdom: the Spirent Communications plc Staff Pension & Life 
Assurance Plan (“Staff Plan”) and the Spirent Communications plc Retirement Cash & Life Assurance Plan (“Cash Plan”). These plans are funded 
and have full UK HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) tax-exempt approval. Both schemes are administered by a trustee board which is comprised 
of representatives from the employer, member nominated trustees and an independent trustee. The trustee board operates in accordance with 
the Trust Deed and Rules of each Plan and acts in the interests of all of its members.
• The Staff Plan is the Group’s most significant plan, and it provides its members with retirement benefits based on their final salary and length 
of service. The Staff Plan was closed to new entrants on 1 October 2002.
• The Cash Plan is primarily a defined contribution arrangement, although there are some legacy defined benefits that have been valued for the 
purpose of these accounts in accordance with IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”. Members who left service before 1992 are entitled to a cash lump 
sum on retirement that is based on their salary and length of service. Members of the Old Section are entitled to defined contribution benefits, 
but with an underpin based on salary and length of service.
There is also a United Kingdom unfunded plan, which consists of a contractual obligation for the Group to top up certain former employees’ 
benefits whose salaries exceeded the statutory earnings cap.
As with a vast majority of similar arrangements in the United Kingdom, the Group ultimately underwrites the risks relating to the defined benefit 
plans. These risks include investment risks and demographic risks, such as the risks of members living longer than expected.
The plans hold a large proportion of their assets in equity and property investments. Strong future equity returns would be expected to reduce 
the Group’s future cash contributions (and vice versa).
Expected contributions to the defined benefit plans in 2014 are $4.8 million. This includes the contributions agreed with the funded plans’ 
trustees in accordance with UK legislation. Following the triennial valuations as at 1 April 2012, the Group has agreed to pay the following 
contributions in order to clear the funding deficit as assessed by the trustees’ independent actuary.
• Staff Plan: $4.3 million per annum from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2019, plus a further contribution of up to $4.2 million by July 2016 if the plan 
remains in deficit.
• Cash Plan: $0.3 million per annum from 1 July 2013 to 31 March 2015.
If the contributions currently agreed are insufficient to pay the benefits due, the Group will need to make further contributions.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
99
11. Pensions continued
ii) Amounts in the financial statements
The assets and liabilities on the balance sheet are as follows:
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Assets
UK defined benefit pension plan – Cash Plan 0.6 –
Liabilities
UK defined benefit pension plan – Staff Plan (3.1) (24.8)
UK unfunded plan (0.8) (0.8)
(3.9) (25.6)
For the purposes of the following disclosures the two plans have been combined as the Cash Plan is immaterial to these financial statements.
a) The assets and liabilities in each plan 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Staff Plan
Quoted
 Equities 89.4 72.5
 UK Government index linked bonds – 53.5
 Corporate bonds – 40.6
Unquoted
 Inflation only LDI funds 23.9 –
 Cash benchmarked bonds 120.4 50.2
 Insured annuities 5.5 5.7
 Property 25.4 22.8
 Cash and other 0.8 1.0
Fair value of plan assets 265.4 246.3
Present value of defined benefit pension plan obligations (268.5) (271.1)
Deficit in the plan on the balance sheet (3.1) (24.8)
Cash Plan
Quoted
 Equities 4.5 3.7
 Government bonds 3.3 3.6
Unquoted
 Insured annuities 0.3 0.3
 Cash and other 4.0 3.3
Fair value of plan assets 12.1 10.9
Present value of defined benefit pension plan obligations (11.5) (10.9)
Surplus in the plan on the balance sheet 0.6 –
The plans are prohibited from investing in Spirent’s own financial instruments. 
The fair values of the above equity and debt instruments are determined based on quoted market prices in active markets whereas the fair values 
of property and insured annuities are not. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
100
11. Pensions continued
b) Analysis of the amounts charged to the income statement 
2013 
$ million
Restated 
2012 
$ million
Plan administration expenses 0.7 1.1
Current service cost 0.2 0.3
Curtailment loss on sale of Systems – 1.3
Amount charged to operating costs 0.9 2.7
Net interest on the net defined benefit pension liability 0.9 0.5
Net charge to the income statement 1.8 3.2
c) Analysis of amount recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income 
2013 
$ million
Restated 
2012 
$ million
Re-measurement gain on plans’ assets 11.2 9.3
Actuarial gain arising from experience – 1.1
Actuarial loss arising from the demographic assumptions – (13.0)
Actuarial gain/(loss) arising from changes in financial assumptions 6.6 (8.9)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of unfunded plan’s liabilities – (0.2)
Re‑ measurement of the net defined benefit pension liability 17.8 (11.7)
d) Movements in the present value of funded defined benefit obligations 
2013 
$ million
Restated 
2012 
$ million
At 1 January 282.0 245.5
Current service cost 0.2 0.3
Curtailment loss on sale of Systems – 1.3
Interest cost 11.4 11.4
Employee contributions – 0.2
Benefit payments (11.7) (10.9)
Actuarial gain arising from experience – (1.1)
Actuarial loss arising from the demographic assumptions – 13.0
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes in financial assumptions (6.6) 8.9
Exchange adjustment 4.7 13.4
Present value of funded defined benefit pension plans’ obligations 280.0 282.0
e) Movements in the fair value of plans’ assets
2013 
$ million
Restated 
2012 
$ million
At 1 January 257.2 233.7
Interest income on plans’ assets 10.5 10.9
Employer contributions 5.3 2.8
Employee contributions – 0.2
Benefit payments (11.7) (10.9)
Plan administration expenses (0.7) (1.1)
Re-measurement gain on plans’ assets 11.2 9.3
Exchange adjustment 5.7 12.3
Fair value of plans’ assets 277.5 257.2
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
101
11. Pensions continued
f) The key financial assumptions 
The assumptions used for both plans using a weighted average were as follows: 
2013
 %
2012 
%
Inflation – RPI 3.3 2.9
Inflation – CPI 2.2 2.2
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.1 2.9
Rate of increase for pensions in payment pre 2001 service 3.6 3.6
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2001 to 5 April 2005 service 3.1 2.8
Rate of increase for pensions post 5 April 2005 service 2.2 1.9
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.2 2.2
Rate used to discount plan liabilities 4.5 4.3
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The assumptions are such that 
a member currently aged 65 (2012 aged 65) will live on average for a further 23.5 years (2012 23.3 years) if they are male and for a further 25.6 
years (2012 25.5 years) if they are female. For a member who retires in 2033 (2012 in 2032) at age 65 (2012 age 65) the assumptions are that they 
will live on average for a further 24.3 years (2012 24.2 years) after retirement if they are male and for a further 26.7 years (2012 26.6 years) after 
retirement if they are female. 
iii) Amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows
The approximate impact to the past service liabilities of changing these main assumptions is as follows: 
• Reducing the discount rate by 0.1 per cent per annum would increase past service liabilities by $4.0 million. 
• Increasing RPI inflation by 0.1 per cent would increase the plans’ liabilities by $1.7 million.
• Increasing the life expectancy of a member by one year (by modifying the standard mortality tables using an appropriate scaling factor) 
would increase past service liabilities by $10.8 million. 
There will also be an impact on the future service cost but given the small active population in these plans this is likely to be insignificant.
The sensitivity figures have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation for each assumption change in isolation, 
and assuming no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date and may not be representative of the actual change as the changes 
in assumptions may not occur in isolation.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 15 years (2012 16 years).
Defined contribution plans 
United Kingdom 
The Group maintains defined contribution pension plans for employees in the United Kingdom. Employer contributions into these plans for 2013 
were $1.4 million (2012 $1.3 million). 
United States 
The Group maintains a defined contribution pension plan for employees of its United States subsidiaries. This plan, also known as a 401(k) Plan, 
allows employees to defer a percentage of their salary for retirement. The investment choices offered by the plan are a selection of diversified 
mutual funds offering a broad mix of investment return potential with varying levels of risk. In aggregate, the Group’s contributions to the US plan 
totalled $3.3 million for 2013 (2012 $3.4 million). Total assets in the defined contribution plan at the end of 2013 were $204.6 million (2012 
$167 .0 million). There were no defined benefit plans in the United States in 2013 or 2012.
Other jurisdictions 
Outside the United Kingdom and the United States employees are provided with pension arrangements determined in accordance with approved 
local practice and regulations. These arrangements are defined contribution plans. Total employer contributions for 2013 in respect of these 
plans amounted to $0.9 million (2012 $0.8 million).
Total employer contributions to defined contribution plans were $5.6 million (2012 $5.5 million).
Directors’ pension arrangements 
The pension arrangements of the executive directors are described in detail in the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 58 to 76. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
102
12. Tax
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Tax charge in the income statement
Current income tax
UK tax – 0.5
Foreign tax 5.1 23.5
Amounts overprovided in previous years – foreign tax (3.7) (1.8)
Total current income tax charge 1.4 22.2
Deferred tax
Recognition of deferred tax assets – (1.4)
Reversal of temporary differences 5.0 9.9
Total deferred tax charge 5.0 8.5
Tax charge in the income statement 6.4 30.7
Attributable to:
Continuing operations 6.4 29.0
Discontinued operations – 1.7
Tax charge in the income statement 6.4 30.7
The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2013 was $6.4 million (2012 charge $30.7 million) this was after a prior year tax credit of $3.7 
million (2012 credit $1.8 million) resulting from the expiration and reassessment of open tax positions for previous years. Excluding the prior year 
tax credit the effective tax rate for continuing operations was 25.8 per cent (2012 28.4 per cent). 
Tax relating to items charged/(credited) to other comprehensive income or equity: 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Deferred tax on share incentives 0.6 1.0 
Current tax on share incentives (0.6) –
Tax charge on share incentives – 1.0 
Deferred tax charge/(credit) on defined benefit pension plan 4.2 (2.5)
Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the income statement for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.25 per cent (2012 lower and 
24.5 per cent). The differences are reconciled below:
2013 
$ million
Restated 
2012 
$ million
Accounting profit before tax 39.1 157.2 
Accounting profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 23.25 per cent (2012 24.5 per cent) 9.1 38.5 
Share-based payment – (2.5)
Differences in overseas rates and other adjustments 1.1 8.0 
Tax overprovided in prior years (3.7) (1.8)
Recognition of deferred tax assets – (1.4)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses – (10.9)
Use of pension fund and other UK adjustments (0.1) 0.8 
Total tax charge reported in the income statement 6.4 30.7
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
103
13. Earnings per share
Basic
Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company by the weighted average number 
of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year.
2013
Restated
2012
Total and 
continuing
Continuing 
operations
Discontinued 
operations Total
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company ($ million) 32.7 79.4 47.1 126.5
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (number million) 640.6 655.7 655.7 655.7
Basic earnings per share (cents) 5.10 12.11 7.18 19.29
Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company by the weighted average 
number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that would be issued on the 
conversion of all the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares.
2013
Restated
2012
Total and 
continuing
Continuing 
operations
Discontinued 
operations Total
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company ($ million) 32.7 79.4 47.1 126.5
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (number million) 642.0 658.1 658.1 658.1
Diluted earnings per share (cents) 5.09 12.07 7.15 19.22
Adjusted  
The Group is disclosing adjusted earnings per share for continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent Company in order to provide  
a measure to enable period-on-period comparisons to be made of its performance. The following items are excluded from adjusted earnings:
• exceptional items.
• acquisition related costs.
• acquired intangible asset amortisation.
• share-based payment.
• tax effect on the above items.
• prior year tax.
A reconciliation is provided below:
2013
Restated
2012
$ million
EPS 
cents $ million
EPS 
cents
Continuing operations
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company 32.7 5.10 79.4 12.11
Exceptional items note 7 3.8 2.9
Acquisition related costs – 1.2
Acquired intangible asset amortisation 8.4 4.5
Share-based payment note 30 (1.2) 1.6
Tax effect on the above items (3.4) (2.4)
Prior year tax credit note 12 (3.7) (1.8)
Adjusted basic for continuing operations 36.6 5.71 85.4 13.02
Adjusted diluted for continuing operations 5.70 12.97
There were no Ordinary Share transactions that occurred after 31 December that would have significantly changed the number of Ordinary Shares 
or potential Ordinary Shares outstanding at the period end if those transactions had occurred before the end of the reporting period in either year. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
104
14. Dividends paid and proposed
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Declared and paid in the year
Equity dividend on Ordinary Shares
Final dividend paid for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 1.83 cents (1.21 pence) per Ordinary Share (31 December 
2011 1.67 cents (1.05 pence)) 12.0 10.9 
Interim dividend 2013 1.53 cents (1.01 pence) per Ordinary Share (2012 1.39 cents (0.89 pence)) 10.2 9.4 
22.2 20.3 
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability at 31 December)
Equity dividend on Ordinary Shares
Final dividend 2013 2.01 cents (1.20 pence) per Ordinary Share (2012 1.83 cents (1.21 pence)) 12.3 11.9
 
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 2.01 cents per Ordinary Share (1.20 
pence) (2012 1.83 cents (1.21 pence)), which will absorb an estimated $12.3 million of shareholders’ funds (2012 $11.9 million). It will be paid on 
25 April 2014 to Ordinary shareholders who are on the Register of Members at close of business on 7 March 2014. Payment will be made to ADR 
holders on 2 May 2014. No liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of this final dividend. 
Dividends are determined in US dollars and paid in pounds sterling. The exchange rate for determining the amount of the final dividend to be paid 
for 2013 was $1.67:£1 (2012 $1.51:£1).
15. Intangible assets 
$ million
Goodwill
Customer
 list
Current 
technology
Data- 
base
Brand 
names Licences Total
Cost, net of accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses
At 1 January 2012 114.2 1.8 3.6 – – 3.6 123.2
Acquisitions note 32 55.6 9.2 21.0 2.6 1.6 – 90.0
Amortisation for the year – (1.3) (2.8) (0.3) (0.1) (1.6) (6.1)
Exchange adjustment 0.3 – – – – – 0.3
At 1 January 2013 170.1 9.7 21.8 2.3 1.5 2.0 207.4
Additions – – – – – 2.4 2.4
Amortisation for the year – (2.0) (5.1) (1.0) (0.3) (1.5) (9.9)
Exchange adjustment (1.1) – – – – – (1.1)
At 31 December 2013 169.0 7.7 16.7 1.3 1.2 2.9 198.8
At 31 December 2012
Cost (gross carrying amount) 575.1 12.6 31.1 2.6 1.8 8.9 632.1
Amortisation and accumulated impairment losses (405.0) (2.9) (9.3) (0.3) (0.3) (6.9) (424.7)
Net carrying amount 170.1 9.7 21.8 2.3 1.5 2.0 207.4
At 31 December 2013
Cost (gross carrying amount) 574.0 11.4 25.4 2.6 1.6 11.3 626.3
Amortisation and accumulated impairment losses (405.0) (3.7) (8.7) (1.3) (0.4) (8.4) (427 .5)
Net carrying amount 169.0 7.7 16.7 1.3 1.2 2.9 198.8
Amortisation and impairment charges 
Goodwill is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units (“CGUs”) that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The Group identifies CGUs at the lowest level at which cash flows are largely independent of other cash flows.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
105
15. Intangible assets continued
Following the change to the Group’s reportable segments described in note 2, goodwill has been reallocated to the following CGUs:
• Networks & Applications, an operating segment;
• Wireless & Positioning, product lines within the Wireless & Service Experience operating segment;
• Service Experience, a product line within the Wireless & Service Experience operating segment.
Goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Networks & Applications 86.0 –
Wireless & Positioning 52.1 –
Service Experience 30.9 –
Performance Analysis – 170.1
169.0 170.1
This reallocation was based on the relative values for the Networks & Applications and for the Wireless & Positioning CGUs. For the Service 
Experience CGU goodwill has been based on historical cost due to the recent nature of this acquisition.
Acquired intangible assets, being customer list, current technology, database and brand names, are amortised on a straight line basis over 
their estimated useful lives which are between two and a half and seven years and the charge is included within administration expenses in the 
income statement. Licences are amortised over their useful lives or term, being three to five years, and are expensed within cost of sales or selling 
costs. The remaining amortisation periods of the acquired intangible asset balances arising in relation to customer list and current technology are 
six and four years, respectively.
Annual impairment test
The cash flows are derived from the most recent financial budgets for the next financial year, as approved by the Board, and the Group’s three 
year strategic plan. Cash flows for years four and five are then extrapolated based on long range plans. The key factor in the cash flow forecasts 
is the ability to forecast revenue. Cash flows in subsequent years have been extrapolated using a 2.75 per cent growth rate (2012 2.75 per cent) 
which management estimates to be the approximate average long term growth rate for the industries in which these units operate. 
The cash flows have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 13.8 per cent for all CGUs (2012 14.5 per cent).
The recoverable amount of each CGU was calculated on a value in use basis, and was in excess of its carrying value and consequently no 
impairment has been recognised.
Key assumptions for the annual impairment test
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations were:
• revenue growth rates.
• gross margin.
• operating expenses.
• discount rate.
• growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the five year period covered by management’s projections.
Projections are denominated in the same currency as the denomination of the goodwill balance to eliminate the effect of fluctuating exchange rates.
Revenue growth rates used in management’s projections are based on management’s estimate of growth in the markets served and take into 
account historic levels of growth, expected future developments in products and technology and macro-economic conditions. 
The cash flows used in the impairment review have been approved by the Board.
Gross margins and operating expenses are based on historical values adjusted for the effect of revenue growth and recent acquisitions. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
106
15. Intangible assets continued
The discount rate applied to the cash flows is based on Spirent’s weighted average cost of capital by taking the risk free rate for ten year 
government bonds and making an adjustment to reflect both the increased risk of investing in equities and the systematic risk of the specific 
cash-generating unit. In making this adjustment, inputs required are the equity market risk premium and the risk adjustment, beta, applied to 
reflect the risk of Spirent relative to the market as a whole.
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions 
The directors believe that no reasonable possible change in any of the key assumptions used in isolation would cause the carrying value of the 
Networks & Applications, Wireless & Positioning and Service Experience CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount.
16. Property, plant and equipment 
$ million
Land and 
buildings
Plant and 
machinery
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment Total
Cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment
At 1 January 2012 3.7 22.3 9.5 35.5
Additions
 Owned assets 0.5 13.4 2.5 16.4
Disposals – (2.1) (0.1) (2.2)
Acquisitions note 32 – 0.5 – 0.5
Disposal of operations note 33 – (1.1) (0.1) (1.2)
Inter-class transfers – (0.3) 0.3 –
Depreciation charge for the year (1.3) (10.2) (3.7) (15.2)
Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3
At 1 January 2013 3.0 22.6 8.5 34.1
Additions
 Owned assets 0.5 18.8 3.6 22.9
Disposals – (1.0) – (1.0)
Depreciation charge for the year (1.2) (11.5) (3.8) (16.5)
Exchange adjustment – – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2013 2.3 28.9 8.4 39.6
At 31 December 2012
Cost 18.7 77.0 51.1 146.8
Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment (15.7) (54.4) (42.6) (112.7)
Net carrying amount 3.0 22.6 8.5 34.1
At 31 December 2013
Cost 19.2 77.5 54.2 150.9
Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment (16.9) (48.6) (45.8) (111.3)
Net carrying amount 2.3 28.9 8.4 39.6
None of the property, plant and equipment is held under finance lease arrangements.
17. Capital commitments and contingent liabilities 
The Group had capital commitments of $1.3 million at 31 December 2013 (31 December 2012 $1.2 million). 
The Group has provided indemnities of $0.1 million (2012 $0.1 million) for certain ongoing business obligations under letters of credit for 
subsidiary companies.
18. Subsidiaries 
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given on 
page 135 of these financial statements.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
107
19. Inventories 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Raw materials 13.0 14.1
Work in progress 1.0 0.6
Finished goods 17.6 19.3
31.6 34.0
An expense of $0.3 million (2012 $3.7 million) has been recognised in the period for inventory write-downs. There were no reversals of prior 
period inventory write-downs (2012 nil). 
No inventories are carried at fair value less costs to sell (2012 nil).
20. Trade and other receivables 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Non‑current assets
Trade receivables 0.4 1.1 
Other receivables 3.5 3.1 
Prepayments, accrued income and deferred costs 0.5 0.7 
4.4 4.9 
Current assets
Trade receivables 89.6 84.9 
Other receivables 4.2 3.4 
Prepayments, accrued income and deferred costs 8.9 7.3 
102.7 95.6 
107.1 100.5 
The trade receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts. The movement in the provision was as follows: 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
At 1 January 0.8 0.9
Charge for the year 0.4 0.2 
Released in the year (0.2) (0.3)
At 31 December 1.0 0.8
 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk attributable to its trade receivables as the exposure is spread over a large number 
of customers. 
21. Cash and cash equivalents 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Cash at bank and in hand 172.1 204.5 
Short term bank deposits 44.1 44.1 
216.2 248.6
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating interest rates. Of this balance $1.2 million (2012 $40.0 million) is callable at notice of between 
seven and 35 days.
Short term bank deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the cash requirements of the Group 
and earn interest at the short term deposit rates appropriate for the term of the deposit and currency. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
108
21. Cash and cash equivalents continued
At the end of 2013 the currency split of cash and cash equivalents was US dollar 84 per cent (2012 80 per cent), sterling 10 per cent (2012 10 per 
cent) and other currencies 6 per cent (2012 10 per cent).
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the above amounts. 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Non‑ current
Cash on deposit 0.1 0.4
 
At 31 December 2013 $0.1 million (2012 $0.4 million) is held in a blocked trust account and is available for use by the Company as creditors, 
who were outstanding at the date of the cancellation of the share premium account and capital redemption reserve, being 24 November 2004, 
are settled. See note 28.
22. Trade and other payables – current 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Trade payables 18.3 15.9 
Payments received on account 0.2 0.4 
Other taxes and social security costs 4.5 4.1 
Share buyback obligation note 28 18.2 8.1 
Accruals 38.2 36.2 
Deferred income 51.3 42.6 
130.7 107.3
 
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 60 day terms. Other payables are non-interest bearing. 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. 
23. Deferred tax 
The movements in the deferred tax assets/(liabilities) are as follows: 
$ million
Temporary 
differences Tax losses
UK pension 
plans Total
At 1 January 2012 11.4 14.9 3.1 29.4
Recognised in the year note 12 – 1.4 – 1.4
Charged in the year note 12 (3.7) (6.2) – (9.9)
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension plan note 12 – – 2.5 2.5
Deferred tax on share incentives recognised in equity note 12 (1.0) – – (1.0)
Deferred tax on acquisition note 32 (3.7) 9.0 – 5.3
Exchange adjustment (0.1) 0.5 0.3 0.7
At 1 January 2013 2.9 19.6 5.9 28.4
Charged in the year note 12 (0.9) (3.4) (0.7) (5.0)
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension plan note 12 – – (4.2) (4.2)
Deferred tax on share incentives recognised in equity note 12 (0.6) – – (0.6)
Exchange adjustment – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 December 2013 1.4 16.2 0.7 18.3
A deferred tax asset of $18.3 million has been recognised at 31 December 2013 (2012 $28.4 million). $5.2 million is in the United Kingdom 
(2012 $11.8 million), $12.0 million is in the United States (2012 $15.9 million) and $1.1 million is in the rest of the world (2012 $0.7 million).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
109
23. Deferred tax continued
The deferred tax asset includes $0.7 million (2012 $2.0 million) in respect of the tax deduction which may be available on the future exercise of 
share incentives.
Deferred tax assets on temporary differences arising in Canada of $4.7 million (2012 $1.6 million) have not been recognised.
The Group has tax losses arising in the United Kingdom of $65.1 million (2012 $64.0 million) that are available for offset against suitable future 
taxable profits. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as their future recovery is uncertain. United Kingdom tax 
losses can be carried forward indefinitely. In total deferred tax assets amounting to $17 .7 million (2012 $16.3 million) have not been recognised.
The Group also has capital losses carried forward of $1,366.6 million (2012 $1,340.3 million) for which no deferred tax asset is recognised on the 
balance sheet. These capital losses have no expiry date.
Future changes in tax rates
The UK current tax rate was reduced from 24 per cent to 23 per cent with effect from 1 April 2013. Under the Finance Act 2013, the UK current tax 
rate will reduce to 21 per cent with effect from 1 April 2014, and then to 20 per cent with effect from 1 April 2015. This will reduce future tax rates 
accordingly. These reductions in the current tax rate were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
In line with these rate changes, deferred tax assets and liabilities being realised or settled before 1 April 2014 have been based on the existing 
23 per cent rate; those being realised or settled between 1 April 2014 and 1 April 2015 have been based on the new 21 per cent rate; and those 
being realised or settled after 1 April 2015 have been based on the new 20 per cent rate.
24. Trade and other payables – non-current 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Other payables 2.2 1.9
Accruals 0.4 0.9
Deferred income 12.6 8.6
15.2 11.4
25. Provisions and other liabilities
$ million
Lease 
provisions
Restructuring 
provisions
Other 
provisions Total
At 1 January 2012 3.2 – 1.3 4.5
Charged in the year 1.3 – 0.6 1.9
Released in the year (0.2) – – (0.2)
Utilised in the year (1.3) – – (1.3)
Exchange adjustment 0.1 – – 0.1
At 1 January 2013 3.1 – 1.9 5.0
Charged in the year 0.5 3.1 – 3.6
Released in the year (0.2) – – (0.2)
Utilised in the year (0.7) (1.2) – (1.9)
At 31 December 2013 2.7 1.9 1.9 6.5
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Current 6.0 4.4
Non-current 0.5 0.6
6.5 5.0 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
110
25. Provisions and other liabilities continued
The lease provisions are for the continuing obligations under leases in respect of properties which have been vacated by the Group. Where 
material, lease obligations are discounted. The Group expects these provisions to be utilised over the next two years.
Restructuring provisions relate to severance costs which are expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions are mainly environmental provisions related to property disposed of and dilapidation provisions. The Group expects these 
provisions to be utilised in less than one year.
26. Financial instruments and financial risk management 
The main purpose of the Group’s financial instruments, other than trade receivables, trade payables and provisions, is to fund the Group’s 
liquidity requirements.
All of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are categorised as loans and receivables and these are shown in the following table: 
2013
$ million
2012 
$ million
Loans and 
receivables 
at amortised 
cost
Loans and 
receivables 
at amortised 
cost
Non-current cash on deposit note 21 0.1 0.4
Non-current trade and other receivables note 20 3.9 4.2
Cash and cash equivalents note 21 216.2 248.6
Current trade and other receivables note 20 93.8 88.3
Financial assets 314.0 341.5
Non-current other payables and accruals note 24 2.6 2.8
Current trade payables and accruals note 22 56.5 52.1
Share buyback obligation note 22 18.2 8.1
Provisions note 25 6.5 5.0
Financial liabilities 83.8 68.0
The Group enters into derivative transactions, forward foreign currency exchange contracts, for the management of the Group’s foreign currency 
exposures when deemed appropriate. These derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value, however the fair values at 31 December 
2013 and 2012 were immaterial to these accounts.
The key objective of the Group’s treasury department is to manage the financial risks of the business and to ensure that sufficient liquidity is 
available to the Group. All treasury activity operates within a formal control framework. The Board has approved treasury policies and guidelines 
and periodically reviews treasury activities. Additionally, it is the Group’s policy that speculative treasury transactions are expressly forbidden.
a) Market risk 
The main types of market risk that affect the Group are interest rate risk and exchange rate risk.
Interest rate risk 
The Group has no external debt and has limited exposure to interest rate risk.
The Group’s excess funds are principally held in the United Kingdom and the United States and invested in on demand or short term bank 
deposits. It therefore has some exposure to interest rate risk arising on changes in sterling and US dollar interest rates.
Cash and cash equivalents, long term cash on deposit and forward foreign currency exchange contracts are the Group’s financial instruments 
which are exposed to interest rate risk.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
111
26. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued
Short term bank deposits all mature within three months. Forward foreign currency exchange contracts all mature within three months. The 
financial instruments bear the following interest rates: 
Effective 
interest rate 
%
2013 
$ million
Effective 
interest rate 
%
2012 
$ million
Fixed rate
Fixed deposits 0.27 44.1 0.42 44.1 
Floating rate
Cash at bank and in hand 172.1 204.5 
Interest rates on financial instruments classified as fixed rate are fixed until the maturity of the instrument. All fixed rate deposits mature within 
three months after which date they will be exposed to floating rates of interest.
In addition, $0.1 million (2012 $0.4 million) was held in a blocked trust account and was earning interest of 0.44 per cent at 31 December 2013 
(2012 0.44 per cent). The maturity of the deposit is three months, at maturity the interest rate will be reset. This cash must be retained in the 
blocked trust account in accordance with the terms of the undertakings made at the time of the cancellation of the share premium account and 
capital redemption reserve (the “Cancellation”) in 2004. The funds must remain in this account until creditors which existed at the date of the 
Cancellation have been repaid and therefore the maturity of this account is uncertain.
Interest receivable for the year was $0.9 million (note 8) (2012 $0.8 million) and is under the effective interest method. 
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above table are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to 
interest rate risk.
A movement of 25 basis points in interest rates based on levels of investment at 31 December 2013 would increase or reduce interest income and 
equity by $0.5 million (2012 $0.5 million).
Exchange rate risk 
Currency exposures arise from trading transactions undertaken by the Group in foreign currencies and on the translation of the operating results 
and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The Group has the majority of its operations in the United States and presents its consolidated financial statements in US dollars. The Company’s 
functional currency is sterling and its share capital is denominated in pounds sterling, the Group also has operations in Europe and Asia and 
therefore its results and assets and liabilities are affected on translation by movements in exchange rates in relation to the US dollar. The Group 
does not enter into instruments to hedge the translation exposure of the operating results or net assets of its overseas subsidiaries since these 
are considered accounting and not cash exposures.
The Group is not exposed to significant transactional foreign currency risk at 31 December 2013, nor at 31 December 2012, because the majority 
of its businesses do not enter into non-functional currency transactions. Where such transactions do occur the Group typically enters into forward 
foreign currency exchange contracts as appropriate.
Group treasury, by means of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, carries out the transaction hedging activity in relation to normal 
trading activity. At 31 December 2013 the Group has hedged the majority of its financial assets and liabilities in relation to trading which are 
denominated in non-functional currencies. However, the Group holds cash balances in non-functional currencies which are exposed to US dollar 
to sterling exchange rates.
At 31 December 2013 these balances amounted to $1.1 million (2012 $0.9 million). A 10 per cent appreciation or depreciation of sterling against 
the US dollar would increase or reduce profit before tax by $0.1 million (2012 $0.1 million) based on the balance at the reporting dates.
b) Credit risk 
Investment counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the Board with pre-approved limits set for each bank to avoid any concentrations of 
credit risk.
The maximum credit exposure at the balance sheet date under financial instruments in relation to cash and bank deposits is equal to the carrying 
value of $216.3 million (2012 $249.0 million). SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
112
26. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for uncollectable amounts 
where appropriate. Trade receivable exposures are managed in the business units where they arise. Allowance is made for bad and doubtful 
debts based on management’s assessment of the risk taking into account ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk attributable to its trade receivables as the exposure is spread over a large number of 
customers with no one customer accounting for more than 10 per cent of total Group revenue. The maximum credit exposure at the balance sheet 
date in relation to trade receivables is equal to the carrying value of $90.0 million (2012 $86.0 million).
The composition of trade receivables at 31 December is as follows: 
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Neither impaired nor past due 59.9 58.8 
Past due but not impaired:
 Less than 30 days overdue 15.5 14.1 
 30 to 60 days 5.1 5.2 
 Over 60 days 9.5 7.9 
Trade receivables 90.0 86.0
 
The Group closely monitors amounts due from customers and performs activities such as credit checks and review of payment history and has 
put in place appropriate credit approval limits. Based on these procedures management assessed the quality of those receivables that are past 
due but not impaired as low risk.
The movement on the receivables provision during the year is given in note 20. The value of impaired trade receivables is $1.0 million (2012 $0.8 
million). For all other financial assets the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount.
c) Liquidity risk 
The Group’s objective is to ensure that there are sufficient sources of funding to meet projected requirements. Its operations are financed through 
cash and cash equivalents held centrally and cash generated from operations.
At 31 December 2013 the Group had cash and cash equivalents of $216.2 million (2012 $248.6 million) of which $170.9 million (2012 $164.5 
million) is available on demand and $45.3 million (2012 $84.1 million) of which is on one month’s notice or matures within three months.
During 2013 the Group generated $67 .4 million of cash from operating activities (2012 $105.1 million) and considers that with current cash 
resources, no debt and positive cash flow from its operating activities it has adequate resources available to it to remain in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future.
The Group has entered into forward foreign currency exchange contracts all of which mature within three months. The gross settlement amounts 
of these contracts are as follows:
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Sale of US dollars against sterling 3.5 3.6 
The Group is debt free and does not have loans payable. Financial liabilities are trade and other payables, the majority of which are all due to be 
settled within one year, and provisions (note 25).
The Group does not have any other material financial contractual commitments.
d) Fair value of financial instruments 
The carrying value of all financial assets and liabilities is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value although the amounts at 31 December 2013 and 2012 were immaterial.
The fair value of currency derivatives is determined by reference to forward foreign currency exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity 
profiles, and is therefore determined to be a level 2 financial instrument as its value is based on observable market inputs.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
113
26. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued
e) Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group’s capital is its 
total shareholders’ funds.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions. During 2013 and 2012 the 
Company has been operating an on market share repurchase programme. In 2013 the Company repurchased 29.2 million of its Ordinary Shares at 
a cost of $55.5 million (2012 13.4 million at a cost of $30.8 million). The Group intends to continue to repurchase shares on a one-off basis as it 
deems appropriate.
Spirent’s policy on the payment of dividends to shareholders is to maintain a sustainable, progressive dividend.
27. Operating lease commitments
At 31 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall 
due as follows:
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
Within one year 8.2 7.9
In the second to fifth years 12.3 9.9
Over five years 3.2 0.3
23.7 18.1
 
The Group leases certain land and buildings under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with a variety of terms. The Group also leases 
certain plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. 
28. Equity
a) Issued share capital
Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 3 
1
/
3
 pence each.
Number of 
Ordinary 
Shares  
million $ million
At 1 January 2012 664.0 34.3
Cancelled during the year
1
(13.4) (0.7)
Exchange adjustment 1.7
At 1 January 2013 650.6 35.3
Cancelled during the year
1
(29.2) (1.5)
Exchange adjustment 0.6
At 31 December 2013 621.4 34.4
Note
1  During 2013, under the programme of returning capital to shareholders, the Company repurchased 29.2 million (2012 13.4 million) Ordinary Shares on market which were 
subsequently cancelled.
During 2013 and 2012 no Ordinary Shares were transferred from the Spirent Sharesave Trust (“SST”) to satisfy options exercised under the UK all 
employee share schemes and in 2013 1.4 million Ordinary Shares were transferred from the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust (“ESOT”) to 
satisfy options exercised under the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan and 2005 Employee Incentive Plan (2012 5.6 million Ordinary Shares). 
There has been no material increase in the issued Ordinary Share capital, whether by exercise of share incentives or otherwise, between 
31 December 2013 and 27 February 2014, the date on which these financial statements have been signed. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
114
28. Equity continued
b) Equity and reserves
The nature and purpose of each reserve within equity is as follows:
i) Share premium account: this reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value;
ii) Capital redemption reserve: this reserve arises in relation to share capital cancellation;
iii) Other reserves: share capital, share premium account and capital redemption reserve are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange 
at the balance sheet date and the resultant exchange differences are included in other reserves; and
iv) Translation reserve: this reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign subsidiaries.
Investment in own Ordinary Shares
At 31 December 2013, the ESOT held 0.9 million Ordinary Shares (2012 2.3 million Ordinary Shares) to satisfy awards under various share 
incentive plans. At 31 December 2013, the SST held 0.5 million Ordinary Shares (2012 0.5 million Ordinary Shares) to satisfy awards made to 
United Kingdom based employees under an all employee share scheme. The market value of own Ordinary Shares held in trust, being in total 
1.4 million Ordinary Shares (2012 2.8 million Ordinary Shares), at 31 December 2013 was $2.5 million (2012 $6.9 million).
Cancellation of share premium account and capital redemption reserve
On 24 November 2004, Spirent Communications plc was granted an order of the High Court for the approval of the cancellation of the 
share premium account and capital redemption reserve (the “Cancellation”) which stood at that date at $1,321.1 million (£702.7 million) 
and $1.3 million (£0.7 million), respectively.
The Cancellation created a reserve in the financial statements of the Company which was applied to eliminate the deficit in distributable reserves. 
The balance of this reserve, created after the deficit in distributable reserves had been eliminated, was transferred to a special non-distributable 
reserve. During 2006 the Company transferred funds equal to the aggregate amount due to any creditors of Spirent Communications plc, who 
were creditors on 24 November 2004, and who still remained creditors, to a blocked trust account. Placing these funds in a blocked trust account 
in accordance with the undertakings made at the time of the Cancellation allowed the special reserve to be released to distributable reserves.
Capital redemption reserve
During 2013 the Company cancelled 29.2 million Ordinary Shares (2012 13.4 million Ordinary Shares) that had been the subject of the on market 
share repurchase programme, and transferred $1.5 million (2012 $0.7 million) to the capital redemption reserve.
Share repurchase
During 2013 the Company repurchased 29.2 million (2012 13.4 million) Ordinary Shares on market at a cost of $55.5 million (2012 $30.8 million) 
which were subsequently cancelled. 
Share buyback obligation
On 31 December 2012 the Company entered into an irrevocable agreement with UBS Limited to purchase up to a maximum of 3.4 million Ordinary 
Shares at no more than 105 per cent of the average market value of a share for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the 
share is purchased, and at a maximum price of 145 pence per share, from 10 January 2013 to 27 February 2013, on their behalf. This agreement 
entered into in respect of share buybacks during the close period was recognised as a financial liability of $8.1 million.
As at the close of business on 27 February 2013, 0.1 million shares had been repurchased under this buyback programme at 145 pence per share 
for a total consideration of $0.3 million. The remaining liability expired at close of business on 27 February 2013.
On 23 December 2013 the Company entered into an irrevocable agreement with UBS Limited to purchase Ordinary Shares up to a maximum value 
of $18.2 million at no more than 105 per cent of the average market value of a share for the five business days immediately preceding the day on 
which the share is purchased, with the maximum number of shares acquired on any dealing day not to exceed 250,000 shares, from 2 January 
2014 to 26 February 2014, on their behalf. This agreement entered into in respect of share buybacks during the close period has been recognised 
as a financial liability of $18.2 million.
As at the close of business on 26 February 2014, 9.7 million shares had been repurchased under this buyback programme at an average price of 
97 pence per share for a total consideration of $15.6 million. The remaining liability expired at close of business on 26 February 2014.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
115
29. Employee share plans
Movements in share incentives over a two year period ending on 31 December 2013 are shown below:
2005 Employee Incentive Plan
1
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan
2
1995 Executive Share
 Option Scheme
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
pence
Incentives outstanding at 31 December 2011 3.9 24 7.5 51 1.2 117
Exercised (0.6) 2 (5.7) 51 (1.1) 123
Granted 2.0 59 – – – –
Forfeited (1.4) 2 – – – –
Incentives outstanding at 31 December 2012 3.9 53 1.8 50 0.1 69
Exercised – – (1.7) 50 (0.1) 69
Granted 3.3 73 – – – –
Forfeited (1.8) 7 – – – –
Incentives outstanding at 31 December 2013 5.4 82 0.1 60 – –
Incentives exercisable
At 31 December 2012 0.5 50 1.8 50 0.1 69
At 31 December 2013 0.5 50 0.1 60 – –
Notes
1 Figures for the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan include share options, stock appreciation rights and Performance shares in aggregate. 
2 Figures for the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan show both share options and stock appreciation rights in aggregate.
The weighted average share price at exercise date was 143.7 pence (2012 155.4 pence).
The following information relates to outstanding share incentives at 31 December 2013:
2013 2012
Share plan
Exercise period 
(as at 31 December)
Range of 
exercise 
prices 
pence
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
outstanding 
million
 Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life
years
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
outstanding 
million
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life 
years
2005 Employee 25.08.08–08.05.23 0–53 11 2.4 7.4 10 2.7 8.0 
 Incentive Plan 23.03.14–08.05.23 129–169 137 3.0 8.8 150 1.2 8.9 
Spirent Stock 12.01.07–13.11.15 37–57 53 0.1 1.9 48 1.6 0.4 
 Incentive Plan 04.11.05–12.08.16 59–79 – – – 73 0.2 2.4 
1995 Executive Share 
 Option Scheme 30.06.07–29.06.14 69 – – – 69 0.1 1.5 
Total 5.5 5.8
Description of employee share plans
Discretionary plans
2005 Employee Incentive Plan (“EIP”)
The EIP, which was approved by shareholders and introduced in 2005, is available for selected employees, including executive directors, 
on a discretionary basis.
Under the EIP, the Company is able to grant share options, including HMRC-approved options, share-settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) 
and Performance shares. No price is payable on the grant of an award.
In normal circumstances, EIP awards vest three years following the date of grant provided the relevant performance conditions have been met. 
For share options and SARs, the performance conditions relate to the Company’s earnings per share (“EPS”). For Performance share awards made 
prior to 2011, performance conditions related to Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”). For awards made since 2011, performance conditions relate 
to the Company’s EPS and TSR. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
116
29. Employee share plans continued
Further information on the performance conditions for EIP share incentives is set out in the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 58 to 76.
Options and SARs granted under the EIP expire on the tenth anniversary of their grant unless they have previously lapsed or been exercised.
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan (“SSIP”)
The SSIP is now closed for new awards and has been replaced by the EIP referred to above.
The SSIP was introduced in 2000. This discretionary plan was primarily targeted at US employees with grants normally determined by reference 
to the seniority and contribution of the individual, together with the performance of the relevant business and prevailing local market practice. 
Grants were also permitted to selected newly hired and promoted employees on a monthly basis. Under the SSIP, the Company was able to grant 
share options and share-settled SARs. No price was payable on the grant of an award.
Most awards made pursuant to the SSIP vest over four years, provided that the participant remains in employment. Vesting is not normally 
subject to a performance condition and awards become 25 per cent exercisable on the first anniversary of the date of grant and thereafter in 
equal tranches on a monthly basis over a further 36 months. Any award not exercised by the seventh anniversary of the date of grant will lapse.
The vesting of some SSIP awards were subject to the Company meeting EPS growth targets over the vesting periods. All outstanding awards have 
now passed their EPS performance conditions and remain exercisable until they expire on the seventh anniversary of their respective grant dates.
SARs granted under the EIP and SSIP will deliver the appreciation value (ie the increase in market value of an Ordinary Share over the base price 
of the SAR) in the form of Ordinary Shares. This “SARs approach” helps the Company manage its dilution headroom more efficiently as only the 
SAR gain needs to be funded. Using a SARs approach, it is not possible to determine the precise level of dilution until the SARs are exercised. 
At 31 December 2013, 2.8 million EIP SARs and 0.1 million SSIP SARs with an average base price of 127 pence and 60 pence respectively were 
outstanding (2012 1.7 million EIP SARs and 1.8 million SSIP SARs with an average base price of 118 pence and 50 pence respectively). During 
2013, 1.6 million EIP and SSIP SARs were exercised resulting in the transfer of 1.1 million Ordinary Shares (2012 3.9 million Ordinary Shares were 
issued or transferred on the exercise of 5.6 million EIP and SSIP SARs).
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”)
The ESOS is now closed for new grants and has been replaced by the EIP referred to above.
Under the ESOS awards of share options, including HMRC-approved options, were on a discretionary basis. No price was payable on the grant of 
an option and no options were granted at a discount to the market price.
The normal exercise period for options granted under the ESOS is between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant. Options awarded 
under the ESOS were subject to the achievement of an EPS performance condition before they could be exercised. All outstanding options have 
now passed their EPS performance conditions and remain exercisable until they expire on the tenth anniversary of their respective grant dates.
All Employee plans
UK Employee Share Purchase Plan (“UK ESPP”)
The UK ESPP, which is an HMRC-approved share incentive plan, was approved by shareholders in 2005 and is available to all UK employees. 
The UK ESPP offers three ways to provide Ordinary Shares to employees: free shares, partnership shares and matching shares. The UK ESPP 
operates in conjunction with a trust, which holds the shares on behalf of participants.
In November 2010, the Company commenced making invitations to all UK employees to acquire partnership shares on market using deductions 
from payroll.
US Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“US ESPP”)
The US ESPP was initially approved by shareholders in 2000, with amendments being approved by shareholders in 2005 and 2011. The US ESPP 
enables the Company to invite all US employees to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company on market using deductions from payroll. In 
November 2010, the Company commenced making six-monthly invitations to employees. 
The US ESPP also enables the Company to grant eligible US employees the right to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company using the proceeds 
of a savings contract. If such a grant were made, when joining the US ESPP, participants would enter into a 12 month contract to save up to 15 per 
cent of base salary subject to an individual limit of $1,000 per month. No grants of this nature have been made since 2003.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
117
29. Employee share plans continued
Global All Employee Share Purchase Plan (“GAESPP”)
The GAESPP was initially approved by shareholders in 2001 with amendments being approved by shareholders in 2005 and 2011. The GAESPP 
enables the Company to invite employees in countries other than the US or UK to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company on market using 
deductions from payroll. In September 2011, the first such invitation was made to all employees in Canada, Hong Kong, France and Germany 
and subsequent invitations have been made in 2012.
The GAESPP can also be operated on similar terms to the US ESPP above, with participants entering into a 12 month contract to save up to 15 per 
cent of base salary subject to an individual limit. No grants of this nature have been made since 2003.
2005 Sharesave Scheme 
The 2005 Sharesave Scheme was approved by shareholders in 2005 and was introduced following the expiry of the Savings Related Share Option 
Scheme. The scheme is an HMRC-approved Save-As-You-Earn scheme open to all UK employees, subject to a qualifying service period. No price is 
payable on the grant of an option. The option exercise price is calculated by reference to the middle market closing price of an Ordinary Share on 
the business day prior to the beginning of the invitation period, discounted by up to 20 per cent at the Board’s discretion. Options are normally 
exercisable within six months of the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the contract commencement date as elected by the option holder at 
the start of the contract. No invitations have yet been made under this scheme.
30. Share-based payment 
The total (credit)/charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans is as follows:
2013 
$ million
2012 
$ million
2005 Employee Incentive Plan (1.2) 1.6
 
All schemes are equity-settled.
3.3 million share incentives were granted during 2013 (2012 2.0 million). The fair value of share incentives has been estimated as at the date of 
grant using the Hull-White trinomial model. The following table gives the assumptions made in arriving at the share-based payment charge and 
the fair value: 
2013 2012
Weighted average share price (pence) 129.1 153.2
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 73.3 59.3
Weighted average fair value (pence) 59.0 78.1
Expected volatility (%) 33 35
Option life (years)
 Performance shares 3 3
 Options and SARs 10 10
Suboptimal exercise factor 1.5 1.5
Risk free rate (%) 1.6 1.5–2.4
Dividend yield (%) 1.3 1.6
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous two years which 
management considers to be the period which is likely to be most representative of future volatility. The risk free rate is calculated by reference 
to UK government bonds.  SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
118
31. Reconciliation of profit to cash generated from operations 
2013 
$ million
Restated 
2012 
$ million
Profit for the year 32.7 126.5
Adjustments for:
 Tax 6.4 30.7
 Profit on the sale of operations – (44.5)
 Finance income (0.9) (0.8)
 Finance costs 0.9 0.5
 Intangible asset amortisation 9.9 6.1
 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16.5 15.2
 Loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.1
 Share-based payment (1.2) 1.6
Changes in working capital
 Deferred income received/(released) 12.9 (3.4)
 (Increase)/decrease in receivables (6.0) 7.0
 Decrease in inventories 2.4 1.6
 Increase/(decrease) in payables 2.8 (11.4)
Increase in provisions 1.5 0.4
Defined benefit pension plan (4.4) (1.4)
Cash flow from operations 73.5 128.2
Cash flow from operations comprises:
 Continuing operating activities 73.5 120.3
 Discontinued operating activities – 7.9
Cash flow from operations 73.5 128.2
32. Business combinations
The Group made no acquisitions during 2013.
Prior year acquisitions
In 2012 the Group acquired 100 per cent of the share capital of Mu Dynamics, Inc. and Metrico Wireless, Inc.
The following table summarises the consideration paid and the assets and liabilities acquired at the acquisition date: 
2012 
$ million
Mu Dynamics
Metrico 
Wireless Total
Net assets acquired
Intangible fixed assets 13.9 20.5 34.4
Tangible fixed assets – 0.5 0.5
Deferred tax asset 9.3 0.9 10.2
Inventories 0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other receivables 1.3 3.3 4.6
Trade and other payables (4.6) (3.9) (8.5)
Deferred tax liability (4.9) – (4.9)
Total identifiable net assets 15.1 21.3 36.4
Goodwill 24.7 30.9 55.6
Total consideration 39.8 52.2 92.0
Satisfied by:
 Cash 39.8 52.2 92.0
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
119
33. Disposals
Systems division
On 1 November 2012 the Group completed the disposal of the assets and liabilities of its Systems division to Curtiss-Wright Corporation.
The assets and liabilities sold, the proceeds and the resulting profit on disposal are shown below:
2012 
$ million
Cash consideration 63.2
Less:
Net assets sold
 Tangible fixed assets 1.2
 Inventories 8.5
 Trade and other receivables 7.9
 Trade and other payables (4.7)
Total net assets sold 12.9
Other items:
 Disposal costs (3.3)
 Curtailment loss note 11 (1.3)
 Exchange differences transferred from equity (1.2)
Profit on sale of operations 44.5
Cash flows in respect of the disposal of operations are as follows:
Cash consideration 63.2
Cash disposal costs (3.3)
59.9 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
120
34. Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note.
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories 
specified in IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”. 
2013 
$000
2012 
$000
Short term employee benefits 1,666 2,457
Contribution to defined contribution scheme (post employment benefits) 10 10
Compensation for loss of office (termination benefits) 136 –
Statutory disclosures 1,812 2,467
Share-based payment (350) 673
1,462 3,140
In 2013 Eric Hutchinson made gains on the exercise of share incentives of nil (2012 $468,000) and Bill Burns made gains on the exercise of share 
incentives of nil (2012 $691,000).
35. Post balance sheet events 
On 19 February 2014 Spirent completed the acquisition of the business of DAX Technologies Corp. (“DAX”), privately held by Dragos Alexe and 
others, for a cash consideration of $37 .0 million. Based in Matawan, New Jersey, DAX is a leading provider of customer experience management 
solution software that enables mobile and wireline service providers to understand and quantify services as experienced by their customers.
The addition of DAX positions Spirent well to help service providers with the unprecedented challenges they face when developing and managing 
new services in mobile and wireline network environments of rapidly increasing complexity. This acquisition will enable us to strengthen our 
Service Assurance portfolio, expanding Spirent’s addressable market in the live network. 
On 20 February 2014 Spirent completed the acquisition of 58 per cent of the share capital of Testing Technologies IST GmbH (“Testing Tech”) 
which was in private ownership, for a cash consideration of Euro 2.0 million. The company develops and markets standardised and customer-
specific software-based testing tools which support the development of mission-critical products and workflow steps. Testing Tech also 
participates in the connected vehicle market which will facilitate Spirent’s progress in this market. The minority stake of 42 per cent of the share 
capital is the subject of a put and call option which expires on 31 March 2016. The consideration is based on the 2015 performance of Testing 
Tech and set at a minimum amount of Euro 1.4 million. Testing Tech will be reported within our Wireless and Service Experience division.
As both acquisitions have only very recently completed neither the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired, nor the consideration, 
have yet been determined.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 121
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Spirent 
Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which 
comprise the parent Company balance sheet and the related notes 1 
to 18. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 79, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the parent Company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent Company financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2013;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic and the Directors’ report for 
the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the 
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of 
Spirent Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Karl Havers (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
27 February 2014
Notes
1 The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website is the 
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditor does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility 
for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were 
initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent auditor’s report to the members of  
Spirent Communications plc SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
122
Notes
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 4 2.4 3.1
Tangible assets 5 1.1 1.1
Investments 6 310.2 302.0
313.7 306.2
Current assets
Stocks 7 1.6 2.5
Debtors 8 7.0 5.4
Cash at bank and in hand 14.2 17.2
22.8 25.1
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Trade and other creditors 9 (18.4) (10.1)
Net current assets 4.4 15.0
Total assets less current liabilities 318.1 321.2
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 10 (75.0) (66.7)
Net assets (excluding defined benefit pension plan (deficit)/surplus) 243.1 254.5
Defined benefit pension plan deficit 3 (1.6) (12.1)
Net assets 241.5 242.4
Capital and reserves 14
Called up share capital 20.7 21.7
Share premium account 20.2 20.2
Capital redemption reserve 12.8 11.8
Profit and loss account 187.8 188.7
Shareholders’ funds – equity 241.5 242.4
The notes on pages 123 to 135 form part of these financial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Eric Hutchinson
Director
27 February 2014   
Parent Company balance sheet
At 31 December 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
123
1. Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified for measurement of derivative financial instruments 
at fair value and in accordance with applicable UK law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP).
As the Company is included in the consolidated financial statements, made up to 31 December each year, it is not required to present a separate 
profit and loss account as provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. Information on fees for non-audit services in respect of the parent 
Company accounts have not been disclosed as the Company prepares Group accounts which disclose information on fees for non-audit services 
on a consolidated basis.
Cash flow statement
The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 1 “Cash Flow Statements” from the requirement to publish its own cash flow statement, as its 
cash flows are included within the consolidated cash flow statement of the Group.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. The carrying value of intangible assets 
is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Purchased goodwill, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of assets acquired, is written off on a straight line basis from the date of 
acquisition over 20 years, being its anticipated useful life.
Tangible assets
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land. Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of all other assets, less residual value, on a 
straight line basis over their estimated useful lives at rates which take into account commercial conditions at their location. Usual asset 
lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years
Fixtures, fittings and equipment
 Building installations 20 years or lease period if less
 Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years
 Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years
 Business systems software 4 years
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not 
be recoverable.
Investments
Fixed asset investments, including investment in subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indications that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable.
Leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease on a straight line basis.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. Cost includes all costs in bringing each product to its present 
location and condition, being the full manufacturing cost on a first-in-first-out basis, including all attributable overheads based on a normal level 
of activity. Net realisable value represents the selling price less further costs to be incurred to completion and on sale.
Trade and other debtors
Trade debtors, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any 
uncollectable amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written 
off when identified.
Notes to the parent Company financial statements SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
124
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Provisions
Provisions are recorded when the Company has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event for which it is probable that it 
will be required to settle by an outflow of resources and for which a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Provisions are 
reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision shall be the present value of the expenditures expected to be 
required to settle the obligation.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Company, the revenue can be reliably measured and when the 
Company has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership. In addition, revenue is only recognised when collectability 
is probable.
For the sale of services, revenue is recognised in accounting periods in which the service is rendered.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. All exchange gains 
and losses are taken to the profit and loss account.
Product development
Expenditure is charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which it is incurred.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Company’s balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Company uses forward foreign currency exchange contracts to manage exposures arising on receipts and payments in foreign currencies 
relating to firm commitments.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the contract is entered into, and are 
subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reported balance sheet date. The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is 
calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. The Company has not adopted the hedge 
accounting rules. Consequently, all gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the profit and loss account.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
Pensions
The Company operates two funded defined benefit pension plans. All other plans are defined contribution in nature where the amount charged to 
the profit and loss account is the contributions paid or payable during the year.
For defined benefit pension plans full actuarial valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit method, and updates 
are performed at each balance sheet date. The cost of providing benefits under these plans is determined separately for each plan, and attributes 
entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost), and to the current and prior periods (to determine the present 
value of defined benefit obligations).
Past services are recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis or immediately if the benefits have vested. When a settlement 
(eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued), or a curtailment (reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the 
plan membership or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial 
assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the profit and loss account during the period in which the settlement or 
curtailment occurs.
Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
125
1. Significant accounting policies continued
The interest element of the defined benefit pension plan cost represents the change in present value of plan obligations resulting from the 
passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account 
material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on plan assets, 
adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received, and benefits paid during the year. The difference between the 
expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the profit and loss account as finance costs or finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between actual and expected returns on plan assets, experience adjustments on liabilities 
and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The defined benefit pension plan asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation (using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds denominated in the same currency and whose term is consistent with the 
estimated term of the obligation). Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price. 
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount the 
Company expects to recover, by way of reductions in the future contributions or refunds from the plan that have been agreed by the trustees.
Treasury shares
Spirent Communications plc Ordinary Shares held by the Company are classified in shareholders’ equity as treasury shares and are recognised at 
cost and shown as a deduction from retained earnings. Consideration received for the sale of such Ordinary Shares is also recognised in equity, 
with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to retained earnings.
Employee benefits
When an employee has rendered service to the Company during an accounting period, short term benefits expected to be paid in exchange for 
that service are recognised in the same accounting period.
Dividends paid
The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the period in which it is paid, and the final dividend in the period it is approved by 
the shareholders at an annual general meeting.
Share-based payment
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted. The fair 
value is determined using the Hull-White Trinomial model.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised as a cost to the Company or as an addition to the cost of investment in the subsidiary in 
which the relevant employees work, over the vesting period of the equity-settled transactions with a corresponding adjustment to reserves. Any 
payments received from the Company’s subsidiaries in respect of these share-based payments result in a reduction in the cost of investment.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which 
are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified. In 
addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the date of 
modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not yet recognised for the 
award is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award and designated as a replacement award on the 
date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous 
paragraph.
The Company has an employee share trust for the granting of certain share incentives to employees. Shares are held by the employee share trust, 
treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
126
1. Significant accounting policies continued
The tax currently payable represents the amount expected to be paid or recovered in respect of taxable profit for the year and is calculated using 
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on an undiscounted basis on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date except 
as referred to below. Amounts provided are calculated with reference to tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing 
differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from 
which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not provided on gains on the disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, unless there is a binding 
agreement to dispose of the assets concerned. Provision will not be made where it is considered more likely than not that the taxable gain will be 
rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only when the replacement assets are sold.
2. Employees
Please refer to the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 58 to 76 for disclosures relating to the emoluments, share incentives and long term 
incentive interests and pensions of the directors.
3. Pensions
Defined benefit plans 
The funded defined benefit pension plans are in the United Kingdom and comprise the Spirent Communications plc Staff Pension & Life 
Assurance Plan (“Staff Plan”) and the Spirent Communications plc Retirement Cash & Life Assurance Plan (“Cash Plan”). The Staff Plan is the 
Company’s most significant plan. There is in addition an unfunded plan. 
The valuation used for these disclosures has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the plans as at 1 April 2012. The present 
values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs were measured using the projected unit 
credit method.
i) The key financial assumptions
The assumptions used for both plans were as follows:
2013 
%
2012 
%
Inflation – RPI 3.3 2.9
Inflation – CPI 2.2 2.2
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.1 2.9
Rate of increase for pensions in payment pre 2001 service 3.6 3.6
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2001 to 5 April 2005 service 3.1 2.8
Rate of increase for pensions post 5 April 2005 service 2.2 1.9
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.2 2.2
Rate used to discount plan liabilities 4.5 4.3
Expected rate of return on plan assets (weighted for both plans) 4.6 5.0
Spirent Communications plc employs a building block approach in determining the long term rate of return on plans’ assets. Historical markets 
are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted capital market principles. 
The assumed long term rate of return on each class of asset is set out within this note. The overall expected rate of return on assets is then 
derived by aggregating the expected return of each asset class over the actual asset allocation for the plans. 
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The assumptions are such that 
a member currently aged 65 (2012 aged 65) will live on average for a further 23.5 years (2012 23.3 years) if they are male and for a further 25.6 
years (2012 25.5 years) if they are female. For a member who retires in 2033 (2012 in 2032) at age 65 (2012 age 65) the assumptions are that they 
will live on average for a further 24.3 years (2012 24.2 years) after retirement if they are male and for a further 26.7 years (2012 26.6 years) after 
retirement if they are female. 
Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
127
3. Pensions continued
The approximate impact to the past service liabilities of changing these main assumptions is as follows:
• Reducing the discount rate by 0.1 per cent per annum would increase past service liabilities by £2.4 million.
• Increasing the RPI inflation assumption by 0.1 per cent would increase the plans’ liabilities by £1.0 million. 
• Increasing the life expectancy of a member by one year (by modifying the standard mortality tables using an appropriate scaling factor) would 
increase past service liabilities by £6.5 million. 
There will also be an impact on the future service cost but given the small active population in these plans this is likely to be insignificant.
ii) The assets and the liabilities in the plans were as follows:
Long term 
rate of return 
expected
%
2013 
£ million
Long term 
rate of return 
expected
%
2012
 £ million
Staff Plan
Equities 7.4 53.9 8.3 44.5
Government bonds – – 2.5 32.8
Inflation-only LDI funds 1.3 14.4 – –
Corporate bonds – – 3.6 24.9
Cash benchmarked bonds 3.0 72.5 3.5 30.8
Insured annuities 4.5 3.3 4.3 3.5
Property 5.5 15.3 7.3 14.0
Cash and other 1.3 0.5 1.0 0.6
Fair value of plan assets 4.6 159.9 5.1 151.1
Present value of defined benefit pension plan obligations (161.8) (166.3)
Deficit in the plan (1.9) (15.2)
Cash Plan
Equities 7.4 2.7 8.3 2.3
Government bonds 3.2 2.0 2.5 2.2
Insured annuities 4.5 0.2 4.3 0.2
Cash and other 1.3 2.4 1.0 2.0
Fair value of plan assets 4.2 7.3 4.0 6.7
Present value of defined benefit pension plan obligations (6.9) (6.7)
Surplus in the plan 0.4 –
Total net deficit recognised (1.5) (15.2)
Unfunded plan
Present value of unfunded obligations (0.5) (0.5)
Net pension plan deficit (2.0) (15.7)
Deferred tax asset note 11 0.4 3.6
Net pension plan deficit on the balance sheet (1.6) (12.1)
The plans are prohibited from investing in Spirent’s own financial instruments.
For the purposes of the following disclosures the two plans have been combined as the Cash Plan is immaterial to these financial statements. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
128
3. Pensions continued
iii) Analysis of the amounts (credited)/charged to the profit and loss account 
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
Analysis of amount charged to operating costs
Current service cost 0.1 0.2
Curtailment loss – 0.8
Amount charged to operating costs 0.1 1.0
Expected return on pension plans’ assets 7.5 7.6
Interest on pension plans’ liabilities (7.3) (7.2)
Finance income 0.2 0.4
Net profit and loss (credit)/charge (0.1) 0.6
iv) Analysis of amount recognised directly in equity
 
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
Actual return on pension plans’ assets 13.5 12.0
Less expected return on pension plans’ assets 7.5 7.6
Experience gains on plans’ assets 6.0 4.4
Experience gains arising on plans’ liabilities – 0.7
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of plans’ liabilities 4.2 (13.9)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of unfunded plan’s liabilities – (0.1)
Movement in surplus restriction – 0.2
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised directly in equity 10.2 (8.7)
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 January 2003 in the Company’s statement of total recognised gains and 
losses is £22.1 million loss (2012 £32.3 million loss). The directors are unable to determine how much of the pension plan deficit recognised on 
1 January 2003 and taken directly to equity of £41.9 million in the Company is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those 
pension plans. Consequently, the directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in 
the Company’s statement of recognised gains and losses before 1 January 2003.
v) Movements in the present value of funded defined benefit obligations
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
At 1 January 173.0 158.4
Current service cost 0.1 0.2
Curtailment loss – 0.8
Interest cost 7.3 7.2
Employee contributions – 0.1
Benefit payments (7 .5) (6.9)
Actuarial (gain)/loss (4.2) 13.2
Present value of funded defined benefit pension plans’ obligations 168.7 173.0
vi) Movements in the fair value of plans’ assets
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
At 1 January 157.8 150.8
Expected return on plans’ assets 7.5 7.6
Employer contributions 3.4 1.8
Employee contributions – 0.1
Benefit payments (7 .5) (6.9)
Actuarial gain 6.0 4.4
Fair value of plans’ assets 167.2 157.8
Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
129
3. Pensions continued
vii) History of experience gains and losses
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
2011 
£ million
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
Present value of defined benefit pension plans’ obligations (168.7) (173.0) (158.4) (140.6) (137.4)
Fair value of plans’ assets 167.2 157.8 150.8 146.9 137.9
Net (deficit)/surplus in plans (1.5) (15.2) (7.6) 6.3 0.5
Experience gain/(loss) on plans’ liabilities
Amount (£ million) – 0.7 (1.7) (0.4) (2.5)
Percentage of plans’ liabilities (%) – 0.4 (1.1) (0.3) (1.8)
Experience gain/(loss) on plans’ assets
Amount (£ million) 6.0 4.4 0.7 7.1 7.5
Percentage of plans’ assets (%) 3.6 2.8 0.5 4.8 5.4
Expected cash contributions for 2014 for these plans are £2.9 million.
The above plans are funded and have full UK HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) tax-exempt approval. Certain members, whose salaries were in 
excess of the HMRC statutory earnings cap, had their benefits increased through unapproved unfunded arrangements, to the level that would 
otherwise have applied in respect of basic salary only. The Company has contractually agreed to pay the additional retirement benefits itself and 
a provision is made in respect of this obligation in the balance sheet at 31 December 2013 of £0.5 million (2012 £0.5 million). This represents the 
actuarial value, as confirmed by the Company’s pension advisers, of the unapproved benefit entitlements accrued at that date. The value is 
assessed and reviewed on a market value basis in line with the main plan valuation and adjusted each year. There were no experience gains or 
losses on the unfunded plan in the period from 2009 to 2013.
Defined contribution schemes
The Company also maintains defined contribution pension plans for employees. Employer contributions into these plans for 2013 were 
£0.9 million (2012 £0.8 million).
4. Intangible assets 
£ million 
Goodwill
Cost
At 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 6.8
Amortisation
At 1 January 2013 3.7
Provided during the year 0.7
At 31 December 2013 4.4
Net book value at 31 December 2012 3.1
Net book value at 31 December 2013 2.4 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
130
5. Tangible fixed assets
£ million
Freehold land 
and buildings
Plant and 
machinery
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment Total
Cost
At 1 January 2013 0.7 2.3 1.2 4.2
Additions – 0.3 – 0.3
Disposals – – (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2013 0.7 2.6 1.1 4.4
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2013 0.2 2.0 0.9 3.1
Provided during the year – 0.3 0.1 0.4
Disposals – (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
At 31 December 2013 0.2 2.2 0.9 3.3
Net book value at 31 December 2012 0.5 0.3 0.3 1.1
Net book value at 31 December 2013 0.5 0.4 0.2 1.1
6. Investments
£ million
Shares in 
subsidiaries
Loans to 
subsidiaries Total
Cost
At 1 January 2013 1,019.4 3.2 1,022.6
Additions 7.4 3.0 10.4
Share-based payment (0.5) – (0.5)
At 31 December 2013 1,026.3 6.2 1,032.5
Provisions
At 1 January 2013 720.3 0.3 720.6
Increase in provision 0.6 1.1 1.7
At 31 December 2013 720.9 1.4 722.3
Net book value at 31 December 2012 299.1 2.9 302.0
Net book value at 31 December 2013 305.4 4.8 310.2
7. Stocks
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
Work in progress 0.3 0.2
Finished goods 1.3 2.3
1.6 2.5
8. Debtors
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
Due within one year
Trade debtors 1.7 1.3
Owed by subsidiaries 2.7 1.7
Other debtors 0.7 0.2
Prepayments and accrued income 0.5 0.3
5.6 3.5
Due after more than one year
Deferred tax asset note 11 1.4 1.9
7.0 5.4
Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
131
9. Trade and other creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
Trade creditors 1.0 0.5
Owed to subsidiaries 1.0 0.3
Accruals and deferred income 5.1 4.0
Share buyback obligation 10.9 5.0
Other taxes and social security costs 0.4 0.3
18.4 10.1
10. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
Owed to subsidiaries 75.0 66.4
Deferred income – 0.3
75.0 66.7
11. Deferred tax
£ million
At 1 January 2013 1.9
Reversed in the year (0.5)
At 31 December 2013 1.4
The deferred tax asset is in relation to short term timing differences of £0.2 million (2012 £0.2 million) and tax losses of £1.2 million (2012 
£1.7 million). The Company has tax losses of £28.8 million (2012 £37.1 million) that are available for offset against suitable future taxable 
profits. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as their future recovery is uncertain. These losses can be 
carried forward indefinitely.
There is a deferred tax asset at 31 December 2013 of £0.4 million (2012 asset of £3.6 million) in relation to the pension plans (note 3).
The Company also has capital losses carried forward of £823.3 million (2012 £822.3 million) for which no deferred tax asset is recognised on the 
balance sheet. These capital losses have no expiry date.
12. Operating lease commitments
At the balance sheet date, the Company had annual commitments which expire as follows:
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
In the second to fifth years 0.2 0.1
13. Derivative financial instruments
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” for parent Company financial statements. 
The disclosures in respect of the Group are included in the consolidated financial statements. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
132
14. Capital and reserves
£ million
Called up 
share capital
Share 
premium 
account
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Profit and 
loss
account Total
At 1 January 2013 21.7 20.2 11.8 188.7 242.4
Share cancellation (1.0) – 1.0 – –
Profit for the year
2
– – – 47.4 47.4
Share-based payment
3
– – – (0.8) (0.8)
Actuarial gain recognised on defined benefit pension plans – – – 10.2 10.2
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension plans – – – (2.7) (2.7)
Share repurchase – – – (34.9) (34.9)
Share buyback obligation – – – (5.9) (5.9)
Equity dividends – – – (14.3) (14.3)
Employee share ownership trust – – – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2013 20.7 20.2 12.8 187.8 241.5
Notes 
1  The Company has taken advantage of the exemption given in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its profit and loss account. 
2  The profit for the year dealt with in the financial statements of the Company was £47.4 million (2012 £49.6 million) which after dividends of £14.3 million (2012 £12.7 million), 
gave a retained profit of £33.1 million (2012 £36.9 million). 
3  Share-based payment has been recorded for subsidiary companies whose incentives are satisfied by the Company’s shares.
Changes during the year in the issued Ordinary Share capital were as follows:
Number of 
Ordinary 
Shares 
million
Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 3
1
/ 3 pence each at 1 January 2013 650.6
Cancelled during the year
1
(29.2)
Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 3
1
/ 3 pence each at 31 December 2013 621.4
Note 
1  During 2013, under the programme of returning capital to shareholders, the Company repurchased 29.2 million (2012 13.4 million) Ordinary Shares on market which were 
subsequently cancelled.
During 2013 and 2012 no Ordinary Shares were transferred from the Spirent Sharesave Trust (“SST”) to satisfy options exercised under the UK all 
employee share schemes and in 2013 1.4 million Ordinary Shares were transferred from the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust (“ESOT”) 
to satisfy options exercised under the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan and 2005 Employee Incentive Plan (2012 5.6 million Ordinary Shares). 
There has been no material increase in the issued Ordinary Share capital, whether by exercise of share incentives or otherwise, between 
31 December 2013 and 27 February 2014, the date on which these financial statements have been signed.
Investment in own Ordinary Shares
At 31 December 2013, the ESOT held 0.9 million Ordinary Shares (2012 2.3 million Ordinary Shares) to satisfy awards under various share 
incentive plans. At 31 December 2013, the SST held 0.5 million Ordinary Shares (2012 0.5 million Ordinary Shares) to satisfy awards made to 
United Kingdom based employees under an all employee share scheme. The market value of own Ordinary Shares held in trust, being in total 
1.4 million Ordinary Shares (2012 2.8 million Ordinary Shares), at 31 December 2013 was £1.5 million (2012 £4.2 million).
Capital redemption reserve
During 2013 the Company cancelled 29.2 million Ordinary Shares (2012 13.4 million Ordinary Shares) that had been the subject of the on market 
share repurchase programme and transferred £1.0 million (2012 £0.5 million) to the capital redemption reserve.
Share repurchase
During 2013 the Company repurchased 29.2 million Ordinary Shares on market at a cost of £34.9 million (2012 13.4 million Ordinary Shares 
at a cost of £19.3 million). All shares repurchased in 2013 and 2012 were subsequently cancelled. 
Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
133
14. Capital and reserves continued
Share buyback obligation
On 23 December 2013 the Company entered into an irrevocable agreement with UBS Limited to purchase Ordinary Shares up to a maximum value 
of £10.9 million at no more than 105 per cent of the average market value of a share for the five business days immediately preceding the day on 
which the share is purchased, with the maximum number of shares acquired on any dealing day not to exceed 250,000 shares, from 2 January 
2014 to 26 February 2014, on their behalf. This agreement entered into in respect of share buybacks during the close period has been recognised 
as a financial liability of £10.9 million.
As at the close of business on 26 February 2014, 9.7 million shares had been repurchased under this buyback programme at an average price 
of 97 pence per share for a total consideration of £9.4 million. The remaining liability expired at close of business on 26 February 2014.
Employee share plans 
The Company operates a number of employee share incentive plans which are described in note 29 of Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements. The following share incentives over Ordinary Shares under these plans have been granted and remain outstanding, held by 
employees of the parent Company.
Movements in share incentives during the year to 31 December 2013 are shown below:
2005 
Employee 
Incentive Plan
Spirent Stock 
Incentive Plan
1995 
Executive 
Share Option 
Scheme
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
pence
Incentives outstanding at 31 December 2011 1.9 16 0.6 50 1.1 116
Granted 0.6 8 – – – –
Exercised (0.3) 4 (0.6) 50 (1.0) 123
Cancelled (0.6) – – – – –
Incentives outstanding at 31 December 2012 1.6 21 – – 0.1 69
Granted 1.1 55 – – – –
Exercised – – – – (0.1) 69
Cancelled (0.9) – – – – –
Incentives outstanding at 31 December 2013 1.8 53 – – – –
Incentives exercisable at 31 December 2012 0.5 50 – – 0.1 69
Incentives exercisable at 31 December 2013 0.5 50 – – – –
The weighted average share price at exercise date was 145.9 pence (2012 154.8 pence).
The following information relates to outstanding share incentives at 31 December 2013:
2013 2012
Share plan
Exercise period  
(as at 31 December)
Range of 
exercise 
prices 
pence
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
 pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
outstanding 
million
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life years
Weighted 
average 
exercise
 price
 pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
outstanding 
million
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life years
2005 Employee Incentive Plan
1
25.08.08–08.05.23 0–53 21.0 1.3 6.6 18 1.6 7.4
23.03.14–08.05.23 129–153 131.0 0.5 9.3 – – –
1995 Executive Share Option 
Scheme 30.06.07–29.06.14 69 – – – 69 0.1 1.5
1.8 1.7
Note
1  Figures for the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan include share options, stock appreciation rights and Performance shares in aggregate. No exercise price is payable on the vesting of 
a Performance share.  SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
134
15. Share-based payment 
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans is as follows: 
2013 
£ million
2012 
£ million
2005 Employee Incentive Plan (0.3) 0.6
All schemes are equity-settled.
The fair value of share incentives has been estimated as at the date of grant using the Hull-White trinomial model.
The following table gives the assumptions made in arriving at the share-based payment charge and the fair value:
2013 2012
Weighted average share price (pence) 129.1 153.1 
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 54.7 7.6 
Weighted average fair value (pence) 65.1 92.6 
Expected volatility (%) 33.0 35.0 
Option life (years)
 Performance shares 3.0 3.0 
 Options and SARs 10.0 10.0 
Suboptimal exercise factor 1.5 1.5 
Risk free rate (%) 1.6 2.4 
Dividend yield (%) 1.3 1.6
 
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous two years which 
management considers to be the period which is likely to be most representative of future volatility. The risk free rate is calculated by reference 
to UK government bonds.
16. Related party transactions 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 “Related Party Disclosures” in relation to disclosing transactions with its 
subsidiaries.
17. Subsidiaries 
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given 
on page 135 of this Annual Report.
18. Capital commitments and contingent liabilities 
There were no capital commitments at 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012.
Spirent Communications plc has provided indemnities of £0.1 million (2012 £0.1 million) for certain ongoing business obligations under letters 
of credit for subsidiary companies.
Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
135
% held at 
31 December 
2013
Canada
Spirent Communications of Ottawa Limited (Nepean, Ontario) 100
France
Spirent Communications SAS (Paris) 100
Hong Kong
Spirent Communications (Asia) Limited 100
India
Spirent Communications (India) Pvt Limited (Bangalore) 100
Japan
Spirent Communications Japan KK (Tokyo) 100
People’s Republic of China
Spirent Communications Technology (Beijing) Limited* 100
Republic of Korea
Spirent Communications Korea Inc 100
Singapore
Spirent Communications Singapore Pte Limited 100
Taiwan
Spirent Communications Taiwan Limited (Taipei) 100
United Kingdom
Spirent Communications (International) Limited (Crawley, West Sussex)* 100
Spirent Communications Positioning (Paignton, Devon)†
United States
Spirent Communications Hawaii, LLC (Honolulu, Hawaii) 100
Spirent Communications Inc 100
Calabasas, California
Sunnyvale, California
Eatontown, New Jersey
Germantown, Maryland
Notes
The above companies operate and are incorporated in the countries listed. All shareholdings in the companies are held indirectly by Spirent Communications plc, except where indicated 
by an asterisk (*) where the shareholding is held directly by Spirent Communications plc. A full list of subsidiary companies will be attached to the Company’s Annual Return, which will be 
filed with Companies House in due course.
†  Spirent Communications Positioning operates as a division of Spirent Communications plc.
Principal divisions and subsidiaries  SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
136
$ million
2013
Restated 
2012
Restated 
2011
Restated
 2010
Restated 
2009
Summary income statement
Continuing operations
Revenue 413.5 472.4 470.5 422.8 369.4
Operating profit 39.1 108.1 112.2 102.6 77.8
Net finance income/(costs) – 0.3 1.4 0.9 (0.1)
Profit before tax 39.1 108.4 113.6 103.5 77.7
Tax (6.4) (29.0) (26.4) (30.9) 8.5
Profit from continuing operations after tax 32.7 79.4 87.2 72.6 86.2
Discontinued operations – 47.1 6.7 6.6 5.7
Profit attributable to owners of the parent Company 32.7 126.5 93.9 79.2 91.9
Summary balance sheet
Intangible assets 198.8 207.4 123.2 112.0 112.4
Property, plant and equipment 39.6 34.1 35.5 29.1 23.6
Working capital (excluding cash and deferred tax) (10.8) 7.3 13.8 10.4 8.3
Operating assets 227.6 248.8 172.5 151.5 144.3
Derivative financial instruments (net) – – – (0.2) 0.8
Net funds including long term cash 216.3 249.0 237.2 225.0 175.7
Provisions and other liabilities (6.5) (5.0) (4.5) (7.6) (11.4)
Deferred tax 18.3 28.4 29.4 31.3 42.5
Defined benefit pension plan (deficit)/surplus (3.3) (25.6) (12.4) 7.1 (0.1)
Net assets 452.4 495.6 422.2 407.1 351.8
Total equity 452.4 495.6 422.2 407.1 351.8
Summary cash flows
Cash flow from operating activities 67.4 105.1 98.7 99.4 96.1
Net interest received 0.8 0.6 0.9 0.8 0.6
Net capital expenditure (24.3) (14.3) (23.5) (17.6) (10.2)
Free cash flow 43.9 91.4 76.1 82.6 86.5
Acquisitions and disposals – (32.1) (14.5) – –
Share capital and share repurchase (54.5) (29.4) (33.0) (15.0) 2.7
Dividends paid (22.2) (20.3) (17.5) (13.7) (12.1)
Transfer from long term deposit 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.6 2.2
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (32.5) 9.9 11.5 54.5 79.3
Financial history SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
137
$ million
2013
Restated 
2012
Restated 
2011
Restated
 2010
Restated 
2009
Other information – continuing operations
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment 22.9 15.9 20.1 17.5 9.8
Depreciation 16.5 14.6 12.7 11.4 12.9
Product development 100.5 86.1 83.3 75.8 70.8
Share information
Earnings per share from continuing operations (cents)
Basic 5.10 12.11 13.07 10.80 12.92
Diluted 5.09 12.07 12.96 10.70 12.86
Adjusted basic
1,2
5.71 13.02 12.81 10.92 10.39
Total dividend per Ordinary Share (cents) 3.54 3.22 2.93 2.50 1.93
Fully paid Ordinary Shares in issue at year end (number million) 621.4 650.6 664.0 674.9 678.1
Segmental analysis – continuing operations
Revenue
Networks & Applications 213.4 259.5 254.6 242.0 198.1
Wireless & Service Experience 167.7 174.5 161.8 123.8 118.7
Service Assurance 32.4 38.4 54.1 57.0 52.6
413.5 472.4 470.5 422.8 369.4
Operating profit
Networks & Applications 13.2 59.7 56.6 58.2 36.6
Wireless & Service Experience 33.8 56.7 58.5 39.7 41.7
Service Assurance 9.0 8.4 7.0 13.0 7.5
Corporate – non-segmental (5.9) (6.5) (6.0) (6.5) (6.0)
Operating profit
1
50.1 118.3 116.1 104.4 79.8
Exceptional items (3.8) (2.9) – – –
Acquisition related costs – (1.2) (1.2) – –
Acquired intangible asset amortisation (8.4) (4.5) (1.6) (1.4) (1.4)
Share-based payment 1.2 (1.6) (1.1) (0.4) (0.6)
39.1 108.1 112.2 102.6 77.8
Geographical information – continuing operations
Revenue by market
United States 215.8 239.2 238.8 230.0 195.9
Asia Pacific, Rest of World 146.9 166.0 159.1 126.3 117.9
Europe 50.8 67.2 72.6 66.5 55.6
413.5 472.4 470.5 422.8 369.4
Notes 
1 Before exceptional items, acquisition related costs, acquired intangible asset amortisation and share-based payment.
2  Before tax effect of items in note 1 and prior year tax.
The five year history has been restated to reflect the effect of IAS19 “Employee Benefits” on all years. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
138
Financial calendar 2014
27 February 2014   Preliminary results and final dividend announcement
5 March 2014   Final dividend – ex-dividend date
7 March 2014   Final dividend – record date
23 April 2014   Annual General Meeting and interim management statement
25 April 2014   Final dividend – payment date (Ordinary shareholders)
2 May 2014   Final dividend – payment date (ADR holders)
30 June 2014   Half-year end
August    Half-year results and interim dividend announcement
August    Interim dividend – ex-dividend date
August    Interim dividend – record date
September   Interim dividend – payment date (Ordinary shareholders)
September   Interim dividend – payment date (ADR holders)
November   Interim management statement
31 December 2014   Financial year end
February/March 2015  2014 Preliminary results and final dividend announcement
Ordinary Shares and American depositary receipts
The Company’s Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange (ticker: SPT). The Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary 
Receipt (“ADR”) programme with each ADR representing four Ordinary Shares. The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter market (symbol: 
SPMYY; CUSIP: 84856M209). The Bank of New York Mellon is the authorised depositary bank for the Company’s ADR programme. The ADRs are 
quoted on the OTC Pink electronic quotation service which can be found at www.otcmarkets.com/otc-pink/home.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting (“2014 AGM”) will be held at 10.30am on 23 April 2014 at the offices of UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, 
London EC2M 2PP.
Dividends
Shareholders are able to choose how they receive their dividends:
• direct to their bank account;
• reinvested in Ordinary Shares through the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan (see below);
• paid by cheque; or
• paid in foreign currencies.
The quickest and most efficient way to receive your dividends is to have them paid direct to your bank account. It saves waiting for funds to clear 
and reduces the paper and postage we use. To change how you receive your dividends please contact the Company’s registrar, Equiniti, on 
0871 384 2268 or log on to www.shareview.co.uk.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”) delivered by Equiniti Financial Services Limited. The DRIP allows eligible shareholders 
to use their cash dividend to buy additional shares in the Company, so increasing their shareholding. If you would like additional information, 
please contact the Company’s registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2268 or log on to www.shareview.co.uk. 
Electronic communications
All of the Company’s communications with shareholders are conducted in line with our environmental approach. We hold the majority of our 
events via webcast and conference calls and we encourage all of our investors to receive communications electronically. Shareholders who do not 
currently receive Company mailings electronically but wish to do so should notify the Company’s registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2126 or via 
www.shareview.co.uk.
Company’s registrar 
Enquiries concerning shareholdings, change of address or other particulars should be directed in the first instance to the Company’s registrar, 
Equiniti, on 0871 384 2126. Equiniti also provide a range of online shareholder information services at www.shareview.co.uk, where 
shareholders can check their holdings and find practical help on transferring shares or updating their details.
Shareholder information SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
139
Share dealing services
Equiniti Shareview Dealing is a service that provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling the Company’s Ordinary Shares. For 
telephone services call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday and for internet services visit www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. 
A postal share dealing service for buying and selling Ordinary Shares is also available and a dealing form can be obtained by calling 0871 384 2248 
or at www.shareview.co.uk.
Individual savings accounts
Information about investing in the Company’s Ordinary Shares through an Individual Savings Account (“ISA”) may be obtained from Equiniti on 
0845 300 0430 or at www.shareview.co.uk. ISAs are also offered by other organisations.
Shareholder security
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports about the Company. 
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in the Company’s mailings or on our website. More detailed 
information can be found at www.fsa.gov.uk/consumerinformation.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available, subject to a “proper purpose” test, should a request be received. As a 
consequence, some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail. To limit the amount of unsolicited mail received, please contact: The Mailing 
Preference Service (MPS), DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS or register online at www.mpsonline.org.uk. The Mailing Preference 
Service is an independent organisation which offers a free service to the public within the UK. Registering with them will help stop most 
unsolicited consumer advertising material.
Company’s website
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Financial information published on the website is 
based on legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements that may be different from comparable 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Shareholder analysis
At 27 February 2014, the number of registered shareholders was 3,557 and the number of Ordinary Shares in issue was 611.9 million.
Number of Ordinary Shares held
Number of 
shareholders
% of total 
shareholders
Number of 
Ordinary Shares
% of share 
capital
1–5,000 2,539 71.38 3,578,441 0.59
5,001–10,000 365 10.26 2,720,729 0.45
10,001–50,000 379 10.66 8,202,761 1.34
50,001–100,000 58 1.63 4,051,420 0.66
100,001–250,000 63 1.77 9,804,957 1.60
250,001–500,000 38 1.07 13,585,189 2.22
500,001–1,000,000 47 1.32 33,861,599 5.53
1,000,001–highest 68 1.91 536,089,534 87.61
Total 3,557 100.00 611,894,630 100.00
Number of 
shareholders
% of total 
shareholders
Number of 
Ordinary Shares
% of share 
capital
Individuals 2,803 78.80 13,536,330 2.21
Institutions 754 21.20 598,358,300 97.79
Total 3,557 100.00 611,894,630 100.00 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
140
2G (Second Generation) Second generation remains the most common type of wireless cellular communication in use 
globally. Although its primary focus has been voice service and short message service (“SMS”), 
it has also been enhanced to allow low rate data communication. 
3G (Third Generation) Third generation of mobile communications that delivers data rates of hundreds of kilobits per 
second to tens of megabits per second.
3GPP (Third Generation Partnership Project) A collaboration between groups of telecommunications associations from around the world, the 
scope of which is primarily to establish globally applicable third generation and beyond mobile 
phone system specifications.
4G (Fourth Generation) Fourth generation of mobile communications that delivers data rates of tens to hundreds of 
megabits per second. Future 4G technologies promise data rates in excess of one gigabit  
per second.
Application A software programme designed to perform a specific function for the end user which uses the 
services of the computer’s operating system and other supporting programmes. Applications 
include database programmes, spreadsheets, web browsers, graphics programmes and word 
processors.
Attacks Attempts to damage, disrupt, or gain unauthorised access to a computer, computer system, or 
electronic communications network.
BeiDou (formerly Compass) China’s second generation global satellite navigation system, which is under construction but 
eventually planned to consist of 35 satellites. Service was launched in China during 2011, with 
plans to provide service globally by 2020.
Cloud A variety of computing concepts that involve a large number of computers connected through a 
real-time communication network such as the internet. Often used in reference to network-based 
services served up by virtual hardware, simulated by software running on one or more physical 
machines.
Code Division Multiple Access (“CDMA”) A digital cellular technology standard which allows numerous signals to occupy a single 
transmission channel, thus increasing network capacity; used in 2G and 3G radio 
communications.
Core Router A router designed to operate in the internet backbone, able to support multiple 
telecommunications interfaces of the highest speed in use in the core internet, and to forward  
IP packets at full speed on all of them. It must also support the routing protocols being used in 
the core.
Cyber Security (aka IT Security) The body of technologies, processes and practices designed to protect networks, computers, 
programmes and data from attack, damage or unauthorised access. In an IT context, the term 
security implies cyber security.
Data Center A centralised location where computing resources critical to an organisation are maintained in a 
highly controlled environment.
Ethernet A family of networking technologies originally developed for local area networks, which migrated 
to metro area networks and eventually became the dominant standard in wireline networks 
worldwide.
Gigabit Ethernet (“G”) A transmission technology based on the Ethernet frame format and protocol used in local area 
networks that provides a data rate of 1 billion bits per second (one gigabit) and which is used as 
the backbone in many enterprise networks.
Global Navigation Satellite Systems (“GNSS”) The standard generic term for satellite navigation systems that provide autonomous geo-spatial 
positioning with global coverage. GNSS allows users’ receivers to determine their location to 
within a few metres by employing a triangulation technique that uses information from multiple 
satellites.
Global Positioning System (“GPS”) A global navigation satellite system operated by the United States government for determining a 
user’s location and height at any point on the earth’s surface. A receiver uses minute differences 
in measured time signals from clocks on satellites to calculate these positions and altitudes.
Glossary SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
141
GLONASS (The Russian Global Navigation 
Satellite System)
A global navigation satellite system operated by the Russian Federation. Deployment began in 
1976 and, although the system fell into disrepair in the 1990s, full global service was restored  
in 2011.
High Definition Voice (“HD Voice”) A technology, based on standards from the International Telecommunication Union (“ITU”), that 
delivers high definition voice quality compared to standard digital telephony.
Infrastructure Test Optimization (“ITO”) The practices required to ensure that infrastructures meet a defined quality of service and quality 
of experience that are necessary to meet strategic business objectives.
Internet Protocol (“IP”) The primary network protocol used on the internet and on other network devices to facilitate and 
control the flow of data.
Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem  
(“IMS”)
A standardised next-generation architecture for telecoms operators who want to provide mobile 
and fixed multimedia services.
Intrusion Detection/Prevention A technology that gathers and analyses information across gateways, servers and desktops  
to identify possible security breaches that can occur from within or outside an organisation.
Load Balancer A piece of hardware (or virtual hardware) for distributing network and/or application traffic 
across multiple computing resources, with the aim of optimizing resource use, maximising 
throughout and improving overall reliability of applications.
Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) An advanced wireless data communications technology standard (sometimes called “4G”) which 
is an evolution of 3G UMTS standards. In addition to a new wireless interface specification, LTE 
uses a simplified flat IP-based network architecture.
LTE-Advanced An evolution of LTE technology, specified in 3GPP Release 10 and later specifications, regarded 
by some as the first true 4G technology.
Machine-to-Machine (“M2M”) A technology that enables automated wireless (or wired) communication between mechanical  
or electronic devices.
Mobile Packet Core An integrated IP-based mobile transport network with the ability to support 2G, 3G and LTE 
coexistence.
Network Functions Virtualization (“NFV”) An initiative to provide a new network production environment which lowers cost, raises 
efficiency and increases agility by hosting network functions previously carried out by 
proprietary, dedicated hardware on virtual machines running on industry-standard commodity 
hardware.
OpenFlow An open standard network protocol from the Open Network Foundation (“ONF”). OpenFlow 
enables software-defined networking for programmable networks. 
Open Networking Foundation (“ONF”) A non-profit, mutually beneficial trade organisation to improve networking through software-
defined networking (“SDN”) and standardising the OpenFlow protocol and related technologies.
Optical Transport Network (“OTN”) An efficient and globally-accepted approach, standardised by the ITU, to multiplexing 
communication services onto optical light paths, which can provide significant cost benefits  
to carriers.
Small Cells A generic term for microcells, picocells and femtocells. Small cells provide network coverage in 
dead zones within a macrocell (the coverage area of a traditional cellular base station) and extra 
network capacity by offloading mobile data traffic from macrocells.
Software-Defined Networking (“SDN”) An approach to networking in which control is decoupled from hardware and given to a software 
application called a controller.
Switch A computer networking device used to connect many devices together on a computer network. 
Switches manage the flow of data across a network by only transmitting a received message to 
the device for which the message was intended.
Testing-as-a-Service (“TaaS”) An outsourcing model in which testing activities associated with some of an organisation’s 
business activities are performed by a test service provider rather than employees. Services 
suited to a TaaS model include automated regression testing, performance testing, security 
testing, and monitoring/testing of cloud-based applications. SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
142
Time Division LTE (“TD-LTE”) LTE standards accommodate cellular network and subscriber transmissions in different 
frequency bands (Frequency Division Duplex), as well as in the same frequency band (Time 
Division Duplex, often referred to as “TD-LTE”). TD-LTE is expected to be widely deployed in 
major Asian markets such as China, India and Japan, as well as parts of the United States  
and Europe.
Time Division Multiplexing (“TDM”) A digital transmission method that combines signals from multiple sources on a common path 
increasing capacity.
Triple Play Voice, video and data transmitted over a single transport medium.
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System 
(“UMTS”)
The most common 3G wireless technology globally, which uses WCDMA on its underlying air 
interface and offers support for data transfer rates from hundreds of kilobits per second to tens 
of megabits per second.
Virtualization Technologies designed to provide a layer of abstraction from the physical characteristics of 
computing resources to simplify the way in which other systems, applications, or end users 
interact with those resources.
Voice over LTE (“VoLTE”) A standards-based scheme adopted by the GSMA, the cellular industry’s association, to provide 
voice service over data-only LTE networks. VoLTE’s use of an IP Media Subsystem enables voice 
to be offered as part of a rich communications solution, integrated with services such as 
messaging, live video sharing and file transfer.
Wideband CDMA (“WCDMA”) An ITU standard derived from CDMA which is used globally in 3G mobile communications.
Wi-Fi A mechanism that enables devices such as personal computers, video game consoles, 
smartphones or digital audio players to exchange data wirelessly over a computer network and 
connect to network resources, such as the internet. Coverage ranges from a few rooms to several 
square miles, depending on the number of access points used.
Wireless Backhaul The portion of a mobile network that provides connectivity between cellular base stations and 
the core network over wireline, fibre or radio links.
Wireline Communication services provided over a physical connection, which may be copper or fibre.
Glossary continued SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
143
Notes SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
144
Notes Registered office
Spirent Communications plc
Northwood Park
Gatwick Road
Crawley
West Sussex RH10 9XN
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1293 767676
Fax: +44 (0)1293 767677
Email: investor.relations@spirent.com
Website: http://corporate.spirent.com
Registered in England No: 470893
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
1 More London Place
London SE1 2AF
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7951 2000
Website: www.ey.com
Registrar
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
Tel: 0871 384 2126 (UK)
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7047 (overseas)
Text phone (for shareholders with hearing difficulties):
0871 384 2255 (UK) +44 (0)121 415 7028 (overseas)
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
ADR Depositary
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
PO Box 30170
College Station
TX 77842-3170
USA
Tel: +1 888 269 2377 (toll free – US)
Tel: +1 (201) 680 6825 (outside US)
Email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com
Website: www.mybnymdr.com
Brokers (Joint)
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Vintners Place
68 Upper Thames Street
London EC4V 3BJ
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7029 8000
Website: www.jefferies.com
UBS Limited
1 Finsbury Avenue
London EC2M 2PP
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7567 8000
Website: www.ubs.com
Financial PR Advisers
FTI Consulting Limited
200 Aldersgate 
Aldersgate Street 
London EC1A 4HD
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 3727 1000
Website: www.fticonsulting.com
Contact details Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2013
Spirent Communications plc
Northwood Park
Gatwick Road
Crawley
West Sussex RH10 9XN
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1293 767676
Fax: +44 (0)1293 767677
Email: investor.relations@spirent.com
Website: http://corporate.spirent.com
Registered in England No: 470893
Spirent and the Spirent logo are trademarks or registered 
trademarks of Spirent Communications plc. All other trademarks 
or registered trademarks mentioned herein are held by their 
respective companies. All rights reserved.
