 inspiring 
innovation
enriching 
life
Spirent Communications plc
Annual Report 2010 interactive pdf Welcome to the Spirent Annual 
Report 2010 
This interactive pdf allows you to 
access the information that you 
want, allowing you easily to print, 
search for a specific item or go 
directly to a page, section  
or website.  Search the entire  
document by 
keyword
Print a single page or 
whole sections
Return to the  
contents
Next Page
Previous Page
Key
overview
Our results 2
Spirent at a glance 4
Chairman’s statement 6
business review
Chief Executive Officer’s review 8
Our key performance indicators 14
Our principal risks and uncertainties 16
 Business group development 
and performance 18
Financial review 26
Corporate social responsibility statement 30
Use the document controls 
located at the top of each page 
to navigate through this report. 
Use the contents to jump 
straight to the section you 
require.
Links
Throughout this report there are links to pages, other sections and web addresses  
for additional information. 
Examples: This is an example of how the links appear within this document. They  
are recognisable by the green underline simply click to go to the relevant page or  
web URL www.spirent.com Spirent plays a significant role in shaping the way the 
world communicates. We inspire innovation across 
our customer base by testing tomorrow’s networks 
and technologies today, including cloud computing, 
global positioning and high speed wireless data 
such as LTE. We thereby enhance the products, 
services and applications that drive the ever-evolving 
communications industry. As a leader in test and 
measurement, we truly enrich the lives of people 
around the world by enabling them to communicate 
faster and more effectively – anytime, anywhere. overview
Our results 2
Spirent at a glance 4
Chairman’s statement 6
business review
Chief Executive Officer’s review 8
Our key performance indicators 14
Our principal risks and uncertainties 16
 Business group development 
and performance 18
Financial review 26
Corporate social responsibility statement 30
governance
Board of directors 34 
Report of the directors 36 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 40 
Directors’ statement on 
corporate governance 41
Report on directors’ remuneration 45
financial statements
Consolidated financial statements 
 Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Spirent Communications plc 53
Consolidated income statement 54
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 55
Consolidated balance sheet 56
Consolidated cash flow statement 57
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 58
Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements 59
Parent Company financial statements
 Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Spirent Communications plc 103
Parent Company balance sheet 104
 Notes to the parent Company 
financial statements 105
Principal divisions and subsidiaries 121
other information
Financial history 122
Shareholder information 124
Glossary 126
Contact details IBC
1 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 2008 2009 2010
477.1 427.2 482.2
2008 2009 2010
8.96 8.86 11.62
2008 2009 2010
90.1 86.8 112.7
2008 2009 2010
1.85 1.93 2.50
2 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
Our results
“ This is an exciting time within the telecom and data 
communication industries with increasing investment in 
both proven and emerging technologies driving demand for 
our leading test solutions. 2010 was an excellent year for 
Spirent – one in which we delivered a strong performance 
through the execution of our strategy. Our broad test solution 
portfolio coupled with our global reach gives us the ability to 
pursue further profitable growth in 201 1 and beyond.”
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements which are made in good faith and are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future 
events. You can sometimes, but not always, identify these statements by the use of a date in the future or such words as “will”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “expect”, “project”, “intend”, 
“plan”, “should”, “may”, “assume” and other similar words. By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently predictive and speculative and involve risk and uncertainty 
because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are not a 
guarantee of future performance and are subject to factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. The Company 
undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Group revenue
Adjusted basic earnings per share
3
Group operating profit
Dividend per share
1
($ million)
(cents)
($ million)
(cents)
+13%
+31 %
+30%
+30% 3 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
$ million 2010
2009
(restated)
4
Change (%)
Reported
Revenue 482.2 427.2 13
Operating profit 112.7 86.8 30
Profit before tax 112.2 84.9 32
Basic earnings per share (cents) 11.77 13.67 (14)
Total dividend per share
1
 (cents) 2.50 1.93 30
Free cash flow
2
82.6 86.5 (5)
Adjusted
Adjusted basic earnings per share
3
 (cents) 11.62 8.86 31
Financial highlights
Order intake growth of 17%, resulting in a book to bill ratio of 105. –
Operating profit up 30% to $112.7 million on revenue up 13% to $482.2 million. –
Return on sales increased to 23% from 20%. –
Adjusted basic earnings per share up 31% to 11.62 cents after eliminating the impact of the  –
change in the effective tax rate. Basic earnings per share down 14% to 11.77 cents.
Final dividend increased by 40% to 1.40 cents per share (equivalent to 0.86 pence per share). –
Strong cash generation resulted in cash and cash equivalents of $223.9 million compared to  –
$173.9 million in the previous year.
Acquisition of The Fanfare Group, Inc. for $15.0 million completed on 16 February 2011. –
Operational highlights
During 2010 demand for Spirent’s solutions increased as our customers invested in: –
data center technologies to enable cloud computing and virtualization; –
growth of Ethernet across telecom and datacom network infrastructures; –
expansion in mobile internet driving exponential growth in data traffic; –
new investment in global positioning technologies to modernise GPS and to upgrade other  –
satellite navigation systems.
Spirent introduced new test solutions to address increasing customer demand: –
higher speed Ethernet data test solutions on Spirent TestCenter™  to validate network  –
performance, availability, security and scalability of cloud computing using Spirent  
test methodology;
wireless test solutions for the rollout of LTE networks and for higher 3G wireless network speeds; –
new positioning test capabilities to serve the rapid expansion of satellite navigation and  –
location based services.
Notes
1    Dividends are determined in US dollars and paid in sterling at the exchange rate prevailing when the dividend is proposed. The final dividend proposed for 2010 of 1.40 cents per 
Ordinary Share is equivalent to 0.86 pence per Ordinary Share.
2  Operating cash flow after tax, net interest and net capital expenditure.
3  Adjusted basic earnings per share is based on an effective tax rate of 30.4%, being the rate applicable for 2010. See note 11 of Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
4 Restated due to the change in the Group’s reporting currency. 4 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
spirent at a glance
Spirent is a global leader in 
communications test and 
measurement listed on the 
London Stock Exchange. 
The Group is organised into three business 
segments: Performance Analysis, Service 
Assurance and Systems. Performance Analysis 
provides solutions that test current and next-
generation communications technologies in 
the lab. Service Assurance provides network 
monitoring and field test solutions for live 
networks. Systems is a leading supplier of 
sophisticated electronic control systems for 
electrically powered vehicles in the medical 
mobility and industrial markets.
performance analysis
Spirent puts innovation to the test. With a concentration on Ethernet, 
data center (including cloud computing and virtualization), mobility 
and satellite positioning, as well as the applications that enrich these 
networks, Spirent’s Performance Analysis division facilitates device 
and network testing, from the research and development stage to the 
launch of communications networks and services. We push the limits 
of these networks, their elements, mobile and satellite positioning 
devices and applications by allowing equipment makers and service 
providers to subject their offerings to lab-based functional, 
conformance and performance testing that simulates real-world 
conditions, before a commercial launch.
divisional review
Revenue
$365.8M (2009 $316.8M)
divisional focus
ethernet, data center, cloud computing,
virtualization and applications
Wireless devices and network infrastructure
satellite navigation and positioning technologies
highlights 2010
Financial
Revenue up 15% driven by  –
expansion in worldwide data 
connectivity
Profit up 25% due to high  –
operating leverage on 
revenue growth
Customer wins
Huawei for HSPA+ –
Nokia Siemens Networks for  –
evolved packet core
NTT Communications for   –
100Gb Ethernet
Verizon Wireless for LTE –
New product introductions
High performance 10G and  –
40/100G Hypermetrics 
modules
Avalanche Virtual (“Best of  –
Interop”) award
8100 LTE device test  –
solutions
Wi-Fi positioning test   –
solution 5 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
service assurance
Spirent’s service assurance solutions allow service providers to 
diagnose, troubleshoot and determine how to resolve issues with 
networks and systems within the live network. Building on the 
expertise gained through testing technologies and systems in the 
lab, Spirent enables service providers to deploy and maintain 
efficient, cost effective and high performing networks, helping to 
reduce subscriber churn by providing better quality of experience. 
Spirent’s solutions also allow service providers to reduce operational 
costs through better identification of potential network problems, 
from the core of the network to inside the subscriber’s home, and use 
of the most appropriate resources to address those issues. 
divisional review
Revenue
$57.0M (2009 $52.6M)
divisional focus
Ethernet business services
Wireless backhaul
Triple play services
highlights 2010
systems
Systems comprises PG Drives Technology, a leading supplier of 
sophisticated electronic control systems for electrically powered 
vehicles in the medical mobility and industrial markets. These include 
vehicles such as powered wheelchairs and mobility scooters as well 
as industrial vehicles such as floor cleaning vehicles, fork-lift trucks, 
aerial access platforms and golf carts.
divisional review
Revenue
$59.4M (2009 $5 7.8M)
divisional focus
Motorised wheelchair and mobility scooters
Commercial and industrial electric vehicles
Low speed electric vehicles
highlights 2010
Financial
Demand driven by need for  –
increased data capacity 
across the industry
Profit up 73% reflects  –
revenue growth and 
beneficial product mix
Customer wins
North American MSOs for  –
in-home field testing
North American wireless  –
providers for wireless 
backhaul
MSOs in Europe for IP video  –
monitoring and triple play 
testing
Ziggo (Europe) for carrier  –
Ethernet performance 
monitoring 
New product introductions
Spirent TestCenter Live  –
enhancements: business 
services, wireless backhaul, 
IP video
Tech-X Flex: DOCSIS 3.0 and  –
1GHz cable TV testing
Financial
Grew revenue in newly   –
served commercial and 
industrial markets
Profit improvement of 11%  –
due to exchange rate losses 
in 2009 not repeated net of a 
one-off charge in 2010
Customer wins
New commercial applications –
New product introductions
C3 AC pallet truck controller –
New VSI wheelchair controller – 6 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
chair Man’s state Ment
“ The financial performance of the Group reflects 
the improvement in operations achieved through 
the pursuit of excellence in all aspects of the 
business coupled with growth in the markets for 
Spirent’s leading test solutions.”
Alex Walker
Chairman 7 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Spirent delivered a strong performance in 2010: 
reporting growth of 13 per cent in revenue to 
$482.2 million and growth of 30 per cent in 
operating profit to $112.7 million. 
The Company is consistently achieving a return on sales of over 20 
per cent, with the return in 2010 being 23 per cent. The order book 
increased in the year, with a book to bill ratio of 105. Earnings per 
share was distorted compared to the prior year by the recognition  
of deferred tax assets in 2009. Eliminating this effect by taking a 
constant tax rate for both years shows that adjusted basic earnings 
per share increased by 31 per cent in 2010 to 11.62 cents, after 
charging 0.27 cents in respect of share-based payment and acquired 
intangible asset amortisation.
The financial performance of the Group reflects the improvement in 
operations achieved through the pursuit of excellence in all aspects 
of the business coupled with growth in the markets for Spirent’s 
leading test solutions. 
This trend of improvement seen in the past several years is now 
combined with revenue growth driven by the innovation of our 
employees in developing world-class test solutions to serve the 
needs of a rapidly evolving communications industry. We plan  
to expand the Group’s capabilities through additional investment  
for organic growth by the expansion of product development 
engineering and extension to our sales activities. In addition,  
we are pursuing growth through acquisition, when and where  
we can see that the return on investment is attractive. As the first 
step in this process we completed the acquisition of The Fanfare 
Group, Inc. in February 2011.
The Group’s free cash generation was $82.6 million in 2010, 
representing a cash conversion to earnings ratio of 104. Cash 
balances were $223.9 million at 31 December 2010. Given the strong 
overall performance of the Group, the Board recommends a final 
dividend of 1.40 cents per share compared with 1.00 cents per share 
in 2009. The Company intends to maintain its policy to repurchase 
shares in order to counteract any dilutive effect from the exercise of 
share-based incentives.
Ed Bramson stood down as Chairman on 4 March 2010, and both  
he and Gerard Eastman retired as non-executive directors on 5 May 
2010. We thank them for their outstanding achievements during  
their tenure. 
The strong performance in 2010 was achieved through the hard work 
and commitment of our employees and management teams 
throughout the world. I wish to thank all of them for their contribution 
to making 2010 such a success for Spirent. 
We are mindful of global macro-economic factors that are likely to 
create challenges in the coming year. However, Spirent’s diversified 
customer base, market leading product offerings and promising 
market opportunities mean that we are well placed to deliver further 
growth through 2011. 8 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
c hief e xecutive Officer’s revie W 
“ The fundamental drivers for growth in our 
industry are strong, as consumers and 
businesses demand anytime, anywhere, 
always-on access to data, applications  
and services.”
Bill Burns
Chief Executive Officer 9 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
This is an exciting time within the telecom and 
data communication industries with increasing 
investment in both proven and emerging 
technologies driving demand for our leading 
test solutions. 2010 was an excellent year for 
Spirent – one in which we delivered a strong 
performance through the execution of our 
strategy. Our broad test solution portfolio 
coupled with our global reach gives us the 
ability to pursue further profitable growth in 
2011 and beyond.
Markets and strategy
The fundamental drivers for growth in our industry are strong, as 
consumers and businesses demand anytime, anywhere, always-on 
access to data, applications and services. As a result, service 
provider and enterprise IT spending has returned, either to seek new 
revenue streams or to resolve challenges associated with network 
capacity and performance. Spirent’s expertise is in delivering test 
solutions that capitalise on data center transformation, cloud 
computing, the concept of Ethernet everywhere, the proliferation  
of new wireless devices and infrastructure, and applications that 
enrich our lives. 
Executing on our strategy delivered profitable growth for Spirent and 
a strong overall financial performance in 2010 which enabled us to 
increase sales by 13 per cent and adjusted basic earnings per share 
by 31 per cent year-on-year. Spirent delivers best in class financial 
performance compared to its peers. Our pace of innovation leads the 
test and measurement market. The key elements of our strategy are 
to focus on growing and emerging technology markets, to invest in 
our people and to utilise innovation to deliver the “right solutions”  
to the global market at the “right time”. These strategic goals have 
been furthered through the hard work, dedication and enthusiasm of 
our people. It is key to Spirent’s success and future that we continue 
to develop our employees, reward them and recognise their  
critical contribution. 
Spirent’s solutions span all major technologies and serve all major 
customer segments across the telecommunication industry. We have 
prioritised engineering development spending on areas that matter 
most to customers such as the evolution of wireless technologies to 
4G/LTE, high speed Ethernet, next-generation data centers, wireless 
infrastructure and application performance. Our worldwide sales  
and service organisation has industry leading capability, serving  
over 1,300 customers globally across all segments including network 
equipment manufacturers, mobile device manufacturers, service 
providers, enterprise and governments as we enable the 
development of technology from inception to deployment in  
live networks.
Outlook
The outlook is promising with our customers making new 
investments to bring next-generation technologies to market, as a 
result we are confident that the market for test and measurement will 
show further growth in 2011 and future years. Ethernet, wireless 
device and positioning test markets all show positive signs for growth 
in 2011. We continue to invest in new test solutions and in enhancing 
our current capabilities in the areas that matter most to our customers 
as they look to improve time to market of their industry leading 
products and services. We enter the year with the industry’s broadest 
and, we believe, most innovative test solution portfolio. Additional 
investment in product development to drive innovation coupled with 
a relentless focus on executing our strategy will enable Spirent to 
continue to prosper. 10 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
chief e xecutive Officer’s revie W CONTINUED
The growth of communications networks continues to be driven by 
the demand for anytime, anywhere connectivity. At Spirent we make 
use of our deep understanding of communications trends and 
technologies, together with our close customer relationships, to 
identify growing and emerging market opportunities. Attracting and 
retaining the best and brightest people in the industry enables 
Spirent to develop the most innovative and complete test and 
measurement solutions to address these opportunities. 
We maintain a high rate of investment in our solutions portfolio,  
enabling us to bring solutions to market at the point in technology 
and market cycles when our customers most need them. Our 
solutions are used to develop and deploy the best devices, networks 
and applications, helping enrich people’s lives, whether they’re 
consumers, employed by a business enterprise or work for a 
government entity. As a trusted partner to over 1,300 global 
customers, Spirent’s global reach allows us to assist these 
organisations, wherever they are located, to transition from legacy  
to emerging and next-generation technologies. Spirent remains 
dedicated to retaining its position at the forefront of the ever-evolving 
communications industry, understanding that market leadership 
plays an important part in sustaining profitable growth.
Our strategy
Our vision is to be the global 
leader in growing and emerging 
test and measurement markets.
strategy description 2010 achievements
✓
Focus on growing and 
emerging markets
Spirent closely monitors the ever-changing trends across the 
communications landscape, strategically reallocating resources  
to address growing and emerging markets.
We once again focused on telecommunications growth markets, 
including LTE networks and devices, cloud computing, global 
positioning and high speed Ethernet.
✓
Invest in our people
Spirent is its employees. Attracting and retaining highly qualified and 
skilled employees is central to enabling us to deliver on our strategy 
and to the success of our business. Appropriate career paths and 
internal recognition programmes are developed for both technical 
and non-technical staff. 
The profitable growth that we achieved in 2010 enabled us to find 
ways to recognise and reward our employees for their hard work and 
for the success of Spirent. We continued to work hard to nurture an 
environment in which the innovation and collaboration critical to 
Spirent’s success can thrive.
✓
Innovation
Remaining at the leading edge of technology is critical to our 
continued success. We apply our creativity to the development of 
tools and methodologies to meet our customers’ complex needs for 
testing and assuring communications and IT equipment, networks 
and applications.
Building on our earlier Spirent TestCenter Virtual innovation, we 
released our Avalanche Virtual solution for testing the performance, 
availability, security and scalability of virtualized network appliances 
and cloud based applications. We also introduced innovative 
solutions for testing LTE mobile devices and Wi-Fi positioning.
✓
 
Evolve our  
solutions portfolio
We invest in development across our product and service portfolio  
at a level that enables us to bring the most advanced test solutions  
to market.
During 2010, we released over 50 new products and additions of new 
functionality in key technology areas including cloud computing, 
high speed Ethernet and LTE.
✓
“Right Solution”
at the “Right Time”
We enable our customers to bring new products and technologies  
to market in the shortest amount of time by making available the 
solutions they need, when they need them.
Staying close to our customers enabled us to bring to market high 
performance 40/100G test modules, at the appropriate time to meet 
the demands of the earliest 40G Ethernet technology developers.
✓
Global reach
We have built world-class sales and service organisations  
that enable Spirent to develop and maintain strong customer 
relationships around the globe.
We continued to expand our sales and service capabilities in  
growth markets, especially in Asia Pacific. We also grew our  
product development capacity in China. 11 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
strategy description 2010 achievements
Focus on growing and 
emerging markets
Spirent closely monitors the ever-changing trends across the 
communications landscape, strategically reallocating resources  
to address growing and emerging markets.
We once again focused on telecommunications growth markets, 
including LTE networks and devices, cloud computing, global 
positioning and high speed Ethernet.
Invest in our people
Spirent is its employees. Attracting and retaining highly qualified and 
skilled employees is central to enabling us to deliver on our strategy 
and to the success of our business. Appropriate career paths and 
internal recognition programmes are developed for both technical 
and non-technical staff. 
The profitable growth that we achieved in 2010 enabled us to find 
ways to recognise and reward our employees for their hard work and 
for the success of Spirent. We continued to work hard to nurture an 
environment in which the innovation and collaboration critical to 
Spirent’s success can thrive.
Innovation
Remaining at the leading edge of technology is critical to our 
continued success. We apply our creativity to the development of 
tools and methodologies to meet our customers’ complex needs for 
testing and assuring communications and IT equipment, networks 
and applications.
Building on our earlier Spirent TestCenter Virtual innovation, we 
released our Avalanche Virtual solution for testing the performance, 
availability, security and scalability of virtualized network appliances 
and cloud based applications. We also introduced innovative 
solutions for testing LTE mobile devices and Wi-Fi positioning.
 
Evolve our  
solutions portfolio
We invest in development across our product and service portfolio  
at a level that enables us to bring the most advanced test solutions  
to market.
During 2010, we released over 50 new products and additions of new 
functionality in key technology areas including cloud computing, 
high speed Ethernet and LTE.
“Right Solution”
at the “Right Time”
We enable our customers to bring new products and technologies  
to market in the shortest amount of time by making available the 
solutions they need, when they need them.
Staying close to our customers enabled us to bring to market high 
performance 40/100G test modules, at the appropriate time to meet 
the demands of the earliest 40G Ethernet technology developers.
Global reach
We have built world-class sales and service organisations  
that enable Spirent to develop and maintain strong customer 
relationships around the globe.
We continued to expand our sales and service capabilities in  
growth markets, especially in Asia Pacific. We also grew our  
product development capacity in China. Wireless User Emulation
Residential
Enterprise
Mobile Core
Unified Core
Cloud Applications
Content Delivery
Internet
2G
3G
4G
Copper 
Fiber 
Cable
Copper 
Fiber 
Cable
IP/MPLS Ethernet
www
12 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
chief e xecutive Officer’s revie W CONTINUED
What we test
example:
Application Experience
Spirent provides hardware and software tools and test 
methodologies that enable testing of the performance of 
network equipment, devices and applications during the 
development phase. We apply the expertise gained through 
this testing to our service assurance solutions, which allow 
service providers to diagnose, troubleshoot and determine  
how to resolve issues within live networks. 
Ethernet has become the de facto standard for service providers, as well as the enterprise, 
across all aspects of the network, from access to the edge to the core, due to its cost 
effectiveness, scale and ability to support a wide range of applications. Spirent’s leadership 
in Ethernet testing allows us to benefit significantly from the sustained growth in Ethernet 
use across all communication and IT markets. We test network equipment which utilises 
Ethernet at ever-increasing scale, including switches, routers, evolved packet core network 
elements, firewalls, load balancers and intrusion detection/intrusion prevention.
For service provider networks (see diagram) we test all service layers of the network, 
including those that require high data capacity and those that deliver application scale or 
security. Spirent TestCenter is a single, converged performance test platform to test 
application experience and backhaul networks, as well as mobility, interoperability and 
40/100G Ethernet in core networks. We also test the service quality, security and 
application performance of content delivery networks, cloud applications and the internet.
For the enterprise, Spirent is well positioned to benefit from the move of applications  
into public/private clouds and from the growth from Enterprise NEMs who are building 
next-generation cloud infrastructure and cloud service devices. The rapid convergence of 
data center technologies such as storage over Ethernet, high speed Ethernet and virtual 
servers running multiple applications in the cloud, is pushing the boundaries of testing. 
Spirent has released virtualized variants of its solutions to provide unsurpassed visibility 
into the entire data center infrastructure. These take advantage of Spirent’s innovative  
PASS methodology to test the performance, availability, security and scalability of cloud 
computing networks.
New testing needs for wireless devices are driven by smartphone growth and the  
associated exponential growth in mobile data, which leads service providers to look to  
new technologies such as LTE and to the cost and efficiency advantages of all-IP networks. 
Spirent is a leader in functional, conformance and performance testing of 3G and 4G/LTE 
devices, including smartphones and data cards. Spirent also has a long track record as the 
leader in testing the performance of location technology that supports location based 
services on smartphones, including over-the-air testing.
Spirent is the worldwide leader in testing GNSS receiving devices. While GPS remains the 
most widely used system, others such as GLONASS, Galileo and COMPASS are gaining 
ground, with other positioning techniques such as use of Wi-Fi access points also growing  
in popularity. Spirent is able to test the performance of all of these technologies, as they 
become embedded in an ever-broader range of applications, from smartphones and 
vehicles to aerospace and government. Wireless User Emulation
Residential
Enterprise
Mobile Core
Unified Core
Cloud Applications
Content Delivery
Internet
2G
3G
4G
Copper 
Fiber 
Cable
Copper 
Fiber 
Cable
IP/MPLS Ethernet
www
Wireless User Emulation
Residential
Enterprise
Mobile Core
Unified Core
Cloud Applications
Content Delivery
Internet
2G
3G
4G
Copper 
Fiber 
Cable
Copper 
Fiber 
Cable
IP/MPLS Ethernet
www
Wireless User Emulation
Residential
Enterprise
Mobile Core
Unified Core
Cloud Applications
Content Delivery
Internet
2G
3G
4G
Copper 
Fiber 
Cable
Copper 
Fiber 
Cable
IP/MPLS Ethernet
www
13 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
service provider networks 
Mobility and Interoperability
High speed Ethernet
Backhaul Service quality, security and 
application performance 98
105
2010
102
105
2008
97
2006 2007 2009 2010
477.1 474.0 479.0 427.2 482.2
2008 2007 2006 2009 2010
64.6
62.4
60.6
2009
66.3 66.6
2008 2007 2006 2010
94.2 57.8 26.1 88.8 114.5
2008 2007 2006 2009 2010
14 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
Our Key perf OrMance indicat Ors
Spirent has identified the following key performance 
indicators (“KPIs”) that it believes are useful in assessing 
how the Group is performing against its strategic aims. 
kpi description
Ratio of orders booked to revenue billed 
which is a measure of the visibility of our 
future revenues at current levels of activity. 
The Group aims to maintain a book to bill 
ratio of 100 or higher.
Growth in revenue is a measure of how we 
are growing our business. Our goal is to 
achieve year-on-year growth. In addition 
our focus has been on increasing our 
market share and growing our new product 
revenues which are some of the key 
components of our strategy.
Gross profit as a percentage of revenue is a 
measure of our profitability. We seek to 
maximise our gross margin through 
operational excellence in all aspects of our 
business.
Operating profit before share-based 
payment and acquired intangible asset 
amortisation is the measure used to 
evaluate the overall performance of the 
Group as well as each of our operating 
segments. Our goal is to achieve year-on-
year growth.
commentary
The ratio is 105 for 2010 up from 102 for 
2009 and this reflects the improving 
demand levels experienced by the Group.
Revenue for the Group increased by 13 per 
cent. In 2010, there has been recovery in the 
markets we serve together with increasing 
demand for our test solutions driven by the 
expansion in worldwide data connectivity and 
the shift within enterprises to virtualization 
and cloud computing. Our strategy of focusing 
on growing and emerging technology markets 
is delivering growth.
Gross profit margin was slightly higher at 
66.6 per cent up from 66.3 per cent in 2009. 
There has been an improving trend over a 
number of years achieved through design for 
lower cost of manufacture and outsourcing 
activities. However, improvements were 
partially offset in 2010 by large contract 
discounting and product mix, including an 
increased proportion of revenue from third 
party products which carry a lower margin.
Operating profit increased by 29 per cent 
largely as a result of higher sales. We 
managed costs carefully throughout the 
year but we made further investment in 
product development in the fourth quarter 
in order to generate new solutions to meet 
future customer requirements.
Book to bill ratio
Revenue
Gross profit margin
Operating profit before share-based 
payment and acquired intangible asset 
amortisation
($ million)
(%)
($ million) 19.7
12.2
5.4
20.8
23.7
2008 2007 2006 2009 2010
8.96 5.21 2.00 8.86 11.62
2008 2007 2006 2009 2010
78.1 99.9 (12.0) 86.5 82.6
2008 2007 2006
1
2009 2010
1 Before one-time pension contribution.
15 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
kpi description
Operating profit before share-based 
payment and acquired intangible asset 
amortisation as a percentage of revenue is 
a measure of our overall profitability. We 
strive to achieve best in class operating 
returns for our industry.
Earnings per share (“EPS”) is the amount of 
earnings attributable to each share in issue. 
Adjusted EPS excludes exceptional items 
and prior year tax which enables period-on-
period comparisons to be made of our 
performance. We aim to achieve growth in 
adjusted EPS year-on-year. We are using a 
constant effective tax rate of 30.4 per cent, 
being the rate applicable for 2010, to 
evaluate EPS. The effective tax rate in 2009 
was much lower at 14.8 per cent. 
Free cash flow is operating cash flow  
after tax, net interest and net capital 
expenditure. We focus on cash generation 
as a measure of the quality of our earnings 
and our aim is to achieve a high conversion 
of earnings into cash each year.
commentary
Return on sales has improved from  
20.8 per cent in 2009 to 23.7 per cent in 
2010 driven by the high operating leverage 
in our business. Spirent’s operating returns 
are among the best in our industry.
Adjusted EPS at a constant effective tax rate 
was 11.62 cents for 2010, an improvement of 
31 per cent on the prior year. 
Free cash flow was strong at $82.6 million 
for 2010, which represents 104 per cent of 
reported earnings. In 2009 the conversion 
ratio was 124 per cent after adjusting for the 
non-cash deferred tax credit. The absolute 
reduction in free cash flow was due to a 
number of factors: more normal levels of tax 
payment, an increase in working capital due 
to higher trading activity and an increase in 
capital expenditure.
Return on sales before share-based 
payment and acquired intangible asset 
amortisation 
Adjusted basic earnings per share at a 
constant tax rate 
Free cash flow 
(cents)
($ million)
Our strategy focuses on medium to long term growth and 
therefore its achievement cannot just be measured by looking at 
our performance in 2010 compared to the prior year, trends over 
a number of years must also be considered. 
(%) 16 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
Our principal ris Ks and uncertainties
We conduct regular risk reviews to identify the major 
risks in the business which may affect our operating and 
financial performance and where possible put in place 
mechanisms to mitigate them.
The principal risks and uncertainties which the directors believe are currently faced by Spirent Communications plc are discussed below.
risk and potential impact
Macro-economic and industry sector
In common with most businesses Spirent is exposed to the current 
world economic conditions due to a number of factors largely outside 
of our control. We are particularly exposed to conditions in the 
telecommunications sector into which we sell many of our products 
and services and which has experienced significant downturns in  
the past. 
Technological change 
Spirent sells complex solutions in industries that are characterised 
by rapid technological changes and keeping at the forefront of these 
technologies is critical to our success and to ensure that we remain 
competitive in our markets. 
We must therefore ensure that our R&D is invested in the right areas 
enabling us to develop solutions that our customers need and that 
we do not fail to address opportunities in a timely manner. Bringing 
new solutions to market at the right time for our customers is also key 
to our success. 
Reliance on contract manufacturers
We use contract manufacturers for the manufacture of a substantial 
amount of our products. Disruption or financial problems of contract 
manufacturers or limitations in the manufacturing capacity at 
contract manufacturers could either limit supply or increase  
our costs.
mitigation actions
Having the ability to adapt to changing market dynamics is  
key in order to minimise the effects of adverse economic or  
sector conditions. 
Our businesses closely monitor both market and geographic  
trends so that we are in a position to take timely actions to  
protect profitability where possible.
We continue to make significant investment in product development 
and in 2010 $80.2 million, representing 17 per cent of revenue, was 
invested. 
A Portfolio Planning Team is in place, responsible for reviewing and 
making investment decisions across Spirent’s portfolio of investment 
opportunities. We work closely with customers and remain focused 
on their requirements and believe we are investing in areas that 
represent their future. 
We work closely with our contract manufacturers and maintain  
a regular on-site presence at our major contract manufacturer. To 
minimise the effect on supply that could be caused by disruption at 
contract manufacturers there are contingency plans in place to 
transfer manufacturing to other locations. 17 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Significant risks are reviewed by the Board and the Audit 
Committee. It is not possible to identify every risk that 
could affect the business, and the actions described 
below to mitigate those risks cannot provide absolute 
assurance that the risk will not occur and/ or adversely 
affect the operating or financial performance of the Group. 
These processes are more fully described in the Directors’ 
statement on corporate governance. 
risk and potential impact
Business continuity risks 
Operational risks are present in the Group’s businesses. These  
risks include the risk of failed internal and external processes and 
systems, human error and external events, such as a natural disaster. 
For example a significant portion of our communications operations 
are located in California which has in the past experienced natural 
disasters, including earthquakes and wildfires.
Retention and recruitment of key staff 
Spirent is its employees. So attracting and retaining highly qualified 
and skilled employees is essential in enabling us to deliver on our 
strategy and to the success of our business. 
Intellectual property
Spirent’s success is dependent in part on proprietary technology 
which may be infringed by others inadvertently or otherwise. 
Protecting our proprietary technology is important in enabling  
us to compete successfully in our industry.
Companies in the telecommunications industry often aggressively 
protect and pursue their intellectual property rights and may assert 
infringement claims against Spirent. Such claims can result in 
significant defence costs, and may affect Spirent’s ability to market 
its products.
mitigation actions
An important component of Spirent’s corporate governance is its 
integrated risk management strategy and its regular self-assessment 
of risks encompassing all business units. Part of this process is to 
ensure that the risks of disruption to the business are identified, 
monitored and controlled wherever possible as well as arranging 
appropriate insurance cover.
We aim to find, keep and engage the highest calibre of employees  
and encourage their contribution and development. An environment 
that fosters innovation and collaboration is critical to Spirent’s success. 
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes are 
developed for both technical and non-technical staff.
We have active intellectual property protection programmes in place 
to obtain appropriate intellectual property protection in a cost 
effective manner. 
There are procedures in the development of new products that 
include consideration of intellectual property rights of third parties. 
We also consult internal and external legal counsel experienced in 
intellectual property matters. 1
2
3
1
2
3
18 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
business gr Oup devel OpMent and perf OrMance
Description of our business
The Spirent Group is organised into three business segments: 
Performance Analysis, Service Assurance and Systems. 
Performance Analysis provides solutions that test current and 
next-generation communications technologies in the lab. Service 
Assurance provides network monitoring and field test solutions for live 
networks. Systems is a leading supplier of sophisticated electronic 
control systems for electrically powered vehicles.
Spirent Communications provides solutions to enable the world to 
communicate faster, better, and more reliably. We develop innovative 
test solutions for the engineers working within the communications 
industry that allow them to evaluate the performance of the latest 
technologies, infrastructure and applications to be deployed worldwide. 
We also provide tools for service technicians and field test engineers to 
improve network quality and make troubleshooting of live networks 
efficient and effective.
Network equipment manufacturers and service providers face 
numerous challenges associated with bringing products and services 
from the lab to the commercial marketplace. Spirent’s Performance 
Analysis division allows network equipment and mobile device 
manufacturers, service providers, enterprises and government entities 
to holistically test and benchmark the performance of their networks, 
network elements, mobile devices and services, thereby accelerating 
time to revenue.
Spirent provides the ability to conduct functional, conformance, 
performance, interoperability, scalability and quality of experience 
testing under real-world conditions inside and outside the lab. This 
capability, across the entire product lifecycle, from concept to 
commercial availability, helps to shorten the product development 
cycle, improve the quality of new services, while reducing associated 
cost and risk.
Spirent delivers solutions which address high speed Ethernet, data 
center, cloud computing, virtualization, IMS, IPTV, location based 
services, multi-GNSS satellite technologies, 3G and 4G/LTE wireless  
and other emerging technologies.
Spirent’s service assurance solutions allow service providers to 
diagnose, troubleshoot and determine how to resolve issues with 
networks and systems within the live network all the way to the home. 
By leveraging the expertise gained by testing technologies and systems 
in the lab, Spirent enables service providers to deploy and maintain 
efficient, cost effective and high performing networks. As a result, 
network operators enjoy reduced churn by providing a higher quality  
of experience which ultimately increases subscriber retention. Our 
solutions also allow service providers to reduce operational costs 
through better identification of potential network problems and the use 
of the appropriate resources to address and correct those challenges.
Systems is a leading supplier of sophisticated electronic control systems 
for electrically powered vehicles in the medical mobility and industrial 
markets. These include vehicles such as powered wheelchairs and 
mobility scooters as well as industrial vehicles such as floor cleaning 
equipment, fork-lift trucks, aerial access platforms and golf carts.
Revenue by division
Operating profit by division
Group revenue
Group operating profit
$482.2M
(2009 $4 2 7.2M)
$114.5M
(2009 $88.8M)
2010 2009
1 Performance Analysis 365.8 316.8
2 Service Assurance 57.0 52.6
3 Systems 59.4 57.8
2010 2009
1 Performance Analysis 97.9 78.3
2 Service Assurance 13.0 7.5
3 Systems 8.8 7.9
Corporate costs (5.2) (4.9)
overview
Before share-based payment and 
acquired intangible asset 
amortisation.    19 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Our global presence
We are a trusted test partner for more than 1,300 
global customers. 
Americas
Revenue
Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific
(2009 $232.2M) (2009 $71.8M) (2009 $123.2M)
$265.2M $80.6M $136.4M
Spirent has global reach which results from  
its global sales and service organisations’ 
industry leading capabilities. We serve over 
1,300 customers globally across all segments, 
including network equipment manufacturers, 
mobile device manufacturers, service providers, 
enterprise and governments as we enable the 
development of communications and IT 
technologies from their inception to their 
deployment in live networks. 353.7 316.8 365.8
2008 2009 2010
83.1 78.3 97.9
2008 2009 2010
23.5
24.7
26.8
2008 2009 2010
23.5
24.7
26.8
2008 2009 2010
20 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
business gr Oup devel OpMent and perf OrMance CONTINUED
Performance Analysis
Market conditions
The Performance Analysis division experienced significant growth in 
2010, with revenue up 15 per cent over 2009 as customers increased 
their investment in next-generation data centers that make use of cloud 
computing and virtualization. We also saw investment growth in 
current and next-generation wireline and wireless networks and mobile 
devices, as well as in global navigation satellite systems (“GNSS”).
For the Networks & Applications business (previously referred to as 
Broadband), anytime, anywhere, any device connectivity is driving 
rapid changes in service provider and enterprise networks. Converged 
IP/Ethernet solutions have become the default for service providers as 
well as the enterprise, due to their cost effectiveness, scale and ability 
to support a wide range of applications. As a leader in Ethernet testing, 
Spirent is benefiting significantly from this industry trend. 
In service provider networks, the explosion in data demand by mobile 
subscribers is driving higher speed interfaces, from 1G to 10G, all the 
way to 100G Ethernet, to provide support for bandwidth-hungry 
applications such as video. Cost effectiveness is driving IP/Ethernet 
across all aspects of the network, from access to the edge to the core, 
but with this comes the need to ensure the quality of user experience. 
The growth of Ethernet in wireless radio access networks also brings 
with it new testing needs. While industry standards have evolved to 
enable the synchronisation required to backhaul wireless traffic over 
Ethernet, this has added a layer of complexity which requires 
additional testing. 
Enterprises are building next-generation data centers and moving 
more applications to the cloud to take advantage of reductions in cost, 
complexity and management overhead. This allows businesses to 
focus on their core competencies instead of building a large IT 
organisation. Powerful new technologies such as virtualization and 
Local Area Network/Storage Area Network integration are powering 
the new data center, but they bring with them significant challenges 
including security, performance and availability. The speed of 
information requires data center infrastructure to be upgraded to 10G 
Ethernet switches and 40G Ethernet links in order to handle the 
increases in data traffic moving across the data center. Network 
equipment manufacturers are responding to these requirements by 
building a new generation of terabit switches and routers that can 
support these technologies at unprecedented scale and this is forcing 
a new wave of investment in test and measurement solutions. 
($ million)
($ million)
(%)
Divisional revenue
Divisional operating profit
Return on sales
divisional highlights
+15%
+25%
Revenue up 15% driven by expansion in  –
worldwide data connectivity
In wireless 2010 was a year of exceptional  –
expansion in mobile internet
Solid recovery in positioning test –
Profit up 25% due to high operating  –
leverage on revenue growth 21 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Both service provider and enterprise networks share the common 
goal of minimising costs while providing the same or better quality of 
experience for the user. Achieving this requires fundamental changes 
in the way networks are built and services are delivered. Validation of 
network performance, availability, security and scalability (“PASS”) 
is critical, which has led Spirent to develop its unique PASS testing 
methodology. This cloud computing test methodology provides the 
test framework and approach to ensure that new products or network 
upgrades deliver the intended benefits and behave as expected, 
even under the most demanding scenarios. 
Spirent enables its customers to address the many challenges of 
testing both new products and services with Spirent TestCenter, our 
best in class solution that is specifically designed to work through the 
various stages of conformance, functional and performance testing. 
Spirent TestCenter enables validation of applications through realistic 
emulation and has the ability to scale at industry leading levels. 
When combined with Spirent’s depth of expertise, Spirent TestCenter 
enables our customers to accelerate time to market of converged 
network equipment and applications.
For the wireless communication industry, 2010 was a year of 
exceptional expansion in mobile internet, resulting in exponential 
mobile data growth. This is necessitating major network capacity 
upgrades globally and accelerating the trend towards all-IP networks. 
Smartphones continued to grow market share, with their users 
downloading ever more applications, accessing the internet and 
using location based services. To meet this demand, investments are 
being made to increase CDMA and UMTS network speeds and the 
first LTE networks are now being deployed. 
As a result we continue to see strong demand for our UMTS and LTE 
wireless communication test solutions, as well as for our physical 
layer solutions which are used to test wireless receivers in 3G and  
LTE base stations and devices. Although CDMA wireless technology 
showed some expected decline as investment shifted to UMTS and 
LTE, this was somewhat offset by investments by new CDMA device 
vendors who are entering into markets such as the US and China, 
where major networks continue to use CDMA technology. As a  
leader in testing wireless devices and infrastructure, Spirent 
continues to apply its innovations to meet the ever-evolving needs  
of wireless customers. 
The market for test equipment in the positioning sector experienced  
a solid recovery through 2010. Investment in GPS test returned to 
pre-downturn levels, with growth also evident in GLONASS, Galileo 
and multi-GNSS test. Opportunities for 2011 include GPS 
modernisation and upgrades to the Russian GLONASS system. The 
European Galileo system is also gaining momentum and is expected 
to be fully operational in 2015. The use of “smart” technology in 
government applications continues to increase, enabling position 
awareness everywhere, all the time, under all conditions. In the 
commercial markets rapid growth continues, demanding low cost, 
high availability consumer based products and applications.
Revenue
Revenue in the Performance Analysis division grew 15 per cent, from 
$316.8 million to $365.8 million. Much of this growth came from the 
Networks & Applications business and our Spirent TestCenter 
solution, as well as our Avalanche solution for testing application 
security and application performance. Throughout 2010 there were 
many key wins around data center, virtualization and cloud 
computing and the new network elements that support them. 
Another important area of growth was in mobile backhaul and core 
network testing. Spirent’s Landslide solution, used for testing mobile 
packet core networks, experienced another strong year. 
Our 3G/UMTS test solutions saw solid growth during the year. Global 
positioning has become a “must have” capability in smartphones 
and Spirent once again experienced strong growth in its market 
leading location based test solutions for UMTS and LTE devices. Our 
physical layer solutions used to test wireless receivers had a record 
year, driven by the need for realistic testing of the complex new 
multi-antenna transmission schemes used in LTE infrastructure and 
devices. We experienced success for our LTE solutions within the 
Verizon Wireless’ ecosystem of top-tier device suppliers. Early in 
2010 Verizon, a major US carrier, announced that it had selected 
Spirent as a supplier for its mobile LTE device testing. We also saw  
LTE sales success with other leading carriers planning LTE network 
deployments, as well as within R&D groups of major device 
manufacturers and technology providers. 
For the Positioning business, our high end (multi-constellation) 
satellite simulators experienced strong sales growth. One particularly 
notable win, into the second and final phase of the European Space 
Agency’s Galileo programme, ensures Spirent’s recognition as the  22 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
business gr Oup devel OpMent and perf OrMance CONTINUED
reference supplier of GNSS test equipment to that programme. Sales 
of mid-range GNSS simulators to the commercial market were also up 
compared to 2009, with demand primarily being driven by the need 
to test combined GPS and GLONASS.
During 2010, we also strengthened our Services organisation 
through integration of our global team, enhancing our capacity to 
deliver support and professional services for our solutions in all  
of our key markets.
Profitability
Operating profit reported by Performance Analysis increased by  
25 per cent to $97 .9 million. This was due to a large extent to the 
growth in revenue. Gross profit margin reduced by one percentage 
point compared to full year 2009 as a result of large contract 
discounting and the product mix of sales, including an increased 
proportion of revenue from third party products. Gross margins are 
well within the normal range for the business. Overheads increased 
at a much lower rate than revenue growth, rising by 8 per cent over 
the prior year. This operating leverage expanded return on sales to 
26.8 per cent for 2010 compared to 24.7 per cent for 2009. 
Product development
Our Networks & Applications business released several innovative, 
market leading solutions in 2010. For Spirent TestCenter, new 
capabilities included a high density HyperMetrics 40/100G Ethernet 
module, combining 100G and two 40G Ethernet test ports to enable 
the highest performance and scale for routing emulation and 
application traffic. We also released the industry’s highest 
performing 10G Ethernet module for service provider multi-play 
testing and a HyperMetrics Fibre Channel module for end-to-end 
converged data center testing. 
For LTE evolved packet core testing, we introduced a new Landslide 
appliance, a high performance solution to ensure next-generation 
wireless mobility performance. A new high performance version of 
the Avalanche appliance was also released, offering multi 10G 
Ethernet capacity and focusing on high performance true end-to-end 
applications and security testing. Another major Spirent innovation 
released in 2010 was Avalanche Virtual, the industry’s first  
“all-in-one” cloud testing solution designed to test and measure the 
PASS of virtualised network infrastructures and of applications 
deployed in the cloud. Spirent won a prestigious “2010 Best of 
Interop” award for this innovative solution.
Wireless test solutions delivered in 2010 addressed our customers’  
3G and 4G/LTE testing needs. Spirent brought to market a family of  
test solutions that validate the performance of LTE devices and their 
ability to move between LTE and legacy wireless networks. We also 
introduced powerful, flexible network emulation and radio frequency 
(“RF”) test solutions for LTE device development. We grew our UMTS 
business with the introduction of more Development Library test 
solutions, which provide developers with a highly configurable bench 
top UMTS wireless network to test their devices and applications. 
The release of additional capabilities to test the performance of 
smartphones when utilising location based services maintained 
Spirent’s leadership in this rapidly expanding area. Commercial 
availability of a new Spirent test solution to enable the capture of 
real-world wireless conditions in the field and to replay them in the  
lab made it possible for device and base station developers, as well  
as carriers, to reduce their need for costly and time consuming  
drive testing. 
In the Positioning business, there was a focus on growing our tailored 
solutions, which develop or customise high end systems for 
individual customer requirements. During 2010, we also launched a 
new test solution that enables lab-based testing of hybrid Wi-Fi and 
satellite positioning technologies for mobile devices.  62.0 52.6 57.0
2008 2009 2010
8.9 7.5 13.0
2008 2009 2010
14.4 14.3
22.8
2008 2009 2010
(%)
Return on sales
23 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Divisional revenue
Divisional operating profit
divisional highlights
+8%
+73%
Demand driven by need for increased data  –
capacity across the industry
Key wins for our STC Live Ethernet solution –
Increased activity around triple play and  –
in-home field testing
Profit up 73% reflects revenue growth and  –
beneficial product mix
Service Assurance
Market conditions
2010 saw market conditions begin to improve in both the service 
assurance and field test markets as the need grew for service 
providers to address increased bandwidth demands for business, 
residential triple play and mobility services. Increased investment by 
service providers was driven by competition, increased complexity in 
the access network, IP/Ethernet enablement and a focus on 
improving the efficiency of their field forces. These factors helped 
drive additional wins for our Spirent TestCenter Live (“STC Live”) 
Ethernet solution at major wireline and wireless service providers in 
North America, as well as at a large European multiple system cable 
operator (“MSO”). In addition, we continue to see increased activity 
around triple play services and in-home field testing, as evidenced by 
five of the top eight US cable MSOs ramping up their purchases for 
our Tech-X Flex hand-held products.
Growth in capital spending from service providers worldwide is 
expected to continue, as improving economic conditions drive further 
demand for Ethernet services and higher bandwidth residential 
service offerings. Service provider investments are expected in 
business Ethernet offerings, IP video, 3G and LTE services. This 
growth will in turn drive investment in Ethernet service assurance 
solutions for wireless backhaul and triple play services by the 
operations, administration and maintenance organisations within the 
service providers. In the field test market, the transition from ADSL to 
VDSL2 based services and the growing sophistication of in-home IP 
networks over coax and wireless will drive new field test tool 
investment decisions by service providers.
Revenue
Service Assurance revenues increased by 8 per cent in 2010 to 
$57 .0 million compared to $52.6 million in 2009 as service providers 
began to increase their capital spend. The year was highlighted by 
strong demand for test solutions for business services and to support 
the growing bandwidth needs in the wireless backhaul. There were 
key wins for our STC Live Ethernet solution at major wireline and 
wireless service providers in North America, as well as at a large 
European cable MSO. In addition, we continue to see increased 
activity in field test for triple play services and in-home testing. 
($ million)
($ million) 24 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
business gr Oup devel OpMent and perf OrMance CONTINUED
Profitability
With the increase in revenue in 2010 and continued tight 
management control of expenses, the Service Assurance business 
improved profitability by 73 per cent year-on-year to $13.0 million 
from $7 .5 million in 2009 reflecting the benefit of product mix 
including a major software contract. During this same period, return 
on sales increased from 14.3 per cent in 2009 to 22.8 per cent in 2010. 
Product development
The focus remains on development of service assurance and field test 
solutions for next-generation networks. In 2010, this included 
enhancing our STC Live Ethernet test and performance monitoring 
offerings for business services and wireless backhaul, as well as 
adding IPTV support to our line of 1G and 10G Ethernet probes. In 
field test, we continued to add capabilities to our innovative Tech-X 
Flex platform including the release of an important new 1GHz RF and 
DOCSIS 3.0 testing module for the cable MSO market. 61.4 57.8 59.4
2008 2009 2010
8.0 7.9 8.8
2008 2009 2010
13.0
13.7
14.8
2008 2009 2010
13.0
13.7
14.8
2008 2009 2010
(%)
Return on sales
25 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Systems
Divisional revenue
Divisional operating profit
divisional highlights
+3%
+11 %
Grew revenue in newly served commercial  –
and industrial markets
Market recovery for industrial products –
 Medical mobility market broadly flat –
 Profit improvement of 11% due to exchange  –
rate losses in 2009 not repeated net of a 
one-off charge in 2010
Market conditions
During the year the market for our existing industrial products saw 
some recovery but more importantly we grew sales in newly served 
commercial and industrial markets. 
Sales within the medical mobility market were broadly flat and under 
price pressure from changes in US Medicare funding. The pressure on 
margins that these changes create is being countered by product cost 
reduction and improvements in supply chain management.
Revenue and profitability
Revenue grew 3 per cent from $57 .8 million to $59.4 million. Sales 
growth in 2010 has predominantly come from our industrial products 
which includes a mixture of improving commercial and industrial 
sales, coupled with growth in new markets. The profit improvement 
of 11 per cent over 2009 reflects the exchange rate hedging loss of 
$2.3 million last year, which did not repeat, partially offset by a 
non-recurring charge in 2010 of $1.1 million.
Product development
During the year we launched our new C3 AC pallet truck controller. 
This addresses a new market area for us and provides an opportunity 
for future growth. We also launched the new VSI wheelchair 
controller, an innovative, low cost controller designed to replace one 
of our older product lines.
Corporate costs
Corporate costs are those expenses which cannot be attributed to the 
Group’s operating segments and comprise the costs of the Board and 
other corporate activities. The costs were maintained at a similar level 
to 2009 at $5.2 million (2009 $4.9 million). 
($ million)
($ million) 26 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
financial revie W
“ In 2010 there has been recovery in the markets we 
serve together with increasing demand for our test 
solutions driven by the expansion in worldwide 
data connectivity and the shift within enterprises 
to virtualization and cloud computing. Our strategy 
of focusing on growing and emerging technology 
markets is delivering growth.”
Eric Hutchinson
Chief Financial Officer 27 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
The following table shows the key performance indicators monitored by the Board to measure performance:
First half 
2010
Second half 
2010
Full year 
2010 2009
Change 
(%)
Book to bill ratio
1
104 107 105 102
Revenue ($ million) 227.2 255.0 482.2 427.2 13
Gross profit margin (%) 65.5 67.6 66.6 66.3
Operating profit
2
 ($ million) 49.9 64.6 114.5 88.8 29
Return on sales
2
 (%) 22.0 25.3 23.7 20.8
Adjusted basic earnings per share
3
 (cents) 4.92 6.70 11.62 8.86 31
Free cash flow
4
 ($ million) 33.4 49.2 82.6 86.5 (5)
Notes
1 Ratio of orders booked to revenue billed.
2 Before share-based payment and acquired intangible asset amortisation.
3  Adjusted basic earnings per share is based on adjusted earnings as set out in note 11 of Notes to the consolidated financial statements and is at a constant tax rate of 30.4%.
4 Operating cash flow after tax, net interest and net capital expenditure.
Change to reporting currency
In May 2010 Spirent announced a change to the Group’s reporting 
currency during 2010 from sterling to US dollars. The decision to 
change the Group’s reporting currency was made in order to give a 
clearer understanding of Spirent’s performance, more closely 
reflecting the profile of the Group’s revenue and operating profit 
which are primarily generated in US dollars or US dollar-linked 
currencies.
Since the change has been applied retrospectively all comparative 
numbers in the consolidated financial statements have been restated 
into US dollars.
Revenue
Revenue was up 13 per cent compared with 2009 with all operating 
segments achieving revenue growth. In 2010 there has been recovery 
in the markets we serve together with increasing demand for our test 
solutions driven by the expansion in worldwide data connectivity and 
the shift within enterprises to virtualization and cloud computing. Our 
strategy of focusing on growing and emerging technology markets is 
delivering growth.
In 2010 the geographic profile of revenue did not change significantly. 
The US, which grew 17 per cent in 2010 over 2009, remained our 
major market and represented 52 per cent of revenue. There was 
progress in Asia and Europe, up 12 per cent and 15 per cent, 
respectively, compared with the prior year.
$ million 2010 % 2009 %
Europe 79.5 16 69.2 16
United States 248.5 52 212.4 50
Asia Pacific, Rest of Americas, Africa 154.2 32 145.6 34
482.2 100 427.2 100
The book to bill ratio, which is a measure of the visibility of our future 
revenues, grew to 105 for the year compared with 102 for 2009. Order 
intake for the Group grew by 17 per cent over that for 2009. The rate of 
growth in order intake was lower in the second half of 2010 at 12 per 
cent, as the Group had seen recovery in the fourth quarter of 2009. 
Operating profit
Operating profit was $112.7 million compared with $86.8 million in 
2009 , an increase of 30 per cent. Operating profit before share-based 
payment and acquired intangible asset amortisation, which is the 
measure of profit used by the Group to evaluate performance, increased 
by 29 per cent to $114.5 million compared with $88.8 million in 2009. 
Return on sales increased to 23.7 per cent in 2010 from 20.8 per cent in 
2009, largely as a result of the benefit of operational gearing on higher 
sales. Costs were managed carefully throughout the year but further 
investment was made in product development in the fourth quarter in 
order to generate new solutions to meet future customer requirements. 
Spirent’s returns continue to be among the best in our industry. 
Currency impact
Following the change to the Group’s reporting currency to US dollars 
the effect of fluctuating exchange rates is minimal as the Group’s 
revenue and profits are denominated predominantly in US dollars or 
US dollar-linked currencies.
Cost of sales and operating expenses
Gross margin was slightly higher than the prior year at 66.6 per cent 
(2009 66.3 per cent). There has been an improving trend in gross 
margin over a number of years achieved through design for lower cost 
of manufacture and outsourcing activities. However, improvements 
were partially offset in 2010 by large contract discounting and 
product mix, including an increased proportion of revenue from third 
party products which carry a lower margin. 28 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
financial revie W
The development of new innovative test solutions is critical to the 
success of our business hence product development forms a substantial 
proportion of our overall operating expenses. We work closely with our 
customers, focusing on their requirements for test solutions and invest 
in key areas that represent their future success. Product development 
expense in 2010 increased from $7 4.6 million in 2009 to $80.2 million, 
but was down as a percentage of sales to 16.6 per cent from 17 .5 per 
cent in 2009. The majority of this spend, $65.9 million (2009 $60.7 
million), was incurred in our Performance Analysis segment. 
Other operating expenses were higher at $128.2 million in 2010 
compared with $122.0 million in 2009, but as a percentage of sales 
this was also lower at 26.6 per cent compared with 28.6 per cent in 
2009. The absolute increase is principally a result of the increase in 
variable sales and marketing expense required to achieve higher 
revenue. In addition, an expense for foreign exchange hedging losses 
of $5.0 million in 2009 was not repeated. 
Share-based payment of $0.4 million (2009 $0.6 million) 
and acquired intangible asset amortisation of $1.4 million  
(2009 $1.4 million) are included in other operating expenses.  
It is anticipated that the share-based payment charge will rise  
to $1.2 million in 2011.
Finance income and costs
Strong cash generation has increased funds available for investment. 
Funds are held in short term bank deposits in the UK and US and earn 
market rates of interest. Interest rates remained low and some of our cash 
deposits were switched from sterling to US dollars, which attract a lower 
interest rate, as a consequence of the change in reporting currency and a 
reassessment of business requirements. Overall finance income was up 
slightly at $0.8 million for 2010 compared with $0.6 million for 2009. 
Finance costs were $1.3 million (2009 $2.5 million). These included 
$1.2 million in respect of the defined benefit pension plans (2009 $1.7 
million), being the expected return on pension plan assets less the 
interest charge on the unwinding of the liabilities over time. It is 
expected that the charge for the pension plans will be approximately 
the same for 201 1. The remainder of the interest charge relates to the 
discounting of leasehold provisions of $0.1 million (2009 $0.3 million). 
In 2009 finance costs also included bank fees of $0.5 million.
Profit before tax 
Profit before tax was $112.2 million compared with $84.9 million for 
2009, an increase of 32 per cent. 
Tax
The Group has in recent years reported a low effective tax rate due to the 
use of tax losses brought forward. In 2009 the Group recognised the 
benefit of these losses in accordance with accounting standards and 
having recognised these losses the future tax rate was expected to rise.
For 2010 the tax charge for the Group was $33.1 million, representing 
a current year effective tax rate of 30.4 per cent, an increase as 
expected from 14.8 per cent for 2009. The tax rate has not increased 
in 2010 as much as anticipated at the time of the half-year 
announcement as we benefited in the second half-year from the 
renewal of the Research & Experimental tax credits in the US.  
The net tax credit of $6.3 million in 2009 includes the benefit of   
$21.7 million for a change in estimate in respect of the recovery of 
deferred tax assets. 
At 31 December 2010 deferred tax assets amounting to $31.3 million 
have been recognised on the balance sheet (31 December 2009 $42.5 
million). At 31 December 2010 there are deferred tax assets amounting 
to a tax value of $27 .5 million which remain unrecognised in respect of 
unutilised non-trading loan relationship losses ($25.6 million) and 
temporary differences ($1.9 million) (31 December 2009 $30.8 million). 
For 201 1 it is expected that the effective tax rate will be in the region of 
31.5 per cent.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share for the Group was 1 1.77 cents for 2010 
compared with 13.67 cents for 2009, with 2009 benefiting from the tax 
effects described above, a low effective tax rate and a deferred tax 
credit of $21.7 million to recognise deferred tax assets. 
In order to provide a measure to enable period-on-period comparisons 
to be made of its performance, and considering the large increase in 
the effective tax rate in 2010, the Group is reporting adjusted basic 
earnings per share calculated at a constant tax rate of 30.4 per cent.
Adjusted basic earnings per share at a constant tax rate, before prior 
year tax, and also excluding the benefit of the deferred tax credit of 
$21.7 million in 2009 referred to above, was 1 1.62 cents compared with 
8.86 cents for 2009. This is an improvement of 31 per cent year-on-year. 
Weighted average Ordinary Share capital was 672.2 million shares 
compared with 667 .0 million for 2009. At the year end the shares in 
issue ranking for dividend were 670.5 million.
Financial risk management
The key objective of the Group’s treasury department is to manage 
the financial risks of the business and to ensure that sufficient 
liquidity is available to the Group. All treasury activity operates within 
a formal control framework. The Board has approved treasury 
policies and guidelines and periodically reviews treasury activities. 
Additionally, it is the Group’s policy that speculative treasury 
transactions are expressly forbidden.
Spirent’s financial risk management objectives and policies and its 
exposure to risks are discussed in note 25 of Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements. 29 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Financing and cash flow
Cash and cash equivalents increased to $223.9 million at 31 December 
2010 compared with $173.9 million at 31 December 2009. The Group 
continues to be debt free. The majority of the cash is held in bank 
deposits in the UK and US and 37 per cent of the balance is 
denominated in sterling. Currency translation has decreased cash and 
cash equivalents by $4.5 million in 2010.
Operating activities generated $99.4 million of cash in the year 
compared with $96.1 million in 2009. Free cash flow is set out below:
$ million 2010 2009
Cash flow from operations 116.9 106.3
Tax paid (17.5) (10.2)
Cash inflow from operating activities 99.4 96.1
Interest received 0.8 0.6
Net capital expenditure (17.6) (10.2)
Free cash flow 82.6 86.5
Cash conversion continued to be strong with free cash flow of $82.6 million 
for 201 0, which represents 1 04 per cent of reported earnings. For 2009 , 
after adjusting for the one-time deferred tax credit of $21.7 million, which 
was a non-cash item, the conversion ratio was 124 per cent. 
The reduction in free cash flow in 2010, despite an improvement in 
earnings, is due to a number of factors: more normal levels of tax 
payment, $17 .5 million in 2010 compared with $10.2 million in 2009, as 
brought forward tax losses in the US had been utilised in previous years; 
an increase in working capital of $4.2 million, due to higher trading 
activity in 2010 (2009 reduction of $10.8 million); and an increase in net 
capital expenditure to $17 .6 million (2009 $10.2 million).
Net interest received was slightly higher at $0.8 million compared with 
$0.6 million in 2009 due to increased funds available for investment.
Cash outflow for on market share repurchases amounted to 
$19.7 million in 2010 (2009 $1.1 million). Cash of $4.7 million 
was received from the exercise of employee share incentives  
(2009 $3.8 million).
In 2010 the Group settled the final dividend of 1.00 cents for the 
year ended 31 December 2009 and paid an interim dividend of 
1.10 cents per share, in total a net cash outflow of $13.7 million 
(2009 $12.1 million) for dividends to shareholders.
A transfer of $0.6 million (2009 $2.2 million) was made from the long 
term cash deposit, set up as a consequence of a capital reorganisation 
in 2004, as we settled lease obligations to allow release of funds.
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents for 2010 in total was 
$54.5 million compared with $79.3 million for 2009.
Defined benefit pension plans
The Group operates two funded defined benefit plans which are in the UK.
The accounting valuation of these plans at the end of 2010 was a  
surplus of $7 .7 million compared with a net surplus of $0.5 million at  
31 December 2009. This is comprised of a surplus of $7 .1 million in the 
main plan (31 December 2009 deficit $0.5 million) and a surplus of  
$0.6 million in the other plan (31 December 2009 $1.0 million). The 
improvement in funding in the main plan is due to an increase in the 
value of assets as markets recovered net of a rise in the liabilities as a 
result of changes in the assumptions.
The actuarial valuations at 1 April 2009 of the plans were completed 
during 2010. Such a valuation involves a complete review of all the 
assumptions including longevity and funding. There was a deficit on the 
main UK plan arising from the valuation. The Company has agreed with 
the trustees of this plan to pay additional contributions of £1.6 million 
($2.4 million) per annum to fund the deficit and these contributions are 
being paid in monthly instalments which commenced in June 2010.  
The Group has also reported a liability of $0.6 million (2009 $0.6 million) 
in respect of UK unfunded plan liabilities.
Capital structure 
The Company repurchased 10.4 million shares in 2010 at a cost of  
$19.7 million (2009 0.6 million at a cost of $0.9 million). Of the shares 
repurchased 9.8 million were cancelled and 0.6 million were placed in 
trust to deliver to employees in relation to certain share incentives.
Shares were repurchased as part of the Company’s policy to manage 
dilution attributable to its share incentive schemes.
Dividend
Following the change to the Group’s reporting currency, dividends are 
determined in US dollars and paid in sterling at the exchange rate 
prevailing when the dividend is proposed. For prior years the dividend 
was determined in sterling.
Due to the strong performance in 2010 the Board are recommending the 
payment of a final dividend for 2010 of 1.40 cents (0.86 pence) per share 
which, with the interim dividend of 1.10 cents (0.69 pence) per share paid 
in September 2010, brings the full year dividend to 2.50 cents (1.55 pence) 
per share and is covered 4.6 times by adjusted earnings. This is an increase 
of 30 per cent over the full year dividend for 2009 of 1.93 cents (1.21 pence).
Subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, 
the final dividend will be paid on 5 May 201 1 to Ordinary shareholders on 
the register at 1 1 March 201 1. Payment to ADR holders will be made on  
12 May 201 1.
Post balance sheet events
Spirent announced on 15 February 2011 the acquisition of The 
Fanfare Group, Inc. for a cash consideration of $15.0 million. The 
transaction was completed on 16 February 2011. 30 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
Corporate so Cial responsibility statement Corporate responsibility is integral to the way Spirent conducts 
its business and we are committed to advancing our policies  
and systems across the Group to ensure that we address all 
aspects of corporate social responsibility (“CSR”). These include 
in particular our corporate practices in terms of ethical behaviour, 
how we motivate, support and reward our employees, how we 
care for the environment and our community involvement.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is committed to 
developing and implementing appropriate policies while adhering to 
a fundamental commitment to create and sustain long term value for 
shareholders.
Ethics
Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance 
with high ethical standards of business practice. We apply these 
standards to all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and 
other stakeholders. During 2010, Spirent’s employees were again 
clearly reminded of the standards expected of them by the regular 
communication and explanation of Spirent’s Vision, Mission and 
Values statements.
The Group’s Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the Board, is 
available on our website at www.spirent.com. Our Ethics Policy has 
been developed to ensure that the Group’s business is conducted in 
adherence with high ethical and legal principles and sets standards 
of professionalism and integrity for all employees and operations 
worldwide.
The following is a summary of the Ethics Policy:
all employees have the right and responsibility to ensure that  –
Spirent’s business is conducted with high ethical and legal 
principles;
our policy is to operate within applicable laws; –
discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated; –
as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations; –
no bribes shall be given or received; –
conflicts of interest must be avoided; –
we aim to be a responsible partner within our local   –
communities; and
employees are encouraged and supported to report, in  –
confidence, any suspected wrongdoings (“whistleblowing”).
Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Group’s 
internal control process.
Spirent participates in the Second Harvest Food Bank. 31 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Employees
Spirent is its employees. To sustain our competitive advantage, the 
Group is committed to creating and maintaining an environment 
where all employees can develop to their fullest potential, have the 
opportunity to give back to their communities, and advance their 
careers. Spirent employees come from a variety of diverse 
backgrounds and bring with them a broad range of skills and 
experiences from engineering to sales to supply chain as well  
as business functions such as finance, human resources, and 
information technology. By the end of 2010, we employed more  
than 1,400 people in over 25 locations in 12 countries. 
To sustain our competitive advantage and bring together this 
culturally diverse group of employees, Spirent has built a global 
culture based on four values – being creative, competitive, customer 
focused and collaborative. These values form the foundation of 
Spirent’s ability to inspire innovation and enrich the lives of millions 
of people around the world. 
By encouraging and rewarding innovative thought and action by our 
employees across the globe, we inspire innovation within Spirent, our 
industry and our customers. To accomplish this, Spirent employees 
have a number of career paths and internal recognition programmes 
for both technical and non-technical staff. These development 
opportunities are structured to align with our organisational 
objectives and to help employees in furthering their career 
aspirations. For example, we recently implemented a technical career 
ladder across the global engineering organisation to build our 
technical expertise and provide future career opportunities. Internal 
transfers and job rotations, for example, greatly benefit the career 
development of our engineering team. As a result of these activities 
and others, more than 7 per cent of employees received a promotion 
in 2010. 
Employees are provided with numerous learning and development 
opportunities to fulfill their potential. For example, our US employees 
enjoy a tax free tuition reimbursement benefit for classes taken 
towards college level degrees such as a master of business 
administration or master of science in electrical engineering. A wide 
variety of courses and training opportunities are also available to 
employees globally to enhance their skills. We recently implemented 
an engineering managers training course to drive stronger leadership 
in areas such as project management, performance management and 
employee development. Spirent receives training grants that allow 
employees to take on-site skill training or attend classes at a local 
community college in software and other applicable subjects. In 
China, we provided new manager training, English education and 
communication skills workshops.
Leadership and management development programmes are regularly 
reviewed and updated as the competition for talent increases and the 
leadership needs of our business grow. Formal performance reviews 
are conducted annually and are linked to the goals of the 
organisation. An online performance management tool was 
introduced to all employees in early 2010 to align individual goals 
with Company strategies and objectives. 
Spirent demonstrates that it values its employees through several 
reward and recognition programmes. One way we reward and 
recognise excellence is through our Global Recognition Programme, 
which provides spot awards and one-time cash incentives to 
recognise exemplary contributions that demonstrate one or more of 
our key values. Spirent provides project based incentives to recognise 
and reward employees for extraordinary work that results in 
significant overachievement of critical projects. In 2010, Spirent 
reinstituted its Patent Award programme, which rewards employees 
for being innovative, while protecting the Company’s investment and 
intellectual rights and property. Because Spirent believes in sharing 
its success with its employees, all employees now participate in 
some form of variable compensation. For example the Growth 
Sharing Plan provides an annual incentive payment based on the 
achievement of corporate growth and profitability goals. Because our 
employees have regularly asked for the opportunity to participate in 
Spirent’s growth as our investors do, starting in January 2011, US and 
UK employees may purchase Spirent’s shares via monthly payroll 
deductions. We plan to expand this opportunity to other locations 
over time.
Along with career opportunities and competitive compensation, the 
importance of two-way communication is recognised particularly as it 
relates to the business and its performance. Our employees’ opinions 
matter to us. In March 2010, employees were asked for their views on 
a wide range of issues relating to compensation and benefits, 
communication, employee engagement and commitment, 
innovation, manager quality and work environment. The survey 
invited employees to rate each area and provide written comments 
about improvements recommended in the organisation. More than 
70 per cent of our employees globally responded, and we developed 
specific action plans based on the employee feedback that will 
increase the engagement of our employees and foster a stronger 
organisational culture. In addition, informal meetings between many 
of Spirent’s executives and small groups of employees were, and 
continue to be, held on a regular basis, with the aim of sharing 
perspectives among a broad cross section of our team members. 
Other tools aimed at facilitating two-way communication include 
regular all employee meetings with our CEO and other executives  
at all locations, employee focus group meetings and the continued 
expansion of our employee intranet. 
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all 
existing and prospective employees without unlawful discrimination 
on the basis of religion, disability, gender, age, marital status, sexual 
orientation, race, ethnicity or any other protected status. With regard 
to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take all  32 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
cOrp Orate s Ocial resp Onsibility state Ment CONTINUED
reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they can remain 
in employment wherever practicable. We encourage diversity and 
opportunity, which is reinforced through the Group’s Ethics Policy.
Health and safety
The Chief Financial Officer is the director appointed by the Board to 
have responsibility for the health and safety performance of the 
Group. No major health and safety issues were reported by the Chief 
Financial Officer to the Audit Committee and Board during the year.
The health and safety risk profile of the Group improved slightly again 
in 2010 as further Group manufacturing moved to an outsourcing 
model and this trend is expected to continue in 2011. The main risks 
of the Group continue to be based around final test and assembly of 
products and working environment issues such as ergonomics and 
Repetitive Strain Injury. The Group continued to have very low 
accident rates in 2010 and no incidents required any hospitalisation.
The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for the 
management of health and safety on local management who are 
supported by local external advisers where necessary. It is the 
Group’s intention that each business unit should have a senior 
individual designated as being responsible for ensuring the business 
unit conforms to local statutory health and safety regulations as well 
as the Group Policy. An annual questionnaire on health and safety 
performance is completed by all our business units and any issues 
are addressed and resolved. Independent external reviews of the 
Company’s health and safety performance are conducted annually  
at selected business units. Regular designated health and safety 
awareness training programmes are also carried out.
Spirent recognises the importance that health and safety, as with 
other corporate responsibilities, is managed successfully throughout 
all levels of the organisation. Successful health and safety 
management contributes to Spirent’s overall success by preserving 
and developing staff and physical resources, thereby reducing costs 
and liabilities and is an expression of its corporate responsibility.
Spirent is committed to continually improving its health and safety 
performance and is also committed to employee wellbeing by 
encouraging the adoption of healthier lifestyles by its staff members. 
Regulatory requirements and the outline of care form the basis upon 
which Spirent’s commitment is achieved. By realistic planning, review 
and development, Spirent continues to achieve a successful health 
and safety management programme and appropriate resources are 
made available for this purpose.
Environmental
The Group’s Environmental policy applies to the Company and all  
its subsidiaries worldwide. The Group is committed to the concepts  
of pollution prevention, minimising environmental impacts and 
eco-efficiency. The main aim of Spirent’s Environmental Policy is  
to comply with all applicable environmental legislation in all 
jurisdictions in which we operate and to adopt responsible 
environmental practices. To achieve these goals the Group strives  
to integrate sound environmental management into its business 
strategies and continually improve environmental performance  
for the benefit of all its stakeholders.
The full policy can be found at www.spirent.com in the About Us 
section under Corporate Governance. 
The Group’s main environmental impact is due predominantly to the 
effects produced by offices housing employees, internal IT systems 
and travel. All business units continue to take positive steps to reduce 
energy consumption, such as better space utilisation, more efficient 
running of equipment and machinery, and sensor controlled 
equipment. During 2010 the Group reduced the square feet used by 
9.4 per cent to 634,000 square feet (2009 700,000 square feet).  
We have also reduced the number of servers in our IT data centres  
by 20 per cent. We have invested in and are actively using video 
conferencing to reduce travel across the Group. Where possible, 
business units monitor energy consumption, water consumption and 
waste production. Environmental waste management in the Group 
continues to improve with most business units operating waste 
minimisation schemes mainly focusing on increased recycling. One  
of our UK businesses is ISO-14001 registered.
The vast majority of our products continue to be manufactured by 
outside contract manufacturers and we check the environmental 
policies of these suppliers through audits and surveys. Spirent’s largest 
contract manufacturer, responsible for 60 per cent of our contract 
manufacturing services, is not only ISO-14001 certified, but also has an 
extensive CO
2
 reduction programme. In 2009, the programme reduced 
the manufacturing site CO
2
 output as measured by reduced base line 
electrical consumption by 10 per cent over 2008. This is a reduction in 
CO
2
 emissions of approximately 2.1 million kilograms in 2009.
Improvements in Spirent’s order fulfilment logistics have led to 
significant reductions in air freight and corresponding reductions in 
carbon emissions. Orders for customers in APAC and EMEA regions 
are directly fulfilled from our key contract manufacturer in Asia. This 
eliminates air freight to the US and then back to APAC and EMEA 
customers. 28 per cent of Performance Analysis’ shipments, 
representing approximately 51,000 kilograms of freight, now ship 
direct from Spirent’s Asia contract manufacturer.
Wherever possible our products are designed and manufactured to 
take account of the recycling and disposal of the product at the end  
of its lifecycle. Our products are also designed to reduce the amount 
of power consumed. Two examples of this are our 1Gb and 10Gb 
products where we have reduced the power consumption by port  
in 2010 by 42 per cent, and 70 per cent, respectively. 33 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Our business units comply with both The Waste Electrical and  
Electronic Equipment Regulations and The Batteries Directive.  
New products are designed to meet the Restriction of Hazardous 
Substances Directive (“RoHS”), also known as Directive 2002/95/EC, 
even though Spirent Communications’ hardware products are classified 
as Category Nine (Monitor and Control Equipment), and are therefore 
currently out of scope with the RoHS Directive. All Spirent 
Communications’ hardware products will be in compliance with the 
RoHS Directive at such time they are brought in to scope. Under the UK’s 
new mandatory carbon emission trading scheme (CRC Energy Efficiency 
Scheme), Spirent is only required to make an information disclosure.
Community
Spirent aims to build stronger and healthier global communities 
through education, charitable donations and support of non-profit 
agencies in the communities in which we operate. Working with 
established non-profit organisations maximises the impact of our 
community building initiatives.
Education
The Group has established links with certain public and private 
non-profit educational organisations to help students develop the 
skills needed to succeed in the global economy. Throughout 2010  
we continued to support education by offering internships and work 
experience programmes. As part of Junior Achievement of the 
National Capital Area many of our Maryland office employees are 
involved in local activities that enabled volunteers to teach students 
financial literacy, work readiness and entrepreneurship. Volunteers 
served as role models providing both education and inspiration. In 
our New Jersey office, we partnered with a local high school to 
provide job shadowing opportunities to students interested in 
pursuing a career in engineering. 
In the US, we hired 11 interns in multiple locations, ultimately hiring 
more than half as regular Spirent employees. In addition, 12 new 
engineering graduates were hired in our Honolulu, Calabasas and 
Sunnyvale offices during 2010. Spirent plans to expand both the new 
graduate and intern programs during 2011, building our relationships 
with local universities and colleges.
Spirent also periodically provides work experience opportunities  
for local students. In our Beijing office, we increased the number of 
on-site internship opportunities to more than 20 students from top 
universities in China, including University of Science and Technology 
Beijing, the Graduate School of Beijing Institute of Technology and 
Beihang University. These internships help students develop 
professional knowledge as well as enhance their competitiveness in 
society. Our engineering managers are routinely invited to speak at 
these universities about Spirent and career opportunities in the 
engineering field.
Local community support of non-profit agencies
We recognise the significance of our communities through our 
relationship with local non-profit agencies. Our employees help their 
communities by volunteering their time to various programmes and 
donating materials and equipment to local causes.
The Group has formed lasting partnerships with several local 
non-profit organisations to provide essential resources and  
services to those in need. During the winter holiday season in 2010, 
our employees in the US participated in a food drive for the Los 
Angeles Regional Food Bank and also for the Santa Clara County 
Second Harvest Food Bank. 
Charitable donation policy
Our businesses are encouraged to support the particular needs 
of their local community by contributing to local charities and 
participating in community initiatives. Support takes the form of 
employee time and skills, gifts in kind and cash donations. Spirent 
donated to the California Highway Patrol – CHIPS for KIDS and 
employees participated in the Angel Tree programme by working with 
the Salvation Army to purchase Christmas gifts for underprivileged 
children. In Ottawa and Beijing, employees provide school assistance 
to needy children. Following the earthquake in Qinghai, China, our 
employees delivered donations to the stricken area. In the UK Spirent 
sponsored employees who participated in charity fund raising events, 
such as the British Heart Foundation’s London to Brighton Bike Ride 
and the Brighton Marathon.
In addition to these employee activities, Spirent made charitable 
cash donations of $81,000 in 2010 (2009 $143,000).
Team Spirent London to Brighton Bike Ride 2010. 34 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
bOard Of direct Ors
1.
3.
5.
2.
4.
6. 35 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
1. Alex Walker (64) 
N
Chairman
Alex Walker was appointed to the Board on 22 December 2006 and 
was appointed Chairman of the Company on 4 March 2010, having 
previously served as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. He was chief executive of 
Yule Catto & Co. plc until 17 August 2006 and, until 23 April 2010 was 
a non-executive director, chairman of the remuneration committee 
and member of the audit and nomination committees of Rotork plc.
2. Bill Burns (43)
Chief Executive Officer
Bill Burns was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 6 November 
2008, having previously led the Group’s Communications division.  
He is responsible for overall leadership, strategy, investments, 
coordination of resources and leveraging Spirent’s breadth and  
depth of technology across all of Spirent’s business units.
3. Eric Hutchinson (55)
Chief Financial Officer
Eric Hutchinson was appointed Finance Director on 1 January 2000, 
having previously been responsible for all financial reporting and 
control within the Group. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Association 
of Certified Accountants, and a member of the Financial Reporting 
Review Panel.
4. Ian Brindle (67) 
ANR
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Ian Brindle was appointed to the Board on 22 December 2006  
and is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. He was previously UK chairman of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers and deputy chairman of the Financial 
Reporting Review Panel. He serves as non-executive chairman of 
Sherborne Investors (Guernsey) A Limited and as a non-executive 
director on the boards of F&C Asset Management plc, 4imprint Group 
plc and Elementis plc.
5. Duncan Lewis (59) 
ANR
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Duncan Lewis was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007 . He was chief 
executive officer of Vislink plc until 31 March 2011, when he stepped 
down after completing its restructuring. Until October 2008 he was 
senior adviser to The Carlyle Group, assisting them in developing 
strategy and identifying investments in the telecommunications and 
media sectors worldwide.
6. Tom Maxwell (63)
 ANR
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tom Maxwell was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2007 and is 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Until September 2007 , he 
was investment director and head of the UK Growth & Income Product 
Group at Martin Currie Investment Management in Edinburgh. He is a 
Member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland and a 
Member of the Society of Investment Professionals & CFA Institute. 
Statements on the independence of Board members are given in the 
Directors’ statement on corporate governance on page 41.
Further biographical details of the directors can be found on the 
Company’s website at www.spirent.com.
A
 Member of Audit Committee
N
 Member of Nomination Committee
R
 Member of Remuneration Committee 36 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
rep Ort Of the direct Ors
The directors present their Annual Report to the shareholders together 
with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group and the 
parent Company financial statements for the year to 31 December 2010.
Business review
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the 
shareholders of the Company. 
Reviews of the Group’s activities during the year, the position at the 
year-end and developments since that date are set out in the 
Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive Officer’s review, the Directors’ 
statement on corporate governance and the Business Review.
The Business Review explains financial performance, key performance 
indicators, the position at the year end, any post balance sheet events, 
any likely future developments and a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group and how these are managed.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with 
respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the 
Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since 
future events and circumstances can cause results to differ from 
those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge 
and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual 
Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update those 
forward-looking statements.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are set out on page 18 of this 
Annual Report.
Results and dividends
The consolidated income statement is on page 54. Profit for the 
financial year attributable to equity shareholders amounted to  
$79.1 million (2009 $91.2 million).
Following the change in reporting currency, dividends will be 
determined in US dollars and paid in sterling at the exchange rate 
prevailing when the dividend is proposed. A final dividend of  
1.40 cents (0.86 pence) per Ordinary Share is recommended by the 
Board for the year to 31 December 2010 (2009 1.00 cents (0.66 
pence)) for which approval will be sought from shareholders at the 
Company’s 2011 Annual General Meeting (“2011 AGM”) on 4 May 
2011, to be paid on 5 May 2011 (ADR holders on 12 May 2011) to 
those shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members on 
11 March 2011. 
Together with the interim dividend of 1.10 cents (0.69 pence) per 
Ordinary Share (2009 0.93 cents (0.55 pence)) which was paid to 
shareholders on 16 September 2010, this amounts to a total dividend 
for 2010 of 2.50 cents (1.55 pence) per Ordinary Share (2009 1.93 cents 
(1.21 pence)).
Share capital and control
The Company has a single class of share which is divided into 
Ordinary Shares of 3
1
/ 3 pence each. Each Ordinary Share carries one 
vote and all of the Ordinary Shares rank pari passu. There are no 
special control rights relating to the Ordinary Shares.
At the date of this Report, 675.3 million Ordinary Shares of 3
1
/ 3 pence 
each had been issued which are fully paid up and are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange. The Company also operates a Level 1 
American Depositary Receipt (“ADR”) programme with each ADR 
representing four Ordinary Shares. The ADRs trade on the US 
over-the-counter market and The Bank of New York Mellon is the 
authorised depositary bank for the programme. Further details on 
share capital are set out in note 27 to the consolidated financial 
statements and note 16 to the parent Company financial statements.
The rights, including those relating to voting, obligations and any 
restrictions on transfer relating to the Company’s Ordinary Shares, as 
well as the powers of the Company’s directors, are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association, a copy of which can be found on 
our website at www.spirent.com or can be obtained from Companies 
House or by writing to the Company Secretary. The Company’s 
Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution 
at a general meeting of shareholders. Changes to the Articles of 
Association were approved at the 2010 AGM and became effective at 
the close of the meeting on 5 May 2010. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the 
capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may from 
time to time be imposed by law, for example, insider trading law. In 
accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, 
certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company 
to deal in its shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on  
voting rights.
During the year to 31 December 2010, options and rights exercised 
pursuant to the Company’s share incentive plans resulted in the 
allotment of 6.6 million new Ordinary Shares.
A further 0.4 million new Ordinary Shares have been allotted under 
the share incentive plans between the end of the financial year and 
the date of this Report.
At each annual general meeting, the directors seek authority to allot 
shares for cash and to dis-apply pre-emption rights within prescribed 
limits. At the 2011 AGM, authority will be sought to allot new ordinary 
shares up to a nominal value of £7 ,505,723, which is equal to 33.3 
per cent of the Company’s issued share capital as at 10 March 2011. 37 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
The Company has established two employee benefit trusts in 
connection with the operation of the Company’s share incentive plans: 
the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust (“ESOT”) and the Spirent 
Sharesave Trust (“SST”). The trustees of both trusts have waived their 
right to receive dividends on any Ordinary Shares held by them except 
for a nominal amount of 0.01 pence other than for those Ordinary Shares 
held in the ESOT which are the beneficial property of an employee/
shareholder. For further details on the employee benefit trusts see 
“Investment in own Ordinary Shares” in note 27 to the consolidated 
financial statements and note 16 to the parent Company financial 
statements. Trustees of both trusts do not vote their Ordinary Shares, 
except for those Ordinary Shares held in the ESOT which are the 
beneficial property of an employee/shareholder which the trustees will 
vote in accordance with the instructions received from the beneficial 
owner. 
The Company does not have agreements with any director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or 
employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the 
Company’s share incentive plans may cause outstanding unvested 
options and awards granted to employees under such plans to vest 
on a takeover as follows:
Share incentive plan
Change 
of control 
provisions in 
the rules
Effect on 
vesting
Performance 
condition
2005 Employee Incentive Plan Yes Pro-rated Still applies
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan No None n/a
Significant agreements
A Group company has a significant agreement with a contract 
manufacturer which the Company considers is essential to its business 
and which it intends to keep in place until at least April 2013.
The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is 
party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of 
the Company following a takeover.
Return of capital
The Company was authorised at the 2006 AGM to repurchase up to 
14.99 per cent of its own issued Ordinary Shares, within certain limits 
and as permitted by the Company’s Articles of Association. This 
authority has been renewed at each AGM since 2006, reducing to 
9.99 per cent at the 2010 AGM. Since the Company began returning 
capital to shareholders in May 2006, a total of £188.6 million has been 
returned, through the repurchase of 329.9 million Ordinary Shares.
During 2010 a total of 9.8 million Ordinary Shares, each with a  
nominal value of 3
1
/ 3 pence were repurchased for an aggregate 
consideration of £12.3 million and cancelled immediately following 
repurchase. This represents 1.5 per cent of the Company’s issued 
Ordinary Share capital at the beginning of 2010. The Company has 
not repurchased any further Ordinary Shares between the end of the 
financial year and the date of this Report.
The Company will seek authority to repurchase up to 9.99 per cent  
of its own Ordinary Shares at the 2011 AGM to facilitate any further 
return of capital if the Board concludes that it is in the best interests 
of shareholders.
Substantial shareholdings
At the date of this Report, the Company had been notified of the 
following significant interests in its Ordinary Shares under the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority:
Shareholding made up of
Total 
holding
% of 
Company’s 
total voting 
rights
Ordinary 
Shares
Contracts for 
Difference
BlackRock Inc 83,096,790 35,705,552 118,802,342 17.59
Prudential plc 67,614,431 – 67,614,431 10.01
Ameriprise Financial, Inc 38,520,235 – 38,520,235 5.70
AXA Group of companies 37,856,516 – 37,856,516 5.61
Artemis Investment Management Limited 32,940,888 – 32,940,888 4.88
Standard Life Investments Ltd 32,370,026 – 32,370,026 4.79
Aviva plc 30,826,697 – 30,826,697 4.57
Legal & General Group plc 26,423,720 – 26,423,720 3.91
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Ltd 23,382,347 – 23,382,347 3.46
Hermes Equity Ownership Services Limited 22,116,033 – 22,116,033 3.28
Deutsche Bank AG 21,740,213 – 21,740,213 3.22
Total of significant holdings 416,887,896 35,705,552 452,593,448 67.02
Others 222,709,205 32.98
Total number of Ordinary Shares in issue 675,302,653 100.00 38 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
report of the directors continued
Board of directors
The names and brief biographical details of the current directors are 
shown on page 35.
Election and re-election of directors
The Company’s Articles of Association require that directors offer 
themselves for re-election every three years and that new directors 
appointed by the Board offer themselves for election at the next 
annual general meeting following their appointment. However, in 
accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, which 
replaces the existing Combined Code on Corporate Governance for 
accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010, the Board has 
agreed that all directors will stand for re-election at the 2011 AGM.  
The Board recognises that some shareholders have expressed 
concern that annual re-election of directors could encourage them to 
take a short term view. The Board is confident, however, that, as more 
fully explained in the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 45 
to 52, the Company’s remuneration policies encourage a 
performance based culture which reinforces behaviour which will 
lead to the continued long term development of the business and 
align executive directors’ interests with those of shareholders.
Directors’ interests
The directors’ interests (including any connected persons) in the 
issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company are set out in the 
Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 45 to 52.
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year 
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect of itself and its 
directors.
In addition to the indemnity provision contained in the Company’s 
Articles of Association, the Company has provided a deed of 
indemnity for the benefit of each of the directors of the Company in 
respect of the costs of defending claims against them and any third 
party liabilities.
Other than these arrangements, at no time during the year did any 
director hold a material interest in any contract of significance with 
the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings except for the 
service contracts between executive directors and the Company.
Corporate social responsibility
The Group’s Corporate social responsibility statement appears on 
pages 30 to 33. This statement gives details of the Group’s policies 
on ethics, the environment, health and safety, charitable donations 
and involvement in the community.
Charitable donations of $81,000 were made in the year (2009 
$143,000). This amount excludes operating units’ support for and 
participation in local community activities. In accordance with the 
Group’s Ethics Policy, no political donations were made in the year 
(2009 nil). The Group employs approximately 1,470 people (2009 
1,450) around the world and is proud of its history of being regarded 
as a responsible and respected employer. The Corporate social 
responsibility statement provides details of the Group’s policies on 
employment, training and development.
Research and development
Product development and innovation are considered key strategies to 
maintain and improve the Group’s competitive position and therefore 
continue to receive high priority. This commitment is highlighted by 
the $80.2 million research and development spend during the year, 
equivalent to 16.6 per cent of revenue (2009 $74.6 million and 17 .5 
per cent). The Group will continue to commit resources as appropriate 
to research and development.
Policy on payment of suppliers
Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms 
and conditions under which business transactions with their 
suppliers are conducted and it is Group policy to comply with those 
terms and to make suppliers aware of them.
At 31 December 2010, the Company had an average of 46 days 
purchases outstanding in trade creditors (2009 59 days).
Corporate governance
The Directors’ statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 
41 to 44. The Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
financial statements appears on page 40.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out in 
the Business review on pages 8 to 33. The financial position of the 
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Financial review on pages 26 to 29. In addition, note 
25 to the consolidated financial statements includes the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its 
financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk 
and liquidity risk. The Group has considerable financial resources 
together with long term contracts with a number of customers and 
suppliers across different geographic areas and industries. As a 
consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to 
manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain 
economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Annual Report. 39 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Disclosure of information to auditors
Each of the directors of the Company at the date of this report 
confirms that:
so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by  –
the Company’s auditors in connection with preparing their report 
of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director  –
in order to make himself aware of any information needed by the 
Company’s auditors in connection with preparing their report and 
to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information.
Auditors
Resolutions to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to 
authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be 
proposed at the 2011 AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The 2011 AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 4 May 2011 at 
UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP , United Kingdom.
By Order of the Board
Rachel Whiting
Company Secretary
3 March 2011 40 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
s tatement of directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group and financial 
statements of the parent Company.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law they are required to prepare the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by 
the European Union (“EU”) and have elected to prepare the parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles and applicable law.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group are required by 
law and IFRS to present fairly for each financial period the financial 
position and performance of the Group; the Companies Act 2006 
provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in 
the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and 
fair view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent Company.
In preparing each of the consolidated financial statements of the 
Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are 
required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them  –
consistently;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; –
state for the audited consolidated financial statements of the  –
Group whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 
as adopted by the EU;
state for the parent Company financial statements whether  –
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
Company financial statements; and
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless  –
it is inappropriate to presume the Group and the parent Company 
will continue in operational business for the foreseeable future.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above 
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Group and the parent Company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, for the Group, Article 4 of the International Accounting 
Standards Regulation. They have general responsibility for taking 
such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of 
the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a directors’ report, a directors’ 
remuneration report and a statement on corporate governance that 
comply with the law and those regulations. They are also responsible 
for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial 
information included on the Company’s website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
This Annual Report complies with the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules (“DTR”) of the Financial Services Authority in respect of the 
requirement to produce an annual financial report.
The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements are the 
responsibility of, and have been approved by, the directors.
Each of the directors confirms that, to the best of his knowledge: 
the consolidated financial statements of the Group and parent  –
Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, financial position and the profit or loss of 
the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and  –
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
By Order of the Board
Eric Hutchinson
Chief Financial Officer
3 March 2011 41 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
d irectors’ statement on corporate governance Compliance
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance and fully supports the principles laid down in the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial 
Reporting Council in June 2008 (the “Code”) and in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in 
June 2010 (the “New Code”). The Board is accountable to the 
Company’s shareholders for good governance and this Statement, 
together with the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 45 to 
52, describes how the principles of the Code were applied during the 
year under review and reports on the Company’s compliance with its 
provisions. Disclosures relating to significant shareholdings, voting 
rights, election and re-election of directors, amendment of the 
Company’s Articles of Association and the directors’ power to issue or 
buy back shares are included in the Report of the directors on pages 
36 to 39. It is the Board’s view that the Company was fully compliant 
with the provisions of the Code throughout the period under review 
and with certain aspects of the New Code to the date of this Report.
The Board
As at 31 December 2010, the Board comprised a chairman, three 
independent non-executive directors and two executive directors. 
The Board operates within a framework of controls including a formal 
schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision. There is a 
clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company: the 
Chairman (Alex Walker) being responsible for running the Board and 
the Chief Executive Officer (Bill Burns) being responsible for 
implementing strategy.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors contribute external 
expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Company 
such as strategic investments, corporate finance, general finance and 
corporate governance. They also contribute independent challenge 
and rigour to the Board’s deliberations, and assist in the development 
of the Company’s strategy, scrutiny of the performance of 
management in meeting agreed goals and targets and satisfying 
themselves of the integrity of the Company’s internal controls and 
risk management systems. The Board believes that all of the Directors 
devote sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to 
perform their duties.
The independence of each director is reviewed on appointment and 
at least annually. The Board determined that the non-executive 
directors are each independent in character and judgement and 
within the definition of the Code. No individual or group of individuals 
dominates the Board’s decision making and the requirement of the 
Code that at least half of the Board (excluding the Chairman) should 
comprise independent non-executive directors is satisfied.
In October 2008, the Company adopted new Articles of Association 
permitting the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise 
situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, or may 
potentially conflict, with the interests of the Company (“Situational 
Conflicts”). The Board has a formal system in place for directors to 
declare Situational Conflicts and for these to be considered for 
authorisation by those directors who have no connection with the 
matter being considered. In deciding whether to authorise a 
Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors are required to act in 
the way they consider most likely to promote the success of the 
Company and they may impose limits or conditions when giving 
authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate. The 
Board considers the procedure to have continued to operate 
effectively during the year.
Details of other professional commitments of the Chairman and 
non-executive directors are provided in their biographies on page 35.
Ian Brindle became Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on  
4 March 2010 following Alex Walker’s appointment as Chairman of 
the Company. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director acts as 
a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the 
non-executive directors, if needed. Mr Brindle is available to meet 
shareholders upon request if they have concerns which contact 
through the normal channels of the Chairman or an executive director 
has failed to resolve, or for which such contact would be inappropriate. 
It is Company policy to hold at least four Board meetings a year. 
During 2010, there were six Board meetings. The agenda is settled by 
the Chairman in advance of the meeting and papers are circulated to 
Board members ahead of the meeting. Minutes of meetings are 
circulated to all Board members and, subject to their agreement, 
approved at the following Board meeting.
The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings was as 
follows:
Number of 
meetings 
held
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Alex Walker (Chairman) 6 6
Edward Bramson
1
 (retired 5 May 2010) 2 0
Bill Burns 6 6
Eric Hutchinson 6 6
Ian Brindle 6 6
Gerard Eastman
1
 (retired 5 May 2010) 2 0
Duncan Lewis 6 6
Tom Maxwell
2
6 5
1  Both Mr Bramson and Mr Eastman were unable to attend the meetings held  
on 3 March 2010 and 5 May 2010 due to unavoidable diary conflicts.
2   Mr Maxwell was unable to attend the meeting held on 3 March 2010 due to  
an unavoidable diary conflict.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive 
accurate, timely and clear information. They receive regular updates 
on business performance and receive presentations from the 
executive directors and other senior managers at Board meetings.  
In addition, regular site visits are arranged for non-executive directors  42 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
d irectors’ statement on corporate governance continued
during which briefings are arranged and the directors are free to 
discuss aspects of the business with employees at all levels. Under 
the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary ensures good 
and timely information flows between the Board and its Committees 
and makes sure that Board procedures are complied with. The 
Company Secretary also updates and advises the Board on all 
regulatory and governance matters.
There is a policy whereby the non-executive directors and the Board 
Committees may take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense in order to fulfil their duties. All directors also 
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, 
whose removal may only be effected with the approval of the Board.
Board appointments and induction
The Board has in place a procedure for the appointment of new 
directors to the Board which complies with the Code. On appointment 
to the Board and its Committees all directors receive an induction 
tailored to their individual requirements. New directors are briefed on 
their legal and other duties and obligations as directors of a UK listed 
company. Visits to different facilities and meetings with senior 
management are organised, as appropriate, to assist the new director 
in developing an understanding of how the Group operates and the 
key issues that it faces.
The Company’s Articles of Association require all directors to seek 
election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following 
their appointment and that all directors retire and seek re-election at 
least every three years. However, in accordance with the New Code, 
which replaces the existing Code for accounting periods beginning on 
or after 29 June 2010, the Board has agreed that all directors will 
stand for re-election at the 2011 AGM.
The Board recognises that some shareholders have expressed 
concern that annual re-election of directors could encourage them to 
take a short term view. The Board is confident, however, that, as more 
fully explained in the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 45 
to 52, the Company’s remuneration policies encourage a 
performance based culture which reinforces behaviour that will lead 
to the continued long term development of the business and align 
executive directors’ interests with those of shareholders.
Performance evaluation
Performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried 
out during the year by each director completing questionnaires and 
the results being collated and analysed by the Company Secretary 
who prepared a report for Board discussion. The Board discussion 
concluded that the Board and its Committees operated well and  
were effective.
The Chairman communicates regularly with the non-executive  
directors and this contact provides an ongoing opportunity to assess 
performance and to discuss the performance of the executive directors 
or any other matters. The Chairman has concluded that during the year 
under review the commitment and application of the continuing 
non-executive directors was of a high standard including each having 
sufficient time to attend all Board and appropriate Committee meetings 
and to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director met with the 
independent non-executive directors on 3 November 2010, in the 
absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairman’s effectiveness. 
The independent non-executive directors were of the opinion that  
Mr Walker gave sufficient time to his role as Chairman of the Company 
and was effective in that role during the year under review.
The Board is actively considering the provisions under the New Code 
relating to the use of external facilitators in the performance 
evaluation process and how best to develop the review process.
Board Committees
Certain of the matters specifically reserved for the Board’s decision 
have been delegated to three Committees with clearly defined terms 
of reference which, together with the composition of each Committee, 
are reviewed annually. The terms of reference for the Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees can be found on the 
Company’s website at www.spirent.com.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Ian Brindle (Chairman), Duncan 
Lewis and Tom Maxwell. Mr Lewis joined the Committee on 4 March 
2010 following Alex Walker’s appointment as Chairman of the 
Company. All of the Committee members are independent non-
executive directors, making the composition of the Committee 
compliant with the Code. The Code also requires that the Audit 
Committee includes at least one member who has recent, significant 
and relevant financial experience. The Board considers that both Ian 
Brindle and Tom Maxwell provide such experience.
The attendance of individual directors at Audit Committee meetings 
was as follows:
Number of 
meetings 
held
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Ian Brindle (Committee chairman) 3 3
Duncan Lewis 2 2
Tom Maxwell
1
3 2
Alex Walker (until appointment as Chairman) 1 1
 
1  Mr Maxwell was unable to attend the meeting held on 3 March 2010 due to an 
unavoidable diary conflict. 43 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal 
controls, including risk management, and has delegated certain of 
these responsibilities to the Audit Committee.
At each meeting the Company’s external auditors, the Chief Executive 
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Vice President Finance, 
the Head of Financial Reporting and the Company Secretary, who is 
Secretary to the Committee, were in attendance. The Chairman also 
attends by invitation from the Committee Chairman. In addition, the 
Committee meets with the Company’s external auditors without 
management being present. The minutes of Committee meetings are 
available to all directors.
During the year the Committee has monitored and reviewed risk 
management and internal control, reviewed the interim and full year 
financial statements, key accounting policies, the auditors’ report on 
the interim review and year end audit and management’s responses 
to the issues raised. The internal audit programme and the external 
audit strategy and scope for 2010 were also agreed and approved. 
Further details of internal control and process are set out on page 44. 
Regular reports on tax, treasury and health and safety are presented. 
Further details of the Group’s Ethics Policy and health and safety 
performance are contained in the Corporate social responsibility 
statement on pages 30 to 33. The Chairman of the Committee reports 
any significant findings or identified weaknesses to the Board.
The Audit Committee has adopted a policy in relation to the provision 
of non-audit services by the external auditor to ensure that the 
provision of such services does not impair the external auditors’ 
independence or objectivity. Under this policy, certain non-audit 
services are precluded. The policy is reviewed and financial limits  
for non-audit services are set on an annual basis. The Committee 
considers that notwithstanding the non-audit services provided 
during the year, Ernst & Young’s objectivity as external auditors was 
not impaired. Prior to recommending their reappointment as external 
auditors, the Committee considered Ernst & Young’s performance, 
resource, quality control procedures, policy on rotating its audit 
partners (audit partners rotate every five years), independence and 
objectivity. The Committee also considered the risk of Ernst & Young 
withdrawing from the audit market. There are no contractual 
obligations that restrict the Company’s current choice of  
external auditor.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises Tom Maxwell (Chairman), 
Ian Brindle and Duncan Lewis. Mr Maxwell joined the Committee as 
Chairman on 4 March 2010 following Alex Walker’s appointment as 
Chairman of the Company. All members of the Committee are 
independent non-executive directors, making it compliant with the 
Code in terms of independent non-executive directors.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee are included in 
the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 45 to 52.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises Alex Walker (Chairman),  
Ian Brindle, Duncan Lewis and Tom Maxwell and meets at least  
once each year. The Company Secretary is Secretary to the 
Committee.
The attendance of individual directors at Nomination Committee 
meetings was as follows:
Number of 
meetings 
held
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Alex Walker (Committee chairman) 1 1
Edward Bramson
1
 (retired 5 May 2010) 1 0
Ian Brindle 1 1
Gerard Eastman
1
 (retired 5 May 2010) 1 0
Duncan Lewis 1 1
Tom Maxwell
1
1 0
1  Mr Bramson, Mr Eastman and Mr Maxwell were unable to attend the meeting held on  
3 March 2010 due to unavoidable diary conflicts.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
composition and structure of the Board and for identifying and 
recommending candidates for executive and non-executive positions, 
based on the required role and capabilities which have been 
specified for the appointment. Executive search consultants are used 
by the Nomination Committee to assist this process as appropriate. 
As all of the Committee members are independent non-executive 
directors, the composition of the Committee is compliant with the 
terms of the Code.
Relations with shareholders
The Board supports the use of the Annual General Meeting as a 
means of communicating with both private and institutional investors 
and encourages their participation. The Company is ready, where 
practicable, to enter into a dialogue with shareholders, through 
analyst briefings and investor presentations, all of which are made 
available on the Company’s website at www.spirent.com. Senior 
executives meet regularly with institutional and major shareholders 
to facilitate stakeholders’ understanding of the Company and  
its objectives and to receive feedback which is then reported  
to the Board.
In November 2010 the Company held an investor day which was 
attended by institutional investors, potential investors and analysts 
at which there was an opportunity to meet members of the Board and 
senior management. 44 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
d irectors’ statement on corporate governance continued
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Tom Maxwell, 
consulted with the 20 largest shareholders in December 2010 
concerning remuneration policy. Feedback from shareholders 
obtained during these meetings was then shared with the 
Remuneration Committee and given due consideration.
All of the Company’s communications with shareholders are 
conducted in line with our environmental approach. We hold the 
majority of our events via webcast and conference calls and we 
encourage all of our investors to receive communications 
electronically where possible.
Pensions governance
The Group’s principal pension and retirement schemes are in the UK 
and the US. Scheme funds are held separately from those of the 
Group and are administered by trustees (which include employees 
and independent bodies). The schemes do not lend money or lease 
any assets to the Group.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal 
control. The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed 
the effectiveness of this system and this review did not reveal any 
significant issues or weaknesses. The Board confirms that this 
process was in place throughout the year under review and up to the 
date of approval of these financial statements. The primary aim is to 
operate a system which is appropriate to the business and which can, 
over time, increase shareholder value whilst safeguarding the Group’s 
assets. The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Process
Day to day responsibility for effective internal control and risk 
monitoring rests with senior management at business unit level. The 
Board and the Audit Committee continue to agree that currently there 
is no need for a dedicated internal control department. Responsibility 
for internal control rests with the Group Vice President Finance and 
the North America Vice President Finance. Both of these senior 
finance managers are independent of any business unit and play  
a key role in providing an objective view and continuing assessment 
of the effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout the 
Group. The Group consists of a limited number of entities which can 
comfortably be covered by the two senior finance managers. As 
stated above, the Group Vice President Finance attends all Audit 
Committee meetings to give an update on any internal control issues 
arising and any outstanding remedial actions.
The Group’s system of risk management comprises an integrated risk 
management strategy of regular self-assessment of all business 
units. Significant risks are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee 
and by the Board.
Management and specialists within the finance department are 
responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial 
records and processes that ensure all financial information is 
relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and 
regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a timely 
manner. A review of the consolidation and financial statements is 
completed by management to ensure that the financial position and 
results of the Group are appropriately reflected. All financial 
information published by the Group is subject to the approval of the 
Audit Committee.
In addition to this process, the following key elements are critical to 
the overall internal control environment:
an organisational structure with clear operating procedures,  –
defined lines of responsibility and delegated levels of authority;
an ethics policy (which has been approved by the Board), which  –
sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees 
and operations. The Ethics Policy also includes “whistleblowing” 
procedures whereby employees may report, in confidence, 
suspected wrongdoings;
a comprehensive strategic planning, financial control and  –
budgeting system which is properly documented and regularly 
reviewed; and
a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence process  –
and post acquisition integration programme. 45 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
r eport on directors’ remuneration This Report on directors’ remuneration has been prepared by the 
Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board for approval by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 May 2011 
(“201 1 AGM”). The Report has been prepared in accordance with 
Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. The Report also meets the 
relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles and 
complied with the provisions of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance relating to directors’ remuneration. Part A of the Report, 
which is not subject to audit, sets out the Company’s remuneration 
policy. Part B, which has been audited, provides details of the 
remuneration, pensions and share incentives of the directors for the 
period under review.
Part A Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) comprises Tom 
Maxwell (Chairman), Ian Brindle and Duncan Lewis. Mr Maxwell 
joined the Committee as Chairman on 4 March 2010 following  
Alex Walker’s appointment as Chairman of the Company. All 
members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors. 
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
The attendance of individual directors at Remuneration Committee 
meetings was as follows:
Number of 
meetings 
held
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Alex Walker (until appointment as Chairman) 1 1
Tom Maxwell (Committee Chairman) 3 3
Ian Brindle 4 4
Duncan Lewis 4 4
The Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the Board, 
all elements of the remuneration of the chairman, executive directors 
and senior managers, reviewing remuneration policy and overseeing 
the operation of the Company’s share incentive plans. The 
Committee’s terms of reference can be found on the Company’s 
website at www.spirent.com.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy set by the Committee aims to encourage a 
performance based culture which reinforces behaviour that will lead 
to the continued long term development of the business, attract and 
retain high calibre executive directors and senior managers and align 
their interests with shareholders. The aims of the policy are achieved 
by ensuring their remuneration is competitive when compared with 
companies of similar size, type and complexity within the countries in 
which they are based. It is structured so that a substantial element of 
their total remuneration package is weighted towards performance 
based pay.
Advisers to the Committee
When the Committee considers it appropriate, it takes advice on 
remuneration matters from:
Aon Hewitt Consulting Inc – Radford executive remuneration data; –
Ernst & Young LLP – independent verification of earnings per  –
share (“EPS”) to determine the vesting of share incentives (they 
are also the Company’s auditors);
Kepler Associates Limited – measurement of total shareholder  –
return (“TSR”) to determine the vesting of share incentives;
Linklaters LLP – advice on share incentive plans (they are also one  –
of the Company’s general legal advisers); and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP – advice on share incentive plans,  –
executive remuneration data and policy review.
During the year the Committee also consulted with the Company’s 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice 
President, Human Resources and the Company Secretary but not on 
matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
Executive directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of executive directors comprises the following 
elements:
base salary, benefits and pension contributions or cash allowance  –
in lieu of pension;
quarterly and annual performance cash incentive; and –
long term share incentive awards. –
Base salary, fees and benefits
Base salaries and benefits of executive directors are determined by 
the Committee and are normally reviewed annually. Bill Burns’ base 
salary and benefits were set on his appointment on 6 November 
2008 and reviewed on 1 January 2011 when the Committee 
determined that there should be no change. Eric Hutchinson’s base 
salary and benefits were last reviewed on 1 January 2011 and the 
Committee determined that there should be no change. The base 
salary and benefits of the executive directors will next be reviewed on 
1 January 2012.
When conducting such reviews, the Committee takes into account a 
range of factors including the Company’s performance, economic 
conditions, the prevailing market rates for similar positions in a 
comparable group of companies, the responsibilities, individual 
performance and experience of each executive director. 
Consideration is also given to pay and employment conditions of 
employees within the Group and the Committee particularly takes 
into account pay increases throughout the Group when determining 
salary increases for executive directors. As noted above, neither Bill 
Burns nor Eric Hutchinson received an increase in base salary in the 
period under review. 46 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
Repo Rt on di Recto Rs’ R emune Ration continued
Bill Burns has a service agreement with Spirent Communications Inc. 
(“SCI”), and, being a US resident, receives a remuneration package 
which is in line with US employment practice. In addition to his base 
salary, he participates in SCI’s medical, dental and vision plans, 
401(k) Pension Plan, a non-qualified deferred compensation plan 
and receives disability coverage benefit, life insurance cover of four 
times base salary and a car allowance.
The SCI 401(k) Pension Plan is a defined contribution plan approved 
under Section 401(k) of the US Internal Revenue Code (“US IR Code”). 
SCI make matching contributions of up to 4 per cent of the maximum 
compensation permitted for these purposes under the US IR Code, 
which for 2010 was $245,000.
The SCI Deferred Compensation Plan is a non-qualified plan offered 
as a benefit to senior management in the US. This plan allows 
participants to defer up to 50 per cent of their base salary and up to 
100 per cent of any cash incentive until they reach retirement age or 
leave the Group’s employment. Under this plan, contributions are met 
solely by Mr Burns and SCI makes no matching contributions.
Eric Hutchinson has a service agreement with Spirent Communications 
plc, and, being a UK resident, receives a remuneration package which 
is in line with UK employment practice. In addition to base salary he 
receives private medical insurance, life insurance cover of four times 
base salary and a car allowance. During the year under review, Eric 
Hutchinson received an annual cash allowance in lieu of pension of 
20 per cent of base salary, totalling £58,970.
Quarterly and annual performance cash incentives
The Committee regularly reviews performance incentive targets and 
performance conditions to incentivise executive directors to meet the 
short term strategic objectives of the Spirent Group.
During 2010, the executive directors participated in a performance 
cash incentive arrangement with two thirds of the incentive target 
being earned quarterly and one third annually. This cash incentive 
arrangement was structured so that performance was measured 
against a combination of growth targets in the Company’s EPS, other 
financial targets and personal objectives. Achievement against the 
EPS growth target and other financial measures determined the 
maximum bonus which could be earned in a given performance 
period with performance against personal objectives determing the 
actual bonus earned. For 2010, the maximum cash incentive 
available for Bill Burns was 150 per cent of base salary and for Eric 
Hutchinson was 60 per cent of base salary. The Committee reviewed 
Mr Burns’ and Mr Hutchinson’s performance against the targets set 
and, having exceeded the EPS and other financial targets and met all 
personal objectives, the Committee approved a total cash incentive 
payment for the year of $900,000 for Mr Burns equivalent to 150 per 
cent of his base salary and £176,900 for Mr Hutchinson ($272,400 at 
an average exchange rate of $1.54 : £1), equivalent to 60 per cent of 
base salary. For 2011, the maximum cash incentive available for Bill 
Burns will continue to be 150 per cent of base salary and for Eric 
Hutchinson will be 75 per cent of base salary.
Long term share incentive awards
The Company operates a number of share incentive plans. Currently, the 
principal share incentive plan utilised for executive directors is the 2005 
Employee Incentive Plan (“EIP”) which is a discretionary share plan. 
Executive directors are also able to participate in all employee share 
plans if offered in the country within which they are resident. The 
applicable all employee plans in the UK are the 2005 Sharesave 
Scheme and the UK Employee Share Purchase Plan and in the US is 
the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In November 2010, the Board 
made an invitation to all UK employees to participate in the UK 
Employee Share Purchase Plan and to all US employees to participate 
in the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
During 2010, historical awards of share incentives held by executive 
directors under the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan (“SSIP”), 1995 
Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) and the UK Savings 
Related Share Option Scheme (“SRSOS”) remained outstanding. The 
SSIP was the principal share incentive plan used to deliver awards to 
Communications group employees and Bill Burns participated in this 
plan in his former positions within the Communications group. All the 
grants made to Mr Burns under the SSIP had performance conditions 
attached and further details are given below. The SSIP , ESOS and 
SRSOS are all now closed.
Further details of the Company’s all employee and discretionary 
share plans are provided in note 28 to the consolidated financial 
statements and note 16 to the parent Company financial statements.
2005 Employee Incentive Plan
Under the EIP , the Company is able to grant options and share-settled 
stock appreciation rights (“SARs”), the vesting of which is subject to 
meeting an EPS growth target. Performance shares may also be 
granted with the vesting of historical awards being subject to meeting  47 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
a TSR performance target. The vesting of future awards of 
Performance shares will be subject to more than one performance 
condition with vesting for 50 per cent of the award being based on the 
Company’s relative TSR rating against a comparator group of 
companies and vesting for the remaining 50 per cent of the award 
being based on the rate of growth in the Company’s EPS over the 
performance period.
Any awards made to executive directors are subject to prior 
satisfactory performance of the individual and award levels vary in 
accordance with the individual’s potential to add value to the 
business over the medium to long term.
In normal circumstances, the maximum value of an award of 
Performance shares under the EIP is limited to 125 per cent of  
base salary with awards of options or SARs limited to a maximum 
value of 250 per cent of base salary. For combined awards, the 
maximum value is limited to 250 per cent of base salary with one 
Performance share being equivalent to two options/SARs. Awards  
are valued at the closing price for a Spirent Ordinary Share on the 
business day immediately preceding the date of award.
All awards are tested once on or shortly following the third 
anniversary of grant. Any part of an award which does not vest will 
lapse and there is no retesting.
The Committee historically considered that real EPS growth was  
the most appropriate measure of the Company’s performance in 
determining the vesting of SARs and options granted under the EIP . 
The vesting of future awards of SARs and options will be based on  
the rate of growth in the Company’s EPS over the performance  
period. The performance condition for SARs and options currently 
outstanding is based on the rate of growth in the Company’s EPS  
over a three year performance period excluding any increase in the 
Retail Prices Index (“RPI”). Details of vesting are set out in the 
following table.
Annual rate of growth  
in EPS in excess  
of growth in RPI over the  
performance period (%) Percentage of SARs/options vesting (%)
Below 6 0
6 25
Above 6 and below 15 On a straight line basis  
between 25 and 100
15 or above 100
Historically the Committee considered that a relative TSR growth 
target was the most appropriate measure of the Company’s 
performance in determining the vesting of Performance shares 
granted under the EIP and the performance condition for Performance 
shares was therefore based on the Company’s relative TSR rating 
against a comparator group of companies over a three year 
performance period as set out in the table below. As noted above,  
the vesting of future awards of Performance shares will be subject  
to more than one performance condition.
TSR ranking Proportion of Performance shares vesting (%)
Below median 0
Between median and upper 
quartile
On a straight line basis  
between 30 and 100
At or above upper quartile 100
For awards made prior to 2009, the comparator group consisted of 
the 30 largest companies by market capitalisation in the FTSE 
TechMARK 100 Index, excluding those companies who were also 
constituents of the FTSE 100 Index at the commencement of the 
performance period. For the award made on 30 November 2009, 
three non UK listed direct competitors were added to the comparator 
group. The Committee considers the selected comparator group 
provides a suitable benchmark for the Company’s TSR rating. In 
determining the TSR for the Company and its comparator group in 
respect of the award made on 30 November 2009, share prices are 
averaged over the 90 day period immediately prior to, and at the end 
of, the performance period. For previous awards, there was no 
averaging period.
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan
Grants made to Bill Burns in 2005 and 2006 under the SSIP were 
subject to a performance condition as set out below which was 
approved by shareholders in 2004. A 25 per cent tranche of each 
grant of SARs vested and became exercisable, subject to the 
attainment of a performance condition, on each of the first, second, 
third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant. The performance 
condition was measured against a fixed base year determined at the 
date of grant. Any tranche which did not meet the performance 
condition before the fourth anniversary of the date of grant was 
subject to a final testing on that fourth anniversary. The performance 
condition for this final testing was measured from the base year and 
the performance condition was increased in proportion to the four 
year performance period. Any tranche which did not vest after the 
fourth anniversary of the date of grant lapsed. The grants made to  
Mr Burns in 2005 and 2006 have now vested in full, having attained 
the relevant performance conditions. 48 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
r eport on directors’ remuneration continued
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan — performance condition schedule
Percentage of total grant tested (%)
Rate of growth in EPS in excess of growth 
in RPI over the performance period (%) Percentage of SARs vesting (%) Performance period
25 
(1st SAR tranche)
Below 6
6
Between 6 and 15
15 or above
0
25
On a straight line basis between 25 and 100
100
Year 1
25 
(2nd SAR tranche)
Below 12
12
Between 12 and 30
30 or above
0
25
On a straight line basis between 25 and 100
100
Years 1 and 2
25
(3rd SAR tranche)
Below 18
18
Between 18 and 45
45 or above
0
25
On a straight line basis between 25 and 100
100
Years 1, 2 and 3
25 (4th SAR tranche) plus any  
unvested tranches of 1st, 2nd  
and 3rd SAR tranches
Below 24
24
Between 24 and 60
60 or above
0
25
On a straight line basis between 25 and 100
100
Years 1, 2, 3 and 4
Shareholder dilution
The Committee is mindful of the need to manage shareholder dilution 
in a responsible manner. No share incentive awards have been made 
under the EIP since November 2009.
Overall shareholder dilution resulting from the Company’s share 
incentive plans (on a rolling 10 year basis) has fallen by 1.3 per cent 
when comparing the positions at 31 December 2010 (10.1 per cent) 
and 31 December 2009 (11.4 per cent). The overall number of share 
incentives outstanding has fallen by 12.8 million during the year to 
15.5 million at 31 December 2010 (2009 28.3 million).
Shareholder approval was given in 2005 to operate the EIP until 
2015, subject to further shareholder approval being required on the 
use of new issue shares and any material changes to the plan. No 
material changes to the EIP are proposed and therefore no specific 
shareholder approval is required at the 2011 AGM to continue to 
operate this plan.
Service contracts
It is the Company’s policy that service contracts for the executive 
directors have no fixed term and are capable of termination on no 
more than 12 months’ notice from either the Company or the 
executive director.
The contract dates and notice periods for each executive director are 
as follows:
Date of contract
Notice period 
by company 
month(s)
Notice period 
by director 
month(s)
Bill Burns 6 November 2008 1 1
Eric Hutchinson 13 December 1999 12 12
Both contracts contain provisions for the employer to make payment 
in lieu of notice and for removal of the director for poor performance 
or material misconduct without compensation. In the case of Eric 
Hutchinson, the Company will seek to apply practical mitigation 
measures to any payment of compensation on termination, taking 
into account all relevant circumstances. 49 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
In the case of Bill Burns, mitigation provisions are contained in his 
service contract. As noted above, Mr Burns’ service contract is with 
SCI and governed by the laws of the State of California, its termination 
provisions therefore reflect US practice. Either the employer or  
Mr Burns may terminate employment upon 30 days’ notice and, in 
addition to one month’s base salary (or payment in lieu) he would be 
entitled to accrued base salary, cash incentives, and vacation pay.  
Mr Burns would also be entitled to 11 months’ base salary subject to 
a set-off for any base salary earned from alternative employment 
during the 12 month period following termination (“severance 
period”) and monthly COBRA premium payments for the duration of 
the severance period subject to a set-off for health insurance 
provided by an alternative employer during the severance period.
Both service contracts contain appropriate provisions to protect the 
legitimate interests of the Company with respect to preventing any 
terminated director from working in a business which competes 
against the Company. Service contracts do not contain any 
compensation rights which could be increased on a change of control 
in the Company.
External appointments
The Company recognises that its executive directors may be invited to 
become non-executive directors of other companies and that such 
appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience, to the 
benefit of the Company. The director would then retain any related 
fees. At the date of this Report, neither Bill Burns nor Eric Hutchinson 
hold any such external positions.
Non-executive directors’ fees and letters of appointment
The Company’s remuneration policy with regard to non-executive 
directors is to pay fees which are in line with market practice. Fees are 
normally reviewed once every three years and were last reviewed on 
1 January 2011 when it was determined that fees would not be 
increased. Fees will next be reviewed on 1 January 2012. It is 
considered that non-executive director fees are at the median level 
for comparable companies. The basic annual fee for non-executive 
directors with effect from 1 January 2011 is £36,000. The Chairmen of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees each receive additional fees 
of £11,000 and £9,000 respectively.
All non-executive directors have a letter of appointment with the 
Company for a period of not more than three years, subject to the 
Company’s Articles of Association. Each letter provides for retirement 
every three years. However, in accordance with the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “New Code”), which replaces the existing 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 29 June 2010, the Board has agreed that all 
directors will stand for re-election at the 2011 AGM.
Details of individual appointments are as follows:
Director
First appointed
 a director
Current appointment 
due to expire
Ian Brindle
1
22 December 2006 2012 AGM
Duncan Lewis 1 July 2007 2011 AGM
Tom Maxwell 1 October 2007 2011 AGM
Alex Walker
1
22 December 2006 2012 AGM
1  As explained above, all directors will stand for re-election at the 2011 AGM.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection on request and 
will be available for inspection before and during the 2011 AGM. An 
example of a letter of appointment for a non-executive director is 
available on the Company’s website at www.spirent.com.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in cash 
incentive or share incentive arrangements and their service does not 
qualify for a pension or other benefits. No element of their fee is 
performance related.
During 2010, Messrs Bramson and Eastman, who both retired from 
the Board at the conclusion of the 2010 AGM on 5 May 2010, elected 
to have their fees paid to Sherborne Investors. 0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Rebased Index
Financial Year End
Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10
Spirent FTSE 250 FTSE TechMARK 100
2 
1 TSR is the growth in the value of a share or index, assuming dividends and other distributions are reinvested.
2 Excluding FTSE100 companies
50 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
r eport on directors’ remuneration continued
Total Shareholder Return performance
The graph below shows the TSR performance for the last five financial years of Spirent Communications plc against the FTSE 250 Index and the 
FTSE TechMARK 100 Index, excluding those companies who were also constituents of the FTSE 100 Index at the commencement of the period. 
The Committee believes that these provide broad equity market indices against which the performance of the Company can be fairly 
compared, and that the FTSE TechMARK 100 Index provides a particularly representative collection of comparator companies.
5-year TSR
1
 performance – Spirent vs FTSE TechMARK 100
2
 and FTSE 250
 
Part B Audited information
Directors’ remuneration
Individual and total remuneration for the year to 31 December 2010:
Base salary 
and fees 
$000
Taxable 
benefits 
$000
Performance 
related 
incentive 
paid in cash 
$000
Cash in lieu 
of pension 
$000
 Total 2010
2
$000
Total 2009
2
$000
Executive directors
Bill Burns 600.0 26.4 900.0 – 1,526.4 1,470.9
Eric Hutchinson
1
454.9 25.3 272.4 90.8 843.4 851.3
Non-executive directors
Edward Bramson
2
63.0 – – – 63.0 235.5
Ian Brindle 72.4 – – – 72.4 73.8
Gerard Eastman
2
19.1 – – – 19.1 56.5
Duncan Lewis 55.4 – – – 55.4 56.5
Tom Maxwell 65.8 – – – 65.8 56.5
Alex Walker 190.6 – – – 190.6 70.7
2010 1,521.2 51.7 1,172.4 90.8 2,836.1
2009 1,613.2 51.7 1,114.2 92.6 2,871.7
Notes
1 Eric Hutchinson earned a fee of $800 in respect of his services to the Board and its Committees.
2 These figures relate to the period of each director’s Board membership. 51 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Summary of directors’ remuneration
2010  
$000
2009  
$000
Total emoluments for all directors 2,836.1 2,871.7
Gains made on the exercise of share incentives
1
2,936.3 222.8
Contributions to 401(k) Pension Plan
2
9.8 9.8
5,782.2 3,104.3
Notes
1  2010: On 16 March, Eric Hutchinson exercised 1,128,000 ESOS share options granted on 5 August 2004 at an exercise price of 55.5 pence, selling the resulting shares at a fair 
market value of 120.1268 pence per share equating to a total gain of £728,990 ($1,122,645). On the same date, Mr Hutchinson also exercised 638,700 EIP stock appreciation 
rights granted at a base price of 53 pence on 25 August 2005 and 544,650 EIP stock appreciation rights granted at a base price of 47 .5 pence on 5 May 2006; the applicable fair 
market value was 122.80 pence per Ordinary Share and the exercises resulted in a total gain of £855,934 ($1,318,138). 
On 9 September, Bill Burns exercised 250,000 SSIP stock appreciation rights granted at a base price of 69.75 pence on 10 March 2005 and 200,000 SSIP stock appreciation rights 
granted at a base price of 53 pence on 25 August 2005; the applicable fair market value was 133.80 pence per Ordinary Share and the exercises resulted in a total gain of £321,725 
($495,457).
  2009: On 5 May 91,875 Performance shares vested and were allotted to Bill Burns. Mr Burns sold 36,922 Ordinary Shares to cover the tax liability arising on the deemed gain of 
£54,666 ($85,826) which was realised based on a market price of 59.5 pence per Ordinary Share and retained the remaining 54,953 Ordinary Shares. On 5 May 146,650 
Performance shares vested and were allotted to Eric Hutchinson. The shares were retained by Mr Hutchinson and a deemed gain of £87 ,257 ($136,993) was realised based on a 
market price of 59.5 pence per share.
2  A contribution of $9,800 was made to the 401(k) Pension Plan relating to Bill Burns, (2009 $9,800).
Directors’ interests in shares
The beneficial interests of the directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company are set out below:
At 31 December 2010
Ordinary Shares
1
At 31 December 2009
Ordinary Shares
1
Executive directors
Bill Burns 54,953 54,953
Eric Hutchinson 1,205,581 1,205,581
Non-executive directors
Edward Bramson
2
220,000 220,000
Ian Brindle 4,525 4,525
Gerard Eastman
2
40,000 40,000
Duncan Lewis – –
Tom Maxwell 26,955 26,955
Alex Walker 50,000 30,000
Notes
1 Directors’ beneficial holdings do not form part of the remuneration provided by the Company.
2   Holdings shown were at date of retirement from the Board. 52 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
r eport on directors’ remuneration continued
Plan type
1
At 
31 December 
2010
Lapsed 
during 
the 
period
Exercised 
during the 
period
Granted 
during 
the 
period
At  
1 January 
2010
Date of 
grant
Exercise 
price per 
share 
pence
Market 
price on 
date of 
grant 
pence
Date first 
exercisable
Expiry  
date
Bill Burns
SSIP – – 250,000 – 250,000 10 Mar 05 70 70 15 Nov 05 10 Mar 12
SSIP 62,500 – 200,000 – 262,500 25 Aug 05 53 53 25 Aug 08 25 Aug 12
SSIP 170,625 – – – 170,625 05 May 06 48 48 05 May 07 05 May 13
EIP 374,000 – – – 374,000 07 Nov 08 51 51 07 Nov 11 07 Nov 18
EIP 374,000 – – – 374,000 07 Nov 08 nil
2
51 07 Nov 11 07 Nov 11
EIP 377,953 – – – 377,953 30 Nov 09 nil
2
98 30 Nov 12 30 Nov 12
Eric Hutchinson
ESOS 234,000 – – – 234,000 02 Apr 02 134 134 02 Apr 06 02 Apr 12
ESOS 387,000 – – – 387,000 02 May 02 113 113 02 May 06 02 May 12
SRSOS 24,721 – – – 24,721 26 Sep 03 38 38 01 Jan 11 01 Jul 11
ESOS – – 1,128,000 – 1,128,000 05 Aug 04 56 56 05 Aug 08 05 Aug 14
EIP 56,600 – 638,700 – 695,300 25 Aug 05 53 53 25 Aug 08 25 Aug 15
EIP – – 544,650 – 544,650 05 May 06 48 48 05 May 09 05 May 16
EIP 151,829 – – – 151,829 30 Nov 09 nil
2
98 30 Nov 12 30 Nov 12
Notes
An explanation of each share plan and its operation is given in note 28 to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group and note 16 to the parent Company financial statements.
1 Key to share plan:
 EIP – 2005 Employee Incentive Plan.
 ESOS – 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme.
 SRSOS – UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
 SSIP – Spirent Stock Incentive Plan.
2   This relates to an award of Performance shares under the EIP. There is no exercise price payable for a Performance share upon vesting. Further details on Performance shares are 
provided above.
Events since 31 December 2010
On 1 January 2011 Eric Hutchinson received 24,721 Spirent Savings Related Share Option Scheme options at an exercise price of 38 pence per 
share, having elected to do so on 21 October 2010.
On 24 January 2011, Bill Burns acquired 96 Ordinary Shares under the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan and Eric Hutchinson acquired 
184 Ordinary Shares under the UK Employee Share Purchase Plan, both at a price of 134.6 pence per share.
On 24 February 2011, Bill Burns acquired 248 Ordinary Shares under the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan and Eric Hutchinson acquired 
166 Ordinary Shares under the UK Employee Share Purchase Plan, both at a price of 150.3 pence per share.
At the date of this Report, Mr Burns has a beneficial interest in the Company of 55,297 Ordinary Shares and holds 1,359,078 share incentive 
awards and Mr Hutchinson has a beneficial interest in the Company of 1,230,652 Ordinary Shares and holds 829,429 share incentive awards.
The middle market price of an Ordinary Share at the close of business on 4 January 2010 (being the first day the London Stock Exchange was 
open for trading in 2010) and 31 December 2010 was 104.0 pence and 147 .8 pence, respectively, and during that period ranged between a 
high of 160.3 pence and a low of 102.8 pence.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Tom Maxwell
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
3 March 2011 53 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Independent aud Itors’ report to the members  
of s p Irent Commun ICat Ions pl C
We have audited the Group financial statements of Spirent 
Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which 
comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance 
sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement and the Consolidated 
statement of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 33. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we  
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 40, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at  –
31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended;
Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  –
by the European Union; and
Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the  –
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
The information given in the Report of the directors for the  –
financial year for which the Group financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are  –
not made; or
We have not received all the information and explanations we  –
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
The directors’ statement, set out on  – page 38, in relation to going 
concern; and
The part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the  –
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review; and
Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on  –
directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial 
statements of Spirent Communications plc for the year ended  
31 December 2010 and on the information in the Report on directors’ 
remuneration that is described as having been audited. 
Richard Wilson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London
3 March 2011
The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 54 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
Consol Idated In Come statement Year to 31 December Notes
2010 
$ million 
2009
(restated)
1
 
$ million
Revenue 3, 4 482.2 427.2
Cost of sales (161.1) (143.8)
Gross profit 321.1 283.4
Product development 4 (80.2) (74.6)
Selling and distribution (87.9) (78.0)
Administration (40.3) (44.0)
Operating profit 4 112.7 86.8
Finance income 6 0.8 0.6
Finance costs 7 (1.3) (2.5)
Profit before tax 4, 5 112.2 84.9
Tax 10 (33.1) 6.3
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 79.1 91.2
Earnings per share (cents) 11
Basic 11.77 13.67
Diluted 11.66 13.60
1 Restated due to the change in the Group’s reporting currency, as set out in note 2. Refer to note 32 for details.   
All activities relate to continuing operations.   
The notes on pages 59 to 102 and page 121 form part of these financial statements.     55 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Consol Idated statement of Comprehens Ive In Come Year to 31 December Notes
2010 
$ million
2009
(restated)
1
 
$ million
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 79.1 91.2
Other comprehensive income
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 24 (0.6) 8.0
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations (3.3) 14.1
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans 9 8.6 (2.2)
Irrecoverable element of defined benefit pension plan surplus 9 (1.9) –
Deferred tax (charge)/credit on defined benefit pension plans 10 (0.9) 0.9
Other comprehensive income 1.9 20.8
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 81.0 112.0
   
1 Restated due to the change in the Group’s reporting currency, as set out in note 2. Refer to note 32 for details.   
The notes on pages 59 to 102 and page 121 form part of these financial statements.  56 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
Consol Idated balan Ce sheet At 31 December Notes
2010 
$ million
2009
(restated)
1
 
$ million
2008
(restated)
1
 
$ million
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 112.0 112.4 111.7
Property, plant and equipment 14 29.1 23.6 26.8
Trade and other receivables 18 3.6 3.7 3.6
Cash on deposit 19 1.1 1.8 3.6
Defined benefit pension plan surplus 9 7.7 1.0 3.7 
Deferred tax 21 31.3 42.5 17.5
184.8 185.0 166.9 
Current assets
Inventories 17 37.6 28.1 34.8
Trade and other receivables 18 98.2 81.3 89.9
Derivative financial instruments 24 – 1.0 –
Cash and cash equivalents 19 223.9 173.9 86.0
359.7 284.3 210.7 
Total assets 544.5 469.3 377.6 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 (108.5) (86.6) (91.4)
Current tax (13.0) (10.3) (6.6)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (0.2) (0.2) (8.1)
Provisions and other liabilities 23 (5.1) (6.1) (5.3)
(126.8) (103.2) (111.4)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (7.5) (7.9) (7.3)
Defined benefit pension plan deficit 9 (0.6) (1.1) (0.9)
Provisions and other liabilities 23 (2.5) (5.3) (11.8)
(10.6) (14.3) (20.0)
Total liabilities (137.4) (117.5) (131.4)
Net assets 407.1 351.8 246.2 
Capital and reserves 27
Share capital 35.3 36.4 32.2 
Share premium account 31.4 29.5 24.8 
Capital redemption reserve 17.3 17.1 15.3 
Capital reserve – 1.6 2.0 
Other reserves 1.6 (0.6) 7.6 
Translation reserve 19.3 22.6 8.5 
Cash flow hedge reserve – 0.6 (6.8)
Retained earnings 302.2 244.6 162.6 
Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 407.1 351.8 246.2
 
1 Restated due to the change in the Group’s reporting currency, as set out in note 2. Refer to note 32 for details.    
The notes on pages 59 to 102 and page 121 form part of these financial statements.    
Signed on behalf of the Board   
Eric Hutchinson   
Director   
3 March 2011    57 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
Consol Idated Cash flo W statement Year to 31 December Notes
2010 
$ million
2009
(restated)
1
 
$ million
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash flow from operations 30 116.9 106.3
Tax paid (17.5) (10.2)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 99.4 96.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.8 0.6
Transfer from long term deposit 0.6 2.2
Purchase of intangible assets (0.1) (0.3)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (18.1) (10.1)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 0.6 0.2
Net cash used in investing activities (16.2) (7.4)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividend paid (13.7) (12.1)
Proceeds from the issue of share capital and employee share ownership trust 4.7 3.8
Share repurchase (19.7) (1.1)
Net cash used in financing activities (28.7) (9.4)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 54.5 79.3
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 173.9 86.0
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (4.5) 8.6
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 19 223.9 173.9
   
1 Restated due to the change in the Group’s reporting currency, as set out in note 2. Refer to note 32 for details.   
   
The notes on pages 59 to 102 and page 121 form part of these financial statements.    58 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
Consol Idated statement of Chan Ges In e Qu It Y
$ million
Share 
capital
Share 
premium 
account
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Capital 
reserve
Other 
reserves
Translation 
reserve
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
At 1 January 2009 (restated)
1
32.2 24.8 15.3 2.0 7.6 8.5 (6.8) 162.6 246.2
Total comprehensive income (a) – – – – – 14.1 8.0 89.9 112.0
Share-based payment note 29 – – – – – – – 0.6 0.6
Deferred tax credit on share incentives note 10 – – – – – – – 1.7 1.7
Current tax on share incentives note 10 – – – – – – – 0.5 0.5
New shares issued note 27 0.3 1.8 – – – – – – 2.1
Employee share ownership trust note 27 – – – – – – – 1.7 1.7
Share repurchase note 27 – – – – – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Equity dividends note 12 – – – – – – – (12.1) (12.1)
Other movements note 27 – – – (0.6) – – – 0.6 –
Exchange adjustment 3.9 2.9 1.8 0.2 (8.2) – (0.6) – –
At 1 January 2010 (restated)
1
36.4 29.5 17.1 1.6 (0.6) 22.6 0.6 244.6 351.8
Total comprehensive income (b) – – – – – (3.3) (0.6) 84.9 81.0
Share-based payment note 29 – – – – – – – 0.4 0.4
Deferred tax credit on share incentives note 10 – – – – – – – 2.6 2.6
New shares issued note 27 0.3 2.7 – (0.2) – – – – 2.8
Share cancellation note 27 (0.5) – 0.5 – – – – – –
Employee share ownership trust note 27 – – – – – – – 1.9 1.9
Share repurchase note 27 – – – – – – – (19.7) (19.7)
Equity dividends note 12 – – – – – – – (13.7) (13.7)
Other movements note 27 – – – (1.2) – – – 1.2 –
Exchange adjustment (0.9) (0.8) (0.3) (0.2) 2.2 – – – –
At 31 December 2010 35.3 31.4 17.3 – 1.6 19.3 – 302.2 407.1
         
1 Restated due to the change in the Group’s reporting currency, as set out in note 2. Refer to note 32 for details.
(a) The amount included in retained earnings for 2009 of $89.9 million represents profit attributable to the owners of the parent of  
$91.2 million less actuarial losses of $2.2 million in respect of the defined benefit pension plans, net of a tax credit of $0.9 million.      
 The amount included in the translation reserve of $14.1 million represents other comprehensive income related to the translation of  
foreign operations.           
 The amount included within cash flow hedges of $8.0 million is in relation to movements on cash flow hedges, see note 24.
(b)  The amount included in retained earnings for 2010 of $84.9 million represents profit attributable to the owners of the parent of  
$79.1 million plus actuarial gains of $8.6 million in respect of the defined benefit pension plans less an amount for the movement on the 
irrecoverable element of the pension plan surplus of $1.9 million, net of a tax charge of $0.9 million.           
 The amount included in the translation reserve of $3.3 million represents other comprehensive income related to the translation of  
foreign operations.
 The amount included within cash flow hedges of $0.6 million is in relation to movements on cash flow hedges, see note 24.
The notes on pages 59 to 102 and page 121 form part of these financial statements. 59 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements 1. Corporate information 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on  
3 March 2011. Spirent Communications plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s 
Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange. 
As required by the European Union’s (“EU”) IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006, the Group has prepared its consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU and issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board. 
The Company has elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards. These are presented on 
pages 104 to 121 and the accounting policies in respect of the Company are set out on pages 105 to 108.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except unless otherwise indicated. 
The Group has prepared its financial statements under IFRS. The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 
consolidated financial statements are set out below and the accounting policies adopted are consistent with those applied in the consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 although the comparative financial information has been restated for the change in 
reporting currency referred to below.
Change in reporting currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars following a decision to change the reporting currency from sterling during 
the year. The change was made in order to give a clearer understanding of Spirent’s performance, more closely reflecting the profile of the 
Group’s revenue and operating profit which are primarily generated in US dollars or US dollar-linked currencies. 
The currency translation reserve was set to zero at 1 January 2003 on transition to IFRS and has been re-presented on the basis that the Group 
has reported in US dollars since that date. Share capital, share premium account, capital redemption reserve, capital reserve and cash flow 
hedge reserve are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and the resultant exchange differences are 
included in other reserves.
The reporting currency of the parent Company remains as sterling, as it is located in the United Kingdom and its functional currency is sterling. 
It will retain its share capital denominated in sterling.
Since the change in reporting currency has been applied retrospectively all comparative numbers in these consolidated financial statements 
have been restated into US dollars. Note 32 sets out in detail how the financial statements have been converted.
New accounting standards
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time in the current period and have 
been adopted by the Group with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position.
International Accounting Standards (“IAS/IFRS”)
IAS 27 (revised) Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 – Eligible Hedged Items
IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2 – Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions
IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash assets to Owners
Improvements to IFRSs (April 2009)
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each 
year. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting 
policies.  60 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred out of the Group. All intra Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries, representing the excess of cost over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised as an intangible asset. Goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is subject to an annual review for impairment. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-
generating units monitored by management. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, 
including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. 
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit, an operation within a cash-generating unit, an associate or jointly 
controlled entity is included in the profit or loss on its disposal. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Separately identifiable intangible 
assets such as patent fees, licence fees, trademarks and customer lists and relationships are capitalised on the balance sheet only when the 
value can be measured reliably, or the intangible asset is purchased as part of the acquisition of a business. Such intangible assets are 
amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line basis. The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Product development
Research expenditure is recognised in the year in which it is incurred. Intangible assets arising on the Group’s various product development 
projects are recognised only if the recognition criteria of IAS 38 “Intangible Assets” are met. 
Product development costs are expensed as incurred until the technological feasibility of the product under development has been 
established. Technological feasibility in Spirent’s circumstances occurs when a working model is completed. For software development 
technological feasibility is not established until the process of developing the software is complete. After technological feasibility is 
established, additional costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life.
At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 no amounts have met the recognition criteria.
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment. Depreciation is not provided on 
freehold land. Depreciation is provided to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of all other assets over their estimated useful lives 
on a straight line basis at rates which take into account commercial conditions at their location. Usual asset lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years
Fixtures, fittings and equipment
Building installations 20 years or lease period if less
Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years
Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years
Business systems software 4 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. 
Impairment of assets 
Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment at each reporting date where there is an 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are assessed at least annually. When an 
impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of the expected cash 61 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
flows (value in use) of the relevant cash-generating unit or asset and the fair value less cost to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the asset. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered 
impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in those expense 
categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Where an impairment loss has been recognised against an asset, it may be reversed in future periods where there has been a change in the 
estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised, but only to the extent that the 
asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no 
impairment loss been recognised in prior years. This does not apply for goodwill, for which an impairment loss must not be reversed in any 
circumstances. Such a reversal is recognised in the income statement. 
Leases 
Operating leases are leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset and are not finance 
leases. Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for obsolescence. Cost includes all costs in 
bringing each product to its present location and condition, being the full manufacturing cost on a first-in-first-out basis, including all 
attributable overheads based on a normal level of activity. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recorded when the Group has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that 
the Group will be required to settle by an outflow of resources and for which a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. 
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. 
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision shall be the present value of the expenditures expected to 
be required to settle the obligation. 
Foreign currencies 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Group’s presentation currency. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. All exchange differences are taken to the 
consolidated income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are measured in terms of historical 
costs using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction.
The functional currencies of the Group’s operations are principally US dollar, sterling or euro. On consolidation the assets and liabilities of the 
Group’s foreign operations are translated into the Group’s presentation currency at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The results 
of foreign operations are translated into US dollars using average rates. The exchange differences arising on retranslation are classified as a 
separate component of equity, the translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as part of the profit or loss on disposal 
should an operation be disposed of. The Group has elected to apply the exemption in IFRS 1 “First Time Adoption of International Financial 
Reporting Standards” which allows the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be deemed to be zero at the date of 
transition to IFRS, being 1 January 2003. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument.
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at original invoiced amount less an appropriate allowance for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. Such allowances are based on an assessment of debtor ageing, past experience or known customer exposures. 62 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less. For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as 
defined above. There are no bank overdrafts.
Trade payables
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at the original invoiced amount. 
Equity instruments 
Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Spirent Communications plc Ordinary Shares held by the 
Group are classified in shareholders’ equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost and included as a deduction from retained earnings. 
Consideration received for the sale of such treasury shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale 
and the original cost being taken to retained earnings. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses forward foreign currency exchange contracts to manage exposures arising on receipts and payments in foreign currencies 
relating to firm commitments. Previously the Group also managed exposures arising on highly probable forecast transactions. This change in 
treasury policy arose as a consequence of the change in the Group’s reporting currency from sterling to US dollars. 
As the number of transactions now being hedged is significantly reduced and restricted to items which affect profit or loss or are recognised 
on the balance sheet at the balance sheet date, the Group has ceased to adopt the hedge accounting rules for all transactions entered into 
since the decision was taken to change the reporting currency. The Group previously designated its forward foreign currency exchange 
contracts as cash flow hedges and such designation was maintained until maturity of those remaining contracts in 2010.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the contract is entered into, and are 
subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reported balance sheet date. The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is 
calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Changes in the fair value of contracts which were designated as effective hedges were recognised directly in other comprehensive income and 
the gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge recognised immediately in the income statement. For derivatives that do not qualify for 
hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income statement. For effective hedges that were in 
relation to a financial asset or liability, amounts originally deferred were recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the 
hedged item affected profit or loss, for example when a highly probable forecast sale occurred. For non-financial assets or liabilities, the gains 
or losses that were included in equity were included in the initial measurement of the non-financial asset or liability at the time the asset or 
liability was recognised on the balance sheet.
The Group discontinued hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expired or was sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer met the 
criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revoked the designation. Gains or losses arising on hedging instruments, which were cancelled due 
to termination of the underlying exposure, were taken to the income statement immediately. 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts. 
 
Retirement benefits
The Group operates two funded defined benefit pension plans which are in the United Kingdom, all other pension plans are defined 
contribution in nature. For the defined contribution plans the amount charged to the income statement is the contributions paid or payable 
during the year.
For defined benefit pension plans full actuarial valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit method, and 
updates are performed at each balance sheet date. The cost of providing benefits under these plans is determined separately for each plan, 
and attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost), and to the current and prior periods (to 
determine the present value of defined benefit obligations). Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis 
over the vesting period or immediately if the benefits have vested. When a settlement (eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued), 
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED 63 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
or a curtailment (reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the plan membership or a reduction in future entitlement) 
occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in 
the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest element of the defined benefit pension plan cost represents the change in present value of plan obligations resulting from the 
passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account 
material changes in the obligation during the year. The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of 
the year of long term market returns on plan assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received, and 
benefits paid during the year. The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the income 
statement as finance costs or finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between actual and expected returns on plan assets, experience adjustments on liabilities 
and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
The defined benefit pension plan asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation (using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds denominated in the same currency and whose term is 
consistent with the estimated term of the obligation), less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of 
which the obligations are to be settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the 
published bid price. The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present 
value of any amount the Group expects to recover, by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group, the revenue can be reliably measured and when the 
Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership. In addition, revenue is only recognised when collectability  
is probable. 
For the sale of services, revenue is recognised in accounting periods in which the service is rendered. Revenue from maintenance contracts is 
recognised over the period of performance on a straight line basis.
Revenue from product sales of hardware and software is recognised at the time of delivery and acceptance and when there are no significant 
vendor obligations remaining. It is not until acceptance has occurred that the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. 
Terms of acceptance are dependent upon the specific contractual arrangement agreed with the customer.
Contractual arrangements are accounted for as two or more separate transactions only where the commercial substance is that the individual 
components operate independently of each other, because they are capable of being provided separately from one another and it is possible 
to attribute reliable fair values to every component. To the extent that a separate component comprises a product sale of hardware or 
software, revenue is recognised as described above. Revenue is recognised on other components as the Group fulfils its contractual 
obligations and to the extent that it has earned the right to consideration. 
Employee benefits 
When an employee has rendered services to the Group during an accounting period, short term benefits expected to be paid in exchange for 
those services are recognised in the same accounting period. 
Share-based payment
The Group operates various equity-settled share-based compensation plans and accounts for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 
“Share-based Payment”. In accordance with the transitional provisions available on first-time adoption of IFRS, the Standard has been applied 
to awards granted after 7 November 2002 which were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The fair value of these awards is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period together with a corresponding 
change in equity. The fair value is measured using a binomial model by reference to the share price at the date the awards were granted and taking 
into account the best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest. The charge is reassessed at each balance sheet date to reflect the 
expected and actual levels of vesting, except where the failure to vest is a result of not meeting a market condition. Awards where vesting is  64 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
conditional upon satisfying a market condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market condition has been satisfied.
The Group has an employee share trust for the granting of certain share incentives to employees. Shares in the Group held by the employee 
share trust are treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
Tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 
extent that it relates to items in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable for previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in 
the financial statements, with the following exceptions:
Where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business  –
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. 
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of  –
the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Dividends paid
The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the period it is approved by the directors, and the final dividend in the period it 
is approved by the shareholders at an annual general meeting.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect items reported. Such estimates and 
assumptions are based on management’s best knowledge of current facts, circumstances and future events, actual results may differ, 
possibly significantly, from those estimates. The areas requiring a high degree of judgement or where assumptions and estimates are 
significant to the consolidated financial statements are discussed below.
Goodwill impairment
The Group tests annually by cash-generating unit whether goodwill has suffered impairment and more frequently when events or 
circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been 
determined based on value in use calculations which require the use of estimates and assumptions. These are described in note 13.
Defined benefit pension plans
The pension cost and the defined benefit obligation of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans are based on a number of selected 
assumptions, these include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth, longevity and expected return on the plans’ assets. Differences 
arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in future periods. The effect of changing these assumptions 
is described in note 9. 65 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition
For revenue recognition purposes contractual arrangements are accounted for as two or more separate transactions only where the 
commercial substance is that the individual components operate independently of each other, because they are capable of being provided 
separately from one another and it is possible to attribute reliable fair values to every component. To the extent that a separate component 
comprises a product sale of hardware or software, revenue is recognised as described above. Revenue is recognised on other components as 
the Group fulfils its contractual obligations and to the extent that it has earned the right to consideration. Management exercises a degree of 
judgement in setting the criteria used for determining when revenue which involves several elements should be recognised.
Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of tax jurisdictions and judgement is applied in determining the worldwide provision for 
income taxes. There are many transactions for which the final tax determinability is uncertain. For example liabilities are recognised for 
anticipated tax audit issues based on whether additional taxes are likely to be due based on the facts and circumstances known at the time 
the financial statements are prepared. Where the final outcome differs from the amounts that were initially recorded the differences will be 
recorded in the future period in which the determination is made.
Deferred taxes
The extent to which deferred tax assets can be recognised is based on current forecasts and estimates prepared by management. A change to 
these forecasts and estimates could result in a different recognition outcome.
Provisions
The Group records a provision for vacant property based on future rentals and reduced by its expected ability to sublease the vacant space to 
a third party. Provisions are discounted where the effect is significant. Changes in the actual outcome compared with the expected outcome 
on subleasing or changes to other assumptions will be recorded in future periods.
New standards and interpretations not applied
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for the Group after the date of these financial 
statements:
International Accounting 
Standards (“IAS/IFRS”)
Effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after
IAS 12 Amendments to IAS 12 – Deferred Tax Recovery of Underlying Assets 1 January 2012
IAS 24 (revised) Related Party Disclosures 1 January 2011
IAS 32 Amendment to IAS 32 – Classification of Rights Issues 1 February 2010
IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 – Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for  
First-time Adopters 1 July 2011
IFRS 7 Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets 1 July 2011
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2013
IFRIC 14 Amendment to IFRIC 14 – Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement 1 January 2011
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010
Improvements to IFRSs (May 2010) Various
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s financial 
statements in the period of initial application.
3. Revenue      
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Sale of goods 402.6 355.6
Maintenance and support services 79.6 71.6
Total revenue 482.2 427.2 66 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
4. Operating segments
The Group’s organisational structure is based on differences in the products and services offered by each segment and information regularly 
reviewed by the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, its chief operating decision maker, is presented on this basis. The Group’s operating segments 
follow this structure, however where operating segments exhibit similar economic characteristics and are similar in nature they are aggregated 
into a single reportable segment. 
The Group’s reportable operating segments are Performance Analysis, Service Assurance and Systems. The Group evaluates segment 
operating profit before share-based payment, acquired intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items, although there were no 
exceptional operating items in 2010 or 2009. Finance income and finance costs are not allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate  
is not an operating segment and costs are separately reported and not allocated to the reportable segments. 
Corporate assets comprise cash and cash equivalents held for central treasury purposes and other corporate assets. Information on segment 
liabilities is not regularly provided to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer and is therefore not disclosed below.
The principal activities of each reportable operating segment are as follows:
Performance Analysis provides solutions that test a broad range of communications technologies critical to the development of   –
next-generation network equipment and devices.
Service Assurance provides network monitoring and field test solutions to allow service providers to diagnose, troubleshoot and determine  –
how to resolve issues with networks and systems within the live network.
Systems develops and supplies sophisticated electronic control systems for electrically powered vehicles in the medical mobility and  –
industrial markets.
2010 
$ million
Performance 
Analysis
Service 
Assurance Systems Corporate Total
Revenue
External revenue 365.8 57.0 59.4 – 482.2
There were no inter-segment sales.
Profit before tax
Total reportable segment profit/(loss) 97.9 13.0 8.8 (5.2) 114.5
Unallocated amounts
Acquired intangible asset amortisation (1.4)
Share-based payment note 29 (0.4)
Operating profit 112.7
Finance income 0.8
Finance costs (1.3)
Profit before tax 112.2
Other information
Product development 65.9 9.9 4.4 – 80.2
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment note 14 16.3 1.2 0.6 – 18.1
Depreciation note 14 10.0 1.3 0.5 0.1 11.9
Intangible asset amortisation – other 0.2 – – – 0.2
Segment assets 264.1 17.7 22.7 240.0 544.5
Segment cash flows
Operating activities 98.4 17.5 7.7 (24.2) 99.4
Investing activities (15.8) (1.2) (0.6) 1.4 (16.2)
Financing activities – – – (28.7) (28.7)
82.6 16.3 7.1 (51.5) 54.5 67 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
4. Operating segments continued
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Performance 
Analysis
Service 
Assurance Systems Corporate Total
Revenue
External revenue 316.8 52.6 57.8 – 427.2
There were no inter-segment sales.
Profit before tax
Total reportable segment profit/(loss) 78.3 7.5 7.9 (4.9) 88.8
Unallocated amounts
Acquired intangible asset amortisation (1.4)
Share-based payment note 29 (0.6)
Operating profit 86.8
Finance income 0.6
Finance costs (2.5)
Profit before tax 84.9
Other information
Product development 60.7 10.0 3.9 – 74.6
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment note 14 9.0 0.8 0.3 – 10.1
Depreciation note 14 11.8 1.1 0.6 – 13.5
Intangible asset amortisation – other 0.5 – – – 0.5
Segment assets 242.2 13.0 21.4 192.7 469.3
Segment cash flows
Operating activities 92.4 10.4 10.4 (17.1) 96.1
Investing activities (9.1) (0.8) (0.3) 2.8 (7.4)
Financing activities – – – (9.4) (9.4)
83.3 9.6 10.1 (23.7) 79.3
Geographical information      
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Revenue by market
Europe 79.5 69.2
United States 248.5 212.4
Asia Pacific, Rest of Americas, Africa 154.2 145.6
482.2 427.2
Europe includes United Kingdom revenue of $14.7 million (2009 $14.0 million).
Revenues are attributed to countries based on customer location.  
   68 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
4. Operating segments continued
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Non-current assets
Europe 4.1 5.5
United States 133.5 128.8
Asia Pacific, Rest of Americas, Africa 3.5 1.7
141.1 136.0
Europe includes United Kingdom non-current assets of $3.2 million (2009 $4.8 million).  
No one customer accounted for 10 per cent or more of total Group revenue in either 2010 or 2009. 
5. Profit before tax  
The following items have been charged or (credited) in arriving at profit before tax:   
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Employee benefit costs note 8 169.7 160.1
Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 125.5 103.8
Write-down of inventories to net realisable value note 17 1.0 1.7
Amortisation of intangible assets note 13 1.6 1.9
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Owned assets note 14 11.9 13.5
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.1
Operating leases
Minimum lease payments 11.7 10.7
Sublease income (1.0) (0.8)
Product development costs note 4 80.2 74.6
Net foreign exchange charge 0.4 5.5
  
Services provided to all of the operations of the Group by the auditor, Ernst & Young LLP , and its associates:  
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Audit services
Statutory audit 0.4 0.4
Other fees to auditors
Local statutory audits for subsidiaries 0.4 0.4
Other audit related services – 0.1
Other services relating to tax 0.1 0.1
0.5 0.6
0.9 1.0
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Directors’ statement on corporate governance and includes an explanation of 
how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors. 69 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
6. Finance income 
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Interest receivable 0.8 0.6
7 . Finance costs  
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Bank fees – 0.5
Leasehold provisions discount unwind note 23 0.1 0.3
Defined benefit pension plans note 9 1.2 1.7
1.3 2.5
8. Employees  
The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was:  
2010 
Number
2009 
Number
Manufacturing 402 414
Product development 503 500
Selling and distribution 376 362
Administration 179 173
1,460 1,449
 
Employee benefit costs were:  
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Remuneration 151.6 143.2
Social security costs 12.5 11.3
Pension and other related costs 5.2 5.0
Expense of share-based payment note 29 0.4 0.6
169.7 160.1
Please refer to the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 45 to 52 for disclosures relating to the emoluments, share incentives and 
pensions of the directors.
9. Pensions
Defined benefit plans
The funded defined benefit pension plans are in the United Kingdom and comprise the Spirent Communications plc Staff Pension & Life 
Assurance Plan (“Staff Plan”) and the Spirent Communications plc Retirement Cash & Life Assurance Plan (“Cash Plan”). The Staff Plan is the 
Group’s most significant plan. There is in addition a United Kingdom unfunded plan. 70 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
9. Pensions continued
The assets and liabilities on the balance sheet are as follows: 
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
2008 
(restated) 
$ million
Assets
UK defined benefit pension plan – Staff Plan 7.1 – 3.0
UK defined benefit pension plan – Cash Plan 0.6 1.0 0.7
7.7 1.0 3.7
Liabilities
UK defined benefit pension plan – Staff Plan – (0.5) –
UK unfunded plan (0.6) (0.6) (0.9)
(0.6) (1.1) (0.9)
The valuation used for these disclosures has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the Plans as at 1 April 2009. The present 
values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs were measured using the projected unit 
credit method.
   
i) The key financial assumptions 
The assumptions used for both plans were as follows: 
2010
%
2009
%
2008
%
Inflation – RPI 3.4 3.4 3.0
Inflation – CPI 2.5 n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.9 3.9 3.5
Rate of increase for pensions in payment pre 2001 service 3.7 3.7 3.6
Rate of increase for pensions in payment post 2001 pre April 2005 service 3.2 3.2 2.9
Rate of increase for pensions post April 2005 service 2.2 2.2 2.1
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.5 3.4 3.0
Rate used to discount plan liabilities 5.5 5.7 6.0
Expected rate of return on plan assets (weighted for both plans) 5.8 5.6 5.2
Spirent Communications plc employs a building block approach in determining the long term rate of return on plans’ assets. Historical markets 
are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted capital market principles. 
The assumed long term rate of return on each class of asset is set out within this note. The overall expected rate of return on assets is then 
derived by aggregating the expected return of each asset class over the actual asset allocation for the plans. 
Following the UK Government’s announcement in 2010, the inflation index to be used to derive statutory increases to pensions, both before 
and after they come into payment, has been changed from the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”) to the Consumer Prices Index (“CPI”). In the Staff 
Plan, the increases provided to pensions before they come into payment are at the statutory level and hence are impacted by this change. 
However, the increases provided to pensions after they come into payment are prescribed by the plan rules and are not impacted. Due to a 
number of differences between the indices, including both constituents and construction, CPI is expected to be lower than RPI over the long 
term which means that the defined benefit obligation has reduced. This reduction has been recognised as an assumption change at 31 
December 2010.
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The assumptions are such 
that a member currently aged 68 (2009 aged 68; 2008 aged 65) will live on average for a further 19.2 years (2009 19.1 years; 2008 21.7 years) 
if they are male and for a further 21.0 years (2009 20.9 years; 2008 24.0 years) if they are female. For a member who retires in 2020 (2009 in 
2019; 2008 in 2028) at age 64 (2009 age 64; 2008 age 65) the assumptions are that they will live on average for a further 23.7 years (2009 
23.6 years; 2008 22.9 years) after retirement if they are male and for a further 25.6 years (2009 25.5 years; 2008 25.0 years) after retirement if 
they are female.  71 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
9. Pensions continued
The approximate impact to the past service liabilities of changing these main assumptions is as follows: 
Reducing the discount rate by 0.1 per cent per annum. This would increase past service liabilities by $3.1 million.  –
Increasing the life expectancy of a member by one year (by modifying the standard mortality tables using an appropriate scaling factor).  –
This would increase past service liabilities by $7 .1 million. 
There will also be an impact on the future service cost but given the small active population in these plans this is likely to be insignificant.
ii) The assets and the liabilities in the plans       
Long term 
rate of return 
expected 
%
2010 
$ million
Long term 
rate of return 
expected 
%
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Long term 
rate of return 
expected 
%
2008 
(restated) 
$ million
Staff Plan
Equities 8.5 55.4 8.5 49.3 8.0 35.8
Government bonds 4.0 61.7 4.3 51.8 4.0 86.8
Corporate bonds 5.0 73.9 5.1 92.3 5.7 37.0
Insured annuities 5.5 4.6 5.7 4.7 5.7 5.5
Property 8.4 20.7 9.0 5.8 7.0 5.9
Cash and other 1.0 3.5 1.0 7.2 2.7 5.2
Fair value of plan assets 5.9 219.8 5.7 211.1 5.3 176.2
Present value of defined benefit pension plan obligations (210.5) (211.6) (172.9)
Surplus/(deficit) in the plan 9.3 (0.5) 3.3
Irrecoverable element of pension plan surplus (2.2) – (0.3)
Surplus/(deficit) in the plan on the balance sheet 7.1 (0.5) 3.0
Cash Plan
Equities 8.5 3.8 8.5 2.9 8.0 2.3
Government bonds 4.1 3.3 4.4 4.3 4.0 3.0
Insured annuities 5.5 0.3 5.7 0.3 4.0 0.4
Cash and other 1.0 3.4 1.0 3.4 2.7 4.2
Fair value of plan assets 4.6 10.8 4.5 10.9 4.4 9.9
Present value of defined benefit pension plan obligations (10.2) (9.6) (9.2)
Surplus in the plan 0.6 1.3 0.7
Irrecoverable element of pension plan surplus – (0.3) –
Surplus in the plan on the balance sheet 0.6 1.0 0.7
The plans are prohibited from investing in Spirent’s own financial instruments.      
For the purposes of the following disclosures the two plans have been combined as the Cash Plan is immaterial to these financial statements. 72 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
9. Pensions continued
iii) Analysis of the amounts charged/(credited) to the income statement       
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Analysis of amount charged to operating costs
Current service cost 0.3 0.2
Expected return on pension plans’ assets 10.5 10.1
Interest on pension plans’ liabilities (11.7) (11.8)
Finance costs note 7 (1.2) (1.7)
Net charge to the income statement 1.5 1.9
iv) Analysis of amount recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income      
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Actual return on pension plans’ assets 21.4 21.8
Less expected return on pension plans’ assets 10.5 10.1
Experience gains on plans’ assets 10.9 11.7
Experience losses arising on plans’ liabilities (0.6) (3.9)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of plans’ liabilities (1.7) (10.0)
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised directly in equity 8.6 (2.2)
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 January 2003 in the statement of comprehensive income is 
$12.5 million loss (2009 $21.1 million loss). The directors are unable to determine how much of the pension plan deficit recognised on 
1 January 2003 and taken directly to equity of $67 .5 million in the Group is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of  
those pension plans. Consequently, the directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been 
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income before 1 January 2003. 
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Movement in the irrecoverable element of the pension plan surplus (1.9) –
v) Movements in the present value of funded defined benefit obligations       
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
At 1 January 221.2 182.1
Current service cost 0.3 0.2
Interest cost 11.7 11.8
Employee contributions 0.2 0.2
Benefit payments (9.6) (8.9)
Actuarial loss 2.3 13.9
Exchange adjustment (5.4) 21.9
Present value of funded defined benefit pension plans’ obligations 220.7 221.2 73 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
9. Pensions continued
vi) Movements in the fair value of plans’ assets
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
At 1 January 222.0 186.1
Expected return on plans’ assets 10.5 10.1
Employer contributions 1.8 0.5
Employee contributions 0.2 0.2
Benefit payments (9.6) (8.9)
Actuarial gain 10.9 11.7
Exchange adjustment (5.2) 22.3
Fair value of plans’ assets 230.6 222.0
vii) History of experience gains and losses            
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
2008 
(restated) 
$ million
2007 
(restated) 
$ million
2006 
(restated) 
$ million
Present value of defined benefit pension plans’ obligations (220.7) (221.2) (182.1) (268.8) (310.1)
Fair value of plans’ assets 230.6 222.0 186.1 284.1 314.8
Net surplus in plans 9.9 0.8 4.0 15.3 4.7
Experience loss on plans’ liabilities
Amount ($ million) (0.6) (3.9) (0.7) (1.6) (18.5)
Percentage of plans’ liabilities (%) (0.3) (1.8) (0.4) (0.6) (6.0)
Experience gain/(loss) on plans’ assets
Amount ($ million) 10.9 11.7 (28.5) (5.2) 0.9
Percentage of plans’ assets (%) 4.7 5.3 (15.3) (1.8) 0.3
The above plans are funded and have full UK HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) tax-exempt approval. Certain members, whose salaries were 
in excess of the HMRC statutory earnings cap, had their benefits increased through unapproved unfunded arrangements, to the level that 
would otherwise have applied in respect of basic salary only. The Group has contractually agreed to pay the additional retirement benefits 
itself and a provision is made in respect of this obligation in the balance sheet at 31 December 2010 of $0.6 million (2009 $0.6 million). This 
represents the actuarial value as confirmed by the Group’s pension advisers, of the unapproved benefit entitlements accrued at that date. The 
value is assessed and reviewed on a market value basis in line with the main plan valuation and adjusted each year. There were no experience 
gains or losses in the period from 2006 to 2010 on the unfunded plan. 
Expected contributions for these plans for 2011 are $2.8 million, including $2.4 million of additional contributions to fund the deficit arising 
from the actuarial valuation completed in 2010.
Defined contribution plans 
United Kingdom 
The Group maintains defined contribution pension plans for employees in the United Kingdom. Employer contributions into these plans for 
2010 were $1.1 million (2009 $1.3 million). 
           
United States 
The Group maintains a defined contribution pension plan for employees of its United States subsidiaries. This plan, also known as a 401(k) 
Plan, allows employees to defer a percentage of their salary for retirement. The investment choices offered by the plan are a selection of 
diversified mutual funds offering a broad mix of investment return potential with varying levels of risk. In aggregate, the Group’s contributions 
to the US plan totalled $3.0 million for 2010 (2009 $3.1 million). Total assets in the defined contribution plan at the end of 2010 were  
$144.9 million (2009 $123.6 million). There were no defined benefit plans in the United States in 2010 or 2009.  74 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
9. Pensions continued
Other jurisdictions 
Outside the United Kingdom and the United States employees are provided with pension arrangements determined in accordance with 
approved local practice and regulations. These arrangements are defined contribution plans. Total contributions for 2010 in respect of these 
plans amounted to $0.5 million (2009 $0.5 million).
 
Total contributions to defined contribution plans were $4.6 million (2009 $4.9 million).
 
Directors’ pension arrangements 
The pension arrangements of the executive directors are described in detail in the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 45 to 52.
10. Tax
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Tax charge/(credit) in the income statement
Current income tax
Foreign tax 21.3 11.8
Amounts (overprovided)/underprovided in previous years
Foreign tax (credit)/charge (1.0) 2.8
Total current income tax charge 20.3 14.6
Deferred tax
Recognition of deferred tax assets (0.3) (31.1)
Reversal of temporary differences 13.1 10.2
Total deferred tax charge/(credit) 12.8 (20.9)
Tax charge/(credit) in the income statement 33.1 (6.3)
Tax relating to items charged/(credited) to other comprehensive income or equity: 
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Current tax on share incentives – (0.5)
Deferred tax on share incentives (2.6) (1.7)
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension plan 0.9 (0.9)
Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the income statement for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.0 per cent (2009 lower 
and 28.0 per cent). 75 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
10. Tax continued
The differences are reconciled below:    
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Accounting profit before tax 112.2 84.9
Accounting profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 28.0 per cent (2009 28.0 per cent) 31.4 23.7
Intangible assets (0.1) 0.2
Share-based payment (2.1) (1.4)
Differences in overseas rates and other adjustments 7.7 2.0
Tax (overprovided)/underprovided in prior years (1.0) 2.8
Recognition of UK deferred tax assets (0.3) (14.3)
Recognition of US deferred tax assets – (16.8)
Use of overseas tax credits and unrecognised losses (2.5) (2.5)
Total tax charge/(credit) reported in the income statement 33.1 (6.3)
Recognition of deferred tax assets
During 2010 the Group recognised deferred tax assets in the United Kingdom of $0.3 million (2009 $14.3 million) and in the United States of 
nil (2009 $16.8 million).
Of the deferred tax credit arising in 2009, $21.7 million is as a result of a change in estimate in respect of the recovery of tax losses and  
timing differences.
11. Earnings per share 
Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of the parent Company by the 
weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of the parent Company 
by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that 
would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares. 
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 79.1 91.2
2010 
Number 
million
2009 
Number 
million
Weighted average number of shares in issue – basic 672.2 667.0
Dilutive potential of employee share incentives 6.2 3.4
Weighted average number of shares in issue – diluted 678.4 670.4 76 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
11. Earnings per share continued
2010 
cents
2009 
(restated) 
cents
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share 11.77 13.67
Diluted earnings per share 11.66 13.60
There were no Ordinary Share transactions that occurred after 31 December that would have significantly changed the number of Ordinary 
Shares or potential Ordinary Shares outstanding at the end of the period if those transactions had occurred before the end of the reporting 
period in either year. 
The Group is disclosing adjusted earnings per share attributable to equity shareholders at a constant effective tax rate of 30.4 per cent, being 
the rate applicable for 2010, in order to provide a measure to enable period-on-period comparisons to be made of its performance. A 
reconciliation is provided below.
$ million
2010 
cents $ million
2009 
(restated) 
cents
Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 79.1 11.77 91.2 13.67
Deferred tax assets – change in estimate note 10 – (21.7)
Restate tax to a constant effective tax rate of 30.4% – (13.2)
Prior year tax (credit)/charge note 10 (1.0) 2.8
Adjusted basic at a constant tax rate 78.1 11.62 59.1 8.86
Adjusted diluted at a constant tax rate 11.51 8.82
12. Dividends paid and proposed    
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Declared and paid in the year
Equity dividend on Ordinary Shares
Final dividend paid for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 1.00 cents (0.66 pence) per Ordinary Share  
(31 December 2008 0.87 cents (0.60 pence)) 6.4 6.2
Interim dividend 2010 1.10 cents (0.69 pence) per Ordinary Share (2009 0.93 cents (0.55 pence)) 7.3 5.9
13.7 12.1
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability at 31 December)
Equity dividend on Ordinary Shares
Final dividend 2010 1.40 cents (0.86 pence) per Ordinary Share (2009 1.00 cents (0.66 pence)) 9.4 6.4
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2010 of 1.40 cents per share (0.86 pence) 
(2009 1.00 cents (0.66 pence)), which will absorb an estimated $9.4 million of shareholders’ funds (2009 $6.4 million). It will be paid on 5 May 
2011 to shareholders who are on the Register of Members at close of business on 11 March 2011. Payment will be made to ADR holders on 
12 May 2011. No liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of this final dividend.
With effect from 2010 dividends are proposed in US dollars and paid in pounds sterling. In previous years the dividend was proposed and paid 
in pounds sterling. The exchange rate for determining the amount of the final dividend to be paid for 2010 was $1.63: £1. 77 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
13. Intangible assets    
$ million
Goodwill
Intangible 
assets Total
Cost net of accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2009 (restated) 107.0 4.7 111.7
Amortisation for the year – (1.9) (1.9)
Additions – 0.3 0.3
Exchange adjustment 2.3 – 2.3
At 1 January 2010 (restated) 109.3 3.1 112.4
Amortisation for the year – (1.6) (1.6)
Additions – 0.1 0.1
Exchange adjustment 1.1 – 1.1
At 31 December 2010 110.4 1.6 112.0
At 31 December 2009 (restated)
Cost (gross carrying amount) 2,922.4 12.2 2,934.6
Amortisation and accumulated impairment losses (2,813.1) (9.1) (2,822.2)
Net carrying amount 109.3 3.1 112.4
At 31 December 2010
Cost (gross carrying amount) 2,875.4 12.3 2,887.7
Amortisation and accumulated impairment losses (2,765.0) (10.7) (2,775.7)
Net carrying amount 110.4 1.6 112.0
The carrying amounts of intangible assets at 31 December by class are as follows:    
$ million
Customer 
list
Current 
technology Other Total
At 31 December 2010 0.1 0.4 1.1 1.6
At 31 December 2009 (restated) 0.2 1.6 1.3 3.1
Amortisation and impairment charges 
Goodwill at 31 December 2010 acquired through business combinations is all in the cash-generating unit Performance Analysis which is a 
reportable segment. There has been no goodwill impairment charged in 2010 or 2009.
 
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives which are on average five years and the charge is 
included within administration expenses in the income statement. The remaining amortisation periods of the intangible asset balances arising 
in relation to customer list and current technology are less than one year.
  78 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
13. Intangible assets continued
Annual impairment test 
The recoverable amount of the Performance Analysis cash-generating unit at 30 November 2010, the annual impairment testing date, has 
been determined based on a value in use calculation using management’s cash flow projections over a five year period. Cash flows in 
subsequent years have been extrapolated using a 2.75 per cent growth rate (2009 2.75 per cent) which management estimates to be the 
approximate average long term growth rate for the industries in which this unit operates. The cash flows have been discounted using a pre-tax 
discount rate of 14.6 per cent (2009 17 .6 per cent). The recoverable amount of this unit, calculated on a value in use basis, was in excess of its 
carrying value and consequently no impairment has been recognised. 
Key assumptions for the annual impairment test 
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculation were:
 
Revenue growth rates  –
Gross margin  –
Operating expenses  –
Discount rate  –
Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the five year period covered by management’s projections –
 
Projections are denominated in the same currency as the denomination of the goodwill balance to eliminate the effect of fluctuating  
exchange rates.
 
Revenue growth rates used in management’s projections are based on management’s estimate of growth in the markets served. 
The cash flows used in the impairment review have been approved by the Board.
 
Gross margins and operating expenses are based on historical values adjusted for the effect of revenue growth.
 
The discount rate applied to the cash flows is based on the risk free rate for ten year government bonds adjusted for a risk premium to reflect 
both the increased risk associated with investing in equities and the systematic risk of the specific cash-generating unit.
 
Long term growth rates are based upon management’s estimate.
 
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions 
The directors believe that no reasonable possible change in any of the key assumptions used in isolation would cause the carrying value of 
Performance Analysis to exceed its recoverable amount. 79 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
14. Property, plant and equipment  
$ million
Land and 
buildings
Plant and 
machinery
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment Total
Cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment
At 1 January 2009 (restated) 6.8 13.1 6.9 26.8
Additions
Owned assets 0.2 7.0 2.9 10.1
Disposals – (0.2) (0.1) (0.3)
Depreciation charge for the year (2.0) (7.5) (4.0) (13.5)
Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.5
At 1 January 2010 (restated) 5.1 12.7 5.8 23.6
Additions
Owned assets 1.0 13.1 4.0 18.1
Disposals – (0.6) – (0.6)
Inter-class transfers – (1.0) 1.0 –
Depreciation charge for the year (1.5) (7.4) (3.0) (11.9)
Exchange adjustment – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 December 2010 4.6 16.7 7.8 29.1
At 31 December 2009 (restated)
Cost 22.2 50.4 52.6 125.2
Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment (17.1) (37.7) (46.8) (101.6)
Net carrying amount 5.1 12.7 5.8 23.6
At 31 December 2010
Cost 23.2 60.9 54.9 139.0
Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment (18.6) (44.2) (47.1) (109.9)
Net carrying amount 4.6 16.7 7.8 29.1
None of the property, plant and equipment is held under finance lease arrangements.
15. Capital commitments and contingent liabilities 
The Group had no capital commitments at 31 December 2010 (31 December 2009 nil). 
The Group has provided indemnities of $0.6 million (2009 $0.6 million) for certain ongoing business obligations under letters of credit for 
subsidiary companies.
16. Subsidiaries 
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given 
on page 121 of these financial statements. 80 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
17 . Inventories 
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
2008 
(restated) 
$ million
Raw materials 13.1 13.2 16.8
Work in progress 2.0 1.4 2.2
Finished goods 22.5 13.5 15.8
37.6 28.1 34.8
An expense of $1.0 million (2009 $1.7 million) has been recognised in the period for inventory write-downs. There were no reversals of prior 
period inventory write-downs (2009 nil). 
No inventories are carried at fair value less costs to sell (2009 nil).
18. Trade and other receivables    
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
2008 
(restated) 
$ million
Non-current assets
Other receivables 3.4 2.9 3.2
Prepayments, accrued income and deferred costs 0.2 0.8 0.4
3.6 3.7 3.6
Current assets
Trade receivables 81.7 67.5 75.2
Other receivables 3.5 3.2 3.5
Prepayments, accrued income and deferred costs 13.0 10.6 11.2
98.2 81.3 89.9
101.8 85.0 93.5
The trade receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts. The movement in the provision was as follows:    
2010 
$ million
2009  
(restated)
$ million
At 1 January 2.1 2.7
Charge for the year 0.6 0.2
Released in the year (1.8) (0.2)
Amounts written off (0.3) (0.8)
Exchange adjustment – 0.2
At 31 December 0.6 2.1
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.    
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk attributable to its trade receivables as the exposure is spread over a large number  
of customers.  81 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
19. Cash and cash equivalents    
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
2008 
(restated) 
$ million
Cash at bank and in hand 126.4 66.5 39.5
Short term bank deposits 97.5 107.4 46.5
223.9 173.9 86.0
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating interest rates. Of this balance $25.8 million (2009 $26.7 million; 2008 nil) is callable at 
notice of between 7 and 35 days.
 
Short term bank deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months (2009 one day and three months; 2008 one day 
and one week) depending on the cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the short term deposit rates appropriate for the term of 
the deposit and currency.
At the end of 2010 the currency split of cash and cash equivalents was US dollar 56 per cent (2009 13 per cent; 2008 30 per cent), sterling  
37 per cent (2009 77 per cent; 2008 61 per cent) and other currencies 7 per cent (2009 10 per cent; 2008 9 per cent).
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the above amounts.  
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
2008 
(restated) 
$ million
Non-current
Cash on deposit 1.1 1.8 3.6
At 31 December 2010 $1.1 million (2009 $1.8 million; 2008 $3.6 million) is held in a blocked trust account and is available for use by the 
Company as creditors, who were outstanding at the date of the cancellation of the share premium account and capital redemption reserve, 
being 24 November 2004, are settled. See note 27 .
20. Trade and other payables – current   
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
2008 
(restated) 
$ million
Trade payables 27.0 18.8 19.7
Payments received on account 2.7 1.3 3.3
Other taxes and social security costs 3.2 2.9 2.4
Accruals and deferred income 75.6 63.6 66.0
108.5 86.6 91.4
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 60 day terms. Other payables are non-interest bearing.   
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.     82 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
21. Deferred tax     
t he movements in the deferred tax assets/(liabilities) are as follows:     
$ million
t emporary 
differences tax losses
uK pension 
plans t otal
At 1 January 2009 (restated) 12.8 5.4 (0.7) 17.5
Recognised in the year note 10 17.3 13.8 – 31.1
charged in the year note 10 (9.4) (0.8) – (10.2)
deferred tax on defined benefit pension plan note 10 – – 0.9 0.9
deferred tax on share incentives recognised in equity note 10 1.7 – – 1.7
exchange adjustment 0.4 1.1 – 1.5
At 1 January 2010 (restated) 22.8 19.5 0.2 42.5
Recognised in the year note 10 – 0.3 – 0.3
charged in the year note 10 (7.5) (5.6) – (13.1)
deferred tax on defined benefit pension plan note 10 – – (0.9) (0.9)
deferred tax on share incentives recognised in equity note 10 2.6 – – 2.6
exchange adjustment 0.3 (0.3) (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2010 18.2 13.9 (0.8) 31.3
A deferred tax asset of $31.3 million has been recognised at 31 december 2010 (2009 $42.5 million; 2008 $17 .5 million). $13.7 million is in 
the united Kingdom (2009 $20.4 million; 2008 $8.8 million), $17 .5 million is in the united States (2009 $22.1 million; 2008 $8.7 million) and 
$0.1 million is in the rest of the world (2009 nil; 2008 nil).
 
t he deferred tax asset includes $6.4 million in respect of the tax deduction which may be available on the future exercise of share incentives 
(2009 $5.3 million; 2008 nil) of which $2.6 million has been recognised in equity (2009 $1.7 million).
t he deferred tax liability arising on the united Kingdom pension plan surplus in 2010 and 2008 has been offset as permitted by iAS 12 “income 
taxes” . Movements in deferred tax in relation to the pension plan have been charged or credited to the statement of comprehensive income in all 
years.
All deferred tax assets on temporary differences, arising principally in the united Kingdom and united States, have been recognised at  
31 december 2010 and 2009 apart from $1.9 million in c anada (2009 $2.6 million). in 2008 $41.9 million of temporary differences were not 
recognised as there was insufficient evidence under iAS 12 to recognise a deferred tax asset in respect of these temporary differences.
t he Group has tax losses arising in the united Kingdom of $94.2 million (2009 $100.1 million; 2008 $132.2 million) that are available for 
offset against suitable future taxable profits. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as their future recovery 
is uncertain. united Kingdom tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely. in total deferred tax assets amounting to $27 .5 million 
(2009 $30.8 million; 2008 $53.6 million) have not been recognised.
t he chancellor, in the Budget on 22 June 2010, announced reductions in the main rate of corporation tax and rates of capital allowances. t he 
standard rate of uK corporation tax will be reduced from 28 per cent to 27 per cent from 1 April 2011, and there will be progressive annual 
reductions of a further 1 per cent until a rate of 24 per cent is reached with effect from 1 April 2014.
t he Finance Act (no 2) 2010 received Royal Assent on 27 July 2010, with the first of the rate reductions being substantively enacted from 
21 July 2010.
t he deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 27 per cent. Whilst detailed 
calculations have not been prepared at this stage, it is estimated that the impact of the remaining annual corporation tax rate reductions 
would not be material to the financial statements. 83 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
22. Trade and other payables – non-current      
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
2008 
(restated) 
$ million
Other payables 1.4 1.6 1.8
Accruals and deferred income 6.1 6.3 5.5
7.5 7.9 7.3
23. Provisions and other liabilities    
$ million
Other 
provisions
Lease 
provisions Total
At 1 January 2009 (restated) 1.3 15.8 17.1
Discount unwind note 7 – 0.3 0.3
Utilised in the year – (6.8) (6.8)
Exchange adjustment – 0.8 0.8
At 1 January 2010 (restated) 1.3 10.1 11.4
Discount unwind note 7 – 0.1 0.1
Charged in the year – 0.7 0.7
Released in the year – (0.2) (0.2)
Utilised in the year – (4.5) (4.5)
Exchange adjustment – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2010 1.3 6.3 7.6
Provisions have been analysed as follows:    
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
2008 
(restated) 
$ million
Current 5.1 6.1 5.3
Non-current 2.5 5.3 11.8
7.6 11.4 17.1
The lease provisions are for the continuing obligations under leases in respect of properties which have been vacated by the Group. Where 
material, lease obligations are discounted. The Group expects these provisions to be utilised over the next five years.
 
Other provisions are mainly environmental provisions on property disposed of. The Group expects these provisions to be utilised in less than 
one year.
24. Derivative financial instruments
The derivative financial instruments are forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
The Group uses forward foreign currency exchange contracts to manage exposures arising on receipts and payments in foreign currencies 
relating to firm commitments. In 2009 the Group also managed exposures arising on highly probable forecast transactions.  84 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
24. Derivative financial instruments continued
At 31 December 2010 and 2009 the Group held various forward foreign currency exchange contracts in respect of the forward sale of US 
dollars against sterling and for the purchase of euro against sterling on trading transactions.
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Sale of US dollars against sterling at an average rate of 1.57 (2009 1.57) 14.8 27.9
Purchase of euro against sterling at an average rate of 1.18 (2009 1.11) 0.9 2.3
These contracts were designated as cash flow hedges at 31 December 2009. Following the change in reporting currency to US dollars in 2010 
the Group has chosen not to designate any new contracts as hedges.      
The fair value of the derivative financial instruments at 31 December is as follows:      
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
2008 
(restated) 
$ million
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Currency derivatives – expected to be realised in less than one year
Not designated as hedges – 0.2 – – – –
Designated as a cash flow hedge – – 1.0 0.2 – 8.1
– 0.2 1.0 0.2 – 8.1
The movements included within other comprehensive income in respect of cash flow hedges are as follows:     
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Gains arising during the year – 0.8
Less: Reclassification adjustments for (gains)/losses included in profit or loss (0.6) 7.2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (0.6) 8.0
Gains and losses on cash flow hedges recycled into the income statement from equity are charged or credited to administration costs.  
  85 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
25. Financial instruments and financial risk management     
The main purpose of the Group’s financial instruments, other than trade receivables, trade payables and provisions is to fund the Group’s 
liquidity requirements.
All the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are categorised as loans and receivables with the exception of the derivative financial 
instruments which are measured at fair value. These are shown in the following table:     
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Loans and 
receivables 
at amortised 
cost
Derivative 
financial 
instruments 
at fair value
Loans and 
receivables 
at amortised 
cost
Derivative 
financial 
instruments 
at fair value
Non-current cash on deposit note 19 1.1 – 1.8 –
Non-current other receivables note 18 3.4 – 2.9 –
Cash and cash equivalents note 19 223.9 – 173.9 –
Current trade and other receivables note 18 85.2 – 70.7 –
Currency derivatives that are designated hedges note 24 – – – 1.0
Financial assets 313.6 – 249.3 1.0
Non-current other payables note 22 1.4 – 1.6 –
Current trade payables note 20 27.0 – 18.8 –
Accruals 48.6 – 39.9 –
Provisions note 23 7.6 – 11.4 –
Currency derivatives that are not designated hedges note 24 – 0.2 – –
Currency derivatives that are designated hedges note 24 – – – 0.2
Financial liabilities 84.6 0.2 71.7 0.2
The Group enters into derivative transactions, forward foreign currency exchange contracts, for the management of the Group’s foreign 
currency exposures when deemed appropriate. 
The key objective of the Group’s treasury department is to manage the financial risks of the business and to ensure that sufficient liquidity is 
available to the Group. All treasury activity operates within a formal control framework. The Board has approved treasury policies and 
guidelines and periodically reviews treasury activities. Additionally, it is the Group’s policy that speculative treasury transactions are  
expressly forbidden. 
a) Market risk 
The main types of market risk that affect the Group are interest rate risk and exchange rate risk. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group has no external debt and has limited exposure to interest rate risk.
 
The Group’s excess funds are principally held in the United Kingdom and the United States and invested in short term bank deposits. It 
therefore has some exposure to interest rate risk arising on changes in sterling and US dollar interest rates.
Cash and cash equivalents, long term cash on deposit and forward foreign currency exchange contracts are the Group’s financial instruments 
which are exposed to interest rate risk.  86 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
25. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued
Short term bank deposits all mature within three months. Forward foreign currency exchange contracts all mature within three months (2009 
one year). The financial instruments bear the following interest rates: 
Effective 
interest rate 
%
2010 
$ million
Effective 
interest rate 
%
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Fixed rate
Fixed deposits 0.40 97.5 0.42 107.4
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts (net) (0.2) 0.8
97.3 108.2
Floating rate
Cash at bank and in hand 126.4 66.5
Interest rates on financial instruments classified as fixed rate are fixed until the maturity of the instrument. All fixed rate deposits mature 
within three months after which date they will be exposed to floating rates of interest. 
In addition, $1.1 million (2009 $1.8 million) was held in a blocked trust account and was earning interest of 0.71 per cent at 31 December 2010 
(2009 0.61 per cent). The maturity of the deposit is three months, at maturity the interest rate will be reset. This cash must be retained in the 
blocked trust account in accordance with the terms of the undertakings made at the time of the cancellation of the share premium account and 
capital redemption reserve (the “Cancellation”) in 2004. The funds must remain in this account until creditors which existed at the date of the 
Cancellation have been repaid and therefore the maturity of this account is uncertain. 
Interest receivable for the year was $0.8 million (note 6) (2009 $0.6 million) and is under the effective interest method. 
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above table are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to 
interest rate risk. 
A movement of 25 basis points in interest rates based on levels of investment at 31 December 2010 would increase or reduce interest income 
and equity by $0.3 million. 
Exchange rate risk 
Currency exposures arise from trading transactions undertaken by the Group in foreign currencies and on the translation of the operating 
results and net assets of overseas subsidiaries. 
The Group has the majority of its operations in the United States and has chosen with effect from 1 January 2010 to present its consolidated 
financial statements in US dollars. The Company’s functional currency is sterling and its share capital is denominated in pounds sterling, the 
Group also has operations in Europe and Asia and therefore its results and assets and liabilities are affected on translation by movements in 
exchange rates in relation to the US dollar. The Group does not enter into instruments to hedge the translation exposure of the operating 
results or net assets of its overseas subsidiaries since these are considered accounting and not cash exposures.
The Group is not exposed to significant transactional foreign currency risk at 31 December 2010, nor at 31 December 2009, because the 
majority of its businesses do not enter into non-functional currency transactions. Where such transactions do occur the Group enters into 
forward foreign currency exchange contracts as appropriate. 
Group treasury, by means of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, carries out the transaction hedging activity in relation to normal 
trading activity. At 31 December 2010 the Group has hedged its financial assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. In 
2009 the Group also hedged its forecast trading receipts and payments.  87 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
25. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued
b) Credit risk 
Investment counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the Board and as such short term deposits are limited to banks with a rating of 
Standard & Poor’s A or Moody’s A. There are pre-approved limits set for each bank to avoid any concentrations of credit risk. 
The maximum credit exposure at the balance sheet date under financial instruments in relation to cash and bank deposits is equal to the 
carrying value of $225.0 million (2009 $175.7 million). 
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for uncollectable amounts 
where appropriate. Trade receivable exposures are managed in the business units where they arise. Allowance is made for bad and doubtful 
debts based on management’s assessment of the risk taking into account ageing profile, experience and circumstance. 
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk attributable to its trade receivables as the exposure is spread over a large number of 
customers with no one customer accounting for more than 10 per cent of total Group revenue. The maximum credit exposure at the balance 
sheet date in relation to trade receivables is equal to the carrying value of $81.7 million (2009 $67 .5 million). 
The composition of trade receivables at 31 December is as follows: 
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Neither impaired nor past due 45.0 44.0
Past due but not impaired:
Less than 30 days overdue 24.1 15.6
30 to 60 days 5.9 3.2
Over 60 days 6.7 4.7
Trade receivables 81.7 67.5
The Group closely monitors amounts due from customers and performs activities such as credit checks and review of payment history and has 
put in place appropriate credit approval limits. Based on these procedures management assessed the quality of those receivables that are 
past due but not impaired as low risk. 
The movement on the receivables provision during the year is given in note 18. The value of impaired trade receivables is $0.6 million  
(2009 $2.1 million). For all other financial assets the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount.
c) Liquidity risk 
The Group’s objective is to ensure that there are sufficient sources of funding to meet projected requirements. Its operations are financed 
through cash and cash equivalents held centrally and cash generated from operations. 
At 31 December 2010 the Group had cash and cash equivalents of $223.9 million (2009 $173.9 million) all of which matures within three months.
During 2010 the Group generated $99.4 million of cash from operating activities (2009 $96.1 million) and considers that with current cash 
resources, no debt and positive cash flow from its operating activities it has adequate resources available to it to remain in operational 
existence for the forseeable future.  88 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
25. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued
The Group has entered into forward foreign currency exchange contracts all of which mature within 3 months (2009 one year). The gross 
settlement amounts of these contracts are as follows:
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Sale of US dollars against sterling 14.8 27.9
Purchase of euro against sterling 0.9 2.3
Gross settlement amounts 15.7 30.2
The Group is debt free and does not have loans payable. Financial liabilities, other than derivative financial liabilities, are trade and other 
payables, the majority of which are all due to be settled within one year, and provisions (note 23). 
The Group does not have any other material financial contractual commitments. 
d) Fair value of financial instruments 
The carrying value of all financial assets and liabilities is a reasonable approximation of fair value. 
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value. 
The fair value of currency derivatives is determined by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles, 
and is therefore determined to be a level 2 financial instrument as its value is based on observable market inputs. 
e) Capital management 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group’s capital is its 
total shareholders’ funds. 
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions. During 2009 and 2010 
the Company has been operating an on market share repurchase programme. In 2010 the Company repurchased 10.4 million of its Ordinary 
Shares at a cost of $19.7 million. In 2009 the Company repurchased 0.6 million of its Ordinary Shares at a cost of $0.9 million. 
26. Operating lease commitments  
At 31 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which 
fall due as follows:  
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Within one year 11.2 10.9
In the second to fifth years 16.3 21.6
Over five years – 1.0
27.5 33.5
The Group leases certain land and buildings under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with a variety of terms. The Group also leases 
certain plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. Total future sublease payments receivable relating to the 
above leases amount to $1.0 million (2009 $2.1 million) of which $0.9 million (2009 $1.0 million) will be recognised within one year and the 
balance in the second to fifth year. 89 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
27 . Equity  
a) Issued share capital   
Issued and fully paid  
Number of  
Ordinary Shares 
million $ million
At 1 January 2009 (restated) 671.8 32.2
Allotted pursuant to share incentives exercised 6.9 0.3
Cancelled during the year
1
(0.6) –
Exchange adjustment – 3.9
At 1 January 2010 (restated) 678.1 36.4
Allotted pursuant to share incentives exercised 6.6 0.3
Cancelled during the year
1
(9.8) (0.5)
Exchange adjustment – (0.9)
At 31 December 2010 674.9 35.3
Note
1  During 2010, under the programme of returning capital to shareholders, the Company repurchased 9.8 million (2009 0.6 million) Ordinary Shares on market which were 
subsequently cancelled.  
In accordance with the rules of the following share plans, share incentives were exercised during the year which resulted in new Ordinary 
Shares being allotted by the Company or existing Ordinary Shares being transferred from either the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust 
(“ESOT”) or Spirent Sharesave Trust (“SST”) as follows:
Number of 
Ordinary Shares 
million
Consideration 
received 
$ million
2005 Employee Incentive Plan 0.7 0.1
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan 6.6 3.4
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme 1.3 1.1
All employee share plans
1
 0.1 0.1
 8.7 4.7
  
Note
1  The all employee share plans are the UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme, the 2005 Sharesave Scheme, the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Global All Employee Share 
Purchase Plan and the UK Employee Share Purchase Plan (see note 28).
During the year 0.1 million Ordinary Shares were transferred from the SST to satisfy options exercised under the UK all employee share 
schemes (2009 0.3 million) and 2.0 million Ordinary Shares were transferred from the ESOT to satisfy options exercised under the Spirent 
Stock Incentive Plan (2009 1.7 million). 0.6 million Ordinary Shares were purchased and placed into the ESOT during 2010 (2009 nil).
There has been no material increase in the issued Ordinary Share capital, whether by exercise of share incentives or otherwise, between  
31 December 2010 and 3 March 2011, the date on which these financial statements have been signed.
b) Equity and reserves
The nature and purpose of each reserve within equity is as follows:
i) Share premium account: this reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value;
ii)  Capital redemption reserve: this reserve arises in relation to share capital cancellation;
iii)  Capital reserve: this reserve arises in relation to share option plans in acquired companies;
iv) Other reserves: share capital, share premium account, capital redemption reserve, capital reserve and cash flow hedge reserve are 
translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and the resultant exchange differences are included in other 
reserves; 90 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
27 . Equity continued
v)  Translation reserve: this reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
subsidiaries; and
vi) Cash flow hedge reserve: this reserve records movements in the fair value of effective forward foreign currency exchange contracts 
designated as hedging instruments.
Investment in own Ordinary Shares
At 31 December 2010, an amount of $300.4 million (2009 $282.6 million) has cumulatively been deducted from retained earnings in relation 
to the cost of investment in own Ordinary Shares.
At 31 December 2010, the ESOT held 4.0 million Ordinary Shares (2009 5.4 million Ordinary Shares) to satisfy awards under various share 
incentive plans. Of this number, 0.1 million Ordinary Shares were unconditionally vested at 31 December 2010 (2009 0.1 million Ordinary 
Shares). At 31 December 2010, the SST held 0.5 million Ordinary Shares (2009 0.6 million Ordinary Shares) to satisfy awards made to UK 
based employees under an all employee share scheme. The market value of own Ordinary Shares held in trust, being in total 4.5 million 
Ordinary Shares (2009 6.0 million Ordinary Shares), at 31 December 2010 was $10.4 million (2009 $9.8 million).
Cancellation of share premium account and capital redemption reserve
On 24 November 2004, Spirent Communications plc was granted an order of the High Court for the approval of the cancellation of the share 
premium account and capital redemption reserve (the “Cancellation”) which stood at that date at $1,321.1 million (£702.7 million) and  
$1.3 million (£0.7 million), respectively.
The Cancellation created a reserve in the financial statements of the Company which was applied to eliminate the deficit in distributable 
reserves. The balance of this reserve, created after the deficit in distributable reserves had been eliminated, was transferred to a special 
non-distributable reserve. During 2006 the Company transferred funds equal to the aggregate amount due to any creditors of Spirent 
Communications plc, who were creditors on 24 November 2004, and who still remained creditors, to a blocked trust account. Placing these 
funds in a blocked trust account in accordance with the undertakings made at the time of the Cancellation allowed the special reserve to be 
released to distributable reserves.
Capital redemption reserve
During 2010 the Company cancelled 9.8 million Ordinary Shares (2009 0.6 million Ordinary Shares) that had been the subject of the on market 
share repurchase programme, and transferred $0.5 million (2009 $32,000) to the capital redemption reserve.
Capital reserve
In 2010 the reserve has been reduced by $1.2 million (2009 $0.6 million) in relation to share incentives which have been cancelled or  
have lapsed.
Share repurchase
During 2010 the Company repurchased 10.4 million Ordinary Shares on market at a cost of $19.7 million (2009 0.6 million at a cost of  
$0.9 million). Of the shares repurchased 9.8 million Ordinary Shares have been subsequently cancelled and 0.6 million have been placed into 
the ESOT. In 2009 all shares repurchased were subsequently cancelled. 91 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
28. Employee share plans           
Movements in share incentives over a two year period ending on 31 December 2010 are shown below:      
2005 
Employee 
Incentive
Plan
1
Spirent 
Stock 
Incentive
Plan
2
1995 
Executive 
Share 
Option 
Scheme
Acquisition
plans
3
UK 
sharesave
schemes
4
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
pence
Incentives outstanding 
at 31 December 2008 3.0 37 41.7 66 3.6 119 1.4 122 0.4 39
Granted 1.7 – 0.1 72 – – – – – –
Exercised (0.7) 19 (13.9) 52 (0.3) 49 – – (0.3) 38
Forfeited – – (0.3) 50 – – – – – –
Expired – – (6.6) 123 (0.3) 425 (1.2) 116 – –
Incentives outstanding 
at 31 December 2009 4.0 24 21.0 57 3.0 123 0.2 157 0.1 39
Exercised (1.3) 50 (9.3) 60 (1.3) 58 – – (0.1) 39
Forfeited – – (0.1) 51 – – – – – –
Expired – – (0.2) 58 (0.3) 326 (0.2) 165 – –
Incentives outstanding 
at 31 December 2010 2.7 11 11.4 55 1.4 140 – – – –
Incentives exercisable 
At 31 December 2009 1.5 50 19.3 58 3.0 123 0.2 157 0.1 39
At 31 December 2010 0.2 50 11.2 55 1.4 140 – – – –
Notes  
1    Figures for the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan include share options, stock appreciation rights and Performance shares in aggregate. As at 31 December 2010 1.3 million Ordinary 
Shares held in the ESOT had been allocated to hedge awards made under the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan (2009 0.8 million).
2   Figures for the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan show both share options and stock appreciation rights in aggregate. As at 31 December 2010, 0.2 million Ordinary Shares held in the 
ESOT had been allocated to hedge awards made under the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan (2009 2.2 million).
3   The acquisition plans are share plans which originally granted options over other companies’ equity which, on acquisition by Spirent Communications plc, have been rolled over 
into Spirent Ordinary Shares. Further details of the acquisition plans can be found below.
4  0.1 million Ordinary Shares were transferred from the SST to settle the exercise of UK sharesave options in 2010 (2009 0.3 million). As at 31 December 2010, 0.5 million Ordinary  
 Shares remained in the SST hedging share option grants made under the UK sharesave schemes.
  
The weighted average share price at exercise date was 127 .6 pence (2009 82.4 pence). 92 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
28. Employee share plans continued
Share plan
Exercise period  
(as at 31 December)
Range of 
exercise 
prices 
pence
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
outstanding 
million
2010 
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life 
years
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
outstanding 
million
2009 
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life 
years
2005 Employee  
Incentive Plan 25.08.08 – 29.11.19 0–53 11 2.7 8.3 24 4.0 8.2
Spirent Stock  
Incentive Plan 11.03.04 – 07.05.10 17–22 – – – 20 – 0.3
05.08.05 – 13.11.15 37–57 50 8.1 2.1 50 11.9 3.0
17.09.04 – 12.08.16 59–87 69 3.3 1.1 67 9.1 1.6
1995 Executive Share 03.10.04 – 04.08.14 56–72 69 0.2 3.2 59 1.5 4.4
Option Scheme 02.04.05 – 01.05.12 113–134 126 1.0 1.3 126 1.0 2.3
11.05.03 – 08.04.11 305 305 0.2 0.3 322 0.5 0.7
Acquisition plans 15.08.02 – 06.08.11 10 – – – 10 – 1.6
14.11.00 – 12.10.10 127 – – – 127 0.2 0.5
14.11.00 – 12.10.10 350 – – – 350 – 0.8
UK sharesave schemes 01.12.09 – 31.05.11 38–41 – – – 39 0.1 1.1
Total 15.5 28.3
Description of employee share plans 
Discretionary plans
2005 Employee Incentive Plan (“EIP”)
The EIP , which was introduced in 2005 and replaced the now closed ESOS (see below), is currently available for selected employees, including 
executive directors, on a discretionary basis.
Under the EIP , the Company is able to grant share options, including HMRC approved options, share-settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) 
and Performance shares. No price is payable on the grant of an award.
In normal circumstances, EIP awards vest three years following the date of grant provided the relevant performance conditions have been met. 
For share options and SARs, the performance conditions relate to the Company’s earnings per share (“EPS”) and for Performance shares, 
relate to total shareholder return (“TSR”).
Further information on the performance conditions for EIP share incentives is set out in the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 46  
and 47 .
Options and SARs granted under the EIP expire on the tenth anniversary of their grant unless they have previously lapsed or been exercised.
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan (“SSIP”)
The SSIP is now closed for new grants and has been replaced by the EIP referred to above.
The SSIP was introduced in 2000. This discretionary plan was primarily targeted at US employees with grants normally determined by 
reference to the seniority and contribution of the individual, together with the performance of the relevant business and prevailing local market 
practice. Grants were also permitted to selected newly hired and promoted employees on a monthly basis. Under the SSIP , the Company was 
able to grant share options and share-settled SARs. No price was payable on the grant of an award. 93 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
28. Employee share plans continued
Most awards made pursuant to the SSIP vest over four years, provided that the participant remains in employment. Vesting is not normally subject 
to a performance condition and awards become 25 per cent exercisable on the first anniversary of the date of grant and thereafter in equal 
tranches on a monthly basis over a further 36 months. Any award not exercised by the seventh anniversary of the date of grant will lapse.
The vesting of SSIP awards made to Bill Burns prior to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer and to certain other key senior managers 
within the Communications group, were subject to the Company meeting EPS growth targets over the vesting periods. Further details of these 
performance conditions are set out in the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 47 and 48.
SARs granted under the EIP and SSIP will deliver the appreciation value (ie the increase in market value of an Ordinary Share over the base 
price of the SAR) in the form of Ordinary Shares. This “SARs approach” helps the Company manage its dilution headroom more efficiently as 
only the SAR gain needs to be funded. Using a SARs approach, it is not possible to determine the precise level of dilution until the SARs are 
exercised. At 31 December 2010, 0.5 million EIP SARs and 11.0 million SSIP SARs with an average base price of 50 pence and 55 pence 
respectively were outstanding (2009 1.9 million EIP SARs and 17 .6 million SSIP SARs with an average base price of 50 pence and 56 pence 
respectively). During 2010, 7 .3 million EIP and SSIP SARs were exercised resulting in the issue of 4.0 million Ordinary Shares (2009 3.1 million 
Ordinary Shares were issued on the exercise of 9.4 million EIP and SSIP SARs).
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”)
The ESOS is now closed for new grants and has been replaced by the EIP referred to above.
Under the ESOS awards of share options, including HMRC approved options, were on a discretionary basis. No price was payable on the grant 
of an option and no options were granted at a discount to the market price.
The normal exercise period for options granted under the ESOS is between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant. Options 
awarded under the ESOS were subject to the achievement of an EPS performance condition before they could be exercised. All outstanding 
options have now passed their EPS performance conditions and remain exercisable until they expire on the tenth anniversary of their 
respective grant dates.
Acquisition plans
Netcom Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (“NARSOP”)
Spirent completed the acquisition of Netcom Systems, Inc. (“Netcom”) in 1999. $44.5 million of the total consideration was satisfied through 
the roll-over of outstanding options over Netcom shares into options over approximately 23.8 million Ordinary Shares (as adjusted) on 
substantially similar terms as previously existed. At 31 December 2010 there are no remaining outstanding NARSOP options and the plan has 
therefore been closed.
Zarak Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (“ZARSOP”)
Out of a total consideration of approximately 44.9 million Ordinary Shares issued for the acquisition of Zarak Systems Corporation (“Zarak”) in 
2000, approximately 3.8 million Ordinary Shares arose in connection with the roll-over of outstanding options over Zarak shares into options 
over Spirent Ordinary Shares on substantially similar terms as previously existed. At 31 December 2010 there are no remaining outstanding 
ZARSOP options and the plan has therefore been closed.
Caw Amended and Restated Stock Plan (“CARSP”)
Out of a total initial consideration for the acquisition of Caw Networks, Inc. (“Caw”) in 2002 of $49 million, approximately $4 million was in 
respect of Spirent Ordinary Shares and options which arose on the roll-over of outstanding options and shares under the previous Caw 
employee stock plan. The options and shares vested over a period ending in 2006 on substantially similar terms as previously existed. The 
options have a ten year life from the original date of grant. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement for Caw, an additional cash payment 
of 78.8 US cents was payable as each share vested or upon the exercise of a vested option. No further awards can be made under this plan.
The Ordinary Shares subject to rolled-over options from the acquisition of Netcom, Zarak and Caw, or granted under the SSIP , do not count 
towards ABI scheme limits.  94 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
28. Employee share plans continued
All Employee plans
UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“SRSOS”) and the 2005 Sharesave Scheme 
The SRSOS closed in 2005 and was replaced by the 2005 Sharesave Scheme. SRSOS options which remain outstanding may still be exercised 
prior to expiry, however no further grants can be made. Both schemes operate as HMRC approved Save-As-You-Earn schemes and are open to 
all UK employees, subject to a qualifying service period. Any future sharesave invitations will be made under the 2005 Sharesave Scheme, 
which is broadly similar to the SRSOS.
No price is payable on the grant of an option. The option exercise price is calculated by reference to the middle market closing price of an 
Ordinary Share on the business day prior to the beginning of the invitation period, discounted by up to 20 per cent at the Board’s discretion. 
Options are normally exercisable within six months of the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the contract commencement date as elected by 
the option holder at the start of the contract.
The Company operates the SST to honour the commitment to deliver Ordinary Shares against the exercise of outstanding options under the 
SRSOS. Spirent Sharesave Trust Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Spirent Communications plc, acts as sole trustee of the SST. During the 
year, 0.1 million Ordinary Shares were transferred to participants (2009 0.3 million Ordinary Shares).
No invitations have been made under either of these schemes since 2003.
US Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“US ESPP”)
The US ESPP enables the Company to invite all US employees to acquire shares in the Company on market using deductions from payroll. In 
November 2010 such an invitation was made, with deductions from payroll commencing in January 201 1. The US ESPP also enables the Company 
to grant eligible US employees the right to acquire Spirent Ordinary Shares using the proceeds of a savings contract. If such a grant were made, 
when joining the US ESPP , participants would enter into a 12 month contract to save up to 15 per cent of base salary subject to an individual limit 
of $1,000 per month.
Prior to the invitation in November 2010, no offer had been made under this plan since 2003.
Global All Employee Share Purchase Plan (“GAESPP”)
The GAESPP offers employees in countries other than the UK or US an opportunity to share in the Company’s performance through share 
ownership. The GAESPP was implemented in Canada in January 2002 and operated on similar terms to the US ESPP above, with participants 
entering into a 12 month contract to save up to 15 per cent of base salary subject to an individual maximum of Cdn $1,000 per month.
No offer has been made under this plan since 2003.
UK Employee Share Purchase Plan (“UK ESPP”)
The UK ESPP , which is an HMRC approved share incentive plan, was approved by shareholders in 2005 and is available to all UK employees. 
The UK ESPP offers three ways to provide Ordinary Shares to employees: free shares, partnership shares and matching shares. The UK ESPP 
will operate in conjunction with a trust, which holds the shares on behalf of participants.
In November 2010, the Company made an invitation to all UK employees to acquire Partnership shares on market using deductions from 
payroll, commencing in January 2011.
Stock Appreciation Rights Plan (“SARP”)
The SARP was introduced in September 1999 as an interim incentive arrangement for the employees of Netcom following the closure of the 
NARSOP described above and subsequently for certain other employees in the Communications group. Rights under the SARP vested over 
four years, 25 per cent vesting one year after the date of grant and the remainder vesting on a monthly basis over a further 36 months. Rights 
granted were not subject to the fulfilment of any performance conditions.
The SARP will deliver the appreciation value (ie the aggregated increase in the market value of an Ordinary Share over the rights price) in the 
form of existing Ordinary Shares which have been purchased in the market by the Company’s ESOT. The SARP is closed and no further grants 
can be made under it.
At 31 December 2010 there are no remaining outstanding SARP options and the plan has therefore been closed. 95 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
29. Share-based payment   
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans is as follows:   
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
2005 Employee Incentive Plan 0.3 0.2
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan 0.1 0.4
0.4 0.6
All schemes are equity-settled.
 
No share incentives were granted during 2010. For 2009 the fair value of share incentives has been estimated as at the date of grant using a 
binomial model. The following table gives the assumptions made in arriving at the share-based payment charge and the fair value: 
2010 2009
Weighted average share price (pence) – 96.3
Weighted average exercise price (pence) – 3.9
Weighted average fair value (pence) – 29.4
Expected volatility (%) – 53–55
Expected life (years) – 4.5
Risk free rate (%) – 2.4–2.5
Dividend yield (%) – 2.0
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous two years which 
management considers to be the period which is likely to be most representative of future volatility. The expected life used in the model has 
been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural 
considerations. For Performance shares granted under the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan, which have a market based performance condition, 
it has been assumed that there will be 30 per cent vesting for valuation purposes.
30. Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations   
2010 
$ million
2009 
(restated) 
$ million
Profit before tax 112.2 84.9
Adjustments for:
Finance income (0.8) (0.6)
Finance costs 1.3 2.5
Intangible asset amortisation 1.6 1.9
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11.9 13.5
Loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.1
Share-based payment 0.4 0.6
Changes in working capital
Deferred income received 10.2 6.4
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (16.5) 7.2
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (9.6) 8.0
Increase/(decrease) in payables 11.7 (10.8)
Decrease in provisions (4.0) (6.8)
Defined benefit pension plan (1.5) (0.6)
Cash flow from operations 116.9 106.3 96 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
31. Related party transactions   
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note.
 
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories specified in IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”. 
2010 
$ 000
2009 
(restated) 
$ 000
Short term employee benefits 2,836 2,872
Share-based payment 90 104
Post retirement benefits 10 10
2,936 2,986
In 2010 Eric Hutchinson made gains on the exercise of share incentives of $2,441,000 (2009 $137 ,000).
In 2010 Bill Burns made gains on the exercise of share incentives of $495,000 (2009 $86,000).
32. Explanation of the effect of a change to the reporting currency on prior year financial statements
As referred to in note 2 during the period the Spirent Communications Group changed its reporting currency from pounds sterling to US dollars. 
As a result, the Group’s prior year Consolidated income statement, its prior year Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, its 
Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2009 and 2008, its prior year Consolidated cash flow statement and its Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity for 2009 and 2008, that were presented in the 2009 Annual Report, have been restated to show all amounts in US dollars. 
This note explains the methodology used to translate amounts previously reported by the Group.
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2009
The Group’s policy has been to translate transactions in foreign currencies at the average rate applicable during the financial year unless this 
would produce a material difference compared with using the spot rate of exchange. The Consolidated income statement has therefore been 
translated into US dollars using an average exchange rate for 2009 of 1.57 US dollars to 1 pound sterling or the spot US dollar to sterling rate 
ruling on the date of the specific transaction. 97 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
32. Explanation of the effect of a change to the reporting currency on prior year financial statements continued
The table below sets out the reported numbers in pounds sterling and the restatement into US dollars:
Amounts per 2009 
Annual Report 
(presented in £) 
£ million
2009 comparative 
amounts as included in 
2010 Annual Report 
(presented in US$) 
$ million
Revenue 272.1 427.2
Cost of sales (91.6) (143.8)
Gross profit 180.5 283.4
Product development (47.5) (74.6)
Selling and distribution (49.7) (78.0)
Administration (28.0) (44.0)
Operating profit 55.3 86.8
Finance income 0.4 0.6
Finance costs (1.6) (2.5)
Profit before tax 54.1 84.9
Tax 4.0 6.3
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 58.1 91.2
Earnings per share (pence/cents)
Basic 8.71 13.67
Diluted 8.67 13.60
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2009
The Consolidated statement of comprehensive income has been translated into US dollars using an average exchange rate for 2009 of 1.57 US 
dollars to 1 pound sterling or the spot US dollar to sterling rate ruling on the date of the specific transaction.
The currency translation reserve was set to zero at 1 January 2003 on transition to IFRS and has been re-presented on the basis that the Group 
has reported in US dollars since that date.  
Amounts per 2009 
Annual Report 
(presented in £) 
£ million
2009 comparative 
amounts as included in 
2010 Annual Report 
(presented in US$)
$ million
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 58.1 91.2
Other comprehensive income
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 5.1 8.0
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations (10.8) 14.1
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plans (1.4) (2.2)
Deferred tax credit on defined benefit pension plans 0.6 0.9
Other comprehensive income (6.5) 20.8
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 51.6 112.0 98 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
32. Explanation of the effect of a change to the reporting currency on prior year financial statements continued
Consolidated balance sheets at 31 December 2009 and 2008
As required by IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements (Revised)”, the change in reporting currency requires the Group to include two 
comparative balance sheets in its 2010 consolidated financial statements. The Consolidated balance sheets have been translated into US 
dollars by multiplying all assets and liabilities by using the following closing exchange rates:
US$:£1
Year ended 31 December 2009 1.61
Year ended 31 December 2008 1.44
Share capital, share premium account, capital redemption reserve, capital reserve and cash flow hedge reserve are translated into US dollars 
at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and the resultant exchange differences are included in other reserves.
The currency translation reserve was set to zero at 1 January 2003 on transition to IFRS and has been re-presented on the basis that the Group 
has reported in US dollars since that date.   99 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
32. Explanation of the effect of a change to the reporting currency on prior year financial statements continued
Amount at 
31 December 2009 
per 2009 
Annual Report 
(presented in £)
£ million
2009 comparative 
amounts included in 
2010 Annual Report 
(presented in US$)
$ million
Amount at 
31 December 2008 
per 2009 
Annual Report 
(presented in £)
£ million
2008 comparative 
amounts included in 
2010 Annual Report 
(presented in US$)
$ million
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 69.8 112.4 77.6 111.7
Property, plant and equipment 14.7 23.6 18.6 26.8
Trade and other receivables 2.3 3.7 2.5 3.6
Cash on deposit 1.1 1.8 2.5 3.6
Defined benefit pension plan surplus 0.6 1.0 2.6 3.7
Deferred tax 26.4 42.5 12.2 17.5
114.9 185.0 116.0 166.9
Current assets
Inventories 17.5 28.1 24.2 34.8
Trade and other receivables 50.5 81.3 62.4 89.9
Derivative financial instruments 0.6 1.0 – –
Cash and cash equivalents 108.0 173.9 59.7 86.0
176.6 284.3 146.3 210.7
Total assets 291.5 469.3 262.3 377.6
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (53.8) (86.6) (63.5) (91.4)
Current tax (6.4) (10.3) (4.6) (6.6)
Derivative financial instruments (0.1) (0.2) (5.6) (8.1)
Provisions and other liabilities (3.8) (6.1) (3.7) (5.3)
(64.1) (103.2) (77.4) (111.4)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables (4.9) (7.9) (5.1) (7.3)
Defined benefit pension plan deficit (0.7) (1.1) (0.6) (0.9)
Provisions and other liabilities (3.3) (5.3) (8.2) (11.8)
(8.9) (14.3) (13.9) (20.0)
Total liabilities (73.0) (117.5) (91.3) (131.4)
Net assets 218.5 351.8 171.0 246.2
Capital and reserves
Share capital 22.6 36.4 22.4 32.2
Share premium account 18.3 29.5 17.2 24.8
Capital redemption reserve 10.6 17.1 10.6 15.3
Capital reserve 1.0 1.6 1.4 2.0
Other reserves – (0.6) – 7.6
Translation reserve 11.8 22.6 22.6 8.5
Cash flow hedge reserve 0.4 0.6 (4.7) (6.8)
Retained earnings 153.8 244.6 101.5 162.6
Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 218.5 351.8 171.0 246.2 100 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
32. Explanation of the effect of a change to the reporting currency on prior year financial statements continued
Equity items at 31 December 2007
The Group translates all transactions that affect share capital, share premium account , capital redemption reserve, capital reserve (which all 
occur in the books of the parent Company whose functional currency is pounds sterling), retained earnings and cash flow hedge reserve at 
either the average rate for the year or the spot rate on the date of the specific transaction concerned. As noted above the closing balances on 
share capital, share premium account, capital redemption reserve, capital reserve and cash flow hedge reserve are then translated into US 
dollars at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and the resultant exchange differences are included in other reserves.   
 
The currency translation reserve was set to zero at 1 January 2003 on transition to IFRS and has been re-presented on the basis that the   
Group has reported in US dollars since that date.
The table below shows all equity items in pounds sterling along with the equivalent US dollar amount at 31 December 2007:   
Amount at 31 December 
2007 per 2009 Annual 
Report (presented in £)
£ million
2007 comparative 
amounts included in 
2010 Annual Report 
(presented in US$)
$ million
Share capital 28.0 55.7
Share premium account 15.5 30.8
Capital redemption reserve 4.8 9.6
Capital reserve 3.6 7.2
Other reserves – (18.7)
Translation reserve (6.7) 51.9
Cash flow hedge reserve (0.5) (1.0)
Retained earnings 96.5 145.5
Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 141.2 281.0 101 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
32. Explanation of the effect of a change to the reporting currency on prior year financial statements continued
Equity items at 31 December 2008         
The table below reconciles the Group’s equity from 31 December 2007 (as per the table above) to 31 December 2008. All balances shown form  
the opening balance of the Group’s Consolidated statement of changes in equity for 2009:
$ million
Share 
capital 
Share 
premium 
account 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Capital 
reserve
Other 
reserves
Translation 
reserve
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total
 equity
Balance at 31 December 2007 55.7 30.8 9.6 7.2 (18.7) 51.9 (1.0) 145.5 281.0
Profit for the period – – – – – – – 138.4 138.4
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – – – – – – (7.8) – (7.8)
Exchange differences on foreign operations – – – – – (43.4) – – (43.4)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit  
pension plans – – – – – – – (9.4) (9.4)
Irrecoverable element of pension  
plan surplus – – – – – – – 2.6 2.6
Deferred tax on defined benefit  
pension plans – – – – – – – 0.5 0.5
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – (43.4) (7.8) 132.1 80.9
New shares issued 0.3 3.1 – – – – – – 3.4
Share cancellation (10.7) – 10.7 – – – – – –
Employee share ownership trust – – – – – – – 1.1 1.1
Share repurchase – – – – – – – (116.6) (116.6)
Share-based payment – – – – – – – 2.8 2.8
Equity dividends – – – – – – – (6.4) (6.4)
Other movements – – – (4.1) – – – 4.1 –
Exchange adjustment (13.1) (9.1) (5.0) (1.1) 26.3 – 2.0 – –
Balance at 31 December 2008 32.2 24.8 15.3 2.0 7.6 8.5 (6.8) 162.6 246.2
Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2009       
The Group’s policy has been to translate transactions in foreign currencies at the average rate applicable during the financial year unless this 
would produce a material difference compared with using the spot rate of exchange. The Consolidated cash flow statement has therefore been 
translated into US dollars using an average exchange rate for 2009 of 1.57 US dollars to 1 pound sterling or the spot US dollar to sterling rate  
ruling on the date of the specific transaction. 102 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the Consol Idated f Inan CIal statements CONTINUED
32. Explanation of the effect of a change to the reporting currency on prior year financial statements continued
The table below sets out the reported numbers in pounds sterling and the restatement into US dollars:
     
Amounts per 2009 
Annual Report 
(presented in £)
£ million
2009 comparative 
amounts included in 
2010 Annual Report  
(presented in US$)
$ million
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash flow from operations 67.7 106.3
Tax paid (6.5) (10.2)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 61.2 96.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.4 0.6
Transfer from long term deposit 1.4 2.2
Purchase of intangible assets (0.2) (0.3)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (6.4) (10.1)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.2
Net cash used in investing activities (4.7) (7.4)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividend paid (7.7) (12.1)
Proceeds from the issue of share capital and employee share ownership trust 2.4 3.8
Share repurchase (0.7) (1.1)
Net cash used in financing activities (6.0) (9.4)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 50.5 79.3
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 59.7 86.0
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (2.2) 8.6
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 108.0 173.9
33. Post balance sheet events
On 15 February 2011 the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire The Fanfare Group, Inc. for a cash consideration of 
$15.0 million. The transaction was completed on 16 February 2011. 103 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE 
MEMBERS OF SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC
We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Spirent 
Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which 
comprise the parent Company balance sheet and the related notes 1 
to 21. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as  
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we  
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 40, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent Company financial statements:
Give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at  –
31 December 2010;
Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom  –
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the  –
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
The part of the Report on directors’ remuneration to be audited  –
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
The information given in the Report of the directors for the  –
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where 
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
 Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent  –
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
The parent Company financial statements and the part of the  –
Report on directors’ remuneration to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are  –
not made; or
We have not received all the information and explanations we  –
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of 
Spirent Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Richard Wilson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London
3 March 2011
The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 104 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
parent Compan Y balan Ce sheet At 31 December Notes
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 4 4.3 5.0
Tangible assets 5 1.9 1.7
Fixed asset investments
Shares in subsidiaries 6 209.4 165.2
Loans to subsidiaries 7 8.2 17.9
Total fixed assets 223.8 189.8
Current assets
Inventories 8 5.9 5.9
Trade and other debtors 9 20.9 22.9
Derivative financial instruments 15 – 0.6
Cash and bank deposits 54.0 84.4
80.8 113.8
Current liabilities
Creditors due within one year 10 (11.1) (10.9)
Derivative financial instruments 15 (0.1) (0.1)
(11.2) (11.0)
Net current assets 69.6 102.8
Assets less current liabilities 293.4 292.6
Long term liabilities
Creditors due after more than one year 11 (60.8) (61.2)
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Provisions 13 – (0.2)
Assets less liabilities (excluding pension plan) 232.6 231.2
Pension plan surplus/(deficit) 3 1.3 (0.3)
Assets less liabilities (including pension plan) 233.9 230.9
Capital and reserves 16
Called up share capital 22.5 22.6
Share premium account 20.0 18.3
Capital redemption reserve 10.9 10.6
Capital reserve – 1.0
Cash flow hedge reserve – 0.4
Profit and loss account 180.5 178.0
Shareholders’ funds – equity 233.9 230.9
The notes on pages 105 to 121 form part of these financial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Eric Hutchinson
Director
3 March 2011 105 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
notes to the parent Compan Y f Inan CIal statement s 1. Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified for measurement of derivative financial 
instruments at fair value and in accordance with applicable UK law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP).
As the Company is included in the consolidated financial statements, made up to 31 December each year, it is not required to present a 
separate profit and loss account as provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. The carrying value of intangible 
assets is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Purchased goodwill, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of assets acquired, is written off on a straight line basis from the date of 
acquisition over 20 years, being its anticipated useful life.
Tangible assets
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land. Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of all other assets, less residual value, on a  
straight line basis over their estimated useful lives at rates which take into account commercial conditions at their location. Usual asset lives 
are as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years
Fixtures, fittings and equipment
Building installations 20 years or lease period if less
Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years
Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years
Business systems software 4 years
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying 
value may not be recoverable.
Investments
Fixed asset investments, including investment in subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indications that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable.
Leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease on a straight line basis.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value. Cost includes all costs in bringing each product to its present 
location and condition, being the full manufacturing cost on a first-in-first-out basis, including all attributable overheads based on a normal 
level of activity. Net realisable value represents the selling price less further costs to be incurred to completion and on sale.
Trade and other debtors
Trade debtors, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any 
uncollectable amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written 
off when identified. 106 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the parent Compan Y f Inan CIal statement s CONTINUED
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Provisions
Provisions are recorded when the Company has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event for which it is probable 
that it will be required to settle by an outflow of resources and for which a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. 
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision shall be the present value of the expenditures expected to 
be required to settle the obligation.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Company, the revenue can be reliably measured and when 
the Company has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership. In addition, revenue is only recognised when 
collectability is probable.
For the sale of services, revenue is recognised in accounting periods in which the service is rendered.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. All exchange 
gains and losses are taken to the profit and loss account.
Product development
Expenditure is charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which it is incurred.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Company’s balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Company uses forward foreign currency exchange contracts to manage exposures arising on receipts and payments in foreign currencies 
relating to firm commitments. Previously the Company also managed exposures arising on highly probable forecast transactions. This change 
in treasury policy arose as a consequence of the change in the Group’s reporting currency from sterling to US dollars. 
As the number of transactions now being hedged is significantly reduced and restricted to items which affect profit or loss or are recognised 
on the balance sheet at the balance sheet date, the Company has ceased to adopt the hedge accounting rules for all transactions entered into 
since the decision was taken to change the Group’s reporting currency. The Company previously designated its forward foreign currency 
exchange contracts as cash flow hedges and such designation was maintained until maturity of those remaining contracts in 2010.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the contract is entered into, and are 
subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reported balance sheet date. The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is 
calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Changes in the fair value of contracts which were designated as effective were recognised directly in equity and the gain or loss on the 
ineffective portion of the hedge recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, 
any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the profit and loss account. For effective hedges that were in relation to a 
financial asset or liability, amounts originally deferred were recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged 
item affected profit or loss, for example when a highly probable forecast sale occurred. For non-financial assets or liabilities, the gains or 
losses that were included in equity were included in the initial measurement of the non-financial asset or liability at the time the asset or 
liability was recognised on the balance sheet. 107 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
1. Significant accounting policies continued
The Company discontinued hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expired or was sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer met 
the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revoked the designation. Gains or losses arising on hedging instruments, which were cancelled 
due to termination of the underlying exposure, were taken to the profit and loss account immediately. 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts. 
 
Pensions
The Company operates two funded defined benefit pension plans. All other plans are defined contribution in nature where the amount 
charged to the profit and loss account is the contributions paid or payable during the year.
For defined benefit pension plans full actuarial valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit method, and 
updates are performed at each balance sheet date. The cost of providing benefits under these plans is determined separately for each plan, 
and attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost), and to the current and prior periods (to 
determine the present value of defined benefit obligations).
Past services are recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis or immediately if the benefits have vested. When a 
settlement (eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued), or a curtailment (reducing future obligations as a result of a material 
reduction in the plan membership or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using 
current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the profit and loss account during the period in which the settlement 
or curtailment occurs.
The interest element of the defined benefit pension plan cost represents the change in present value of plan obligations resulting from the 
passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account 
material changes in the obligation during the year. 
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on plan assets, 
adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received, and benefits paid during the year. The difference between the 
expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the profit and loss account as finance costs or finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between actual and expected returns on plan assets, experience adjustments on liabilities 
and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The defined benefit pension plan asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation (using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds denominated in the same currency and whose term is 
consistent with the estimated term of the obligation). Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is 
the published bid price. The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the 
present value of any amount the Company expects to recover, by way of reductions in the future contributions or refunds from the plan that 
have been agreed by the trustees. 
Treasury shares
Spirent Communications plc Ordinary Shares held by the Company are classified in shareholders’ equity as treasury shares and are recognised 
at cost and shown as a deduction from retained earnings. Consideration received for the sale of such Ordinary Shares is also recognised in 
equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to retained earnings.
Employee benefits
When an employee has rendered service to the Company during an accounting period, short term benefits expected to be paid in exchange for 
that service are recognised in the same accounting period.
Dividends paid
The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the period it is approved by the directors, and the final dividend in the period it 
is approved by the shareholders at an annual general meeting. 108 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the parent Compan Y f Inan CIal statement s CONTINUED
1. Significant accounting policies continued
Share-based payment
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted.  
The fair value is determined using a binomial model.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised as a cost to the Company or as an addition to the cost of investment in the subsidiary  
in which the relevant employees work, over the vesting period of the equity-settled transactions with a corresponding adjustment to  
reserves. Any payments received from the Company’s subsidiaries in respect of these share-based payments result in a reduction in  
the cost of investment.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, 
which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions  
are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.  
In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the date  
of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not yet recognised for 
the award is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award and designated as a replacement award 
on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the 
previous paragraph.
The Company has an employee share trust for the granting of certain share incentives to employees. Shares are held by the employee share 
trust, treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity. 
Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable represents the amount expected to be paid or recovered in respect of taxable profit for the year and is calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on an undiscounted basis on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
except as referred to below. Amounts provided are calculated with reference to tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which  
the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from 
which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not provided on gains on the disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, unless there is a 
binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned. Provision will not be made where it is considered more likely than not that the taxable 
gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only when the replacement assets are sold.
2. Employees
Please refer to the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 45 to 52 for disclosures relating to the emoluments, share incentives and long 
term incentive interests and pensions of the directors. 109 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
3. Pensions
Defined benefit plans 
The funded defined benefit pension plans are in the United Kingdom and comprise the Spirent Communications plc Staff Pension & Life 
Assurance Plan (“Staff Plan”) and the Spirent Communications plc Retirement Cash & Life Assurance Plan (“Cash Plan”). The Staff Plan is the 
Company’s most significant plan. There is in addition an unfunded plan. 
The valuation used for these disclosures has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the Plans as at 1 April 2009. The present 
values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs were measured using the projected unit 
credit method.
i) The key financial assumptions
The assumptions used for both plans were as follows:
2010 
%
2009 
%
Inflation RPI 3.4 3.4
Inflation CPI 2.5 n/a
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.9 3.9
Rate of increase for pensions in payment pre 2001 service 3.7 3.7
Rate of increase for pensions in payment post 2001 pre April 2005 service 3.2 3.2
Rate of increase for pensions post April 2005 service 2.2 2.2
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.5 3.4
Rate used to discount plan liabilities 5.5 5.7
Expected rate of return on plan assets (weighted for both plans) 5.8 5.6
Spirent Communications plc employs a building block approach in determining the long term rate of return on the plans’ assets. Historical 
markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted capital market 
principles. The assumed long term rate of return on each class of asset is set out within this note. The overall expected rate of return on assets 
is then derived by aggregating the expected return of each asset class over the actual asset allocation for the plans.
Following the UK Government’s announcement in 2010, the inflation index to be used to derive statutory increases to pensions, both before 
and after they come into payment, has been changed from the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”) to the Consumer Prices Index (“CPI”). In the Staff 
Plan, the increases provided to pensions before they come into payment are at the statutory level and hence are impacted by this change. 
However, the increases provided to pensions after they come into payment are prescribed by the plan rules and are not impacted. Due to  
a number of differences between the indices, including both constituents and construction, CPI is expected to be lower than RPI over the  
long term which means that the defined benefit obligation has reduced. This reduction has been recognised as an assumption change at  
31 December 2010.
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The assumptions are such 
that a member currently aged 68 (2009 aged 68) will live on average for a further 19.2 years (2009 19.1 years) if they are male and for a further 
21.0 years (2009 20.9 years) if they are female. For a member who retires in 2020 (2009 in 2019) at age 64 (2009 aged 64) the assumptions 
are that they will live on average for a further 23.7 years (2009 23.6 years) after retirement if they are male and for a further 25.6 years (2009 
25.5 years) after retirement if they are female.
 
The approximate impact to the past service liabilities of changing these main assumptions is as follows:
 
Reducing the discount rate by 0.1 per cent per annum. This would increase past service liabilities by £2.0 million.  –
Increasing the life expectancy of a member by one year (by modifying the standard mortality tables using an appropriate scaling factor).  –
This would increase past service liabilities by £4.5 million.
 
There will also be an impact on the future service cost but given the small active population in these plans this is likely to be insignificant. 110 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the parent Compan Y f Inan CIal statement s CONTINUED
3. Pensions continued
ii) The assets and the liabilities in the plans were as follows:
Long term 
rate of return 
expected 
%
2010 
£ million
Long term 
rate of return 
expected
 %
2009 
£ million
Staff Plan 
Equities 8.5 35.3 8.5 30.6
Government bonds 4.0 39.3 4.3 32.2
Corporate bonds 5.0 47.1 5.1 57.3
Insured annuities 5.5 2.9 5.7 2.9
Property 8.4 13.2 9.0 3.6
Cash and other 1.0 2.2 1.0 4.5
Fair value of plan assets 5.9 140.0 5.7 131.1
Present value of defined benefit pension plan obligations (134.1) (131.4)
Surplus/(deficit) in the plan 5.9 (0.3)
Surplus restriction (4.0) –
Surplus/(deficit) recognised 1.9 (0.3)
Cash Plan
Equities 8.5 2.4 8.5 1.8
Government bonds 4.1 2.1 4.4 2.7
Insured annuities 5.5 0.2 5.7 0.2
Cash and other 1.0 2.2 1.0 2.1
Fair value of plan assets 4.6 6.9 4.5 6.8
Present value of defined benefit pension plan obligations (6.5) (6.0)
Surplus in the plan 0.4 0.8
Surplus restriction (0.1) (0.5)
Surplus recognised 0.3 0.3
Total net surplus recognised 2.2 –
Unfunded plan
Present value of unfunded obligations (0.4) (0.4)
Net pension plan surplus/(deficit) on the balance sheet 1.8 (0.4)
Deferred tax (liability)/asset note 12 (0.5) 0.1
Net pension plan surplus/(deficit) on the balance sheet 1.3 (0.3)
The recognition of the surplus in the Staff Plan and the Cash Plan is restricted in 2010 and 2009 to the present value of economic benefits 
available in the form of refunds from the Plan or reductions in future contributions to the Plan. As a result only £2.2 million (2009 £0.3 million) 
of the £6.3 million (2009 £0.8 million) surplus has been recognised on the balance sheet at 31 December.
The plans are prohibited from investing in Spirent’s own financial instruments.
 
For the purposes of the following disclosures the two plans have been combined as the Cash Plan is immaterial to these financial statements.  111 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
3. Pensions continued
iii) Analysis of the amounts charged/(credited) to the profit and loss account   
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
Analysis of amount charged to operating costs
Current service cost 0.2 0.1
Expected return on pension plans’ assets 6.8 6.4
Interest on pension plans’ liabilities (7.6) (7.5)
Finance costs (0.8) (1.1)
Net profit and loss charge 1.0 1.2
iv) Analysis of amount recognised directly in equity   
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
Actual return on pension plans’ assets 13.9 13.9
Less expected return on pension plans’ assets 6.8 6.4
Experience gains on plans’ assets 7.1 7.5
Experience losses arising on plans’ liabilities (0.4) (2.5)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of plans’ liabilities (1.1) (6.4)
Movement in surplus restriction (3.6) 0.2
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised directly in equity 2.0 (1.2)
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 January 2003 in the Company’s statement of total recognised gains 
and losses is £11.6 million loss (2009 £13.6 million loss). The directors are unable to determine how much of the pension plan deficit 
recognised on 1 January 2003 and taken directly to equity of £41.9 million in the Company is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since 
inception of those pension plans. Consequently, the directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would 
have been recognised in the Company’s statement of recognised gains and losses before 1 January 2003.
v) Movements in the present value of funded defined benefit obligations   
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
At 1 January 137.4 126.5
Current service cost 0.2 0.1
Interest cost 7.6 7.5
Employee contributions 0.1 0.1
Benefit payments (6.2) (5.7)
Actuarial loss 1.5 8.9
Present value of funded defined benefit pension plans’ obligations 140.6 137.4
vi) Movements in the fair value of plans’ assets      
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
At 1 January 137.9 129.3
Expected return on plans’ assets 6.8 6.4
Employer contributions 1.2 0.3
Employee contributions 0.1 0.1
Benefit payments (6.2) (5.7)
Actuarial gain 7.1 7.5
Fair value of plans’ assets 146.9 137.9 112 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the parent Compan Y f Inan CIal statement s CONTINUED
3. Pensions continued   
vii) History of experience gains and losses      
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
2008
 £ million 
2007 
£ million 
2006 
£ million
Present value of defined benefit pension plans’ obligations (140.6) (137.4) (126.5) (135.1) (158.2)
Fair value of plans’ assets 146.9 137.9 129.3 142.8 160.6
Net surplus in plans 6.3 0.5 2.8 7.7 2.4
Experience losses on plans’ liabilities
Amount (£ million) (0.4) (2.5) (0.4) (0.8) (10.0)
Percentage of plans’ liabilities (%) (0.3) (1.8) (0.3) (0.6) (6.3)
Experience gains and losses on plans’ assets
Amount (£ million) 7.1 7.5 (15.4) (2.6) 0.5
Percentage of plans’ assets (%) 4.8 5.4 (11.9) (1.8) 0.3
Expected cash contributions for 2011 for these plans are £1.8 million.
 
The above plans are funded and have full UK HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) tax-exempt approval. Certain members, whose salaries were 
in excess of the HMRC statutory earnings cap, had their benefits increased through unapproved unfunded arrangements, to the level that 
would otherwise have applied in respect of basic salary only. The Company has contractually agreed to pay the additional retirement benefits 
itself and a provision is made in respect of this obligation in the balance sheet at 31 December 2010 of £0.4 million (2009 £0.4 million). This 
represents the actuarial value, as confirmed by the Company’s pension advisers, of the unapproved benefit entitlements accrued at that date. 
The value is assessed and reviewed on a market value basis in line with the main plan valuation. There are no experience gains or losses on 
the unfunded plan in the period from 2006 to 2010.
Defined contribution schemes
The Company also maintains defined contribution pension plans for employees. Employer contributions into these plans for 2010 were  
£0.7 million (2009 £0.8 million).
4. Intangible assets  
£ million 
Goodwill
Cost
At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010 6.8
Amortisation
At 1 January 2010 1.8
Provided during the year 0.7
At 31 December 2010 2.5
Net book value at 31 December 2009 5.0
Net book value at 31 December 2010 4.3 113 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
5. Tangible fixed assets    
£ million
Freehold land 
and buildings
Plant and 
machinery
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment Total
Cost
At 1 January 2010 0.6 3.9 3.6 8.1
Interclass transfers – 0.5 (0.5) –
Additions – 0.6 0.2 0.8
Disposals – (0.4) (0.5) (0.9)
At 31 December 2010 0.6 4.6 2.8 8.0
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2010 – 3.3 3.1 6.4
Inter class transfers – 0.5 (0.5) –
Provided during the year 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.6
Disposals – (0.4) (0.5) (0.9)
At 31 December 2010 0.1 3.7 2.3 6.1
Net book value at 31 December 2009 0.6 0.6 0.5 1.7
Net book value at 31 December 2010 0.5 0.9 0.5 1.9
6. Shares in subsidiaries 
£ million
Cost
At 1 January 2010 885.7
Additions 45.6
Disposals (1.6)
At 31 December 2010 929.7
Provisions
At 1 January 2010 720.5
Provided in the year 0.8
Disposals (1.0)
At 31 December 2010 720.3
Net book value at 31 December 2009 165.2
Net book value at 31 December 2010 209.4
7 . Loans to subsidiaries 
£ million
At 1 January 2010 17.9
Repayments (9.9)
Exchange 0.2
At 31 December 2010 8.2 114 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the parent Compan Y f Inan CIal statement s CONTINUED
8. Inventories  
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
Raw materials 3.0 3.1
Work in progress 0.8 0.7
Finished goods 2.1 2.1
5.9 5.9
9. Trade and other debtors  
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
Due within one year
Trade debtors 6.3 6.1
Owed by subsidiaries 4.7 3.1
Other debtors 0.4 0.6
Prepayments and accrued income 0.6 0.4
12.0 10.2
Due after more than one year
Deferred tax asset note 12 8.9 12.7
20.9 22.9
10. Creditors due within one year  
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
Trade creditors 4.6 5.4
Owed to subsidiaries 0.3 0.2
Accruals and deferred income 5.7 4.5
Other taxes and social security costs 0.5 0.8
11.1 10.9
11. Creditors due after more than one year  
2010 
£ million 
2009 
£ million
Owed to subsidiaries 60.8 61.2
12. Deferred tax  
£ million
At 1 January 2010 12.7
Reversed in the year (3.8)
At 31 December 2010 8.9
The deferred tax asset is in relation to short term timing differences and tax losses. 
There is a deferred tax liability at 31 December 2010 of £0.6 million and a deferred tax asset of £0.1 million (2009 liability of £0.1 million and 
asset of £0.2 million) in relation to the pension plans (note 3). 115 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
13. Provisions   
£ million
Lease provisions
At 1 January 2010 0.2
Utilised in the year (0.2)
At 31 December 2010 –
 
Provisions are analysed as follows:   
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
Current – 0.2
These provisions were in respect of obligations for properties under operating leases which have been vacated.
14. Operating lease commitments   
At the balance sheet date, the Company had annual commitments which expire as follows:     
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
In the second to fifth years 0.5 0.5
15. Derivative financial instruments     
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” for parent Company financial 
statements. The disclosures in respect of the Group are included in the consolidated financial statements.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is as follows:       
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Currency derivatives – 0.1 0.6 0.1
Currency derivatives are expected to be realised within one year.     
Currency derivatives     
The Company uses forward foreign currency exchange contracts in the management of transactional exchange rate exposures. These 
contracts were designated in 2009 as hedging instruments. In 2010 the Company has chosen not to designate these contracts as hedges. 116 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the parent Compan Y f Inan CIal statement s CONTINUED
16. Capital and reserves        
£ million
Called up 
share capital
Share 
premium 
account
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Capital 
reserve
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve
Profit and
loss account
2
Total
At 1 January 2010 22.6 18.3 10.6 1.0 0.4 178.0 230.9
New shares issued 0.2 1.7 – (0.1) – – 1.8
Share cancellation (0.3) – 0.3 – – – –
Profit for the year
3
– – – – – 20.8 20.8
Share-based payment
4
– – – – – 0.3 0.3
Actuarial gain recognised on defined benefit  
pension plans – – – – – 2.0 2.0
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension plans – – – – – (0.6) (0.6)
Cash flow hedges – – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Employee Share Ownership Trust – – – – – 1.2 1.2
Share repurchase – – – – – (13.0) (13.0)
Equity dividends – – – – – (9.1) (9.1)
Other movements – – – (0.9) – 0.9 –
At 31 December 2010 22.5 20.0 10.9 – – 180.5 233.9
Notes        
1  The Company has taken advantage of the exemption given in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its profit and loss account.     
2  The Company’s profit and loss account of £180.5 million (2009 £178.0 million) includes non-distributable reserves of £6.9 million (2009 £6.9 million).    
3   The profit for the year dealt with in the financial statements of the Company was £20.8 million (2009 £53.0 million) which after dividends of £9.1 million (2009 £7 .7 million), gave a 
retained profit of £11.7 million (2009 £45.3 million). 
4  Share-based payment has been recorded for subsidiary companies whose incentives are satisfied by the Company’s shares.      
  
Changes during the year in the issued Ordinary Share capital were as follows:  
Number of 
Ordinary Shares 
million
Issued and fully paid at 1 January 2010 678.1
Allotted pursuant to share incentives exercised 6.6
Cancelled during the year
1
(9.8)
Issued and fully paid at 31 December 2010 674.9
 
Note   
1  During 2010, under the programme of returning capital to shareholders, the Company repurchased 9.8 million Ordinary Shares on market which were subsequently cancelled.
  
In accordance with the rules of the following share plans, share incentives were exercised during the year which resulted in new Ordinary 
Shares being allotted by the Company or existing Ordinary Shares being transferred from either the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust 
(“ESOT”) or from the Spirent Sharesave Trust (“SST”) as follows:   
Number of 
Ordinary Shares 
million
Consideration 
received 
£ million
2005 Employee Incentive Plan 0.7 0.1
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan 6.6 2.2
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme 1.3 0.7
All employee share plans
1
0.1 –
8.7 3.0
Note 
1  The all employee share plans are the UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme, the 2005 Sharesave Scheme, the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Global All Employee Share 
Purchase Plan and the UK Employee Share Purchase Plan.  117 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
16. Capital and reserves continued
During the year 0.1 million Ordinary Shares were transferred from the SST to satisfy options exercised under the UK all employee share 
schemes (2009 0.3 million) and 2.0 million Ordinary Shares were transferred from the ESOT to satisfy options exercised under the Spirent 
Stock Incentive Plan (2009 1.7 million).
There has been no material increase in the issued Ordinary Share capital, whether by exercise of share incentives or otherwise, between  
31 December 2010 and 3 March 2011, the date on which these financial statements have been signed.
Investment in own Ordinary Shares
At 31 December 2010, the ESOT held 4.0 million Ordinary Shares (2009 5.4 million Ordinary Shares) to satisfy awards under various share 
incentive plans. Of this number, 0.1 million Ordinary Shares were unconditionally vested at 31 December 2010 (2009 0.1 million Ordinary 
Shares). At 31 December 2010, the SST held 0.5 million Ordinary Shares (2009 0.6 million Ordinary Shares) to satisfy awards made to UK 
based employees under an all employee share scheme. The market value of own Ordinary Shares held in trust, being in total 4.5 million 
Ordinary Shares (2009 6.0 million Ordinary Shares), at 31 December 2010 was £6.7 million (2009 £6.1 million).
Capital redemption reserve
During 2010 the Company cancelled 9.8 million Ordinary Shares that had been the subject of the on market share repurchase programme 
(2009 0.6 million Ordinary Shares) and transferred £0.3 million (2009 £20,333) to the capital redemption reserve.
Capital reserve
In 2010 the reserve has been reduced by £0.9 million (2009 £0.4 million) in relation to share incentives which have been cancelled or have lapsed.
Share repurchase
During 2010 the Company repurchased 10.4 million Ordinary Shares on market at a cost of £13.0 million (2009 0.6 million Ordinary Shares  
at a cost of £0.6 million). Of the shares repurchased 9.8 million (2009 0.6 million) Ordinary Shares were subsequently cancelled and 0.6 million 
were placed into the ESOT. 
Employee share plans 
The Company operates a number of employee share incentive plans as described below. The following share incentives over Ordinary Shares 
under these plans have been granted and remain outstanding, held by employees of the parent Company.
Movements in share incentives during the year to 31 December 2010 are shown below:
2005 
Employee 
Incentive 
Plan
Spirent Stock 
Incentive 
Plan
1995
Executive 
Share Option 
Scheme
UK 
sharesave 
schemes
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
pence
Number 
of share 
incentives 
million
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
pence
Options outstanding at 31 December 2009 3.0 30 1.6 58 2.6 112 0.1 39
Exercised (1.2) 50 (0.9) 59 (1.2) 56 (0.1) 39
Expired – – – – (0.2) 323 – –
Options outstanding at 31 December 2010 1.8 17 0.7 53 1.2 135 – –
Options exercisable at 31 December 2010 0.2 50 0.7 53 1.2 135 – –
The weighted average share price at exercise date was 123.5 pence (2009 77 .6 pence).      
  118 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the parent Compan Y f Inan CIal statement s CONTINUED
16. Capital and reserves continued
The following information relates to outstanding share incentives at 31 December 2010:
       2010    2009
Share plan
Exercise period  
(as at 31 December)
Range of
exercise  
prices
pence
Weighted
average
exercise  
price
pence
Number
of share
incentives
outstanding
million
Weighted 
average
remaining
contractual  
life
years
Weighted
average
exercise  
price
pence
Number
of share
incentives
outstanding
million
Weighted 
average
remaining
contractual  
life
years
2005 Employee Incentive Plan 25.08.08 – 06.11.18 0-53 17 1.8 3.3 30 3.0 5.0
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan 12.09.03 – 12.11.15 37-53 49 0.6 2.1 50 0.9 3.0
17.09.04 – 12.08.16 59-87 67 0.1 1.0 67 0.7 1.7
1995 Executive Share 03.10.04 – 04.08.14 56-72 69 0.2 3.5 58 1.4 4.5
Option Scheme 02.04.05 – 01.05.12 113-134 125 0.9 1.3 125 0.9 2.3
11.05.03 – 08.04.11 305-334 305 0.1 0.3 322 0.3 0.7
UK sharesave schemes 01.12.09 – 31.05.11 38-41 – – – 39 0.1 1.1
   3.7  7.3
Note
1  Figures for the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan include share options, stock appreciation rights and performance shares in aggregate. No exercise price is payable on the vesting of a 
performance share. 
Description of employee share plans 
Discretionary Plans
2005 Employee Incentive Plan (“EIP”) 
The EIP , which was introduced in 2005 and replaced the now closed ESOS (see below), is currently available for selected employees, including 
executive directors, on a discretionary basis.
Under the EIP , the Company is able to grant share options, including HMRC approved options, share-settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) 
and Performance shares. No price is payable on the grant of an award.
In normal circumstances, EIP awards vest three years following the date of grant provided the relevant performance conditions have been met. 
For share options and SARs, the performance conditions relate to the Company’s earnings per share (“EPS”) and for Performance shares, 
relate to total shareholder return (“TSR”).
Further information on the performance conditions for EIP share incentives is set out in the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 46  
and 47 .
Options and SARs granted under the EIP expire on the tenth anniversary of their grant unless they have previously lapsed or been exercised.
Spirent Stock Incentive Plan (“SSIP”)
The SSIP is now closed for new grants and has been replaced by the EIP referred to above.
The SSIP was introduced in 2000. This discretionary plan was primarily targeted at US employees with grants normally determined by 
reference to the seniority and contribution of the individual, together with the performance of the relevant business and prevailing local market 
practice. Grants were also permitted to selected newly hired and promoted employees on a monthly basis. Under the SSIP , the Company was 
able to grant share options and share-settled SARs. No price was payable on the grant of an award. 
Most awards made pursuant to the SSIP vest over four years, provided that the participant remains in employment. Vesting is not normally subject 
to a performance condition and awards become 25 per cent exercisable on the first anniversary of the date of grant and thereafter in equal 
tranches on a monthly basis over a further 36 months. Any award not exercised by the seventh anniversary of the date of grant will lapse. 119 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
16. Capital and reserves continued
The vesting of SSIP awards made to Bill Burns prior to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer and to certain other key senior managers 
within the Communications group, were subject to the Company meeting EPS growth targets over the vesting periods. Further details of these 
performance conditions are set out in the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 47 and 48. 
SARs granted under the EIP and SSIP will deliver the appreciation value (ie the increase in market value of an Ordinary Share over the base 
price of the SAR) in the form of Ordinary Shares. This “SARs approach” helps the Company manage its dilution headroom more efficiently as 
only the SAR gain needs to be funded. Using a SARs approach, it is not possible to determine the precise level of dilution until the SARs are 
exercised. 
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) 
The ESOS is now closed for new grants and has been replaced by the EIP referred to above. 
Under the ESOS awards of share options, including HMRC approved options, were on a discretionary basis. No price was payable on the grant 
of an option and no options were granted at a discount to the market price. 
The normal exercise period for options granted under the ESOS is between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant. Options 
awarded under the ESOS were subject to the achievement of an EPS performance condition before they could be exercised. All outstanding 
options have now passed their EPS performance conditions and remain exercisable until they expire on the tenth anniversary of their 
respective grant dates. 
All Employee Plans
UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“SRSOS”) and the 2005 Sharesave Scheme 
The SRSOS closed in 2005 and was replaced by the 2005 Sharesave Scheme. SRSOS options which remain outstanding may still be exercised 
prior to expiry, however no further grants can be made. Both schemes operate as HMRC approved Save-As-You-Earn schemes and are open to 
all UK employees, subject to a qualifying service period. Any future sharesave invitations will be made under the 2005 Sharesave Scheme, 
which is broadly similar to the SRSOS. 
No price is payable on the grant of an option. The option exercise price is calculated by reference to the middle market closing price of an 
Ordinary Share on the business day prior to the beginning of the invitation period, discounted by up to 20 per cent at the Board’s discretion. 
Options are normally exercisable within six months of the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the contract commencement date as elected by 
the option holder at the start of the contract. 
The Company operates the SST to honour the commitment to deliver Ordinary Shares against the exercise of outstanding options under the 
SRSOS. Spirent Sharesave Trust Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Spirent Communications plc, acts as sole trustee of the SST. During the 
year, 0.1 million Ordinary Shares were transferred to participants (2009 0.3 million Ordinary Shares). 
No invitations have been made under either of these schemes since 2003. 
UK Employee Share Purchase Plan (“UK ESPP”) 
The UK ESPP , which is an HMRC approved share incentive plan, was approved by shareholders in 2005 and is available to all UK employees. 
The UK ESPP offers three ways to provide Ordinary Shares to employees: free shares, partnership shares and matching shares. The UK ESPP 
will operate in conjunction with a trust, which holds the shares on behalf of participants.
In November 2010, the Company made an invitation to all UK employees to acquire Partnership shares on market using deductions from 
payroll, commencing in January 2011. 120 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes to the parent Compan Y f Inan CIal statement s CONTINUED
17 . Share-based payment  
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans is as follows:    
2010 
£ million
2009 
£ million
2005 Employee Incentive Plan 0.1 0.1
All schemes are equity-settled.  
No share incentives were granted during 2010. For 2009 the fair value of share incentives has been estimated as at the date of grant using a 
binomial model.   
The following table gives the assumptions made in arriving at the share-based payment charge and the fair value:  
2010 2009
Weighted average share price (pence) – 97.8
Weighted average exercise price (pence) – –
Weighted average fair value (pence) – 29.3
Expected volatility (%) – 53.0
Expected life (years) – 4.5
Risk free rate (%) – 2.4
Dividend yield (%) – 2.0
The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous two years which 
management considers to be the period which is likely to be most representative of future volatility. The expected life used in the model has 
been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural 
considerations. For Performance shares granted under the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan, which have a market based performance condition, 
it has been assumed that there will be 30 per cent vesting for valuation purposes.
18. Related party transactions 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 “Related Party Disclosures” in relation to disclosing transactions with its 
subsidiaries.
19. Subsidiaries 
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given 
on page 121 of this Annual Report. 
20. Capital commitments and contingent liabilities 
There were no capital commitments at 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009. 
Spirent Communications plc has provided indemnities of £0.4 million (2009 £0.4 million) for certain ongoing business obligations under 
letters of credit for subsidiary companies.
21. Directors’ emoluments and transactions with directors 
Please refer to the Report on directors’ remuneration on pages 45 to 52 for disclosures relating to the remuneration, share incentives and 
pensions of the directors. 121 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
overview
business review
governance
financial statements
pr InCIpal d Iv Is Ions and subs Id Iar Ies % held at 31 December 2010
Communications
Performance Analysis and Service Assurance solutions  
Canada  
Spirent Communications of Ottawa Limited (Nepean, Ontario) 100
France 
Spirent Communications SAS (Paris) 100
Hong Kong 
Spirent Communications (Asia) Limited 100
India 
Spirent Communications (India) Pvt Limited (Bangalore) 100
People’s Republic of China 
Spirent Communications Technology (Beijing) Limited* 100
United Kingdom 
Spirent Communications (International) Limited (Crawley, West Sussex)* 100
Spirent Communications Positioning (Paignton, Devon)
†
United States 
Spirent Communications Hawaii, LLC (Honolulu, Hawaii) 100
Spirent Communications Inc 100
Calabasas, California   
Sunnyvale, California
Eatontown, New Jersey
Spirent Communications of Rockville, Inc (Germantown, Maryland) 100
Systems
Control systems for the medical mobility and industrial markets 
United Kingdom 
PG Drives Technology Limited (Christchurch, Dorset) 100
United States 
PG Drives Technology Inc (Anaheim, California) 100
Notes  
The above companies operate and are incorporated in the countries listed. All shareholdings in the companies are held indirectly by Spirent Communications plc, except where 
indicated by an asterisk (*) where the shareholding is held directly by Spirent Communications plc.  
 
† Spirent Communications Positioning operates as a division of Spirent Communications plc.  
The activity mentioned is indicative and not comprehensive. 
  122 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
f Inan CIal h Istor Y
$ million
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Summary income statement
Continuing operations
Revenue 482.2 427.2 477.1 474.0 479.0
Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill impairment 112.7 86.8 90.1 51.0 15.5
Exceptional items – – – (28.8) (16.3)
Goodwill impairment – – – – (35.3)
Operating profit/(loss) 112.7 86.8 90.1 22.2 (36.1)
Net finance (costs)/income (0.5) (1.9) 5.0 13.4 11.1
Exceptional net finance costs – – (3.3) – (15.6)
Profit/(loss) before tax 112.2 84.9 91.8 35.6 (40.6)
Tax (33.1) 6.3 (0.7) 7.6 (0.7)
Exceptional tax – – 47.3 7.8 –
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations after tax 79.1 91.2 138.4 51.0 (41.3)
Discontinued operations – – – (15.1) 235.8
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of parent Company 79.1 91.2 138.4 35.9 194.5
Summary balance sheet
Intangible assets 112.0 112.4 111.7 116.6 124.1
Property, plant and equipment 29.1 23.6 26.8 32.2 49.6
Working capital (excluding cash and deferred tax) 10.4 8.3 23.0 (37.8) (4.4)
Operating assets 151.5 144.3 161.5 111.0 169.3
Derivative financial instruments (net) (0.2) 0.8 (8.1) (1.0) 0.2
Net funds including long term cash 225.0 175.7 89.6 164.6 208.0
Provisions and other liabilities (7.6) (11.4) (17.1) (25.2) (23.6)
Deferred tax 31.3 42.5 17.5 20.9 2.3
Defined benefit pension plan surplus/(deficit) 7.1 (0.1) 2.8 10.7 2.0
Net assets 407.1 351.8 246.2 281.0 358.2
Total equity 407.1 351.8 246.2 281.0 358.2
Summary cash flows
Cash flow from operating activities 99.4 96.1 88.3 99.1 (74.5)
Net interest received 0.8 0.6 2.6 11.2 7.6
Net capital expenditure (17.6) (10.2) (12.8) (10.4) (26.9)
Free cash flow 82.6 86.5 78.1 99.9 (93.8)
Acquisitions and disposals – – – (23.4) 404.2
Share capital and share repurchase (15.0) 2.7 (112.9) (126.4) (74.3)
Dividends paid (13.7) (12.1) (6.4) – –
Borrowings – – – – (145.9)
Transfer from long term deposit 0.6 2.2 2.2 9.6 (15.7)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 54.5 79.3 (39.0) (40.3) 74.5 123 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
$ million
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Other information
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment 18.1 10.1 13.7 10.2 26.1
Depreciation 11.9 13.5 16.3 19.0 24.8
Product development 80.2 74.6 83.8 92.6 107.3
Share information
Earnings/(loss) per share from continuing operations (cents)
Basic 11.77 13.67 18.74 5.93 (4.46)
Diluted 11.66 13.60 18.61 5.87 (4.46)
Adjusted basic 11.62 10.84 11.54 7.14 2.74 
Adjusted basic at a constant tax rate of 30.4% 11.62 8.86 8.96 5.21 2.00 
Total dividend per Ordinary Share (cents) 2.50 1.93 1.85 – –
Fully paid Ordinary Shares in issue at year end (million) 674.9 678.1 671.8 840.8 975.9
Segmental analysis
Revenue from continuing operations
Performance Analysis 365.8 316.8 353.7 338.6 332.1
Service Assurance 57.0 52.6 62.0 68.6 80.7
Systems 59.4 57.8 61.4 66.8 66.2
482.2 427.2 477.1 474.0 479.0
Operating profit from continuing operations
1
Performance Analysis 97.9 78.3 83.1 49.8 27.2
Service Assurance 13.0 7.5 8.9 7.6 0.2
Systems 8.8 7.9 8.0 7.8 8.9
Segment operating profit 119.7 93.7 100.0 65.2 36.3
Corporate — non-segmental (5.2) (4.9) (5.8) (7.4) (10.2)
Acquired intangible asset amortisation (1.4) (1.4) (1.3) (1.8) (1.0)
Share-based payment (0.4) (0.6) (2.8) (5.0) (9.6)
112.7 86.8 90.1 51.0 15.5
Geographical information
Revenue by market from continuing operations
Europe 79.5 69.2 88.4 87.4 80.9
United States 248.5 212.4 238.8 246.4 266.2
Asia Pacific, Rest of Americas, Africa 154.2 145.6 149.9 140.2 131.9
482.2 427.2 477.1 474.0 479.0
     
Notes     
1  Before exceptional items and goodwill impairment.      124 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
shareholder Informat Ion Financial Calendar 2011
3 March 2011 Preliminary results and final dividend announcement
9 March Final dividend – ex-dividend date
11 March Final dividend – record date
4 May Annual general meeting and interim management statement
5 May Final dividend – payment date (Ordinary shareholders)
12 May Final dividend – payment date (ADR holders)
3 July Half-year end
August Half-year results and interim dividend announcement
August Interim dividend – ex-dividend date
August Interim dividend – record date
September Interim dividend – payment date (Ordinary shareholders)
September Interim dividend – payment date (ADR holders)
November Interim management statement
31 December Financial year end
February 2012 2011 Preliminary results and final dividend announcement
Ordinary shares and American depositary receipts
The Company’s Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange (ticker: SPT). The Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary 
Receipt (“ADR”) programme with each ADR representing four Ordinary Shares. The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter market (symbol: 
SPMYY; CUSIP: 84856M209). The Bank of New York Mellon is the authorised depositary bank for the Company’s ADR programme. The ADRs 
are quoted on the Pink Sheets electronic quotation service which can be found at www.pinksheets.com.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s 2011 Annual General Meeting (“2011 AGM”) will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 4 May 2011 at UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, 
London EC2M 2PP , United Kingdom.
Dividends
Shareholders are able to choose how they receive their dividends:
direct to their bank account; –
reinvested in Ordinary Shares through the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan (see below); –
paid by cheque; or –
paid in foreign currencies. –
The quickest and most efficient way to receive your dividends is to have them paid direct to your bank account. It saves waiting for funds to 
clear and reduces the paper and postage we use. To change how you receive your dividends please contact the Company’s registrar, Equiniti, 
on 0871 384 2268 or log on to www.shareview.co.uk.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”) delivered by Equiniti Financial Services Limited. The DRIP allows eligible 
shareholders to use their cash dividend to buy additional shares in the Company, so increasing their shareholding. If you would like additional 
information, please contact the Company’s registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2268 or log on to www.shareview.co.uk.
Electronic communications
All of the Company’s communications with shareholders are conducted in line with our environmental approach. We hold the majority of our 
events via webcast and conference calls and we encourage all of our investors to receive communications electronically. Shareholders who do 
not currently receive Company mailings electronically but wish to do so should notify the Company’s registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2126 or 
via www.shareview.co.uk. 125 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
Company’s registrar
Enquiries concerning shareholdings, change of address or other particulars should be directed in the first instance to the Company’s registrar, 
Equiniti, on 0871 384 2126. Equiniti also provide a range of online shareholder information services at www.shareview.co.uk, where 
shareholders can check their holdings and find practical help on transferring shares or updating their details.
Share dealing services
Equiniti Shareview Dealing is a service that provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling the Company’s Ordinary Shares.  
For telephone services call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday and for Internet services visit  
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. A postal share dealing service for buying and selling Ordinary Shares is also available and a dealing  
form can be obtained by calling 0871 384 2248 or at www.shareview.co.uk.
Individual savings accounts
Information about investing in the Company’s Ordinary Shares through an Individual Savings Account (“ISA”) may be obtained from Equiniti 
on 0845 300 0430 or at www.shareview.co.uk. ISAs are also offered by other organisations.
Shareholder security
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports about the Company. 
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in the Company’s mailings or on our website. More detailed 
information can be found at www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available, subject to a “proper purpose” test, should a request be received. 
As a consequence, some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail. To limit the amount of unsolicited mail received, please contact: The 
Mailing Preference Service (MPS), DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS, register online at www.mpsonline.org.uk or call the MPS 
Registration line on 0845 703 4599. The Mailing Preference Service is an independent organisation which offers a free service to the public 
within the UK. Registering with them will help stop most unsolicited consumer advertising material.
Company’s website
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Financial information published on the website is 
based on legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements that may be different from comparable 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Shareholder analysis
At 3 March 2011, the number of registered shareholders was 4,039 and the number of Ordinary Shares in issue was 675.3 million.
Number of Ordinary Shares held
Number of 
shareholders
% of total 
shareholders
Number of 
Ordinary 
Shares 
% of share 
capital
1 – 5,000 2,853 70.64 4,164,922 0.62
5,001 – 10,000 410 10.15 3,064,326 0.45
10,001 – 50,000 429 10.62 9,039,762 1.34
50,001 – 100,000 72 1.78 5,118,538 0.76
100,001 – 250,000 64 1.59 10,711,015 1.59
250,001 – 500,000 47 1.16 17,558,248 2.60
500,001 – 1,000,000 68 1.68 47,225,472 6.99
1,000,001 – highest 96 2.38 578,420,370 85.65
Total 4,039 100.00 675,302,653 100.00
Number of 
holders
% of total 
holders
Number of 
shares 
% of total 
shares
Individuals 3,185 78.86 15,757,094 2.33
Institutions 854 21.14 659,545,559 97.67
Total 4,039 100.00 675,302,653 100.00 126 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
Glossar Y
3G (Third Generation) Third generation of mobile communications following first generation (analogue) and 
second generation (digital) that promises megabits per second.
4G (Fourth Generation) Future generation of mobile communications following 3G that promises hundreds of 
megabits per second.
ADSL (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line) The most common of the DSL technologies. ADSL is designed to deliver more bandwidth 
downstream than upstream, for example from a central office to a customer site.
Backhaul A communications channel is backhauling when it takes traffic beyond its destination and 
back. There are many reasons it might do this for example it may be cheaper to go that route 
instead of going directly.
Broadband Generic term for devices with a bandwidth greater than one megabit per second.
CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access) A digital cellular standard technology allowing communications circuits to carry multiple 
conversations simultaneously, thus increasing capacity; used in radio communications.
Cloud Computing A way of computing, via the internet, that broadly shares computer resources instead of 
having local servers handle specific applications.
COMPASS A Chinese project to develop and deploy an independent global navigation satellite system.
Content Delivery On the internet, content delivery is a service that entails copying pages from a website to 
geographically dispersed servers and, when a page is requested, dynamically identifying 
and serving the page from the closest server to the user, enabling faster delivery.
Data Center A centralised location where computing resources critical to an organisation are maintained 
in a highly controlled environment.
DOCSIS (Data Over Cable Service Interface 
Specification)
An international telecommunications standard that permits the addition of high speed data 
transfer to an existing Cable TV system. It is employed by many cable television operators to 
provide internet access over their existing hybrid fibre coaxial infrastructure.
Ethernet A family of networking technologies developed for local area networks, migrating to metro 
area networks and becoming a dominant standard in wireline networks.
Galileo The informal name for the European Global Navigation Satellite System, a system that will 
offer users anywhere in the world “near pinpoint” geographic positioning when it becomes 
fully operational.
GbE (Gigabit Ethernet) A term describing various technologies for transmitting Ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit 
per second. GbE uses the same framing as Ethernet and Fast Ethernet, but has a much 
higher clock speed (one billion bits per second).
GNSS (Global Navigation Satellite Systems) The standard generic term for satellite navigation systems (“sat nav”) that provide 
autonomous geo-spatial positioning with global coverage. GNSS allows small electronic 
receivers to determine their location to within a few metres using time signals transmitted 
along a line-of-sight by radio from satellites. Receivers calculate the precise time as well  
as position.
GPS (Global Positioning System) A system for determining location and height at any point on the earth’s surface. A receiver 
uses minute differences in measured time signals from clocks on satellites to calculate 
these positions and altitudes. 127 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
GLONASS (Global Navigation Satellite System) Global navigation satellite system operated by the Russian Federation Ministry of Defence.
HSPA (High Speed Packet Access) A collection of mobile telephone protocols that extend and improve the performance of 
existing UMTS protocols for high speed data transmission.
IMS (Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem) A standardised next-generation architecture for telecoms operators who want to provide 
mobile and fixed multimedia services.
IP (Internet Protocol) Data protocol used by many networking devices to facilitate and control the flow of data.
IPTV (Internet Protocol Television) The delivery of programming by video stream encoded as a series of IP packets.
LAN (Local Area Network) A short distance data communications network used to link computers and peripheral 
devices, such as printers or modems, under some form of standard control.
Location Based Services The delivery of information, mapping and locally available business and public data over the 
wireless network dependent upon the ability to locate mobile devices by means of direct 
satellite or cellular assisted satellite signals.
LTE (Long Term Evolution) A standard to enhance existing 3G wireless to add 4G mobile communications technology 
on an IP network air interface, to create a wireless broadband internet system.
MSO (Multiple System Operator) A company that operates more than one cable TV system, often in different places.
Over-the-Air Mobile network radio cellular tower signal or satellite signal transmitted over-the-air to a 
mobile device antenna and processed by the mobile device communicating with the mobile 
network.
RF (Radio Frequency) A technology used for wireless broadcasting and/or communications.
SAN (Storage Area Network) A special purpose high speed network designed to transport database-intensive 
applications, such as those used for inventory, billing, receivables, customer relationship 
management and supply chain.
Triple Play Voice, video and data transmitted over a single transport medium.
UMTS (Universal Mobile  
Telecommunications System)
One of the 3G wireless technologies. The most common form of UMTS uses WCDMA on its 
underlying air interface and offers support for high speed data transfer.
VDSL2 (Second Generation very-high-data-rate 
Digital Subscriber Line)
Designed to support simultaneous bandwidth-intensive and tenancy-sensitive voice, video, 
data, TV over IP and interactive gaming.
Virtualization A term that refers to the abstraction of computer resources. Virtualization puts a number of 
computing and networking facilities together in such a way that it looks like a virtual 
computer to a user or a customer.
WCDMA (Wideband CDMA) A global standard for mobile 3G.
Wi-Fi Enables devices such as personal computers, video game consoles, smart phones or digital 
audio players to connect to the internet when within range of a wireless network connected 
to the internet. The coverage of one or more access points generally comprises an area the 
size of a few rooms but may be expanded to cover many square miles, depending on the 
number of access points with overlapping coverage. 128 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
notes ContaC t deta Ils Registered office
Spirent Communications plc
Northwood Park
Gatwick Road
Crawley
West Sussex RH10 9XN
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1293 767676
Fax: +44 (0)1293 767677
Email: investor.relations@spirent.com
Website: www.spirent.com
Registered in England No: 470893
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
1 More London Place
London SE1 2AF
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7951 2000
Website: www.ey.com
Registrar
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
Tel: 0871 384 2126 (UK)
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7047 (overseas)
Text phone (for shareholders with hearing difficulties):
0871 384 2255 (UK)
+44 (0)121 415 7028 (overseas)
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
ADR Depositary
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
ADR Depositary Receipts
101 Barclay Street
22nd Floor
New York
NY 10286
USA
Tel: +1 888 269 2377 (toll free – US)
Tel: +1 (201) 680 6825 (outside US)
Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com
Website: www.adrbnymellon.com
Brokers (Joint)
RBS Hoare Govett Limited
250 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 4AA
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7678 8000
Website: www.rbs.com
UBS Limited
1 Finsbury Avenue
London EC2M 2PP
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7567 8000
Website: www.ubs.com
Financial PR Advisers
Financial Dynamics Limited
Holborn Gate
26 Southampton Buildings
London WC2A 1PB
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 7831 3113
Website: www.fd.com Registered Office
Spirent Communications plc
Northwood Park
Gatwick Road
Crawley
West Sussex RH10 9XN
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1293 767676
Fax: +44 (0)1293 767677
Email: investor.relations@spirent.com
Website: www.spirent.com
Registered in England No: 470893
Spirent and the Spirent logo are trademarks or registered 
trademarks of Spirent Communications plc. All other 
trademarks or registered trademarks mentioned herein are 
held by their respective companies. All rights reserved.
www.spirent.com
