 Back cover Front cover
Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2012
Further business 
transformation 
through 
investment...
Spirit Pub Company plc
Sunrise House
Ninth Avenue
Burton upon Trent
Staffordshire
DE14 3JZ 
 
T: +44 (0)1283 498400
W: www.spiritpubcompany.com
Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2012 Inside front cover Inside back cover
...in our brands, 
estate, people  
and infrastructure.
Business review
01 Highlights
02 Our business
04 Managed division
06 Our brands
10 Leased division
12 Chairman’s statement
13  Chief Executive Officer’s review
14 Best for team
16  Corporate social responsibility
20 Financial review
22  Principal risks and uncertainties
23 Our key risks and uncertainties
Governance
26  Board of Directors 
28 Executive Management Team
30 Directors’ report
34  Corporate governance statement
37  Nomination & Governance  
Committee report
38  Audit & Risk Committee report
40  Report on Directors’ remuneration
50  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
in relation to the financial statements
Financial statements
51  Consolidated income statement
52  Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
53  Consolidated statement  
of financial position
54  Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
55  Consolidated cash flow statement
56  Company statement  
of financial position
57  Company statement  
of changes in equity
57  Company income statement
57   Company cash flow statement
5 8   Notes to the financial statements
95   Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of Spirit Pub Company plc
97   Five year financial record
98   Company information
99 Advisers
Designed and produced by The College  www.the-college.com
This report is printed using papers which are FSC Mixed Credit certified.
 
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass  
it on to interested readers, return it to Spirit Pub Company plc or dispose of it in 
your recycled paper waste. Thank you. 01 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
KPIs
Revenue £m
2008** 2009 2010 2011
810
775
724 734
760
2012
EBITDA* £m
2008** 2009 2010 2011
187
152
131
140
146
2012
Profit before tax* £m
2008** 2009 2010 2011
73
40 40
44
51
2012
Basic earnings per share* pence
2008** 2009 2010 2011
7.8
4.3 4.4
4.8
5.8
2012
Highlights
> > Strong earnings growth
> > Continued market outperformance 
and margin expansion in Managed
> > Foundations in place to drive 
performance improvement in Leased
> > EBITDA* up 5%
> > Profit before tax* up 16%
> > Earnings per share* up 21%
 
Managed:
> > Like for like sales up 4.8%, continuing 
to outperform the market
> > EBITDA* up 11% at £109m, EBITDAR 
margin up 120 basis points
 
Leased:
> > Like for like net income down 4.9%
> > EBITDA* of £38m (2011: £42m)
 * before exceptional items
** the year ended 23 August 2008 is a 53 week year 02 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Our business
Our Circle of Success represents how we 
achieve our ambition – we believe that by 
creating the best team, we will deliver the  
best results for all our stakeholders.
•	 Best for team – recruiting, developing  
and retaining the highest calibre team
•	 Best for guest – the team in turn delivers 
consistently great guest experiences
•	 Best for investor – which delivers the 
maximum return to reinvest in our pubs
Objective
Our objective is to maximise long term value 
for all our shareholders through continued 
investment in our brands, estate, people and 
infrastructure. This strategy has been in place 
for over two years and we intend to continue 
to pursue this strategy.
A key focus is the continual development  
and evolution of our brands to ensure they  
are well positioned in today’s ever changing 
market and remain appealing to the  
consumer. Guests have continued to respond 
enthusiastically as we continue to innovate, 
pursue operational improvements and invest 
in our Managed estate. Our strategy of 
investing in our brands has proved successful. 
We believe that our existing brands have  
the potential to expand across a bigger  
estate of pubs and we will continue to identify  
any further growth opportunities through 
selective acquisition.
We have put foundations in place this year  
in our Managed division that should allow  
us to grow our sales and margins in 2012/13. 
Work is already well underway in areas such 
as: improving the guest experience; further 
developing our brands; improving our 
marketing effectiveness; taking advantage  
of the benefits from the transfer of our  
supply chain operation to Kuehne + Nagel; 
and the rollout of ‘Pub in a Box’, a leading 
back office system.
Spirit Pub Company has a high quality estate 
of 1,278 pubs nationwide, consisting of  
791 Managed pubs and 487 Leased pubs, and  
a strong portfolio of award winning brands.
We recognise that brands are important to  
the consumer and we are well positioned in 
this respect. With our brands delivering great 
value for money, we are well placed to exploit 
the casual dining out market which is expected 
to grow over the medium and long term. 
Our Leased estate is one of the highest 
potential estates in the leased and tenanted 
sector attracting the highest calibre licensees 
and providing strong profit opportunities.  
We are able to use our retail expertise and 
skillset to enhance performance in our  
Leased division. 
At Spirit our ambition is to be the best  
pub company in the UK; that’s best for team,  
guest and investor. Our high calibre teams  
are fully aligned behind our ambition,  
goals and values – all of which are critical  
to our success. 
Our objective is to maximise long term  
value for all our shareholders through 
continued investment in our brands,  
estate, people and infrastructure. 03 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
We have already made substantial progress  
in transforming and revitalising the Managed 
division through further improvement to our 
brands, estate, people and infrastructure,  
and have made good progress on improving 
performance in our Leased division,  
which only came under our full control  
on 5 March 2012.
Our objective is to build the best long  
term sustainable Leased estate providing  
the most profitable pub opportunities  
for licensees, Spirit and our shareholders.  
Our focus will be to leverage our retail 
expertise to develop and grow in areas  
such as innovation in the Leased operating 
model and achieve cost saving synergies  
to gain the best value for money.
We continue to focus on calibre and people 
development and measured investment  
to maintain or improve our asset quality. 
Our ambition is to be the best pub 
company in the UK; that’s best for team, 
guest and investor.
Best for 
investor
Best for 
guest
Best for 
team 04 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Managed division
Our Managed division contains 791 high 
quality pubs, many in prime locations, and  
a strong portfolio of award winning brands. 
Our portfolio of award winning brands 
includes: Chef & Brewer; Fayre & Square; 
Flaming Grill; Taylor Walker; John Barras; and 
Original Pub Company, each offering great 
value for money and delivering an excellent 
guest experience from our high calibre teams. 
In addition, we operate Wacky Warehouse,  
the UK’s largest soft play and activity centre 
brand for children, and Good Night Inns,  
a group of hotels in great locations next  
to our pub restaurants.
This brand portfolio gives us broad coverage 
of the mass consumer markets and we 
continue to focus on delivering the right  
quality at the right price for the right consumer 
occasion. Offering great value for money has 
helped us in a tough, value seeking consumer 
environment and, as a result, advocacy has 
grown right across the brands. Our guests 
have continued to respond enthusiastically  
as we continue to invest, innovate and pursue 
operational improvements throughout our 
Managed estate. 
Compelling brand portfolio Higher price
Food led Drink led
Lower price 05 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Over the last 12 months, our investment 
programme has continued with circa 180 
investments during the year, which continue  
to deliver returns in excess of 25%. 79%  
of our Managed estate is now invested  
to brand standards and investments in  
the remainder of the estate will mostly  
be completed during 2012/13. 
Our focus is on the continual development  
and evolution of our brands to ensure they  
are well positioned in today’s ever changing 
market and remain appealing to the consumer. 
A key opportunity is to grow sales further  
by leveraging our brands harder and our 
approach is to ensure that we deliver a great 
experience to our guests to further increase 
their loyalty and confidence. 
We will continue to build our understanding  
of guests and target guests more tightly 
through our increasingly sophisticated 
customer relationship management (CRM) 
activity. This year, we evolved our brand 
websites to improve the online experience  
for our guests, which included the introduction 
of an online booking facility for Chef & Brewer, 
Fayre & Square and Taylor Walker. As part  
of our social media strategy, our brands  
now have social channels in place with 
encouraging levels of engagement. 
We want to ensure that our guests receive  
the very best experience in our pubs and  
from September 2012 we adopted a new 
approach to how we measure the guest 
journey. After listening to the 750,000 guests 
who completed our Guest Recommends 
online survey, we are focusing on the things 
that really matter to our guests with our new 
approach. ‘Guest Journey Measures’ will 
enable us to more frequently measure the 
guest journey through mystery guest feedback 
on key questions to ensure we consistently 
deliver a great guest experience across  
all our branded pub restaurants.
Fayre & Square – Best Pub Brand!
•	Launched in 2009
•	 Focus is on attentive service  
and guaranteed great meals  
at an affordable price
•	Square deals, all day every day
•	No Quibble Guarantee
•	 Voted ‘Best Pub Brand’ at  
the Publican Awards 2012 06 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Chef & Brewer
Delivers delicious 
freshly cooked food, 
made from the best 
seasonal products.
Our brands
Award winning
Chef & Brewer scooped 
‘Best Branded Pub 
Restaurant’ in the  
Menu Innovation & 
Development (MIDAS) 
awards 2012.
Chef & Brewer
Famous for food and drink
Chef & Brewer is a collection of country style 
pub restaurants with a modern service style 
and ethos, offering freshly prepared seasonal 
food and high quality drinks.
Chef & Brewer pubs are warm and welcoming 
with old beams, nooks and crannies, roaring 
log fires in the winter and beautiful gardens  
in the summer. They are the perfect setting  
for a variety of occasions from a relaxed family 
gathering to celebrate something special to 
catching up with friends.
Highlights this year
•	 Winner of ‘Best Branded Pub Restaurant’  
in the Menu Innovation & Development 
(MIDAS) awards 2012
•	New draught range installed
•	Cask ale range improved
•	Social media channels launched
•	Online booking facility introduced
For more information visit
www.chefandbrewer.com 
www.facebook.com/chefandbrewer 
www.twitter.com/chefandbrewer 
Good Night Inns
We make you feel at home
Good Night Inns are a collection of charming 
hotels with plenty of character, offering  
a comfortable, homely stay for business  
or leisure. All of the hotels are conveniently 
connected to one of our pub restaurants: 
Fayre & Square; Chef & Brewer; Flaming Grill; 
and John Barras.
Whilst all of the hotels are different, the priority 
remains the same – the guests’ comfort.  
The well furnished rooms offer a home from 
home experience with modern facilities at 
competitive prices.
Highlights this year
•	11 hotels refurbished
•	Significant website development
For more information visit
www.goodnightinns.co.uk 07 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Flaming Guarantee
‘Always sizzling hot,  
if not we’ll replace it’. 
That’s the Flaming 
Guarantee, launched 
this year in Flaming Grill.
John Barras
All you would expect 
from a real pub: a large 
range of drinks and 
food, all at great value.
Flaming Grill
Flaming great steaks in a flaming  
great pub
Since the first one opened in 2009, Flaming 
Grill pubs have offered a friendly welcome  
and provide a vibrant and eye catching 
environment to enjoy a drink after work,  
meet up with family and friends, watch a 
match or sit back and relax whilst enjoying 
delicious flame-grilled food at pub prices. 
Flame-grilled steaks, served on sizzling  
skillets, are the brand speciality and the 
Flaming Guarantee ensures that skillets will 
‘always be sizzling hot, if not we’ll replace it’. 
Flaming Grill also caters for children with  
mini mixed grills and tasty tortillas served on 
wooden boards from the Grill Bill Kid’s menu.
Highlights this year
•	40 investments completed
•	Premium draught range installed
•	Flaming Guarantee introduced
•	Social media channels launched
For more information visit
www.flaminggrillpubs.com  
www.facebook.com/flaminggrillpubs 
www.twitter.com/flaminggrillpub
John Barras
Your local... where there’s always 
something going on
John Barras pubs offer guests a real pub 
experience with a wide range of drinks,  
great value pub food, all the sporting action 
and a host of entertainment and activities. 
There is always something going on at  
a John Barras pub with a food deal every  
day of the week and regular entertainment 
often tailored to each individual pub based  
on guest feedback. Sport is a fundamental 
part of the John Barras mix, offering  
a fantastic atmosphere with table service 
during key sporting events. 
Highlights this year
•	60 investments completed
•	Social media channels launched
For more information visit
www.johnbarras.com 
www.facebook.com/JohnBarrasPubs 
www.twitter.com/johnbarraspubs 08 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Our brands continued
Cask Marque 
Accredited
This year sees all  
Taylor Walker pubs 
Cask Marque accredited 
– an independent award 
to prove they all serve 
great quality cask ale.
Original Pub 
Company
The new and  
improved food range.
Taylor Walker
The great British pub experience
Whatever the occasion, Taylor Walker pubs 
offer authenticity, quality and comfort for  
all guests – locals, shoppers, day trippers  
and overseas tourists.
Each Taylor Walker pub has a fascinating 
history and retains many of its original 
features. The brand celebrates all that is  
best in British pubs; delivering great British 
hospitality every day along with the best of 
British pub food. The extensive drinks range 
features great quality real ales, wines, spirits 
and soft drinks. Located in the heart of the city 
close to transport links and main attractions, 
Taylor Walker pubs are the perfect place  
to refresh and refuel.
Highlights this year
•	Social media channels launched
•	New draught range installed
•	Online booking facility introduced
•	Cask Marque accredited
For more information visit
www.taylor-walker.co.uk 
www.facebook.com/taylorwalkerpubs 
www.twitter.com/taylorwalkerpub
Original Pub Company
Best pub in town, morning to night
With a great range of food and drink and  
a buzzing atmosphere, Original Pub Company 
(OPC) pubs are the place to meet in town, 
morning to night. Located on the high street, 
they are in the perfect place for grabbing  
a light lunch whilst shopping, popping into  
after a long day at work, watching the next  
big match, or getting together with friends.
The menu offers a great range of drinks  
and pub food from burgers, wraps and 
sandwiches to pub classics and Sunday 
roasts – all at great value.
Highlights this year
•	 Food offer, cocktail and wine range greatly 
improved
•	New draught range installed
For more information visit
www.originalpubco.com 09 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
No Quibble 
Guarantee
The No Quibble 
Guarantee, launched 
this year at Fayre & 
Square, offers our 
guests replacement 
meals, no quibble,  
if for any reason  
they are unhappy  
with their food.
Fayre & Square
Delicious meals, square deals and 
friendly service
Fayre & Square is all about those everyday 
excuses to get together with family and 
friends; those chances to relax, catch up, 
indulge and share good times in good 
company. 
The focus is on friendly service and 
guaranteed great meals at an affordable  
price. There are 2 for £10 deals on a great 
range of pub favourites so guests can always 
enjoy a square deal, all day every day.  
We are proud of our food and we offer our 
guests a No Quibble Guarantee – if for any 
reason our guests are not happy with their 
meal, it will be replaced, no quibble. 
Highlights this year
•	 Winner of the Publican  
‘Best Pub Brand 2012’ award
•	46 investments completed
•	Social media channels launched
•	Online booking facility introduced
For more information visit
www.fayre-square.com 
www.facebook.com/fayreandsquare 
www.twitter.com/fayreandsquare
Wacky Warehouse
All day Wacky fun
Wacky Warehouse is the UK’s largest  
soft play and activity brand for children. 
Venues are located nationwide and the 
majority are co-located with our Fayre & 
Square family pubs.
With lots of great themed events and activities 
running throughout the year, there is always 
something exciting going on. Tot Club  
runs during school term time with sessions 
just for toddlers and every year thousands  
of kids attend a Wacky party. Our commitment 
to everyone visiting Wacky Warehouse is  
to provide a caring, clean, safe and friendly 
environment combined with a fun and Wacky 
experience for kids.
Highlights this year
•	29 investments completed
•	Kids’ party proposition greatly improved
•	Social media channels launched
For more information visit
www.wackywarehouse.co.uk 
www.facebook.com/wackywarehouse 
www.twitter.com/wacky_warehouse 
Award-winning
Fayre & Square was 
voted ‘Best Pub Brand’ 
at the Publican Awards 
2012. 10 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Leased division
Our Leased estate is one of the highest 
potential estates in the leased and tenanted 
sector attracting the highest calibre licensees 
and providing strong profit opportunities. 
Spirit Leased provides growth potential 
together with significant cash generation  
to fund our continued investment in our 
brands, estate, people and infrastructure.  
Our priority is to maximise the value of each 
pub by enhancing performance, taking control 
of the retail offer through measured alternative 
operating models, and leveraging our brand 
and retail expertise. 
We carried out a pub by pub review taking  
into account a number of factors including 
demographics and market opportunities  
to create a plan for every pub. The review 
identified the best option for each pub 
including those that we intend to sell.  
Earlier in the year we announced our planned 
disposal of the tail of the Leased estate  
of around 100 pubs over time and we are 
pleased to report that we have already 
disposed of 54 pubs. 
Our estate offers a whole range of different 
styles of pubs, from the very best in dining,  
to really great sports and community locals. 
Our Leased pubs are operated by individual 
licensees with the backing and support  
of a major pub company. The experience  
and values of our well established Managed 
division mean our licensees benefit from  
a consumer focused team striving to  
give our licensees the best possible tools  
to make the most of their businesses.
We are committed to attracting and retaining 
the highest calibre people: experienced 
licensees already from the sector with  
the know-how and expertise for the large 
profitable leased sites we offer. We are 
developing an industry leading web profile  
in order to attract entrepreneurial licensees 
into a Spirit Leased pub business.
We have built a strong management team  
and made substantial progress to help focus 
and stabilise the Leased division which only  
came under our full control on 5 March 2012. 
Our Leased division will capitalise on the 
advantages and expertise of our quality 
Managed division, to develop and grow in 
areas such as innovation in the operating 
model and achieve cost saving synergies  
to gain the best value for money.
Our objective is to build the best long term 
sustainable Leased estate providing the most 
profitable pub opportunities for licensees, 
Spirit and our shareholders. Financial statements Governance Business review
11 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Our priority is to maximise  
the value of each pub by 
enhancing performance,  
taking control of the retail 
offer through measured 
alternative operating models, 
and leveraging our brand  
and retail expertise. 12 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report on a strong 
performance in Spirit’s first full year as  
a standalone company. The Managed division 
has continued to outperform the sector  
as the rollout of brands across the estate  
has continued. Following a transitional period, 
the Group took full control of the Leased 
division in March 2012 and we have now 
developed plans to stabilise the performance 
of these pubs. 
The wider economic backdrop continues  
to present challenges but in our mix of brands 
and operating models, geographic spread 
across the UK and the talented team that  
we have in place, I believe that we are well 
placed to continue to deliver sustainable 
growth and value for all our stakeholders.
I said last year that we had a strong and 
experienced executive management team  
and a Board with a wealth of experience.  
To further supplement the team I was 
delighted to announce, in January 2012,  
that Julie Chakraverty joined the Board.  
Julie brings invaluable financial experience 
and insight, having previously spent 13 years 
at UBS Investment Bank, where she was a 
board member and held a number of senior 
global leadership positions with a specialist 
background in risk management and  
fixed income. 
Chris Welham and Debbie Moore also joined 
Spirit’s Executive Committee during the year. 
Chris Welham, as Managing Director of our 
Leased estate, brings extensive industry 
experience and has set out a clear strategy  
for our Leased pubs to stabilise performance 
and then further improve it by ensuring that 
our licensees are well placed to deliver an 
enhanced retail experience. As Group HR 
Director, Debbie Moore is instrumental in 
ensuring that we deliver on our ‘Best for team’ 
objective. In addition, Ian Powell joined the 
Company in June as General Counsel and 
Company Secretary.
I am confident that as a result of these 
changes we have further strengthened the 
Group’s ability to deliver on Spirit’s strategic 
aims to maximise long term value for all 
stakeholders through continued focus  
on ‘Best for team’, ‘Best for guest’ and  
‘Best for investor’. Through continued focus 
on our corporate responsibility strategy  
we also ensure that the interests of all 
stakeholders, such as our suppliers and  
the wider communities in which we operate, 
are appropriately considered.
Continued focus has enabled the Group  
to deliver another year of growth and I am 
delighted that this has enabled us to be able  
to start to return value to our shareholders 
through the payment of our first dividend.  
An interim dividend of 0.65 pence per share 
was paid to shareholders in June 2012  
and this will be followed by a proposed  
final dividend of 1.30 pence per share in 
February 2013.
I also want to take this opportunity to thank  
all of our employees for their continued hard 
work and commitment during the last year. 
Their talent and enthusiasm has enabled Spirit 
to continue to grow despite the challenging 
economic conditions. 
Walker Boyd
Chairman
Continued focus has enabled the  
Group to deliver another year of growth. 13 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Business review
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Transformation through retail 
excellence
Our business has been on a transformational 
journey over the past three years towards  
a position of retail excellence.
I am delighted with the progress we have 
made during our first year as an independent 
business. Profit before tax is up 16%,  
earnings per share are up 21%, and we  
have commenced the payment of dividends.  
We have delivered further strong growth in 
Managed sales through continued investment 
in our brands, estate, infrastructure and 
people, while cost control has been robust  
in the face of inflationary pressures, enabling 
continued expansion of Managed margin.  
Our Leased pubs have performed in line  
with our expectations this year and we have 
now laid the foundations from which to drive 
performance improvement. The consumer 
environment remains tough but we are  
well placed to make further progress in  
the year ahead.
In our Managed pubs, the performance 
improvement has been driven by our  
well established strategy, which remains 
unchanged. Over the last two years we have 
increased like for like sales by 10% and 
improved EBITDAR margin by 2.5 percentage 
points, which demonstrates an increasingly 
efficient and productive business. It is also 
very encouraging to see the initial benefits 
coming from our new drinks category 
management programme, following  
the renegotiation of all key contracts  
on demerger. 
We have continued to invest in our brands, 
ensuring that we build on our philosophy  
of putting the guest at the heart of all major 
decisions. We understand that consumer 
trends and preferences evolve quickly, and 
therefore we must keep refining the relevance 
of each of our brands through guest research 
and insight which will ensure we pull the right 
levers in each brand. We are investing heavily 
in our social and digital communication 
capability and state of the art customer 
relationship management tools for our brands 
– to work alongside our new in-pub EPOS  
and data capture systems. We are only just 
starting to fully understand the potential 
transformation this could make in the way  
we relate to our guests.
We said last year that we had made  
great progress. We have continued to  
do so this year and we are in the process  
of transforming the Group through  
a continuation of investment and an 
unrelenting focus on retail excellence.
With regard to our Leased pubs, we have 
established some firm foundations in the  
year: we have refined our strategic focus to 
maximise value. We expect the next financial 
year to show an improved performance and 
considerable innovation, as well as leveraging 
the areas of Managed expertise within the 
Leased business.
During the first half of the year the Leased 
estate was operated on a transitional basis 
under a management services arrangement 
with Punch Taverns plc. In March 2012, we 
brought the operation of this estate in-house 
with our own lower cost infrastructure 
including a new, high calibre team to lead this 
division. Our primary focus is on transferring 
our retail expertise to our licensees, whilst 
innovating and evolving the traditional Leased 
model, to drive sales and income growth for 
both Spirit and our licensees.
Overall, during the year we have made  
strong progress on strategy, execution and 
performance. For our Managed pubs, this  
has meant considerable further improvement 
on all key metrics in the year. With regard  
to our Leased pubs, we have built solid 
foundations and have a clear future strategy 
for this part of our business.
I am confident we are on track to achieve  
our vision of being the best pub company  
in the UK.
Mike Tye
Chief Executive Officer 14 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Best for team
We are taking our employees with us on our 
journey to become the best pub company in 
the UK and, according to our last employee 
Engagement Survey, 92% of those who 
responded are fully aligned behind our 
ambition and goals. Our values, launched  
this year, support our ambition across three  
of our key stakeholders: team, guest and 
investor, by recognising the synergies  
derived from a coherent approach.
Our values
•	 We are authentic and engaging people;  
we are determined to be the best,  
as individuals and as teams
•	 We are obsessed with delivering the  
best guest hospitality all day every day
•	 We are in business to make money for  
our investors; we make every penny count
Communications and engagement
We want to ensure that our employees 
continue to see Spirit as a great place to work.  
Last year we ran an Engagement Survey 
across our 16,000+ employees with an overall 
response rate of 72.3%, against a 47.9% 
average for companies of our size* and  
our scores across a number of measures 
improved in comparison to last year. From 
September 2012 we introduced quarterly 
Pulse surveys in addition to our annual 
Engagement Survey.
We maintain high levels of employee 
engagement and focus through effective 
communications which are engaging and fun 
and through our internal engagement activity. 
For example, we set up a fun and fundraising 
team called GRIN made up of representatives 
across our support teams to help drive some 
of the engagement activity. The GRIN team 
organise a number of social events throughout 
the year, providing opportunities for 
employees to socialise.
Two way communication is important to us,  
it allows us to listen and take appropriate 
action on what matters most to our 
employees. This year we have increased  
the frequency of our Listening Groups and 
Consultation Groups.
* Source: Best Companies www.bestcompanies.co.uk.
Reward and recognition
We treat our people fairly and last year, in 
recognition of a great business performance, 
we rewarded those people at the Support 
Centre who made the biggest contribution.  
We also awarded bonus payments to our 
operations team linked to performance in  
our pubs. 
Salaries were benchmarked and a pay  
review was carried out to ensure we remain 
competitive. We introduced a Share Incentive 
Plan (SIP) giving employees the opportunity  
to buy shares in Spirit from their pre-tax 
salary, matched by the Company. Dividends 
on these shares were also used to buy extra 
shares in the plan.
 
BEST, a recognition scheme aligned to our 
ambition and values, allows us to recognise 
and reward our employees directly and 
instantaneously throughout the year with  
a discretionary scratch card or cash award. 
We also recognise the best of the best, our 
best performers, across several categories  
at our annual BEST Awards ceremony.
Learning and development
We want to help our employees to be the best 
they can be, so this year we have developed  
an online training portal under the name  
of the Training Tree. The Training Tree provides  
clear learning opportunities within each 
branch giving employees the opportunity to 
grow their career and reach their full potential. 
Spirit is leading the industry in terms of 
training and developing through work based 
learning and qualifications. Earlier this year, we 
launched a Level 3 Advanced Apprenticeship 
in Leadership and Management, aimed at our 
deputy general managers. This is another step 
towards providing our team with a clear career 
pathway in hospitality. We now employ over 
500 apprentices. 
72.3%
response rate to  
our Engagement  
Survey across 16,000+ 
employees.
We received a grade 2 
‘good’ in an Office for 
Standards in Education 
(Ofsted) inspection for 
our Apprenticeship 
Programme – a hard 
result to achieve. 15 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
An Office for Standards in Education (Ofsted) 
inspection was carried out in July 2012  
on our Apprenticeship Programme and we 
were delighted with the results. We received  
a grade 2 in all areas with an overall grade  
of ‘good’ – a hard result to achieve.
We also offer a Graduate Trainee Programme 
to both external graduates and those who  
are already working at Spirit whilst studying  
for or after gaining a degree. We currently  
have over 30 employees on this programme.
Recruitment 
This year we launched a new recruitment 
website, intended to position Spirit as an 
employer of choice by conveying the energy 
and passion that exists within our business. 
This was complemented by the launch  
of our social media channels to shout about 
‘Life at Spirit’ and raise awareness of our 
employer brand. 
We recognise that our employees are our 
biggest advocates and this year we introduced 
a Refer a Friend scheme where we pay £500 
for their talent spotting skills. We regularly 
advertise our vacancies to encourage 
employees to nominate people they know.
Apprenticeship Programmes
Spirit now employs over 500 apprentices 
and offers five apprenticeship qualifications 
which have been specifically designed to 
map business as usual in a pub environment, 
so that everyone, no matter where they 
start within the business, can gain skills  
and qualifications while working.
The Training Tree 
We are passionate about bringing out the 
best in people and inspiring employees to 
be the best they can be. The Training Tree, 
our online development portal, provides 
clear learning and development 
opportunities at every level linked to  
a career pathway, giving employees  
the opportunity to grow and reach their  
full potential.
For more information visit
www.spiritpubcompanycareers.com 
www.facebook.com/lifeatspirit 
www.twitter.com/spiritjobs  16 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Corporate social responsibility
Our intention is to be a responsible retailer in 
the communities in which we operate and to 
have appropriate regard for our wider position 
with stakeholders and others. This section 
outlines the activity that we have undertaken 
this year in terms of our impact on our 
stakeholders and the wider environment. 
Highlights
•	 Winner of the European Supply Chain 
Excellence Awards 2011 in the 
‘Environmental Improvement’ category
•	 £150k raised for charity – not including  
the additional local fundraising in our pubs
•	 Invested £250k in glass crushing machines 
to improve recycling
•	 Automated meter readers (AMRs) installed  
in a number of our pubs to better manage 
our water consumption
•	 Winner of the Footprint Awards 2012  
in the ‘Waste Management and  
Reduction’ category
Waste management 
During the year we received two awards for 
our innovative waste management solutions 
and we have continued to develop that  
award winning approach. Our aim is to 
minimise the amount of general waste sent  
to landfill and reduce vehicle mileage by using 
reverse logistics to return recyclable materials 
via our food distributor, ultimately working 
towards zero landfill. To further encourage 
participation by our pub teams, from 
September 2012 the value of commodities 
recycled by each pub will be credited to the 
individual pub budget.
This year our recycling activity produced  
an equivalent carbon saving of over  
800 tonnes for cardboard, tin and plastic  
and over 5,000 tonnes for food and oil. Over 
2,500 tonnes of food waste per year goes to 
anaerobic digestion, diverted from landfill and 
creating green energy, while 1.3 million litres of 
our used cooking oil is turned into bio diesel. 
The number of our pubs recycling glass has 
increased to 90%, helped by our investment 
during the year of £250k on glass crushing 
machines in our city and urban pubs, which 
have limited storage space.
Spirit is also a founder signatory of the new 
WRAP voluntary agreement for the hospitality 
and food service sector, which gives clear 
guiding principles to recycle more and  
waste less.
Environment and energy consumption 
Improving our energy efficiency and reducing 
our carbon footprint remains a priority for us 
both in our pubs and at our Support Centre. 
We recognise that employee behaviour can 
help and we encourage our teams to get 
involved. Recent activities included a  
‘Switch on, switch off’ campaign to reduce  
our utility consumption in our pubs and 
likewise within our support teams, maximising 
the opportunities that exist from the design  
of our low carbon Support Centre building.
In addition to smart meters installed in the 
majority of our pubs for gas and electricity, this 
year we introduced AMRs in a number of our 
pubs to better manage our water consumption. 
We are sourcing an increased amount of 
energy efficient cellar cooling and refrigeration 
equipment from nominated suppliers who  
are committed to environmental and social 
responsibility, striving to increase product 
efficiency and produce truly ‘green’ products, 
a number of which benefit from the Enhanced 
Capital Allowance (ECA) scheme designed  
to encourage UK businesses to reduce  
carbon emissions by providing tax benefits. 
Winner of the 
European Supply 
Chain Excellence 
Awards 2011
Winner of the 
Footprint Awards 
2012 17 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Our supply chain strategy ensures that we 
have the carbon footprint of both Spirit and 
our supply chain at the centre of our decisions. 
For example, approved repair contractors for 
our pubs are allocated by area to minimise 
travel, and we insist that a stock of key items  
is contained in the vehicles to ensure  
the repair can be completed first time,  
eliminating the need for additional travel. 
Responsible retailing – drink 
As a responsible retailer of alcohol, Spirit’s  
aim is to promote the four licensing objectives: 
the prevention of crime and disorder; public 
safety; prevention of public nuisance; and  
the protection of children from harm, all whilst 
providing an appropriate environment for  
the safe and lawful consumption of alcohol.
To ensure our team members deliver  
a responsible service across our estate,  
we implement a Challenge 21, and where 
required Challenge 25, scheme of age 
verification. We also use a mystery guest  
age verification scheme to regularly test  
our procedures.
We are a member of the Portman Group,  
the social responsibility body for alcohol 
producers, and a substantial funder of 
Drinkaware, whose aim is to highlight the 
dangers of alcohol misuse through innovative 
and challenging campaigns. To support this, 
all our drinks menus, point of sale promotional 
materials and websites feature the Drinkaware 
logo to encourage responsible attitudes  
to drinking. 
Every year we consider what initiatives in 
drinks brands and drinks retailing can be 
appropriately employed to reinforce the 
message of responsible consumption, for 
example, stocking a wider range of reduced 
alcohol or alcohol free products. This year we 
have introduced a lower abv wine* in the range  
sold in our price led pub restaurants, and a 
new lower abv lager* and non alcoholic lager 
to the product range across all of our pubs.
*  Lower abv wine and lower abv lager introduced for  
the summer.
Responsible retailing – food
We appreciate that attitudes towards food  
are changing and our guests want to know 
more about the food they eat in order to make 
an informed choice. 
Our aim is to have appropriate nutritional 
information, including visibility of those dishes 
which are free from key allergen ingredients, 
on our brand websites by the end of 2012. 
We continue to work towards the Department 
of Health campaign guidelines of reducing 
levels of salt and removing artificial trans fats 
from our dishes. As a result, none of our 
products contain artificial trans fats and we 
have reduced our salt and saturated fat levels 
by an average of 23% and 29% respectively, 
with further reduction work ongoing. 
Product quality remains a key priority.  
In partnership with our suppliers we constantly 
monitor our products to ensure they satisfy  
all food manufacturing legislation and 
environmental health requirements. 
Responsible sourcing 
We acknowledge our responsibility to 
minimise our impact on the environment  
by only selecting suppliers with responsible 
and sustainable sourcing policies in place. 18 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Corporate social responsibility continued
Key facts
•	 All our food suppliers are accredited to  
the British Retail Consortium (BRC) audit 
standards or equivalent
•	 Through our supply partners, we support 
animal welfare and the sustainable and 
ethical sourcing of seafood
•	 We do not stock products containing 
genetically modified organisms
•	 Through our partnership with AAK and  
Prep Oil, we support the production of 
sustainable palm oil
•	 We expect our suppliers to respect the 
human rights of those with whom they deal, 
and proven instances of abuse of human 
rights, including but not limited to use  
of child labour, will result in removal from  
our list of approved suppliers
•	 We endeavour to ensure our suppliers 
procure their raw materials through 
sustainable sources wherever possible
Community, charity and not for  
profit activity
We appreciate that our pubs are the heartbeat 
of many communities across the UK and  
we actively encourage our pub teams to 
contribute to their local community by raising 
funds for worthy causes in their area. In 
addition to this, we create targeted campaigns 
by brand to further strengthen our support  
to the community. We remain a member of  
the Burton Breweries Charitable Trust, which 
supports young people’s charities locally.
This year our pub teams raised over £150,000 
for charitable causes.
Fundraising activity is not exclusive to our 
pubs; we organise regular fundraising events 
for our support teams to help raise money for 
local causes in and around Burton upon Trent, 
where our Support Centre is located. 
We are also involved in a number of activities 
that drive down unemployment, as well as 
supporting young people in their development 
and career planning.
For instance, Spirit has signed up to the 
Government’s Get Britain Working campaign 
and is proactively working with key partner 
organisations to drive positive outputs against 
the campaign objectives and the Youth 
Contract. We are particularly focused on  
two interventions: offering work experience  
to 16 – 24 year olds in the NEET group  
(not in education, employment or training); 
and running hospitality sector based work 
academies offering a bespoke 2 – 8 week 
training programme for the unemployed with a 
guaranteed interview at the end. The success 
rate of those interviewed is 60%. This year  
we have demonstrated our commitment  
by holding several academies across the  
UK for our front of house roles.
We also work in partnership with the b-live 
Foundation, which provides curriculum led 
information, advice and guidance to schools in 
the UK. Our work with the Foundation includes 
not only providing hospitality careers advice 
but also project sponsorship, career talks in 
schools and links to vacancies within Spirit.
Highlights
•	 Pub team members from over 200 pubs 
across our estate raised over £40,000 for 
Great Ormond Street Hospital Children’s 
Charity by selling Santa hats over the 
Christmas period, and creating their  
own fundraising activities ranging from 
raffles and auctions to live entertainment 
and special guest appearances
•	 Our Support Centre employees and pub 
team members across our entire Managed 
estate raised over £40,000 in a month  
for Prostate Cancer UK by selling  
‘Come on England’ badges throughout 
UEFA Euro 2012 19 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Hospitality Work Academy 
We launched a hospitality sector based 
work academy to provide job seekers 
looking for a career in catering with relevant 
kitchen experience. The five week course 
aims to provide candidates interested  
in a career at Spirit with some hands on 
experience of life working in a kitchen. 
Our academy will not only provide 
candidates with invaluable practical kitchen 
work experience but also give them key 
employability skills and a guaranteed 
interview for a role in one of our pubs.
Prostate Cancer UK 
Spirit’s Support Centre added £5,000  
to the £40,000 raised by our pub teams  
for Prostate Cancer UK after 16 members 
of the Chef & Brewer marketing and 
operations team took up the Three Peak 
Challenge, completing the 24 mile trek  
in under 12 hours.
Tomlinsons Dairies  
We now buy our milk directly from 
Tomlinsons Dairies, which has developed 
strong working relationships with many 
local Welsh farmers, located within an 
average of 10 miles from their dairy. To 
ensure their farmers can farm in a way 
which delivers a reasonable return for their 
efforts, Tomlinsons pays slightly more for 
their milk, helping to protect and enhance 
the local rural community.
M&J Seafood and Visual Foods Limited 
Working closely with our supply partners 
within the fish category, M&J Seafood and 
Visual Foods Limited, we recognise our 
responsibility to ensure that fish and shellfish 
stocks remain at a sustainable level and  
that the required environmental, ethical and 
sustainable stock management systems  
are in place.
Via Chef & Brewer, we offer daily specials  
of fresh fish throughout the year utilising  
and serving in season species when they  
are at their best, providing the right product 
at the right time for our guests. 20 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Financial review
Results for the year
The financial review covers the 52 weeks to  
18 August 2012. Group results have continued 
to be impacted by the challenging market 
conditions faced across the sector. 
Summary consolidated income statement 
before exceptional items:
2012
£m
2011
£m
%
 Change
Revenue 760 734
Outlet costs (523) (506)
Outlet EBITDAR 237 228 4%
Rent (66) (65)
Onerous lease provision 15 18
Outlet EBITDA 186 181 3%
Central costs (40) (41)
EBITDA 146 140 5%
Depreciation (37) (35)
Operating profit 109 105 4%
Net finance costs (58) (61)
Profit before taxation 51 44 16%
Tax (13) (12)
Profit after tax 38 32 21%
Basic EPS 5.8p 4.8p 21%
Operating profit before exceptional items  
was up 4% at £109m with 14% growth in  
the Managed division and a decline of 10%  
in the Leased division. Operating profit* 
includes the benefit of £15m in respect of  
the utilisation of the onerous lease provision,  
a reduction of £3m from the prior year 
reflecting the benefits of management actions 
to improve the performance of these 
properties, the majority of which are leases 
which reverted to the Group in prior years. 
Central costs were in line with the prior year 
demonstrating strong cost control following 
the full integration of the Leased division in 
March 2012, prior to which this division was 
operated, on a transitional basis following  
the demerger, under a management services 
agreement with the Punch Taverns plc group 
(Punch). The prior year profit before tax  
also benefited from net £2m utilisation  
of an onerous contract provision which  
was fully utilised as at August 2011.
Net finance costs
Net finance costs* were £58m (2011: £61m) 
and include £6m (2011: £7m) in respect of 
finance charges associated with discounted 
provisions. The weighted average interest  
rate for borrowings was 7.7% in the year,  
an increase of 0.8% from the prior year  
due to scheduled interest rate step-ups on  
the debenture bonds. 
Tax
The underlying tax charge of £13m represents 
an effective rate of 25.0% (2011: 28.0%),  
with the fall in rate being due to the reduction 
in the corporation tax rate to 24% in April 2012.  
We expect the effective rate in 2012/13 to be 
around 24% reflecting the further reduction  
in the corporation tax rate to 23% in April 
2013. The Group did not pay any corporation 
tax in the year due to the utilisation of brought 
forward losses and does not expect to make 
any payments in 2012/13.
Exceptional items
A number of exceptional items were 
recognised in the period resulting in a net 
charge of £602m. The principal charges  
were £595m relating to the write down of our 
properties following the decision to change 
accounting policy to carry pubs at market 
value, £39m charge for the mark-to-market  
of interest rate swaps and £9m impact of 
future annual uplifts in property head lease 
rentals, all of which are non-cash items.
In addition, exceptional charges include  
£18m loss on disposal of properties and  
£7m for the costs of restructuring our central 
support team following the demerger from 
Punch in August 2011. These charges are 
offset by the recognition of £19m VAT on 
gaming machines following a ruling by the 
European Court of Justice in November 2011, 
the cash for which had been repaid by HMRC 
in the prior year, together with a £9m gain on 
the repurchase of debenture bonds.
The tax effect of these exceptional items  
gave rise to an exceptional tax credit of £50m,  
with an exceptional tax charge of £12m also 
recognised for the change in tax rate and 
changes to prior year tax.
* before exceptional items 21 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Capital expenditure and disposals
The continued rollout of our brands across  
the Managed division, together with the 
overhaul of our pub back of house systems 
has resulted in £86m capital expenditure in  
the Managed estate (2011: £72m). We have 
also taken opportunities to invest in the 
Leased estate where appropriate at a  
cost of £5m (2011: £6m). We expect capital 
expenditure levels to reduce in 2012/13  
as our brand rollout nears completion.
During the year we disposed of 62 pubs for 
net proceeds of £28m at an average multiple 
of 12 times EBITDA. 
Property valuation
Following the demerger from Punch in  
August 2011 we have taken the opportunity  
to review all of our accounting policies to 
ensure that they are appropriate for the 
business. As a result we have changed our 
accounting policy to carry our pub estate  
at open market valuation, which gives  
greater transparency on the underlying value 
of our property assets, and commissioned 
external valuers to assist with this valuation  
as at August 2012. Prior to this change in 
accounting policy, a full impairment review of 
the estate was performed with an impairment 
recognised on any properties for which the 
carrying value was in excess of value in use.
The result of the impairment review and 
change in accounting policy has resulted  
in a net reduction in our property, plant and 
equipment and capitalised operating lease 
values of £440m, of which £81m is an 
impairment charge. The net impact has been 
recognised as a £595m charge to income  
for pubs for which book values were higher 
than market value, offset by a £155m credit  
to equity reflecting the reversal of previous 
impairment charges for a number of properties 
on which book values were below current 
market value. This net downward valuation 
reflects the fact that the majority of the estate 
was previously held at amortised historic 
acquisition values. 
Cash flow
Cash flow from operating activities was £119m, 
down from £159m in the prior year due to 
one-off restructuring costs (£7m) and the 
buyout of historical self-insured liabilities 
(£5m), with prior year cash flows benefiting 
from the £19m repayment of gaming machine 
VAT. After accounting for capital expenditure, 
interest and tax, net cash outflow was £14m 
prior to the repurchase of debenture debt.
Onerous lease provision
Profit before tax benefited from £9m relating 
to onerous provision utilisation (2011: £14m). 
The reduction in the utilisation of the onerous 
lease provision in the year is as a result of 
management actions to mitigate the losses on 
these properties either through our Managed 
investment programme or through alternative 
property solutions such as sub-lets for 
alternate use.
Financing
The structure of our debenture means that  
all of our debt is in the form of long term 
mortgage type finance, secured on our 
sizeable property portfolio. The debt fully 
repays over terms extending to 20 years  
and is all effectively at fixed rates of interest. 
Gross debt within the debenture was £847m  
at the year end (August 2011: £885m), offset 
by cash within the debenture of £60m (August 
2011: £68m), leading to net debenture debt  
of £787m (August 2011: £817m). The Group 
holds £40m nominal value of its own 
debenture bonds and £37m of cash outside  
of the debenture structure, giving net debt of 
£710m at August 2012 (August 2011: £704m).  
Our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 4.9 times  
at the year end (August 2011: 5.0 times). 
Within the debenture, the debt service cover 
ratio was 2.0 times (August 2011: 2.0 times). 
There is significant headroom above the 
default covenant debt service cover ratio  
of 1.3 times and is at a level at which  
cash upstream payments are permitted.
Pensions
The Group operates two defined benefit 
pension schemes, both of which are closed  
to new entrants. Movements in equity markets 
and corporate bond yields in the year have 
resulted in a decrease of £9m in the net 
pension liability, with the net pension liability  
of £nil at 18 August 2012. 22 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Audit & Risk Committee of the Company 
has reviewed the formal risk management 
framework for Spirit and this has been 
approved by the Board. 
The aim of the Spirit risk management 
framework is to identify, evaluate and manage 
the risks and uncertainties to which the Group 
is exposed. Over the past year the Company  
has continued to build on that framework by 
the risk management activities which have 
been undertaken.
The Spirit management team have held regular 
risk management meetings and the risk 
register compiled by the Company has been 
regularly updated. In compiling the register, 
risks were highlighted and then assessed, 
based on the probability of their occurence 
and the impact they could have on the 
business, to identify the material risks facing 
the business. Mitigation plans were then 
identified and implemented to ensure that 
risks, which are rated on the basis of impact, 
probability or both as requiring mitigation,  
are managed appropriately. 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the 
risk management framework and regularly  
and formally reviews the material risks.  
The Board is responsible for ensuring that 
business risks are appropriately managed  
by those responsible in the business, and  
the Board monitors key risk performance 
measures on a periodic basis.
Additional risk assurance is provided from  
a number of sources including, but not limited 
to, internal audit, operational audit and, where 
appropriate, specialist outsourced internal 
audit resource. They provide assurance to the 
Board on key controls and the management  
of risk. On an annual basis the Audit & Risk 
Committee review the overall effectiveness  
of the risk management framework. Day to  
day evaluation of risk is carried out by the 
management of the Group.
Spirit is exposed to a variety of financial, 
operational, economic and regulatory  
risks and uncertainties which it categorises  
under the following headings: ‘Market and 
economy’, ‘Financial’, ‘Operations, people  
and infrastructure’, ‘Regulatory’, and 
‘Reputational’. Key risks and how they are 
managed are detailed below; however,  
this is not an exhaustive list of all of the risks  
to which the business is exposed.
Some of the risks Spirit faces are external and 
therefore beyond its control. Some risks may 
be considered to be currently immaterial, but 
could emerge as material risks in the future. 
The risk management processes are therefore 
designed to manage those risks which may  
have a material impact on the Group’s ability 
to meet strategic objectives and which the  
Group can mitigate by appropriate and timely 
management action, rather than to fully 
mitigate all risks.
The Board is aware that these risks and 
uncertainties may either singularly or 
collectively affect the Group’s revenue, costs, 
value of assets, reputation or ability to  
meet strategic objectives and is therefore 
committed to continually reviewing and 
improving the risk management framework. 23 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Our key risks and uncertainties
Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls
Market and economy
Economic and market climate
There is a risk that economic factors such as rising interest 
rates, declining wages, higher unemployment, tax increases, 
lack of consumer credit and falling house prices could all 
adversely affect the level of consumer confidence, which 
could result in a negative effect on the level of spending 
across both the retail and leisure industries. Any delay  
in economic recovery or further challenges could affect 
consumer expenditure, Spirit’s suppliers’ or tenants’ 
businesses and Spirit’s revenue and cash flows.
Fluctuations in the UK property market as well as the current 
uncertain market conditions could impact the value of 
Spirit’s property portfolio, the ability to dispose of pubs  
at an appropriate value or the ability to sub-let leased sites.
•	 Regular reviews of the impact of economic conditions on Spirit’s budget  
and three year strategic plan are performed.
•	 Menus, pricing and promotional offers are continually reviewed to adapt to the 
needs of guests.
•	Spirit continues to monitor the financial health of licensees.
•	 Spirit operates a flexible cost structure that allows quick cost reduction if demand 
weakens, hence limiting damage to the business.
Price fluctuations 
There is an ongoing risk to the business of increases in 
supply costs (including food, drink, utility costs, taxes and 
duties). These could be due to unavailability of products,  
the economic climate, inflationary price increases or 
changes in legislation.
•	 Supplier contracts have been negotiated to protect Spirit against significant 
increases in food and drink costs, and Spirit has the potential to source products 
from a number of alternative suppliers.
•	 Electricity has been forward purchased for the next financial year and within  
the Supply and Services team there is a dedicated focus on monitoring and 
reducing utility usage.
•	 Careful cost control processes ensure that all costs, including labour, are 
budgeted and closely monitored and are subject to appropriate authorisation.
Competition and market innovation
There is a risk that Spirit could lose market share and/or 
revenue to competitors through aggressive market 
innovation from all sectors (including retail).
•	 Active monitoring of all competitor activity including casual dining and  
grocery sectors. 
•	 Quarterly ‘Brand Strategy Reviews’ ensure that emerging trends in both the  
pub and casual dining market are reflected in the evolution of brand offers.
•	 Measurement of guest satisfaction, through Guest Recommends (direct 
feedback) and Guest Journey (independent audit) programmes, allows a quick 
reaction to changes in guest behaviour.
•	 Innovation opportunities are taken through food and drink and/or brand 
developments where appropriate.
•	 Digital media is used to obtain a quicker route to market to better realise any  
marketing opportunities.
Financial
Liquidity and covenant risk
Spirit’s capital structure is made up of debt, issued share 
capital and reserves. Secured loan notes make up the 
majority of the Group’s financing, with approximately  
87% (August 2011: 90%) of the capital balance on these 
loan notes being repayable after more than five years.  
These borrowings are subject to financial covenants.
•	 Cash flow forecasts are produced to assist management in identifying liquidity 
requirements and are stress tested for possible scenarios. This includes 
assessments of the ability to meet the restricted payment conditions in the 
securitisation structure in order that cash can be released to top company level.
•	 Cash balances are invested in short term deposits such that they are readily 
available to settle short term liabilities or fund capital additions.
•	 Covenants are closely monitored and stress tested to ensure the Group is able  
to generate sufficient returns to service debt and meet covenant requirements.
•	 The securitised debt is monitored by a variety of measures which are reported  
to debt providers on a quarterly basis.
Interest rate risk
Spirit is exposed to interest rate risk from loan notes  
and borrows at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
•	 Derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps continue to be 
employed to generate the desired interest rate profile.
•	 Derivative financial instruments were employed such that 100% of all loans 
(August 2011: 100%) are either at fixed rate or are converted to fixed rate  
as a result of swap arrangements, over the terms of the loans, thereby reducing 
exposure to changes in interest rates and producing a stable long term debt 
profile, thus protecting the Group from future movements in interest rates. 24 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review
Our key risks and uncertainties continued
Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls
Financial continued
Pensions
Spirit has two defined benefit pension schemes which must 
be funded to meet required benefit payments. The value and 
funding of the schemes are subject to risk of changes in life 
expectancy, actual and expected price inflation, changes  
in bond yields and future salary increases. These could 
result in an increase in the pension fund deficit leading to 
unexpected increases in funding requirements. The next 
triennial valuation of the schemes is being carried out as at 
October 2012.
There is also a risk of unplanned cost and complexity 
impacting the Group due to the introduction of auto 
enrolment pension legislation.
•	 The defined benefit pension schemes are closed to new members and future 
accrual and instead defined contribution schemes are operated for the  
Group’s employees.
•	 The Company continues to examine strategies which will further mitigate the  
risks of an increased deficit or reduced surplus – the medium to long term risk 
reduction strategy is currently being reviewed. 
•	 A close relationship is maintained with the trustees of the pension scheme.
•	 Expert resource has been put into place to deal with the auto enrolment  
pension legislation.
Internal financial control
Spirit is committed to maintaining a robust internal control 
environment. This includes controls within the Support 
Centre and the Managed pubs. A lack of control could result 
in financial fraud or material error in the financial statements.
•	 Robust internal controls operate over all key processes including general controls 
such as segregation of duties, and authorisation of contracts and expenditure.
•	 An Internal Audit team reviews and reports on strengths and weaknesses in the 
internal control environment.
•	 Operational auditors provide assurance on controls within Managed pubs and 
have completed 1,199 risk based control audits during the year.
•	 Significant investment in IT systems and infrastructure has continued in the year.
Operations, people and infrastructure
Change management
Spirit is reliant on the successful implementation  
of operational initiatives to deliver both day to day 
improvements and the five year strategic plan. The key 
change during the year, which is currently ongoing, is the 
‘Pub in a Box’ project – an update of business processes  
and IT systems for Electronic Point Of Sale equipment,  
stock management, ordering and labour management.
•	 Formal project management processes are used across the business  
to prepare project objectives and plans and to ensure progress is tracked  
and results measured.
•	 Major projects are well communicated across the business so that a joined up 
approach is maintained.
•	 A ‘Pub in a Box’ steering group, including business users, has been set up to 
monitor delivery of business benefits in line with the business case for the project.
Information systems, technology and security/
Business Continuity Management
There is a risk that critical business processes could be 
adversely impacted by the failure of systems upon which 
they depend, which could result in loss of revenue.
•	 Work continues to increase the resilience and recoverability of business critical  
IT infrastructure – this includes improved disaster recovery capability, a new 
storage area network (SAN) and replacement/virtualisation of physical servers,  
a new data centre, and core switch replacement.
•	 An incident management and disaster recovery plan is in place for critical 
business processes to mitigate the effects of the business being unable to 
operate in the event of a major incident.
•	 The business has made further improvements to the plans during the year.
•	 There is an off-site disaster recovery facility if access to the Support Centre,  
or its systems, are affected.
Supply chain management
Spirit places reliance on a number of key suppliers and 
distributors to ensure continuous supply of food, drink  
and other products into the Group’s pubs. Failure of these 
suppliers or distributors could result in products not being 
delivered on time or to required standards.
•	 Supply chain arrangements have been improved in the year, and are being 
reviewed on an ongoing basis.
•	 Disaster recovery and business continuity plans of key distributors are  
regularly reviewed.
•	 Product quality is closely monitored, and the Group has access to alternative 
products or suppliers if required.
People risks
Failure to recruit, train and successfully retain key 
executives, talented managers, team players for Managed 
pubs, high calibre people for the support teams and 
successful licensees for Leased pubs could impact the 
ability to deliver the Company’s strategic five year plan and 
operational objectives.
•	 A well developed and coherent programme of recruitment, induction training  
and coaching is provided for Managed employees and new licensees within the 
Leased estate.
•	 Succession planning at all levels is being improved to ensure high calibre people 
are retained and talent development is accelerated.
•	 A range of formal qualifications are available for employees throughout the 
business – these include an Apprenticeship programme available to all  
employees and a Masters Degree programme for high performers.
•	 The Group carries out an annual Employee Engagement survey and regular 
Listening Groups to obtain direct feedback from employees. Very high levels  
of engagement and commitment were shown by the most recent survey.  
More regular but shorter Pulse surveys have been introduced in September 2012.
•	 There is a formal remuneration strategy to ensure individuals and teams are  
paid fairly and competitively.
•	 Further initiatives in the year include focus on: a New Recruitment website;  
social media activity; a common understanding of calibre; training to increase  
the skills of recruiting managers; and personality tests at the identification stage 
of recruitment. 25 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls
Operations, people and infrastructure continued
Performance of the Leased division
There is a risk that the strategy to innovate and change 
within the Leased division is not implemented as a result  
of remaining reliant on the current operating model and 
therefore the Leased business might not stabilise its 
performance in the expected timeframe. This could result  
in non-delivery of future EBITDA and the Leased division 
falling behind the Leased pub market.
•	 A number of alternative operating models are currently being developed  
and tested at a detailed level to assess the options to develop the existing  
leased model. 
•	 A performance management culture has been built with the focus on creating 
opportunities for each business to grow, providing relevant pricing and range to 
help keep licensees competitive, and the development of a recruitment pipeline  
of quality licensees.
Regulatory
Changes in legislation
Spirit is subject to many different areas of regulation, 
particularly due to the high level of control over the sale of 
alcohol, and can be subject to delay and failure to obtain 
required licences, permits and approvals. Increasing public 
focus in areas such as binge drinking, underage drinking, 
and health impacts over recent years means that the 
Government may introduce further regulation which may 
significantly affect the Group.
The Policing and Crime Act 2009 introduced a new 
mandatory code of practice for licensing the sale of alcohol 
and the Police Reform & Social Responsibility Act 2011 
further tightened controls on the sale of alcohol. A late night 
levy and early morning alcohol restriction orders are to be 
introduced on 31 October 2012 as an enabling measure 
which local licensing authorities may then decide  
to implement.
•	 Spirit works closely with the rest of the industry to address the key issues facing 
the pub sector.
•	 With regard to the late night levy and early morning alcohol restriction orders, 
consideration has been given to being ready in the event that local authorities 
decide to implement.
•	 The Group ensures that training provided covers all aspects of licensing 
requirements and has due diligence in place to confirm that all pubs meet  
all licensing legislation.
•	 Spirit works closely with local Licensing Boards, to ensure all individual  
pub licensing requirements are met and any issues are highlighted as soon  
as possible.
Health and safety
A health and safety accident or incident could lead to 
serious illness, injury or even loss of life, which could 
significantly impact Spirit’s reputation.
•	 Health and safety is a standing agenda item at the monthly operations risk meeting 
which considers all aspects of health and safety across the Managed estate.
•	 Independent inspectors are engaged to carry out Professional Safety Audits  
on a regular basis.
•	 Health and safety policies have been formally documented and briefed to the 
Support Centre, field based teams and the Managed pubs, and the Company 
carries out an annual risk assessment for key areas.
•	 The ‘Be Safe, Legal and Compliant’ hardline, introduced in the prior year as part 
of the Operational Excellence programme, has continued to improve the health 
and safety culture within the Managed pubs and has resulted in a significantly 
reduced number of accidents and environmental health incidents.
Reputational
Service standards and threats to brands and 
reputation
Poor service or an adverse incident could materially  
impact or damage the reputation of one of the Managed  
pub brands. This could affect the ability of the brand to 
attract future guests or negatively impact its ability to 
generate income.
•	 Guests are considered to be at the heart of the business, and the Operational 
Excellence and ‘Guest at the Heart’ programmes introduced in the prior year  
have continued to deliver focus on the guest experience.
•	 These initiatives are supported by a coherent programme of training for all team 
members to ensure teams are motivated to create a great guest experience.
•	 A third party supplier performs independent Guest Journey audits and all of  
our guests are invited to complete a Guest Recommends satisfaction survey  
so standards can continue to improve.
•	 Independent inspectors and an independent operational audit team provide 
assurance on internal controls within the Managed pubs.
•	 Safety measures are in place to ensure that product integrity is maintained  
and that all food and drink products are fully traceable.
•	 An incident management plan ensures that products can be recalled quickly  
if required.
•	 External experts have been identified and briefed to provide advice quickly  
if required. 26 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Board of Directors
Walker Boyd (Aged 60)
Chairman
Appointed Non-Executive Chairman in July 2011 
in preparation for the demerger of Spirit from 
Punch Taverns plc (Punch Taverns) where he 
was Non-Executive Director from April 2011.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of WHSmith,  
a position he has held since 1 September 2010 
after joining the Board as Non-executive 
Director in February 2010. He has substantial 
retail expertise both in the UK and the USA. 
He was Group Finance Director at Signet 
Jewellers Limited, previously Signet Group 
plc, until June 2010, having held this position 
since 1995.
Mike Tye (Aged 58)
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed Chief Executive Officer in 
December 2011 after briefly holding the 
position of Deputy Chief Executive Officer 
from June 2011. This was in connection with 
the demerger of Spirit from Punch Taverns 
where he was Managing Director for the 
Managed estate from July 2008.
Mike has spent over 20 years working in many 
different areas of the leisure business, mainly 
with Whitbread, Forte and Aramark. In recent 
years, he has been Managing Director of: 
Costa Coffee; Premier Travel Inn (where he led 
the acquisition and integration of Premier 
Lodge to Travel Inn); and David Lloyd Leisure 
(where he led the business turnaround and 
subsequent sale). His early career was spent 
managing FMCG brands and running his own 
wine and spirit retail and wholesale business.
Paddy Gallagher (Aged 49)
Finance Director
Appointed Finance Director in November 2011. 
Prior to that, Paddy held a number of high 
profile finance positions including Chief 
Financial Officer at Rank Group plc, Chief 
Financial Officer at Quadriga Worldwide Ltd, 
UK Finance Director at Dell EMEA and Director 
of Financial Operations at Wang International. 27 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Tony Rice (Aged 60)
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Spirit in July 2011. Formerly Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director of Punch 
Taverns from March 2010 and Independent 
Non-Executive Director from December 2007. 
Tony has many years’ experience at board 
level with some of the UK’s leading companies. 
He spent 16 years with BAE Systems from 
1986 to 2002, culminating in the role of Group 
Managing Director of Commercial Aircraft.  
He then spent three years at Tunstall plc as 
Chief Executive from 2002 until its sale to 
Bridgepoint in 2005. Tony is Chief Executive 
Officer of Cable & Wireless Communications. 
Tony was also Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee at Cable & 
Wireless from 2003 to 2006 and at Telewest 
from 2000 to 2003.
Mark Pain (Aged 51)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Spirit in July 2011 in preparation  
for the demerger of Spirit from Punch Taverns 
where he was Independent Non-Executive 
Director from December 2007.
Mark has a wealth of experience as a listed 
company main board director. Mark served  
as Chief Financial Officer of Barratt 
Developments Plc from 2006 to 2009. He was 
previously at Abbey National where he held  
a number of senior executive and group board 
positions, including: Group Finance Director 
from 1998 to 2001 and Customer Sales 
Director from 2002 to 2005. Mark is a  
Non-Executive Director at Aviva UK, Johnston 
Press and LSL Property Services and is also 
Chairman of London Square. Mark is a Fellow 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Christopher Bell (Aged 54)
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Appointed Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Spirit in August 2011.
Christopher was Chief Executive Officer  
of Ladbrokes plc between 2006 and 2010.  
Prior to that, he spent 12 years at Allied-Lyons 
and held a number of senior positions, six years 
as Managing Director at Hilton Group and 
eight years as Managing Director at Ladbroke 
Group. Christopher is also currently Senior 
Independent Director of Quintain Estates and 
Development and was appointed as a Director 
of Bet Butler Limited in September 2012.  
He has also been a board member of the 
Responsible Gaming Strategy (RGSB)  
since 2009.
Julie Chakraverty (Aged 40)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Spirit in January 2012. 
Julie is a Non-Executive Director of Aberdeen 
Asset Management plc. She spent 13 years  
at UBS Investment Bank, where she was a 
board member and held a number of senior 
global leadership positions with a specialist 
background in risk management and fixed 
income. Julie was also Non-Executive Director 
of Paternoster, the specialist pensions insurer. 
She started her financial services career with 
JP Morgan. 28 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Executive Management Team
Mike Tye (Aged 58)
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed Chief Executive Officer in 
December 2011 after briefly holding the 
position of Deputy Chief Executive Officer 
from June 2011. This was in connection with 
the demerger of Spirit from Punch Taverns 
where he was Managing Director for the 
Managed estate from July 2008.
Mike has spent over 20 years working in many 
different areas of the leisure business, mainly 
with Whitbread, Forte and Aramark. In recent 
years, he has been Managing Director of: 
Costa Coffee; Premier Travel Inn (where he  
led the acquisition and integration of Premier 
Lodge to Travel Inn); and David Lloyd Leisure 
(where he led the business turnaround and 
subsequent sale). His early career was spent 
managing FMCG brands and running his own 
wine and spirit retail and wholesale business.
Paddy Gallagher (Aged 49)
Finance Director
Appointed Finance Director in November 2011. 
Prior to that, Paddy held a number of high 
profile finance positions including Chief 
Financial Officer at Rank Group plc, Chief 
Financial Officer at Quadriga Worldwide Ltd, 
UK Finance Director at Dell EMEA and Director 
of Financial Operations at Wang International.
Alan Morgan (Aged 35)
National Operations Director
Appointed National Operations Director  
in January 2011. Prior to that, Alan was an 
Operations Director within Spirit and had  
held a number of senior operational and 
commercial roles within Whitbread and  
David Lloyd Leisure. 29 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Chris Welham (Aged 41)
Managing Director, Spirit Leased 
Appointed Managing Director, Spirit Leased  
in February 2012. Prior to that, Chris was 
Operations Director at Greene King Pub 
Partners leading half of their Leased business. 
Chris has over 15 years’ experience in the 
industry and has held a number of senior 
operational roles in Greenalls, Pubmaster  
and Punch Taverns.
Clive Briscoe (Aged 51)
Commercial Director
Appointed Commercial Director in June 2010. 
Clive joined Spirit from Ideal Shopping Direct, 
where he was Director for Customer Operations 
and Business Development with responsibility 
for marketing, e-commerce, call centres and 
new business development.
Clive has held a number of high profile 
marketing roles with Carlsberg Tetley,  
GUS Home Shopping and Argos Retail Group.  
In 2003, he joined Littlewoods Shop Direct 
Group where he played a key role in 
transforming the brands from traditional 
catalogues into a predominantly online 
business with web sales in excess of £500m.
Debbie Moore (Aged 50)
HR Director
Appointed HR Director in February 2012.  
Prior to that, Debbie held a number of high 
profile HR roles including HR Director at  
the Post Office from 2007 to 2012, leading  
the people agenda of that organisation 
through significant change which impacted 
both employee engagement and business 
profitability. Previously, Debbie was also  
HR Director at Hays plc and UK Retail  
HR Director at the Dixons Group.
Bob Broadbridge (Aged 53) 
IT Director
Appointed IT Director in May 2010.
Bob joined Spirit from The Health Lottery 
where he held the position of Chief Operating 
Officer for IT and Operations. Previously he 
was IT Director at The Tote, WHSmith and 
Superdrug. His early career was spent with 
Mars and Cadbury-Schweppes. 30 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Directors’ report
The Directors present to shareholders their report on  
the affairs of the Company, together with the audited  
financial statements for the Group for the 52 weeks ended  
18 August 2012.
Certain information required for disclosure as part of this 
report is provided in other sections of the Annual Report and 
financial statements 2012 as appropriate. These include the 
Business review, the Corporate governance statement, the 
Audit & Risk Committee report, the Nomination & Governance 
Committee report, Report on Directors’ remuneration and the 
financial statements and these are accordingly incorporated 
into this Directors’ report by reference.
Principal activity
The Group’s main trading activities are divided into two 
divisions: a Managed division which involves pubs that are 
directly managed by the Group, and a Leased division which 
involves the granting of leases to licensees who run the pub 
as their own business, paying rent to the Group, purchasing 
beer and other drinks from the Group and entering into profit 
sharing arrangements for income from leisure machines.
Business review
A full review of the year’s activities and future developments 
and information on the risks and uncertainties faced by the 
Group, are included in the Business review. The management 
of business risk is set out in the Audit & Risk Committee 
report and Our key risks and uncertainties on pages 38 to 39 
and 23 to 25 respectively and KPIs are shown on page 1.
The Business review has been prepared solely to assist  
the shareholders in assessing the Group’s strategies and  
the potential of those strategies. It should not be relied upon  
by any other party for any other purpose. Forward looking 
statements have been made by the Directors in good faith 
using information available up to the date of this report.  
Such forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainty 
because they relate to events and depend on circumstances 
that may or may not occur in the future, and any such 
statements may be influenced by factors that could cause 
actual results and outcomes to be materially different.  
Such statements should be regarded with caution and the 
Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update them.
Results and dividends
The results of the Group for the year are set out in the 
Consolidated income statement on page 51. An interim 
dividend of 0.65 pence per share was paid to shareholders 
on 8 June 2012. The Directors have proposed a final dividend 
of 1.30 pence per share payable on 5 February 2013 to 
shareholders on the register as at 11 January 2013. This will 
bring the total dividend for the year to 1.95 pence per share.
Directors*
At 18 August 2012, the Board comprised seven members, 
consisting of the Chairman, two Executive Directors and  
four Non-Executive Directors, all four of whom were 
independent in accordance with the criteria set out in  
B.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
During the year, the following Board changes took place:
•	 on 7 November 2011 Russell Margerrison resigned  
as Interim Finance Director and Paddy Gallagher was 
appointed Finance Director;
•	 on 16 December 2011 Ian Dyson left the business  
by stepping down as Chief Executive Officer and was 
replaced by Mike Tye; and
•	 on 20 January 2012 Julie Chakraverty was appointed  
as Non-Executive Director.
The procedure for the appointment, replacement and 
re-election of Directors and the role of the Nomination  
& Governance Committee is set out in the Corporate 
governance statement and Nomination & Governance 
Committee report on pages 34 to 36 and 37 respectively.
There are no special provisions contained in any of the 
Directors’ contracts for loss of office beyond normal 
contractual obligations; further details of Directors’ contracts 
are contained within the Report on Directors’ remuneration 
on pages 40 to 49.
* Wherever in this report we refer to ‘he’, ‘his’ or ‘him’ those references  
are deemed to include ‘she’, ‘hers’ or ‘her’ as the context requires. 31 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of Directors, who held office at  
18 August 2012, in the share capital of the Company are 
shown below.
At
15 October
2012
Ordinary
shares
At
18 August
 2012
Ordinary
shares
At
20 August
2011
Ordinary
shares
Walker Boyd 200,000 200,000 150,000
Mike Tye 662,131 568,075 188,707
Paddy Gallagher 101,276 75,000 –
Tony Rice 503,013 503,013 503,013
Mark Pain 29,177 29,177 29,177
Christopher Bell 110,266 110,266 –
Julie Chakraverty 100,000 100,000 –
None of the Directors have any other interests in the shares 
or other securities of the Company or of any other company 
in the Group.
No Director has a material interest in any significant contract 
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
A statement of the Directors’ remuneration is set out in the 
Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 40 to 49.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
During the year, the Board has reviewed the interests of the 
Directors and their connected persons and has authorised 
any interests which conflicted or potentially conflicted with 
the interests of the Company. The Nomination & Governance 
Committee will continue to conduct periodic reviews of 
conflict authorisations to determine whether the authorisation 
given should continue, be added to or be revoked by  
the Board.
Directors’ indemnity
As at the date of this report, there are qualifying third party 
indemnity provisions governed by the Companies Act 2006  
in place under which the Company has agreed to indemnify 
the Directors and the Company Secretary of the Company 
and the Directors and the Company Secretary of any 
member of the Group or of an associated company or  
certain companies in which the Company has a direct  
or indirect minority shareholding or other interest, to the 
extent permitted by law and the Articles of Association, 
against all liability arising in respect of any act or omission 
in their duties. 
The Company’s indemnity provision was in place throughout 
the year and remains in place as at the date of this report. 
The indemnity is uncapped in amount but does not provide 
cover in the event that the act or omission constitutes wilful 
misconduct or recklessness, is conduct which would entitle 
the Company to dismiss the Director or officer summarily 
without compensation or pay in lieu of notice, or if the 
Director or officer is entitled to recover any amount in relation 
to the liability from any other person. In accordance with 
Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Group also 
maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers. 
Substantial shareholdings
As at 15 October 2012, being the last business day prior  
to the publication of this report, the Company had been 
notified of the following substantial interests (representing 
3% or more) in the ordinary shares of the Company.
  Shareholding made up of:
Shareholder
Total 
holding %
Ordinary
 shares
Contracts 
for difference
Glenview Capital   
 Management
15.53 102,517,502 –
Schroders 7.50 49,484,017 –
Alchemy Special   
 Opportunities
6.30 40,522,000 –
Norges Bank 6.01 39,638,812 –
Aberforth Partners 5.24 34,574,520 –
Old Mutual Asset   
 Managers
5.20 34,298,997 –
Standard Life 4.94 31,764,819 –
GLG Partners LP 4.71 21,596,799 8,692,975
Barclays plc 4.23 27,140,174 –
Royal Bank of Canada 3.63 23,337,957 –
Legal & General 3.04 20,083,254 –
Political and charitable contributions
During the year the Group made no charitable or  
political contributions. 
The Company does not make political donations and has  
no intention of making donations to what are generally 
regarded as political parties or political organisations within 
the European Union. However, as the legislation is very 
broadly drafted, as a precautionary measure a resolution  
to permit the Company to make political donations and  
incur political expenditure is included as a resolution  
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM). 32 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Directors’ report continued
Employees
The total number of employees at the end of the year was 
17,157. The Group recognises the value of its employees  
and seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and responsive 
environment in which to work. It places considerable 
emphasis on communications with employees, which  
take place at many levels through the organisation on both  
a formal and informal basis. The business runs an annual 
employee engagement survey, and regular listening and 
consultation groups which are attended by employees from 
all work groups and which are hosted by members of the 
Executive Committee. 
The Group is committed to diversity in employment  
across the Group, and to providing equal opportunities  
in recruitment, promotion, career development, training  
and reward to all employees without discrimination after 
reasonable adjustment. The Group gives full consideration  
to applications for employment from disabled persons where 
the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by 
such persons. The Group continues to be supportive of the 
employment of disabled persons in accordance with their 
abilities and aptitudes, provided that they can be employed  
in a safe working environment. Where existing employees 
become disabled, it is the Group’s policy wherever 
practicable to seek to provide continuing employment.
Employees are also offered the opportunity to share in  
the Company’s success by owning shares in the Company 
via the Group’s HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan which 
is open to all employees of the Group including the Executive 
Directors. Launched in November 2011, currently 272 eligible 
employees participate and have the opportunity to purchase 
up to £1,500 of shares per annum out of pre-tax salary 
(partnership shares) with the Company awarding additional 
shares on a 1:1 ratio (matching shares). The shares are held 
in trust, using an Employee Benefit Trust (EBT), for a period 
of three years at the end of which the matching shares will 
normally be released provided that the partnership shares 
have been retained and that the employee is still employed 
by the Group. During this time the shares are beneficially 
owned by employees, attract voting rights and are eligible  
for dividends. The voting rights in respect of these shares are 
exercised by the trustees on behalf of the employees. If after 
three years the employee elects to keep the matching shares 
in the EBT for a further two years (i.e. the shares are held in 
the EBT for five years) the matching shares are released to 
the employee free of tax and National Insurance.
The environment
The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental 
laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral  
to its business operation. It is also committed to introducing 
measures to limit any adverse effects its business may  
have on the environment and will promote continuous 
improvement in accordance with best available techniques. 
Further information on corporate social responsibility can  
be found on pages 16 to 19. 
Creditor payment policy and practice
It is the Group’s policy that payments to suppliers are  
made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed 
between the Company and its suppliers, provided that  
all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.  
At 18 August 2012 the Company had no days’ purchases 
outstanding in trade creditors.
Financial instruments
The Group’s policy on the use of financial instruments  
is set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
Significant agreements
The Company is party to certain non-material agreements 
(including trust deeds relating to the Company’s employee 
share incentive plans) that contain change of control provisions 
in the event of the takeover of the Company but these are not 
considered to be significant on an individual basis.
Additional information for shareholders
At 18 August 2012, the Company’s issued share capital 
comprised a single class of ordinary shares. The share 
capital note on page 87 contains full details of shares allotted 
during the year. As at the date of this report, the Company 
does not hold any shares in Treasury.
At the first AGM of the Company, held on 16 December 2011, 
the Company obtained shareholder authority to buy back up 
to 65,965,596 shares (representing approximately 10% of the 
Company’s issued equity share capital at the time). At the 
Company’s forthcoming AGM, authority will be sought to buy 
back up to 66,009,571 shares (representing approximately 
10% of the Company’s issued equity share capital as at the 
time of the AGM). This authority will only be exercised by the 
Directors if it is considered that it will result in an increase in 
earnings per share and will benefit shareholders generally. 
Authority will also be sought at the forthcoming AGM for 
Directors to allot up to 220,031,904 shares in the Company 
(representing approximately one-third of the Company’s 
issued equity share capital (excluding treasury shares)) 
and up to 440,063,808 equity securities (representing 
approximately two-thirds of the Company’s issued equity 
share capital (excluding treasury shares)). The Board  
will also seek authority to disapply pre-emption rights  
over 33,004,786 shares (representing approximately 5%  
of the Company’s issued equity share capital at the time). 33 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Further details of the above resolutions are contained within 
the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders with this report.
There are no restrictions on transfer of shares in the 
Company other than those which may from time to time be 
applicable under existing laws and regulations (for example 
under the Market Abuse Directive) and the Company is not 
aware of any agreements between shareholders that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting 
rights. In addition, there are no people holding securities that 
carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority, Directors and persons discharging 
managerial responsibility of the Company require prior 
approval from the Company to deal in the Company’s 
securities, and are prohibited from dealing during  
a close period.
General meetings
At a general meeting of the shareholders, the Company’s 
Articles of Association may be amended by special 
resolution, and on a show of hands every member who  
is present in person and proxy entitled to vote shall have  
one vote. On a poll every member who is present in person 
and proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is 
the holder. A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy 
in relation to their holdings provided that each proxy does  
not vote in relation to the same shares. The Notice of Meeting 
sent to shareholders with this report gives full details of 
deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy 
or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be considered 
at the meeting.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with institutional 
and private shareholders and welcomes participation from  
all shareholders. The Chairman seeks to ensure that the 
Chairmen of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nomination 
& Governance Committees and the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director attend the AGM to answer any 
relevant questions. All members of the Board are available  
to meet with major shareholders if requested.
Communications with shareholders are given high priority  
to ensure that there is a balanced and well understood 
assessment of the Group’s position and prospects.  
The Company aims to provide as much information as is 
commercially sensible in each case to existing and potential 
investors, recognising that transparency is the best way to 
develop understanding of the Group’s strategy, performance 
and growth potential.
The Company encourages two-way communication with 
both its institutional and private shareholders and aims  
to provide a timely response to all enquiries. There is  
a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders as well 
as presentations after the Company’s annual and interim 
results announcements. The Chairman also writes to the top 
ten major shareholders on an annual basis inviting them to 
correspond with the Non-Executive Directors if they so wish.
Subsequent events
There have been no significant subsequent events.
Going concern
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are described in the 
Financial review on pages 20 and 21. Note 22 to the Financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit and 
liquidity risk.
After reviewing budgets and other longer term plans  
and making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information 
to auditors
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there  
is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are 
unaware and that each Director has taken all reasonable 
steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the auditors are aware  
of that information.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit plc as the Company’s 
auditors will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board
Ian Powell
General Counsel and Company Secretary
15 October 2012 34 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Corporate governance statement
Compliance statement
The Board attaches the highest priority to corporate 
governance and during the year the Company has 
demonstrated its commitment to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code)
1
 by being fully compliant with 
all of the provisions set out in the Code and with chapter 7  
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (the DTR). This 
report, together with the Directors’ report (which includes 
information as required by section 7.2.6 of the DTR, as 
permitted by section 7.2.9 of the DTR), the Nomination & 
Governance Committee report, the Audit & Risk Committee 
report and the Report on Directors’ remuneration, provide an 
overview of how the Group has applied the principles of the 
Code throughout the period. It details the work and activities 
undertaken by the Company’s relevant committees and sets 
out the key features of the Company’s governance structure. 
Role of the Board
The work of the Board is structured around scheduled Board 
meetings which are linked to key events in the Company’s 
corporate calendar, with additional meetings convened to 
consider matters which are time critical or which require 
further discussion.
Whilst the Board has delegated the normal operational 
management of the Company to the Executive Directors  
and its Executive Committee, it retains a schedule of matters 
which are specifically reserved for its decision. 
The Company has also established Audit & Risk, 
Remuneration and Nomination & Governance committees 
with formally delegated duties and responsibilities and 
written terms of reference which are available on the 
Company’s website: www.spiritpubcompany.com.
From time to time, separate committees are set up by the 
Board to consider specific issues when the need arises. 
Together, however, the Board is collectively responsible to 
the Company’s shareholders for the Group’s performance 
and sets the strategic aims and objectives of the Group to 
fulfil this responsibility. The Board determines the Company’s 
key policies, agrees on performance criteria and delegates to 
its Executive Committee their planning and implementation. 
Overall, the Board ensures that all necessary resources are  
in place in order for the Company to meet its objectives and 
that all decisions are taken objectively and in the interest of 
the Company and its shareholders.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary 
resolution or by the Board. At the Company’s forthcoming 
AGM in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association, Julie Chakraverty will offer herself for election, 
this being the first opportunity since she joined the Board  
for shareholders to approve her appointment. The Code 
recommends that all Directors should be submitted for 
re-election at regular intervals, which for directors of  
FTSE 350 Index companies should be annually, and  
the Company has decided to comply with this provision. 
Accordingly, all other Directors will offer themselves for 
re-election at the AGM. Each of the Directors has been 
subject to a formal performance evaluation process  
and it is believed that they all continue to be effective in,  
and demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles.  
The biographical details of each Director can be found  
on pages 26 and 27. 
The Company may, by special resolution, remove any 
Director before the expiration of his period of office.  
The office of a director shall be vacated if: (i) he resigns or 
offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer; 
(ii) he becomes physically or mentally incapable of acting  
as a director and remains so for more than three months;  
(iii) he is absent without the permission of the Board from 
meetings of the Board (whether or not an alternate director 
appointed by him attends) for six consecutive months and 
the Board resolves that his office is vacated; (iv) he becomes 
bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally;  
(v) he is prohibited by law from being a director; (vi) he 
ceases to be a director by virtue of the Companies Act 2006; 
or (vii) he is removed from office pursuant to the Company’s 
Articles of Association.
Powers of Directors
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the 
Company by special resolution, the business of the Company 
is managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers  
of the Company, whether relating to the management of the 
business or not. In particular, the Board may exercise all the 
powers of the Company to borrow money, to mortgage or 
charge any of its undertakings, property, assets (present  
and future) and uncalled capital and to issue debentures  
and other securities and to give security for any debt,  
liability or obligation.
1  A copy of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website: www.frc.org.uk. 35 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Meeting attendance
During the year the Board met twelve times. Attendance at 
these meetings and those of its committees was as follows:
Board
Audit & Risk
 Committee 
Nomination &
 Governance
 Committee 
Remuneration
 Committee
 
Walker Boyd 12 n/a 2 3
Mike Tye 12 n/a n/a n/a
Paddy Gallagher
 
9 n/a n/a n/a
Tony Rice 12 4 2 3
Mark Pain 12 4 2 3
Christopher Bell 10 4 2 2
Julie Chakraverty 5 2 0 1
Following his appointment to the Board, Paddy Gallagher 
attended all Board meetings held. Christopher Bell and  
Julie Chakraverty also attended all Board and committee 
meetings held with the exception of one due to commitments 
pre-dating their appointments as Directors.
In addition to their attendance at Board and Committee 
meetings, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive 
Directors independently of the Executive Directors, in 
accordance with the requirements of section A.4.2 of  
the Code. The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior 
Independent Director, also met without the Chairman being 
present, to assess the performance of the Chairman.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are 
distinct and separate, with a clear division of responsibilities. 
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective 
engagement and contribution of all Non-Executive Directors 
and Executive Directors. The Chief Executive Officer is 
responsible for all the Group’s businesses and acts in 
accordance with the authority delegated by the Board. 
Responsibility for the development of policy and strategy, 
and operational management, is delegated to the  
Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director and the  
Executive Committee.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director (SID)
Tony Rice has been appointed SID and is responsible for:
•	supporting the Chairman;
•	 leading the other Non-Executive Directors in the annual 
review of the Chairman’s performance; and
•	 monitoring the division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
 
He is also available as the person to whom shareholders may 
express any concerns which have not been satisfactorily 
resolved by either the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors
The Company actively encourages its Non-Executive 
Directors to:
•	  constructively challenge the strategy proposed by  
the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Directors;
•	 scrutinise and challenge the Company’s performance;
•	 satisfy themselves as to the integrity of financial 
information, and that financial controls are robust and 
defensible; and
•	 ensure that appropriate remuneration and succession 
planning arrangements are in place in relation to the 
Executive Directors and the Executive Committee.
Where Non-Executive Directors have concerns regarding  
the running of the Company, they are encouraged to refer  
the matter to the relevant individual Executive Director,  
at a meeting of the Board or the Company Secretary.  
Should there remain a concern this is recorded in the  
relevant minutes until further action is taken to remedy it.
To supplement their knowledge and experience,  
Non-Executive Directors are authorised to serve on other 
company boards as long as they set aside enough time  
to make a satisfactory commitment to their role at Spirit.
Other appointments
To ensure they remain focused, Executive Directors are not 
permitted to take more than one Non-Executive directorship 
in, or the chairmanship of, a FTSE 100 company. Furthermore, 
any fees received in respect of these appointments are 
disclosed in the audited section of the Report on Directors’ 
remuneration as a footnote to the Directors’ emoluments 
table and are retained by the Executive Directors concerned. 36 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Corporate governance statement continued
Balance and independence
The Board includes a combination of both Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors so that no individual or small group 
can dominate proceedings or the Board’s decision making. 
As a Company, Spirit values diversity in its workforce for the 
strength and vitality that it brings to the business. Diversity  
is an equally important consideration at Board level and  
the Company considers the need for the Board to reflect  
an appropriately diverse balance of skills and experience 
whenever it makes a Board appointment.
Following changes to the Board during the year the Directors 
believe that the composition of the Board and the 
Committees is appropriate for Spirit with a correct balance  
of skills and experience in each case. Further information  
on the changes to the Board’s composition can be found in 
the Nomination & Governance Committee report on page 37.
Upon his appointment as Chairman, Walker Boyd was 
considered to meet the independence criteria set out  
in section A.3.1 of the Code. Furthermore, upon their 
appointment as Non-Executive Directors, Tony Rice,  
Mark Pain, Christopher Bell and Julie Chakraverty were  
also considered to be, and continue to be, independent. 
Accordingly over half of the Directors on the Board are 
independent in character and judgement and free from 
relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect,  
or could appear to affect, their judgement. 
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Company’s 
Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office during normal business hours 
and for the period 15 minutes prior to and during the 
Company’s AGM at the place of the AGM.
Access to advice
The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, 
ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear 
information. In preparation for every Board meeting, each 
Director receives documentation including a detailed report 
on current trading and full papers on matters where the 
Board will be required to make a decision or give its approval. 
These matters are discussed during the Board meeting,  
with the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director  
giving an overview of how the Group is performing against 
expectations. In addition, the Board receives presentations 
from other members of the Executive Committee and 
external advisers to aid its understanding when and  
if applicable.
All Directors have access to independent professional 
advice, at the Company’s expense, should they require  
it to discharge their duties. They also have access to the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is 
responsible for:
•	 advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all 
governance matters;
•	 providing assistance and information on corporate 
administration and legal matters;
•	 ensuring that information flows freely between the Board, 
its committees, its Non-Executive Directors and the 
Executive Committee; and
•	 ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that all 
applicable legislation and regulations are complied with.
By order of the Board
Ian Powell
General Counsel and Company Secretary
15 October 2012 37 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Nomination & Governance Committee report
The members of the Nomination & Governance Committee 
(the Committee) comprise Walker Boyd (Chairman of the 
Committee), Tony Rice, Mark Pain, Christopher Bell and  
Julie Chakraverty.
The Committee’s terms of reference state that it will meet 
twice annually, and then as and when required, and that  
the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary,  
are permitted to be invited to attend for part or all of  
each meeting. 
During the year, two meetings of the Committee took place 
which focused on:
•	the appointment of Paddy Gallagher as Finance Director;
•	a review of the Committee’s terms of reference;
•	a review of the Board’s conflicts of interest;
•	 a review of the Company’s compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code; and
•	 the appointment of Julie Chakraverty as  
Non-Executive Director.
Board composition
The main purpose of the Committee is to review the 
structure, size and composition (including the skills, 
knowledge and experience) of the Board and make 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any 
adjustments that are deemed necessary. 
In its assessment of the Board during the year, the 
Committee reviewed the Board’s mix of skills and experience 
and identified three main areas to strengthen: finance,  
risk management and diversity. This resulted in the 
appointments of Paddy Gallagher and Julie Chakraverty.
Upon demerger from Punch Taverns plc in August 2011  
the role of Finance Director was undertaken by Russell 
Margerrison in an interim capacity whilst a recruitment 
process took place. On 12 September 2011 it was announced 
that Paddy Gallagher would join the Board as Finance 
Director on 7 November 2011, bringing with him a wealth  
of financial and industry experience. 
On 20 January 2012 Julie Chakraverty, who has a 
background of senior global leadership positions, finance 
and risk management, joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director and sits on all three of the Company’s committees: 
Audit & Risk, Nomination & Governance and Remuneration.
An external search consultancy was used for both  
Paddy Gallagher and Julie Chakraverty’s appointments.  
This selection process was also supplemented with  
several interviews to guarantee the calibre and suitability  
of candidates for the positions. 
Upon their appointment, Paddy Gallagher and  
Julie Chakraverty each undertook extensive induction 
programmes, tailored to their positions, which included:
•	 individual time with the Chairman, the Chief Executive 
Officer and other members of the Board and  
Executive Committee;
•	 meetings with the Company’s external advisers, brokers 
and substantial shareholders;
•	 an internal induction course which introduces the Group, 
its divisions and its employees; and
•	 visits to the Group’s Managed and Leased pubs and  
those of its competitors.
Performance evaluation
During the year the Board undertook a formal evaluation  
of its own performance and that of its committees and 
Chairman. The process was led by the Chairman, assisted  
by the Company Secretary, except in relation to his own 
performance, which was led by the SID. The evaluation took 
the form of a detailed questionnaire and peer assessment 
with supplemental meetings between the Chairman and 
individual Directors to discuss the findings further. A separate 
meeting between the SID and the Board (excluding the 
Chairman) also took place to discuss the Chairman’s 
evaluation. The final results of the evaluation were discussed 
by the Board and an appropriate action plan was agreed. 
Furthermore, it is recognised that an externally facilitated 
evaluation of the Board needs to be performed within the 
next two financial years in line with the requirements of 
section B.6.2 of the Code.
To assist personal development each Director bi-annually 
reviews their personal development plan to set their goals 
and assess their progress during the year. Ongoing training 
and proactive coaching is provided by the Company to 
develop, support and update the knowledge and skills  
of its Board, including days out in trade, regular meetings 
with the Executive Committee, internal and external courses 
and continual dialogue with peers and colleagues. Directors 
are expected to take responsibility for their own individual 
developmental needs in conjunction with the Chairman, 
Company Secretary and HR Director.
On behalf of the Committee
Walker Boyd
Nomination & Governance Committee Chairman
15 October 2012 38 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Audit & Risk Committee report
The members of the Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee) 
comprise Mark Pain (Chairman of the Committee), Tony Rice, 
Christopher Bell and Julie Chakraverty, all of whom are 
independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company, and 
at least one of the members has recent and relevant financial 
experience. The Committee is compliant with section C.3.1  
of the Code and satisfies the requirements of chapter 7.1  
of the DTR. In accordance with its terms of reference, the 
Committee holds a minimum of four meetings each financial 
year with further meetings called as required. The internal 
and external auditors together with the Chairman, Finance 
Director, the Company Secretary and other persons may  
also attend the meetings by invitation.
During the year, four meetings of the Committee took place 
which focused on:
•	 the 2011 Annual Report and financial statements and 2012  
interim results; 
•	 the Bribery Act and the Company’s anti-bribery procedures 
and policies;
•	 reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditors and 
their overall performance;
•	 the Company’s risk management framework and  
internal controls;
•	 the internal audit function and non-audit services provided 
by the external auditor; and
•	 the Company’s financial controls, treasury and whistle 
blowing policies.
The Committee’s responsibilities are set out in its terms  
of reference, which are available on the Company’s website. 
They comprise all matters indicated by the DTR and the 
Code including:
•	 monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the annual and 
interim financial statements of the Company and any 
formal announcements relating to the Company’s  
financial performance;
•	 reviewing the policies and process for identifying and 
assessing the Company’s business risks; 
•	 reviewing the internal audit plan and resourcing, monitoring 
and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
audit function;
•	 making recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external 
auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditor;
•	 approving and reviewing the policy on the use of the 
external auditor for non-audit services; and
•	 reviewing and monitoring the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the 
audit process, taking into consideration relevant guidance.
Risk management, internal control and  
internal audit
The responsibility for managing risk is retained by the Board, 
but the Committee’s terms of reference provide that the 
Company’s risk management policy and framework, the 
adequacy of risk information and reporting, the effectiveness 
of the internal control environment and the effectiveness  
of internal audit, are monitored by the Committee.
Risk management
During the year the Committee reviewed the Company’s  
risk register and the risk management framework, which 
requires that business risks are reviewed at least quarterly.  
A summary of these risks can be found in Our key risks  
and uncertainties on pages 23 to 25.
Internal control 
The features of the Company’s systems of internal  
control include:
•	 an established organisational structure with clearly defined 
lines of responsibility and delegation of authority;
•	 documented and enforced policies and procedures;
•	 comprehensive budgets and forecasts reviewed  
and revised on a regular basis, with performance 
monitored against them and explanations obtained  
for material variances;
•	 a detailed investment approval process with a hierarchical 
approval structure and post investment appraisals;
•	 an internal audit function which performs regular 
assessments of the quality and effectiveness of risk 
management and the internal control environment;
•	 regular reporting on internal audit, control updates, 
changes to accounting policies and any accounting  
and legal developments;
•	 documented fraud, ethics, bribery and whistle blowing 
policies and procedures, regular review of current whistle 
blowing regulations, and reporting of any whistle blowing 
incidents to the Committee;
•	 a regular review of treasury policies and activities  
by the Committee;
•	 appointment of staff of the highest calibre to fulfil their 
allotted responsibilities together with an established 
programme of management and staff development  
and succession planning; and
•	 formal financial reporting processes for preparation  
of the consolidated accounts. 39 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Internal audit
During the year a review of the effectiveness of the system  
of internal controls of the Company took place to ensure  
the effectiveness of those controls in order to safeguard 
shareholders’ interests and the Company’s assets and 
guarantee that robust financial reporting processes are  
in place. Such systems, including controls for financial, 
operational, compliance and risk management matters,  
are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk  
of failure to achieve the Company’s strategic objectives.  
It should therefore be recognised that these systems can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. 
 
External auditors
To maintain the independence of the external auditors,  
the Board has determined a policy detailing what non-audit 
services can be provided by the Company’s external 
auditors. Under this policy, the external auditor is invited  
to provide services where their position as auditor renders 
them best placed to undertake the work. In the case of other 
services no contracts in excess of £50,000 in value can be 
awarded to the external auditor, and no contracts can be 
awarded once commitments of half the current audit fee have 
been made, without prior approval. During the year £15,000 
in non-audit fees were paid to the external auditors. 
One of the primary purposes of the Committee is to make  
a recommendation on the appointment or re-appointment  
of the external auditors. During the year the Committee 
approved the re-appointment of KPMG Audit plc as auditors 
of the Company, having reviewed their independence and 
objectivity, and recommended to the Board that they be 
re-appointed and their proposed fees authorised.
Employee concerns
The Company has in place documented fraud, bribery and 
whistle blowing policies and procedures to enable employees 
to raise concerns about any possible improprieties within  
the Group. Any reported incidents are internally investigated 
and documented with follow up action taken as appropriate. 
During the year substantial work has been undertaken in 
respect of the Company’s policies and training with regards 
to the Bribery Act 2010. 
On behalf of the Committee
Mark Pain
Audit & Risk Committee Chairman
15 October 2012 40 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Report on Directors’ remuneration 
for the year ended 18 August 2012. The Board will be seeking 
approval for this report from shareholders at the next AGM. 
The policy of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee) 
has been designed to help drive business performance and 
maximise shareholder value. The main features of the 
remuneration policy for Executive Directors are as follows:
•	base salaries and pension provision remain unchanged;
•	 annual bonus potential is capped at 150% of base salary 
for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% of base salary for 
the Finance Director. In each case, 75% of bonus potential 
is based on financial metrics and 25% on the achievement 
of individual targets. No bonus will be payable unless a 
threshold level of profit before tax is achieved;
•	 long term incentive awards are granted under the 
Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan 2011. Grant levels  
will normally be in the range of 80% to 150% of base salary 
in any financial year. Awards will vest for a combination of 
sliding scale relative total shareholder return and earnings 
per share performance targets.
As highlighted in my letter last year, Mike Tye stepped up 
to the role of Chief Executive Officer to succeed Ian Dyson.  
This year has also seen Paddy Gallagher join the  
Board as our Finance Director from 7 November 2011.  
Julie Chakraverty has also joined the Board as an additional 
Non-Executive Director from 20 January 2012.
This year has seen the announcement of the much publicised 
Department of Business Innovation and Skills (BIS) proposals 
on Executive pay. The Committee will monitor the final 
outcome and remains committed to consulting shareholders 
and their representative bodies on any policy changes we 
might make.
The Committee unanimously recommends that shareholders 
vote to approve the Report on Directors’ remuneration.
Tony Rice
Remuneration Committee Chairman
15 October 2012 41 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008.  
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the  
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and 
describes how the Board has complied with the provisions  
of the Code relating to remuneration matters.
The report is divided into two parts. The first part contains 
the commentary on remuneration policy which is not required 
to be audited. The second part contains the remuneration 
tables that have been audited in accordance with the relevant 
statutory requirements.
Unaudited information
The Committee
The members of the Committee comprise Tony Rice 
(Chairman of the Committee), Walker Boyd, Mark Pain, 
Christopher Bell and Julie Chakraverty. The Committee  
is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board 
the broad policy for the remuneration of the Chief Executive 
Officer, the Finance Director, the Chairman and such other 
members of the Executive Committee as it is designated  
to consider. The Committee, within the terms of the agreed 
policy, determines the total individual remuneration package 
of each Executive Director and agreed members of the 
Executive Committee. In addition, the Committee ensures 
that provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration are 
fulfilled. The Committee makes recommendations to the 
Board on the remuneration and incentives for the Executive 
Directors, members of the Executive Committee and  
the Chairman and monitors the consistency and rigour  
of their implementation. The Committee also oversees  
the remuneration policy of the Group and ensures that  
no Director is involved in decisions as to his own 
remuneration. The Committee is constituted in accordance 
with the recommendations of the Code. In accordance  
with its terms of reference, the Committee holds a minimum 
of two meetings each financial year with further meetings 
called as required.
During the year, three meetings of the Committee took  
place which focused on the following key tasks:
•	increasing clawback provision;
•	 approving the remuneration packages for Paddy Gallagher 
and Mike Tye;
•	approving the departure terms of Ian Dyson;
•	 reviewing base salaries of Executive Directors and  
the Executive Committee;
•	recommending long term incentive award levels;
•	approving levels of annual bonus payout; and
•	keeping up to date with BIS proposals.
Advisers to the Committee
During the year, the Committee received independent 
remuneration advice from New Bridge Street (NBS), part  
of Aon plc. This independent adviser was appointed by the 
Committee and is accountable to it. Aon plc also provides 
consulting advice to the Group in respect of its pension 
schemes and actuarial, investment and other advice to  
the pension scheme trustees. The Committee does not 
believe that the independence of its adviser is compromised 
by these other appointments. The terms of engagement 
between the Committee and NBS are available from the 
Company Secretary on request. NBS is a signatory to  
the Remuneration Consultants’ Code and has provided  
a statement confirming its independence. In line with best 
practice, the Committee will assess, from time to time, 
whether the appointment of NBS remains appropriate  
or should be put out to tender as part of its effectiveness 
review. The Committee also consults with the Chief Executive 
Officer, the Company Secretary and the HR Director. 
However, no Director is permitted to participate in discussions 
or decisions about his or her own personal remuneration.
Remuneration policy
The Committee’s remuneration policy is designed to help 
drive business performance and maximise shareholder  
value. In order to align the interests of the Executive Directors 
and other members of the Executive Committee with 
shareholders, the Committee has developed a remuneration 
policy which achieves an appropriate balance between fixed 
and variable pay. Accordingly, a significant proportion of 
remuneration is linked to the achievement of challenging 
short and long term performance targets.
There are five main elements of the remuneration package  
for Executive Directors and the Executive Committee,  
which are explained in detail below:
•	base salary;
•	benefits;
•	pension;
•	annual bonus; and
•	long term incentives. 42 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration continued
The following graph demonstrates the on target levels  
and maximum levels of remuneration for the Chief  
Executive Officer. 
In the future the Committee will review its policy on an annual 
basis in light of market conditions, performance, strategy,  
key performance indicators, the structure and levels of 
remuneration across the Group and developments in 
corporate governance and best practice. The Committee  
will also consider the level of environmental, social and 
governance risk associated with the remuneration policy  
to ensure that there are sufficient safeguards in this regard. 
Base salary and benefits
Base salaries and pension provision were originally set by 
reference to pre-existing remuneration and no increases  
have since been awarded. The table below shows the current 
Executive Director base salaries:
Name Position Base salary
Mike Tye Chief Executive Officer £475,000
Paddy Gallagher Finance Director £325,000
On his promotion to Chief Executive Officer, Mike Tye’s salary 
was increased to £475,000. Paddy Gallagher’s salary was  
set upon appointment at £325,000. Base salaries were 
reviewed in March 2012, with the Committee determining  
that current levels remained appropriate. This compares  
to an average increase of 1.8% across the wider workforce. 
Base salary levels will be next reviewed in October 2013  
and annually thereafter. 
The Group’s policy is to provide Executive Directors with  
a market competitive level of benefits, including company  
car or car allowance, pension, private medical insurance, 
lump sum life insurance for death in service and income 
protection insurance for long term disability.
Pension
Consistent with pre-existing arrangements prior to the 
demerger from Punch Taverns plc (Punch), Executive 
Directors are entitled to receive a defined contribution to 
pension from the Group of 25% of base salary for the  
Chief Executive Officer and 20% for the Finance Director.  
As he elected not to join the Group’s Pension Scheme, the 
Company makes this payment to Mike Tye in lieu of a 
contribution to the Group’s pension scheme. 
Annual bonus
For 2011/12 Executive Directors participated in the annual 
bonus arrangements which had previously been established 
by Punch and which were subsequently adopted by the 
Committee. During the year, the clawback provision has been 
extended to include not just the deferred portion of bonuses 
as in previous years, but the full amount of any bonus.  
The key terms of the arrangements are as follows:
•	 the maximum annual bonus is 150% of base salary for the 
Chief Executive Officer and 100% for the Finance Director;
•	 for any bonus to be payable under the individual targets,  
at least threshold profit performance must have  
been achieved; 
•	 one-third of the total gross bonus awarded will be deferred 
into Company shares for a two year period; and
•	 a clawback provision operates in the event that results 
have been shown to be materially inaccurate.
Performance in 2011/12 was measured against the  
following criteria:
Key performance area Weighting
Group financial performance 75%
Performance of individual’s own business area  
 or function and their overall personal   
 contribution to the business 25%
The bonus is structured to pay modest bonus levels for 
meeting the annual business plans and higher levels of  
bonus for outperformance. One-third of the total gross  
bonus awarded will be deferred into Company shares  
for a two year period. 
In 2011/12, payments equivalent to up to 50% of the 
maximum were awarded to each Director. These reflect  
the strong financial performance of the Group in this  
financial year. 
Target Maximum
£0
£500
£1,000
£1,500
£2,000
£2,500
Remuneration (000s)
Salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus LTIP 43 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 (LTIP)
Long term incentive awards will be granted under the 
Company’s LTIP. Awards for 2011/12 were granted in 
November 2011, with 2012/13 awards expected to be  
made in November 2012. The key terms of the arrangement 
are as follows:
•	 it is intended that awards granted to the Executive 
Directors will be made over shares worth a maximum  
of 150% of base salary; 
•	 in exceptional circumstances, the maximum award which 
may be granted to an individual in any financial year  
is 200% of base salary;
•	 an award will be subject to a range of earnings per share 
growth targets and a total shareholder return (TSR) 
condition, each applying to a separate 50% of an  
award and measured over a period of three years;
•	 for the earnings per share (EPS) part of the award, 25%  
will vest for EPS growth of 7% p.a. compound, increasing 
to 50% vesting for EPS growth of 10% p.a., increasing  
to 100% vesting for EPS growth of 15% p.a; and
•	 for the TSR part of the award, the condition is based  
on the Company’s performance against FTSE 250 
companies (excluding financial service sector companies 
and investment trusts) as at the date of grant. 25% of  
this part of an award will vest if Spirit’s TSR is equal  
to the median TSR of the relevant group of companies,  
with full vesting for upper quartile TSR performance.  
A sliding scale operates between these points.
The Committee believes that the blend of EPS and TSR 
targets provides an appropriate balance between incentivising 
and rewarding good financial performance on the one hand, 
whilst on the other hand providing a strong and direct 
alignment with the interests of institutional shareholders  
by rewarding stock market outperformance. The FTSE 250 
remains an appropriate benchmark in the opinion of  
the Committee. 
As explained in last year’s report, in 2011/12, Mike Tye  
was awarded 200% of salary, as permitted under the plan  
in exceptional circumstances. The Committee deemed  
his promotion to Chief Executive Officer met this criterion.  
Paddy Gallagher was awarded 100% of salary on  
his appointment. 
Punch Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 (Punch LTIP)
At demerger, all outstanding long term incentive awards held 
by Spirit employees under the Punch LTIP were adjusted  
to keep individuals’ awards whole and ensure that awards 
continue to vest post demerger as normal. Consistent with 
the treatment of shareholders in Punch at demerger, each 
award over Punch shares became an award over a combined 
number of Punch and Spirit shares. TSR targets, which 
tracked the performance of Punch up to the demerger,  
will track the TSR performance of the Spirit share price 
thereafter. Further details of the outstanding awards granted 
under the Punch LTIP are set out within the audited section  
of this report on pages 48 to 49.
Share Bonus Plan 2011 (SBP)
The SBP enables the Committee to award part or all of any 
annual bonus in the form of the Company’s shares, which  
the recipient is not permitted to sell during a restricted period 
(normally two years). As stated above, the current deferral 
policy is for one third of any bonus paid to be deferred into 
Company shares for a two year period.
Clawback
This year the Committee has increased the scope of its 
clawback provision. Clawback now operates in respect  
of deferred annual bonuses and long term incentive awards  
in the event that results have been shown to be materially 
inaccurate, or, in the case of the LTIP, include an error in  
the calculation of the size of the awards.
Dilution
In accordance with shareholder guidelines, the Committee 
applies a limit on the number of shares that can be issued  
to satisfy all of its employee share plan awards of 10% of the 
Company’s issued share capital in any rolling ten year period. 
Of this 10%, only half can be issued to satisfy awards under 
the discretionary arrangements. Accordingly, the Company’s 
current dilution position is as follows:
Limit Current dilution level
10% in ten years 2.43%
5% in ten years 2.38% 44 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration continued
Shareholding requirement
The Committee requires that all Executive Directors who participate in the Company’s LTIP satisfy a minimum shareholding 
requirement within five years of appointment to the Board. Targets are set to encourage Executive Directors to retain shares 
received from share incentive schemes. The table below shows the shareholding requirement for Executive Directors,  
and their current personal shareholding:
Name Position
Shareholding
 requirement
(% of base
 salary) To be achieved by
Current
shareholding
(% of base
salary)
Mike Tye Chief Executive Officer 150% August 2016 50
Paddy Gallagher Finance Director 100% November 2016 13
All employee share arrangements
The Group introduced an HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP) in November 2011. Further information about the  
SIP can be found in the Directors’ report on page 32 and in note 24 to the financial statements on page 85.
Directors’ contracts
The policy on termination is that the Group does not make payments beyond its contractual obligations. In addition, 
Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss. The Committee ensures that there have been no unjustified 
payments for failure. Neither of the Executive Directors’ contracts provides for liquidated damages. There are no special 
provisions contained in either of the Executive Directors’ contracts which provide for longer periods of notice on a change  
of control of the Company. Further, there are no special provisions providing for additional compensation on an Executive 
Director’s cessation of employment with the Group.
Executive
Directors
Company
notice period Contract date
Unexpired term of 
contract (months) Potential termination payment
Potential 
payment
on change 
of control/
liquidation
Mike Tye 12 months 26 June 2008 Rolling contract
1
 12 months’ salary and benefits Nil
Paddy Gallagher 12 months 7 November 2011 Rolling contract
1
12 months’ salary and benefits Nil
1 Contract will continue until terminated by notice either by the Company or the Director.
Subject to the Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to accept outside appointments on external boards or 
committees as long as these are not deemed to interfere with the business of the Company. Any fees received in respect  
of these appointments which are disclosed as a footnote to the Directors’ emoluments table, are retained by the Executive 
Directors concerned, with the exception of Ian Dyson’s fee for his Non-Executive appointment at Punch, which was paid  
to the Company for so long as he was employed by the Company.
Non-Executive Directors’ contracts
Name
Company
notice period Date of appointment
Unexpired
 term of
 contract
(months)
Walker Boyd 6 months 4 July 2011 21
Mark Pain 1 month 4 July 2011 21
Tony Rice 1 month 4 July 2011 21
Christopher Bell 1 month 1 August 2011 22
Julie Chakraverty 1 month 20 January 2012 27 45 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Board based  
upon recommendations from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (or, in the case of the Chairman, is determined  
by the Committee based on recommendations from the SID and the Chief Executive Officer) within the limits set by the 
Company’s Articles of Association. Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Company’s share incentive 
schemes or performance based plans and are not eligible to join any of the Group’s pension schemes.
It is the Board’s policy to take into account the following factors in determining the fees of the Non-Executive Directors:
•	the median level of fees for similar positions in the market; and
•	 the time commitment each Non-Executive Director makes to the Group (through membership of the Audit & Risk, 
Remuneration and Nomination & Governance Committees).
The following table sets out the current Non-Executive fees:
Role Fee
Chairman
2
£180,000
Base fee £42,000
Senior Independent Director £3,000
Additional fee for chairing the Audit & Risk or Remuneration Committee £10,000
2 The Chairman does not receive further remuneration for the role of chairing the Nomination & Governance Committee.
Total shareholder return performance graph
The graph below shows the Company’s performance, measured by TSR, compared with the FTSE 250 Index (excluding 
financial service sector companies and investment trusts). The Committee considers this index to be appropriate as it is  
a broad equity index of which the Company is a constituent.
Total shareholder return 
This graph shows the value, by 20 August 2012, of £100 invested in the Company on 1 August 2011 (the first day of trading in 
Spirit shares) compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding financial service sector companies 
and investment trusts).
Share price
The share price at the close of business on 18 August 2012 was £0.58. During the year the highest share price was £0.64 and 
the lowest was £0.33.
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Value (£)
1 August 2011 20 August 2011 18 August 2012
Spirit Pub Company plc
FTSE 250 (excluding financial service sector 
companies and investments trusts)
Source: Thomson Reuters 46 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration continued
Ian Dyson’s departure
Ian Dyson’s departure took effect on 16 December 2011. He received a payment equivalent to half of his annual salary  
plus benefits at that time and another payment equivalent to half his annual salary and benefits in early April 2012. This  
is in line with his contract of employment. He did not receive any bonus for the period 21 August 2011 to 16 December 2011.  
His long term incentive awards were time pro rated to the date of his departure and will only vest on the normal dates if the 
performance targets have been met.
If Ian Dyson joins a competitor before 16 December 2012, his ‘good leaver’ status on these long term incentive awards  
will lapse.
Report on Directors’ remuneration
The following tables and related disclosures on Directors’ remuneration, pensions, the Long Term Incentive Plan 2011,  
the Share Bonus Plan 2011, the Share Incentive Plan and the Punch Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 have been audited  
by KPMG Audit Plc.
The total of Directors’ emoluments in the year was £3,123,000 (2011: £1,467,000), including pension contributions of 
£213,000 (2011: £40,000).
In 2011 all Directors with the exception of Christopher Bell, Paddy Gallagher and Julie Chakraverty were paid by  
the Company with effect from the date of appointment or operational separation on 4 July 2011 as the case may be. 
The remuneration of the Directors during the year was as follows:
Basic salary/ 
fees
£000
Benefits
1
 
£000
Bonus
10
£000
Pension
£000
Other 
payments
 made to 
former 
directors
£000
Company
 Pension 
Contributions 
2012 
£000
 Total
 £000
2012 2011
Chairman
Walker Boyd 180 – – – – 180 24 –
Executive Directors
Mike Tye 463 23 356 98 – 940 559 –
Paddy Gallagher
2
 250 14 100 45 – 409 – 45
Non-Executive Directors
Tony Rice 55 – – – – 55 7 –
Mark Pain 52 – – – – 52 7 –
Christopher Bell
3
42 – – – – 42 2 –
Julie Chakraverty
4
 24 – – – – 24 – –
Former Directors
Ian Dyson
5,6
 234 6 – 58 863 1,161
7
 789 –
Russell Margerrison
8
 58 3 – 12 187 260
9
 79 –
Total 1,358 46 456 213 1,050 3,123 1,467 45
1  Benefits include the following elements: medical insurance, car or car allowance, fuel, death in service cover and income protection.
2  Joined the Board on 7 November 2011.
3  Joined the Board on 1 August 2011.
4  Joined the Board on 20 January 2012.
5  Stepped down as CEO on 16 December 2011.
6  Also received £65,000 per annum for his Non-Executive Directorship at Betfair.
7  Notice payment is equivalent to his annual salary plus benefits at that time.
8  Stepped down from the Board on 7 November 2011.
9    Payment includes salary and pension paid from date of cessation as Director to the contract termination date, notice period and compensation for loss  
of office.
10  An award of shares that will be deferred for two years is made, following announcement of financial results, which is equal to one third of the cash bonus  
shown above. 47 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Bonus payments 
These were made in line with the annual bonus plan and reflect individual performance against objectives together with  
the strong results disclosed in these financial statements, namely:
•	EBITDA
11
 up 5% to £146m (2011: £140m);
•	profit before tax
11
 up 16% to £51m (2011: £44m);
•	earnings per share
11
 up 21% at 5.8p (2011: 4.8p); and
•	net debt
12
 at £710m (2011: £704m): net debt to EBITDA
11
 of 4.9 times (2011: 5.0 times).
Pension
During the period Mike Tye, Paddy Gallagher, Ian Dyson and Russell Margerrison received a Group contribution into their 
personal pension arrangements representing up to 25% of their pensionable salary. The payments were made to Ian Dyson 
and Mike Tye in lieu of a contribution to the Group’s pension scheme as they elected not to join the Group’s pension scheme. 
The payment to Russell Margerrison was paid into his personal pension plan. 
Directors’ interests in the Company’s share plans
Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 (LTIP)
The following table sets out the awards made under the LTIP. Full details of the operation of the LTIP are set out on page 43  
in the first part of this report. 
Executive Directors
Date 
of award
Date 
of release
Share price 
at date of
 award (£)
Number 
of share
 awards 
as at
20 August
 2011
Total value
of shares
at date
of award
£000
Percentage 
of salary 
at date 
of award
Shares
 awarded
 during the
 period
Number 
of share
 awards 
as at
18 August
 2012
Mike Tye 02.11.11 02.11.14 0.45 – 950 200 2,128,613 2,128,613
Paddy Gallagher 09.11.11 07.11.14 0.45 – 325 100 728,209 728,209
No LTIP shares lapsed or were exercised during the period.
LTIP shares can be exercised subject to continued three year employment from the date of award, and to the extent that the 
performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at the time the option is granted are satisfied. Full details of the 
performance conditions are detailed on page 43 in the first part of this report.
Share Bonus Plan 2011 (SBP)
The following table sets out the awards made under the SBP. Full details of the operation of the SBP are given on page 43  
in the first part of this report. 
Executive Directors
Date 
of award
Date 
of release
Share price 
at date of 
award (£)
Number 
of share
 awards 
as at
20 August
 2011
Total value
of shares
at date
of award
£000
Shares
 awarded
 during the
 period
Number 
of share
 awards 
as at
18 August
 2012
Mike Tye 27.10.11 26.10.13 0.48 – 78 161,605 161,605
Ian Dyson 27.10.11 15.12.12 0.48 – 106 221,714 221,714
No SBP shares lapsed or were released during the period.
11 Before exceptional items.
12 Before fair value adjustments and finance leases. 48 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration continued
HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
The SIP is the current all employee share plan operated by the Group. The following table sets out the shares purchased  
and awarded under the SIP in respect of the Executive Directors. Full details of the operation of the SIP are set out in the 
Directors’ report on page 32 and in note 24 to the financial statements which can be found on page 85.
Executive Directors
Date 
of award
Date 
of release
Share price at
date of purchase
of Partnership and
 Dividend shares
and award of
 Matching shares
  (£)
Number 
of share
 awards 
as at
20 August
 2011
Partnership
 shares
 purchased
 during the
 period
Matching
 shares
 conditionally
 awarded
 during the
 period
Dividend
 shares 
purchased
 during the
 period
Number 
of share
 awards 
as at
18 August
 2012
Mike Tye 25.11.11 25.11.14 0.38 – 328 328 – 656
16.12.11 16.12.14 0.42 – 296 296 – 592
17.01.12 17.01.15 0.44 – 284 284 – 568
10.02.12 10.02.15 0.54 – 233 233 – 466
06.03.12 06.03.15 0.60 – 207 207 – 414
03.04.12 03.04.15 0.63 – 199 199 – 398
01.05.12 01.05.15 0.56 – 223 223 – 446
29.05.12 29.05.15 0.51 – 245 245 – 490
08.06.12 08.06.15 0.49 – – – 46 46
26.06.12 26.06.15 0.50 – 251 251 – 502
24.07.12 24.07.15 0.55 – 226 226 – 452
16.08.12 16.08.15 0.58 – 216 216 – 432
Total   –   5,462
No SIP shares lapsed or were released during the period.
Directors’ interests in the Punch Long Term Incentive Plan (Punch LTIP) 
At demerger, all outstanding share awards under the Punch LTIP (including Ian Dyson’s recruitment award) were adjusted  
so that every LTIP award became an award over a combined number of Punch and Spirit shares.
In July 2011 Punch obtained shareholder approval to remove time pro rating of Punch LTIP awards made to employees who 
transferred to Spirit and to amend the TSR performance targets. This meant that employees who continued to be employed 
by Spirit may therefore retain their awards until the normal vesting date instead of having their award time pro rated as  
a result of leaving Punch. However, if an employee ceases to be employed by Spirit and does not have ‘good leaver’ status 
before the normal vesting date of the award, the number of shares subject to the award will be time pro rated by reference  
to the date the employee ceases to be employed. If an employee leaves Spirit before the normal vesting date of the award  
as a bad leaver, the number of shares subject to the award will be time pro rated by reference to the date of completion  
of the demerger.
If an Executive Director who transferred to Spirit leaves Spirit prior to the normal vesting date of their awards, other than  
as a ‘good leaver’, their awards will lapse in their entirety. 49 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
The following table sets out the awards made under the Punch LTIP.
Executive
Directors
Date 
of award
Date 
of release
Punch 
share price 
at date 
of award (£)
Number 
of share
 awards 
as at
20 August
 2011
Total value
of shares
at date
of award
£000
Percentage 
of salary 
at date 
of award
Punch 
share 
awards
 lapsed 
during the
 period
Gain 
on release
 £000
Total number
 of Punch
 share 
awards 
as at
18 August
 2012
Total number
 of Spirit
 shares 
added to
 Punch
 awards 
as at
18 August
 2012
13
 
Mike Tye 10.11.08 10.11.11 1.66 488,950 799 200 488,950 – – –
16.10.09 16.10.12 0.90 888,888 800 200 – – 888,888 888,888
19.11.10 19.11.13 0.58 860,585 500 125 – – 860,585 860,585
Total   2,238,423 1,749,473 1,749,473
Ian Dyson 13.10.10 05.05.13 0.84 2,412,150 2,026 300 1,305,399 – 1,106,751 1,106,751
19.11.10 19.11.13 0.58 2,323,580 1,350 200 1,492,519 – 831,061 831,061
Total 4,735,730 1,937,812 1,937,812
Russell   
Margerrison 11.07.11 11.07.14 0.71 442,008 312 125 369,416 – 72,592 72,592
Total 442,008 72,592 72,592
13  Prior year adjustment made to each individual holding in accordance with the demerger dividend of one share in Spirit Pub Company plc for every share 
held in Punch Taverns plc on 1 August 2010.
All outstanding Punch LTIP awards up to the point of demerger were measured by Punch’s TSR against the median level  
of performance of the comparator group’s TSR over the three year holding period from the date of grant. Since demerger,  
the awards (for Spirit employees) track the TSR performance of Spirit. Awards will vest (or become exercisable, in the case  
of the 2010 LTIP awards) three years from the date of grant, subject to continued employment and the extent to which the 
TSR performance targets have been met over the three year performance period.
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board. It complies with  
the Companies Act 2006 and Large and Medium-Size Companies and Groups (Accounts & Reports) Regulations 2008.  
This report will be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM.
On behalf of the Committee
Tony Rice
Remuneration Committee Chairman
15 October 2012 50 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Governance
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
in relation to the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and financial statements in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom law and International  
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted  
by the European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements  
for each financial period which fairly present the financial 
position of the Company and of the Group and the financial 
performance and cash flows of the Company and of  
the Group for that period. In preparing those financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently;
•	 present information, including accounting policies, in  
a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable  
and understandable information;
•	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with 
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable  
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial 
position and financial performance; and
•	 state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject  
to any material departures disclosed and explained  
in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any  
time the financial position of the Group and enable them  
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets  
of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
a)  the financial statements prepared in accordance with 
IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, give a true  
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position  
and profit of the Company and the Group; and
b)  the Business Review on pages 1 to 25 includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company and the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties faced.
On behalf of the Board
Mike Tye  Paddy Gallagher
Chief Executive Officer  Finance Director
15 October 2012   15 October 2012 51 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Consolidated income statement
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
 52 weeks to 18 August 2012 52 weeks to 20 August 2011
 Notes
Pre-
 exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items
1
 
£m
Total
£m
Pre-
 exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items
1
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 2 760.0 – 760.0 734.4 – 734.4
Operating costs before depreciation  
and amortisation (613.9) 4.5 (609.4) (594.8) (21.4) (616.2)
EBITDA
2
2 146.1 4.5 150.6 139.6 (21.4) 118.2
Depreciation and amortisation (36.7) – (36.7) (34.8) – (34.8)
Goodwill charge – – – – (10.1) (10.1)
Property related losses (including impairment) 6 – (595.2) (595.2) – (75.4) (75.4)
(Loss) / profit on sale of non-current assets – (19.4) (19.4) – 3.9 3.9
Operating profit / (loss) 3 109.4 (610.1) (500.7) 104.8 (103.0) 1.8
Finance income 4 0.7 29.6 30.3 2.0 27.8 29.8
Finance costs 5 (59.0) (20.1) (79.1) (62.8) (156.7) (219.5)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps 6 – (39.4) (39.4) – (18.7) (18.7)
Profit / (loss) before taxation 51.1 (640.0) (588.9) 44.0 (250.6) (206.6)
UK income tax (charge) / credit 8 (12.8) 38.4 25.6 (12.3) 69.2 56.9
Profit / (loss) for the year attributable to 
owners of the parent company 38.3 (601.6) (563.3) 31.7 (181.4) (149.7)
Earnings / (loss) per share 9
Basic (pence) 5.8 (91.2) (85.4) 4.8 (27.5) (22.7)
Diluted (pence) 5.8 (91.2) (85.4) 4.8 (27.5) (22.7)
Dividends 10
Interim paid (pence) 0.65 –
Proposed (pence) 1.30 –
1  Exceptional items are explained in note 1 and analysed in note 6. Pension finance income of £21.7m and pension finance cost of £18.6m have been reclassified 
as exceptional items in the prior year.
2  EBITDA represents earnings before depreciation and amortisation, goodwill charge, property related losses (including impairment), profit or loss on sale of 
non-current assets, finance income, finance costs, movement in fair value of interest rate swaps and tax of the Group. 52 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
Notes
 52 weeks to 
18 August
 2012
£m
52 weeks to
20 August 
2011
£m
Loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent company (563.3) (149.7)
Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 27 2.9 (7.9)
Unrealised gain on revaluation of the property portfolio 155.2 –
Tax (charge) / credit relating to components of other comprehensive income 8 (0.7) 2.2
Other comprehensive gains / (losses) for the year 157.4 (5.7)
Total comprehensive loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent company (405.9) (155.4) 53 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Consolidated statement of financial position
at 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 2 0 1 2
Notes
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 1,276.2 1,714.2
Operating leases 12 48.4 54.8
Goodwill 12 214.6 216.8
Deferred tax assets 16 83.7 58.8
Retirement benefit asset 27 3.1 –
1,626.0 2,044.6
Current assets
Inventories 17 7.7 7.2
Trade and other receivables 15 24.7 30.5
Non-current assets held for sale 19 16.9 4.2
Cash and cash equivalents 18 97.4 139.6
146.7 181.5
Total assets 1,772.7 2,226.1
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 (151.9) (159.6)
Amounts owed to related parties – (6.4)
Borrowings 21 (5.1) (5.6)
Derivative financial instruments 22 (21.0) (24.7)
Provisions 23 (12.1) (20.2)
(190.1) (216.5)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 (846.2) (889.5)
Derivative financial instruments 22 (174.1) (136.3)
Retirement benefit obligations 27 (3.1) (9.4)
Provisions 23 (57.0) (63.4)
(1,080.4) (1,098.6)
Total liabilities (1,270.5) (1,315.1)
Net assets 502.2 911.0
Equity
Called up share capital 25 6.6 6.6
Revaluation reserve 155.2 –
Other reserves 1,588.6 1,587.3
Retained earnings (1,248.2) (682.9)
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent company 502.2 911.0
On behalf of the Board
Mike Tye  Paddy Gallagher
15 October 2012  15 October 2012 54 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
Share 
capital
£m
Other 
reserve
£m
Revaluation
 reserve
£m
Retained
 earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 21 August 2010 (unaudited) 6.6 (6.6) – (527.5) (527.5)
Loss for the year – – – (149.7) (149.7)
Other comprehensive losses – – – (5.7) (5.7)
Total comprehensive loss – – – (155.4) (155.4)
Share based payment expense – 0.1 – – 0.1
Capital contribution
1
– 1,593.8 – – 1,593.8
At 20 August 2011 6.6 1,587.3 – (682.9) 911.0
Loss for the year – – – (563.3) (563.3)
Other comprehensive gains – – 155.2 2.2 157.4
Total comprehensive loss – – 155.2 (561.1) (405.9)
Dividends paid – – – (4.2) (4.2)
Share based payment expense – 1.3 – – 1.3
At 18 August 2012 6.6 1,588.6 155.2 (1,248.2) 502.2
1  During the prior year and prior to demerger, the Punch Taverns plc (Punch) group undertook a group reorganisation resulting in a capital contribution  
of £1,533m being recognised. A further capital contribution was recognised in the prior year on receipt of £61m cash, from Punch, as part of the terms  
of the demerger. 55 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
52 weeks to 
18 August
 2012
£m
52 weeks to
20 August
 2011
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating (loss) / profit (500.7) 1.8
Depreciation and amortisation 36.7 34.8
Impairment 80.6 75.4
Losses related to the revaluation of the property portfolio 514.6 –
Impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods 9.4 –
Goodwill charge – 10.1
Loss / (profit) on sale of non-current assets 19.4 (3.9)
Share based payment expense recognised in profit 1.7 0.1
(Increase) / decrease in inventories (0.5) 0.5
(Increase) / decrease in trade and other receivables (1.8) 2.3
(Decrease) / increase in trade and other payables (14.8) 41.1
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in operating profit (6.2) (9.3)
(Decrease) / increase in provisions and other liabilities (19.9) 5.7
Cash generated from operations 118.5 158.6
Income tax paid – –
Net cash generated from operating activities 118.5 158.6
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (94.0) (77.6)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 27.8 6.9
Proceeds from sale of other non-current assets held for sale 0.2 22.4
Interest received 0.7 2.0
Net cash used in investing activities (65.3) (46.3)
Cash flows from financing activities
Cash received from Punch under demerger terms – 73.0
Repayment of borrowings (28.0) (18.8)
Interest paid (63.1) (64.6)
Repayments of obligations under finance leases (0.1) (0.2)
Dividends paid (4.2) –
Net cash used in financing activities (95.4) (10.6)
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (42.2) 101.7
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 139.6 37.9
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 97.4 139.6 56 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Company statement of financial position
at 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 2 0 1 2
Notes
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 14 337.7 336.4
Current assets
Amounts owed by related parties 15 8.2 –
Cash and cash equivalents 18 0.5 0.1
Total assets 346.4 336.5
Net assets 346.4 336.5
Shareholders’ equity
Called up share capital 25 6.6 6.6
Merger reserve 329.8 329.8
Share based payment reserve 1.4 0.1
Retained earnings 8.6 –
Total shareholders’ equity 346.4 336.5
On behalf of the Board
Mike Tye   Paddy Gallagher
15 October 2012  15 October 2012 57 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Company statement of changes in equity
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
Company income statement
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
Company cash flow statement
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
Share 
capital
£m
Other 
reserve
£m
Share based
 payment 
reserve
£m
Retained
 earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Total equity at 8 June 2011 – – – – –
Profit for the period – – – – –
Share capital issued on acquisition of the Spirit Pub Company 
businesses 6.6 329.8 – – 336.4
Share based payment expense – – 0.1 – 0.1
Total equity at 20 August 2011 6.6 329.8 0.1 – 336.5
Profit for the year – – – 12.8 12.8
Dividends paid – – – (4.2) (4.2)
Share based payment expense – – 1.3 – 1.3
Total equity at 18 August 2012 6.6 329.8 1.4 8.6 346.4
On 1 August 2011, the Company issued 659,655,957 ordinary shares of 1 pence each at a premium of 50 pence per share,  
to Punch Taverns plc, in return for the receipt of the entire share capital of Spirit Pub Company (Holdco) Limited.
The share based payment reserve reflects the costs of the share based payment schemes of Spirit Pub Company plc and 
Punch Taverns plc for Spirit employees from 1 August 2011.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s income statement has not been included in  
these financial statements. The Company’s profit for the year was £12.8m (from 8 June 2011 to 20 August 2011: £nil).
52 weeks to 
18 August
 2012
£m
8 June 2011 to
 20 August 
2011
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating loss – –
Share based payment expense recognised in profit – 0.1
Cash generated from operations – 0.1
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings 4.6 –
Net cash flow from investing activities 4.6 –
Dividends paid (4.2) –
Net cash flow from financing activities (4.2) –
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.4 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year / period 0.1 –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year / period 0.5 0.1 58 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
1. Accounting policies
Corporate information
Spirit Pub Company plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England. The Company’s shares are  
listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with  
IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.  
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish 
its individual income statement and related notes.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain items, 
principally land and buildings, derivative financial instruments and retirement benefits. New standards and interpretations 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (IFRIC) becoming effective during the year have not had a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. In determining the appropriate basis of preparation 
of the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Further details regarding cash forecasting and the monitoring of financial covenants are contained 
in note 22. The Directors are of the opinion that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future, and feel it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the Annual Report and financial statements. 
Further information in relation to the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position, is set out within the Business review on pages 2 to 11 and Our key risks and 
uncertainties on pages 23 to 25. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowings are described in the Financial review  
on pages 20 to 21 and in notes 18, 21 and 22, together with information on the Group’s strategies surrounding managing 
interest rate risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and credit risk. 
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred 
thousand pounds, except where indicated.
Change of accounting policy
As at 18 August 2012 the Group adopted a policy of revaluing its property portfolio to market value, in accordance  
with the fair value provisions of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment. In accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, no prior year adjustment has been recognised in relation to this change  
in accounting policy.
This is a change from the previous policy, under which property, plant and equipment and operating leases were stated  
at historic cost. The impact on the financial statements of this change in accounting policy has been to:
•	decrease the net book value of property, plant and equipment as at 18 August 2012 by £349.6m;
•	decrease the net book value of operating leases as at 18 August 2012 by £9.8m;
•	 recognise an exceptional charge against operating profit of £514.6m. This reflects the difference for all assets where  
the fair value of the asset as determined by the revaluation as at 18 August 2012 is below the net book value prior to  
the revaluation; and
•	£155.2m impact of upwards valuations recognised in reserves. 59 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies con tin ued
Group reorganisation and demerger
The Spirit Pub Company business was demerged from the Punch Taverns group with effect from 1 August 2011. As a result 
of the demerger, the Spirit Pub Company business was transferred to a new ultimate parent company, Spirit Pub Company plc. 
The formation of a new holding company, Spirit Pub Company plc, prior to demerger was not a business combination 
involving a third party and, as such, the financial statements of Spirit Pub Company plc for the year ended 20 August 2011 
were presented as if the continuing operations of the Group were in existence for the whole of the year ended 20 August 2011. 
To do so, the principles of reverse acquisition accounting in IFRS 3 were applied.
New standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards
The IASB and IFRIC have issued and endorsed the following standards, interpretations and amendments:
Effective for the Group and the Company in these financial statements:
•	IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (revised 2009)
•	Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement (Amendments to IFRIC 14)
•	Improvements to IFRS 2010 – IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
•	Improvements to IFRS 2010 – IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
•	Improvements to IFRS 2010 – IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting
•	Improvements to IFRS 2010 – IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes
•	Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets (Amendments to IFRS 7)
The above new standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards have had no material impact on the 
results or the financial position of the Group or the Company for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012. 
Effective for the Group and the Company for future years:
Effective date 1 January 2012
•	Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets (Amendments to IAS 12)
Effective date 1 July 2012
•	Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to IAS 1)
Effective dates from 1 January 2013
•	IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
•	IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
•	IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
•	IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
•	IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
•	IAS 19 Employee Benefits (amended 2011)
•	IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (2011)
•	IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011)
The amendments to published standards that have an effective date of after these financial statements have not been 
adopted early by the Group and the Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these amendments will have a material 
impact on the Group’s reported income or net assets in the year of adoption.  60 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
1. Accounting policies con tin ued
Basis of consolidation
Consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The Group’s interest in its joint venture is incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from 
the date on which control is transferred out of the Group. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment 
in value in the financial statements of the Company. Investments in joint ventures are carried at cost plus post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of accumulated comprehensive income, less distributions received and less any impairment  
in value.
All intra-group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated  
in full. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the  
fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Costs related to the acquisition, 
other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred. Following initial recognition, 
goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Where assets are transferred between segments  
or disposed, the apportioned value of goodwill allocated to those assets is also transferred or charged to the income 
statement respectively.
Goodwill carried in the statement of financial position is not amortised. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually  
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the 
subsidiary acquired, the gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment
The Group has adopted a policy of revaluing its property portfolio as at 18 August 2012 with properties now stated  
at open market value.
The change in accounting policy reflects the adoption by the Group of best practice among UK listed companies.  
The revaluation of the Group’s property portfolio provides shareholders with a more representative value than the 
depreciated historic cost basis.
Freehold and long leasehold land and buildings as at 20 August 2011 were stated at historic cost or deemed cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. These were depreciated in accordance with the policy detailed  
below during the 52 weeks ended 20 August 2011.
Landlord’s fixtures and fittings include removable items which are generally regarded as within landlord ownership.  
These are depreciated in accordance with the policy detailed below.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual values, by equal 
annual instalments as follows:
Li ce n s ed 	 p r o p e rti e s , 	 unli ce n sed 	 p r o p e rti e s 	 an d 	 o w n e r - occu p i ed 	 p r o p e rti e s
50 years or the life of the lease if shorter
L a n d l o r d ’ s	fi x t u r e s	a n d	fi t t i n g s ,	o f fi c e	fu r n i t u r e	a n d	fi t t i n g s	a n d	m o t o r	v e h i c l e s
5 to 15 years
I n f o r m a t i o n	t e c h n o l o g y	e q u i p m e n t
6 years
Freehold land is not depreciated. 61 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies con tin ued
Property, plant and equipment c on t i n ue d
An annual assessment of residual values is performed and there is no depreciable amount if residual values are the same as, 
or more than, book value. Residual values are based on the estimated amount that would be currently obtainable from disposal 
of the asset net of disposal costs if the asset were already of the age and condition expected at the end of its useful life.
Operating leases and other intangible assets
The fair values attached to operating head leasehold interests on acquisitions are deemed to represent lease premiums,  
and are carried as intangible assets. These operating leases together with other intangible assets are capitalised at cost. 
Payments made on entering into or acquiring operating leases are accounted for as intangible assets and amortised over  
the lease term on a straight-line basis.
The Group has adopted a policy of revaluing its property portfolio as at 18 August 2012 with properties now stated at open 
market value.
Impairment 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment, or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Assets that are 
subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. A review for indicators of impairment is performed annually. An impairment 
loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Any impairment charge is recognised in  
the income statement in the year in which it occurs. When an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on goodwill, 
subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, up to the carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation, had no 
impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Revaluation
Surpluses which arise from the revaluation are recorded directly within the revaluation reserve unless they are reversing  
a revaluation decrease which has been recognised in the income statement previously, in which case it is recognised in the 
income statement. Where the revaluation exercise gives rise to a deficit, this is reflected directly in the revaluation reserve  
to the extent that a surplus exists against the same asset. Any residual amount is then recognised in the income statement.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic resources  
as a result of past events.
Provisions are measured at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the 
balance sheet date. Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of money is material. The discount rate used  
to determine the present value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to  
the liability.
Borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated 
with the borrowings. 
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method. Amortised cost is calculated taking account of any issue costs, and any discounts or 
premiums on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised, as well as through the 
amortisation process. 62 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
1. Accounting policies con tin ued
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds, net of direct issue costs.
Taxation
Income tax expense comprises both the income tax payable, based on taxable profits for the year, and deferred tax.
Deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences at 18 August 2012 between the tax bases of assets and liabilities  
and their carrying amounts except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or where  
the deferred tax asset or liability arises on an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination that  
at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognised for all 
deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets 
and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset  
is realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at 18 August 2012. Movements 
in deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement, except where they relate to items charged or credited 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
For properties acquired as part of a business combination, movements in the deferred tax liability resulting from indexation 
allowance are taken to the income statement until the tax base cost plus indexation allowance reaches the fair value on 
acquisition, and directly to equity thereafter for historic revaluation surpluses.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Leasing 
Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are 
classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset 
or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. A corresponding liability is included in the statement of 
financial position as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction 
of the lease liability to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are 
recognised in finance costs.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating 
leases. Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
Payments made on entering into or acquiring operating leases are accounted for as intangible assets and amortised over  
the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Following a change in accounting policy at 18 August 2012, finance leases and capitalised operating leases relating to the 
Group’s property portfolio are subject to annual revaluations. 63 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies con tin ued
Pensions
The Group operates two defined benefit schemes which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds. 
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of the Group’s defined benefit arrangements 
is the difference between the fair value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities. Any defined benefit 
assets are limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits in the  
form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. The cost of providing benefits  
under the plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial method. The current service 
cost is charged to operating profit. The interest cost and the expected return on assets are shown within finance income  
and finance costs respectively. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full as they occur in the statement of 
comprehensive income. 
The Group also contributes to money purchase pension plans for employees. Contributions are charged to the income 
statement as they become payable.
Share-based payment transactions 
A number of employees of the Company’s subsidiaries (including Directors) receive an element of remuneration in the form  
of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares 
(‘equity-settled transactions’).
Equity-settled transactions are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value of transactions involving the granting 
of shares is determined by the share price at the date of grant. The fair value of transactions involving the granting of share 
options is calculated by an external valuer based on a binomial model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account  
is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Spirit Pub Company plc 
(‘market conditions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period based on the Company’s estimate of how many of the awards will eventually vest. No expense 
is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, 
which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other 
performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had  
not been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the 
modification, as measured at the date of the modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not 
yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award,  
and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they 
were a modification to the original award, as described in the previous paragraph. The dilutive effect of outstanding options  
is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risk associated with interest rate 
fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially accounted for and subsequently remeasured to fair value.  
The fair value of the interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. 
Changes in fair value of any derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. 64 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
1. Accounting policies con tin ued
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods 
and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and VAT. All operations take place solely in the 
United Kingdom.
D r i n k	a n d	f o o d	s a l e s	
Revenue in respect of drink and food sales is recognised at the point at which the goods are provided, net of any discounts 
or volume rebates allowed.
R e n t s	r e c e i v a b l e	
Rents receivable are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
O t h e r	i n c o m e
Other income includes the Group’s share of net machine income which is recognised in the year to which it relates; revenue 
in respect of hotel rooms is recognised at the time of the guest visit.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amount.  
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Receivables are written off 
against the doubtful debt provision when management deems the debt to be no longer recoverable.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits 
with an original maturity of three months or less.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are  
not depreciated.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through  
a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable 
and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale and 
completion should be expected within one year from the date of classification.
Dividend distribution
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements in the year in which the 
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Exceptional items
In order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance, profit is presented excluding items which management 
considers will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-recurring nature or as a result of specific accounting 
treatments. Further detail on the nature of exceptional items is included in note 6. 65 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
1. Accounting policies con tin ued
Significant accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and  
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. 
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgements including those relating to income taxes,  
deferred tax, financial instruments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, valuations, provisions and 
post-employment benefits.
Management bases its estimates and judgements on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to 
be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value 
of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under 
different assumptions and conditions.
The estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are 
detailed below.
P r o p e r t y	v a l u a t i o n s
The Group carries its property portfolio at open market valuation. The valuations, which are supported by market evidence, 
are prepared with regard to factors such as current and future projected income levels taking account of the location,  
quality of the pub, and recent market transactions in the sector. Changes in these assumptions such as the valuation basis 
applied in comparable market transactions, or the income level generated by a pub, could materially impact the valuation of 
these properties.
I m p a i r m e n t	o f	p r o p e r t y ,	p l a n t	a n d	e q u i p m e n t
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be 
recoverable. Recoverable amounts are determined based on value in use calculations and estimated sale proceeds. These 
calculations require assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order 
to calculate the present value of those cash flows. These assumptions are disclosed in note 13. Actual outcomes may vary 
from these estimates.
G o o d w il l	i m pa irm e n t
The Group assesses whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis. The recoverable amounts of the groups of 
cash generating units (CGUs) to which goodwill has been allocated is determined based on value in use calculations. These 
calculations require assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order 
to calculate the value in use of those cash flows. These assumptions are disclosed in note 13. Actual outcomes could vary 
from these estimates.
P ost - em p l o y m en t	b en efi ts
The present value of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and depend on a number 
of actuarial assumptions, which are disclosed in note 27. Any change in these assumptions could impact the carrying amounts 
of pension liabilities.
O n e r o u s	l e a s e	p r o v i s i o n s	
The Group provides for its onerous obligations under operating leases where the property is closed or vacant and for 
properties where rental expense is in excess of income. The estimated timings and amounts of cash flows are determined 
using the experience of internal and external property experts; however, any changes to the estimated method of exiting  
from the property could lead to changes to the level of the provision recorded.
Authorisation of financial statements
The Group’s and Company’s financial statements for Spirit Pub Company plc for the year ended 18 August 2012 were 
authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 15 October 2012 and the statements of financial position were signed on 
the Board’s behalf by Mike Tye and Paddy Gallagher. 66 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
2. Segmental analysis 
The Group has two reportable segments, a Managed estate and a Leased estate, which are the Group’s strategic business 
units. Each strategic business unit consists of a number of cash generating units (CGUs), which are individual pubs. These 
CGUs generate their own revenues, which are consolidated to give the Group revenue and, as a result, Group revenue is not 
reliant on one significant customer. 
The Group’s risks and returns are affected predominantly by the differences in the products and services provided by the 
strategic business units. Between 20 August 2011 and 18 August 2012, seven pubs with a fair value of £3.8m transferred 
from the Leased to the Managed estate. Between 21 August 2010 and 20 August 2011, three pubs with a fair value of  
£1.3m transferred from the Leased to the Managed estate.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker is represented by the Executive Directors and the Executive Committee of the Group. 
Performance is measured based on segmental EBITDA, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed  
by the Executive Directors and the Executive Committee. The Spirit Pub Company plc Board considers adjusted segmental 
EBITDA when assessing the performance of the business and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
The Group operates solely in the United Kingdom, and therefore has only one geographical segment. 
 2012
Managed 
£m
Leased
£m
Total
£m
Drink revenue 369.7 62.8 432.5
Food revenue 270.4 – 270.4
Rental income – 20.5 20.5
Other revenue 33.5 3.1 36.6
Revenue 673.6 86.4 760.0
Operating costs
1
(565.1) (48.8) (613.9)
EBITDA
1
108.5 37.6 146.1
Depreciation and amortisation (35.1) (1.6) (36.7)
Operating profit before exceptional items 73.4 36.0 109.4
Operating exceptional items (610.1)
Net finance costs (48.8)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (39.4)
UK income tax credit 25.6
Loss attributable to owners of the parent company (563.3)
 2011
Managed
£m
Leased
£m
Total
£m
Drink revenue 357.0 64.7 421.7
Food revenue 253.4 – 253.4
Rental income – 22.8 22.8
Other revenue 33.2 3.3 36.5
Revenue 643.6 90.8 734.4
Operating costs
1
(545.9) (48.9) (594.8)
EBITDA
1
97.7 41.9 139.6
Depreciation and amortisation (32.8) (2.0) (34.8)
Operating profit before exceptional items 64.9 39.9 104.8
Operating exceptional items (103.0)
Net finance costs (189.7)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (18.7)
UK income tax credit 56.9
Loss attributable to owners of the parent company (149.7)
1 Before exceptional items. 67 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
2. Segmental analysis con tin ued
 2012
Managed 
£m
Leased
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets 1,324.8 379.1 – 1,703.9
Unallocated assets – – 68.8 68.8
Total assets 1,324.8 379.1 68.8 1,772.7
Segment liabilities (202.8) (10.2) – (213.0)
Unallocated liabilities – – (1,057.5) (1,057.5)
Total liabilities (202.8) (10.2) (1,057.5) (1,270.5)
Net assets / (liabilities) 1,122.0 368.9 (988.7) 502.2
 2011
Managed
£m
Leased
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets 1,570.1 598.6 – 2,168.7
Unallocated assets – – 57.4 57.4
Total assets 1,570.1 598.6 57.4 2,226.1
Segment liabilities (236.1) (7.1) – (243.2)
Unallocated liabilities – – (1,071.9) (1,071.9)
Total liabilities (236.1) (7.1) (1,071.9) (1,315.1)
Net assets / (liabilities) 1,334.0 591.5 (1,014.5) 911.0
 2012 2011
Managed
£m
Leased
£m
Total
£m
Managed
£m
Leased
£m
Total
£m
Capital expenditure
Investment spend 86.3 5.3 91.6 74.5 6.3 80.8
With the exception of the transfer of pubs, there are immaterial sales between the business segments. Segment assets 
include property, plant and equipment, operating leases, goodwill, other intangible assets, inventories, receivables and 
non-current assets held for sale, and exclude centrally held cash of £28.8m (2011: £57.4m), deferred tax assets of  
£36.6m (2011: £nil), retirement assets of £3.1m (2011: £nil) and other assets of £0.3m (2011: £nil); while segment liabilities 
comprise operating liabilities and exclude corporate borrowings of £841.4m (2011: £895.1m), related derivatives of  
£195.1m (2011: £161.0m), retirement liabilities of £3.1m (2011: £9.4m) and other liabilities of £17.9m (2011: £6.4m).  
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and operating leases. 68 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
3. Analysis of expenses
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit / (loss):
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Drink and food costs (235.8) (225.0)
Managed pub running costs (284.8) (280.6)
Leasehold rentals (51.5) (47.7)
Depreciation (33.1) (31.0)
Amortisation (3.6) (3.8)
Impairment losses (80.6) (75.4)
Goodwill charge – (10.1)
(Loss) / profit on sale of non-current assets (19.4) 3.9
Losses related to the revaluation of the property portfolio (514.6) –
Other costs
1
(37.3) (62.9)
Total costs deducted from revenue to determine operating profit / (loss) (1,260.7) (732.6)
1 Included within other costs is £4.5m net income (2011: £21.4m net costs) relating to exceptional items.
Auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Statutory audit services 
Audit of Group financial statements 0.2 0.1
Audit of subsidiary companies pursuant to legislation – –
 
Non-audit related services
Other services – –
The accounts of the parent company do not include details of remuneration receivable by the auditor and its associates  
for non-audit services, as the Group accounts are required to include this information as required by Regulation 5(1)(b)  
of the Companies (Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements) Regulations 2008 on a 
consolidated basis.
4. Finance income
2012
£m
2011
£m
Bank interest receivable 0.7 2.0
Exceptional finance income (note 6) 29.6 27.8
Total finance income 30.3 29.8
5. Finance costs
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Interest payable on bank loans 51.9 54.3
Other interest payable 0.6 2.0
Effect of unwinding discounted provisions (note 23) 6.5 6.5
Exceptional finance costs (note 6) 20.1 156.7
Total finance costs 79.1 219.5 69 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
6. Exceptional items
In order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance, profit is presented excluding items which management 
consider will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-recurring nature or as a result of specific accounting 
treatments. Included in the consolidated income statement are the following exceptional items:
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Operating
Restructuring, redundancy and other related one-off costs
1
(6.5) (0.5)
Movement on property liabilities
2
1.5 (20.9)
Goodwill charge – (10.1)
Repayment of VAT
3
18.9 –
(Loss) / profit on sale of non-current assets (19.4) 3.9
Losses related to the revaluation of the property portfolio
4
(514.6) –
Impairment losses (note 13) (80.6) (75.4)
Non-cash impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods (9.4) –
(610.1) (103.0)
Finance income
Loan note redemptions
5
9.1 5.9
Related party interest receivable – 0.2
Pension finance income
6
20.5 21.7
29.6 27.8
Finance costs
Subordinated loan interest
7
– (137.7)
Related party interest payable – (0.4)
Pension finance costs
6
(20.1) (18.6)
(20.1) (156.7)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps
8
(39.4) (18.7)
Total exceptional items before tax (640.0) (250.6)
Tax
Tax impact of exceptional items 50.1 70.6
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods (4.1) 3.7
Tax credit in respect of the change in tax rate
9
(7.6) (5.1)
38.4 69.2
Total exceptional items after tax (601.6) (181.4)
1 Primarily relates to restructuring costs incurred following the demerger from Punch.
2   Represents release of provision on disposal of properties. In the prior year, represents provision for rent payments following the reversion of onerous leases 
to the Group.
3   Represents recognition of £18.9m of VAT on machine income repaid from HMRC in the year to 20 August 2011, now recognised following a ruling of the 
European Court of Justice in November 2011.
4  Represents £514.6m charge arising from the revaluation of the property portfolio.
5  Represents profit on the purchase of securitisation debt at a discount to nominal value together with the write off of related deferred issue costs.
6   Represents pension finance income and pension finance cost related to the defined benefit schemes. These are non-cash items and are excluded from 
underlying profit. Pension finance income of £21.7m and pension finance cost of £18.6m have been reclassified as exceptional items in the prior year.
7   Subordinated loan interest payable in the 52 weeks to 20 August 2011 was capitalised interest expenses on related party borrowings. Due to the size and 
nature of this interest, being interest on related party instruments, it was presented separately in order to provide a clearer presentation of the interest expense 
of the Group. As a result of the reorganisation undertaken prior to the demerger from Punch, this interest expense is £nil in the 52 weeks to 18 August 2012.
8  Represents the movement in the fair value of interest rate swaps that are classified as fair value through profit and loss.
9  See note 16 for detail of the changes in tax rate. 70 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
7. Employees and Directors
Staff costs
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Wages and salaries 183.9 170.6
Social security costs 10.7 11.1
Share based payments
1
1.7 2.1
Pension costs 1.8 1.3
198.1 185.1
1 Share based payment costs relate to Spirit Pub Company plc and Punch Taverns plc share based payment schemes.
The average number of employees during the year was as follows:
2012 
No.
2011
No.
Management and administration
1
438 297
Retail staff
1
16,796 16,632
17,234 16,929
1 Employee numbers relate to actual employees rather than full-time employee equivalents.
Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 40 to 49.
8. Taxation
(a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Tax charged / (credited) in the income statement
 2012 2011
Pre-
 exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items
£m
Total
£m
Pre-
 exceptional
 items
£m
Exceptional 
items
£m
Total
£m
Current tax
UK corporation tax 
– current year 1.2 (1.2) – 2.9 (17.9) (15.0)
UK corporation tax  
– adjustments in respect of prior periods – – – – 0.1 0.1
1.2 (1.2) – 2.9 (17.8) (14.9)
Deferred tax (note 16)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
– current year 11.6 (41.3) (29.7) 9.4 (47.6) (38.2)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
– adjustments in respect of prior periods – 4.1 4.1 – (3.8) (3.8)
11.6 (37.2) (25.6) 9.4 (51.4) (42.0)
Total tax charge / (credit) in the income statement 12.8 (38.4) (25.6) 12.3 (69.2) (56.9) 71 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
8. Taxation con tin ued
Tax on items charged / (credited) to equity
In addition to the amount credited to the income statement, tax movements recognised directly in equity through the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income were as follows:
 2012 
£m
2011
£m
Deferred tax
Deferred tax charge / (credit) on gain / (loss) on actuarial valuation of pension schemes 0.7 (2.2)
Deferred tax charge / (credit) recognised directly in equity 0.7 (2.2)
(b) Reconciliation of the total tax credit
The effective rate of tax is different to the full rate of corporation tax. The differences are explained below: 
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Loss on ordinary activities before tax (588.9) (206.6)
Tax at current UK tax rate of 25.2% (2011: 27.2%)
1
(148.5) (56.2)
Effects of:
Net effect of expenses not deductible for tax purposes and non-taxable income  
(before exceptional items) (0.2) –
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods (exceptional items) 4.1 (3.7)
Current year exceptional debits 119.0 3.0
Total tax credit reported in the income statement (25.6) (56.9)
1 See note 16 for detail of the changes in tax rate.
Details of the exceptional tax credits and debits are included in note 6.
9. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (adjusted for the effects of dilutive options).
The weighted average number of shares is 659.8 million throughout the year (2011: 659.7 million).
Reconciliations of the earnings are set out below:
 2012 2011
Earnings
£m
Per share
 amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Per share
 amount
pence
Basic profit / (loss) per share (563.3) (85.4) (149.7) (22.7)
Diluted profit / (loss) per share (563.3) (85.4) (149.7) (22.7)
Supplementary earnings per share figures:
Basic earnings per share before exceptional items 38.3 5.8 31.7 4.8
Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items 38.3 5.8 31.7 4.8
There were 2.5 million potential dilutive ordinary shares at 18 August 2012 (20 August 2011: nil) in relation to employee  
share awards. 72 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
10. Dividends
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Amounts paid and recognised in equity
In respect of the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012:
– Interim dividend of 0.65 pence per share 4.2 –
Proposed final dividend of 1.30 pence per share (2011: nil) 8.6 –
The Board recommended on 15 October 2012 the proposed final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012. This did 
not qualify for recognition in the financial statements at 18 August 2012 as it had not been approved by the shareholders at 
that date.
11. Property, plant and equipment
Land and
 buildings
£m
Public house 
fixtures and
 fittings
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
At 21 August 2010 1,958.7 296.4 2,255.1
Additions 44.4 36.4 80.8
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale 32.1 2.7 34.8
Disposals (36.5) (5.6) (42.1)
At 20 August 2011 1,998.7 329.9 2,328.6
Reclassification (131.8) (21.5) (153.3)
Additions 43.5 44.3 87.8
Revaluation (670.8) (223.4) (894.2)
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale (10.6) (1.8) (12.4)
Disposals (74.1) (6.2) (80.3)
At 18 August 2012 1,154.9 121.3 1,276.2
Accumulated depreciation
At 21 August 2010 322.8 214.3 537.1
Charge for the year 7.2 23.8 31.0
Impairment losses (note 13) 54.0 6.2 60.2
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale 19.6 1.9 21.5
Disposals (30.8) (4.6) (35.4)
At 20 August 2011 372.8 241.6 614.4
Reclassification (65.1) (88.2) (153.3)
Charge for the year 3.9 29.2 33.1
Impairment (note 13) 85.0 3.0 88.0
Revaluation (361.7) (182.9) (544.6)
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale – (1.4) (1.4)
Disposals (34.9) (1.3) (36.2)
At 18 August 2012 – – –
Net book value at 18 August 2012 1,154.9 121.3 1,276.2
Net book value at 20 August 2011 1,625.9 88.3 1,714.2 73 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
11. Property, plant and equipment con tin ued
As of 18 August 2012, the Group’s property portfolio has been revalued to open market value. The Directors have performed  
this valuation with reference to a sample valuation of 232 properties which were valued, at that date, by Colliers International, 
independent chartered surveyors.
The sample of properties was valued at market value, in accordance with the provisions of Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) Appraisal and Valuation Standards (‘the Red Book’) assuming each asset is sold as part of the continuing 
enterprise in occupation individually as a fully operational trading entity. The market value has been determined having regard  
to assumptions such as current and future projected income levels, taking account of the location, the quality of the pub or 
restaurant, recent market transactions in the sector and potential alternative use value.
Surpluses which arise from the revaluation are recorded directly within the revaluation reserve unless they are reversing  
a revaluation decrease which has been recognised in the income statement previously, in which case the surplus is 
recognised in the income statement, up to the amount previously recognised in the income statement. Where the revaluation 
gives rise to a deficit, this is reflected directly in the revaluation reserve to the extent that a surplus exists against the same 
asset. Any residual amount is then recognised in the income statement. 
Prior to the revaluation a detailed impairment review was performed at 18 August 2012 and as a result an impairment charge 
of £80.6m was identified at that date representing the £88.0m charge to property, plant and equipment (shown above) and  
a £7.4m credit to operating leases shown in note 12. For further information on the impairment review please see note 13.
If the properties had not been revalued, the historical cost net book value would be £1,625.8m (2011: £1,714.2m).
A reclassification between cost and accumulated depreciation has been made as at 18 August 2012. There is no impact  
on net book value as a result of this reclassification.
The cost of work in progress within property, plant and equipment at 18 August 2012 was £53.1m (August 2011: £32.4m).
The Group leases various licensed properties, offices and other commercial properties and other assets under finance leases. 
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Included in property, plant and equipment above are properties held under finance leases with a net book value of £8.9m 
(August 2011: £9.2m).
Included within the net book value above are licensed properties with a net book value of £1,243.2m (August 2011:£1,599.4m) 
over which the Group’s borrowings are secured by way of fixed and floating charges. 74 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
12. Goodwill and operating lease intangible assets
Operating
 leases
£m
Goodwill
£m
Cost or valuation
At 21 August 2010 138.9 227.2
Disposals (0.9) (0.3)
At 20 August 2011 138.0 226.9
Reclassification (6.4) –
Net transfers to non-current assets held for sale (0.4) –
Disposals (0.8) (2.2)
Revaluation (82.0) –
At 18 August 2012 48.4 224.7
Amortisation
At 21 August 2010 65.1 –
Charge for the year 3.8 –
Impairment losses (note 13) 15.2 10.1
Disposals (0.9) –
At 20 August 2011 83.2 10.1
Reclassification (6.4) –
Charge for the year 3.6 –
Disposals (0.8) –
Impairment (note 13) (7.4) –
Revaluation (72.2) –
At 18 August 2012 – 10.1
Net book value at 18 August 2012 48.4 214.6
Net book value at 20 August 2011 54.8 216.8
As detailed in note 11, the Group has adopted a policy of revaluing its property portfolio, and as a result a revaluation charge 
was recognised in operating leases at 18 August 2012. Prior to the revaluation exercise an impairment review was triggered 
which led to an impairment credit of £7.4m being recognised at 18 August 2012. For further details on the impairment review 
see note 13. 
If the properties had not been revalued, the historical cost net book value of operating leases would be £58.4m (2011: £54.8m).
Included within operating leases are properties with a net book value of £45.0m (August 2011: £54.2m) over which the 
Group’s borrowings are secured by way of fixed and floating charges.
Goodwill has been reduced in the year by £2.2m (2011: £0.3m), representing the apportioned value of goodwill allocated  
to those pubs disposed of during the year. In the prior year, goodwill was further written down by £10.1m following the 
reallocation of pubs from core to non-core prior to the demerger from Punch. 
At 18 August 2012, the goodwill assigned to the Managed estate was £145.0m (August 2011: £145.0m) and the goodwill 
assigned to the Leased estate was £69.6m (August 2011: £71.8m). 75 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
13. Impairment losses
Property, plant and equipment and operating leases
When any indicators of impairment are identified, property, plant and equipment and operating leases are reviewed for 
impairment based on each cash generating unit (CGU). The cash generating units are individual pubs. The carrying values  
of these individual pubs are compared to the recoverable amount of the CGUs, which is the higher of value in use and  
fair value less costs to sell. 
When a pub is being actively marketed for disposal, it is written down to fair value less costs to sell, when this is lower than 
carrying value, and transferred to assets held for sale.
At 18 August 2012, a detailed impairment review was performed, prior to the change in accounting policy and resultant 
revaluation of the pub estate. The value in use of each property was calculated and compared to the recoverable amount and 
historic net book value of each pub. Where a downward revaluation was identified and the value in use of that property was 
lower than the current net book value, an impairment charge as at 18 August 2012 has been recognised. Where a previous 
impairment was found to be reversed, this has been recognised in the income statement. 
Cash flows used in the value-in-use calculation were based on earnings before interest and taxation extrapolated over  
a 50 year period, using a multiple of ten (2011: ten) as the terminal value. The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates applied  
to the cash flow projections range between 8% and 9% (2011: range between 8% and 9%). The growth rate applied to  
cash flows over the 50 year period is 2.25% (2011: 2.25%). Based on this detailed review a net impairment charge  
of £80.6m (2011: £75.4m) was booked to exceptional costs during the year.
The impairment charges / (credits) recognised in both the Managed and Leased estates are as follows:
2012 2011
Managed
£m
Leased
£m
Total
£m
Managed
£m
Leased
£m
Total
£m
Property, plant and equipment 39.4 48.6 88.0 4.3 55.9 60.2
Operating leases (6.6) (0.8) (7.4) 10.9 4.3 15.2
32.8 47.8 80.6 15.2 60.2 75.4
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to groups of CGUs based on the benefits to the Group that arise from each business combination.  
The two groups of CGUs are identified by their pub operating format (Managed or Leased) and this is the lowest level at 
which goodwill is monitored by the Group. 
During the year to 18 August 2012, a goodwill impairment review was performed by comparing the recoverable amount of  
the CGUs to the carrying value of the unit including goodwill. The recoverable amount of the CGUs was determined based  
on value-in-use calculations. These value-in-use calculations are based on earnings before interest and tax and extrapolated 
for a period of 50 years using a multiple of ten as the terminal value. The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates applied to cash 
flow projections range between 8% and 9% (2011: range between 8% and 9%). The growth rate applied to cash flows over 
the 50 year period is 2.25%. Based on this review no impairment of goodwill has been identified. Neither a reduction in the 
growth rate to 0.25% in each of the next five years nor an increase in the discount rate to 10.0% would lead to an impairment 
of goodwill. 
During the prior year to 20 August 2011, and prior to the demerger from Punch, 98 pubs were transferred to a non-core  
estate and at that stage goodwill of £10.1m was reallocated to this non-core estate. The intention to dispose of these 
properties in the medium term triggered an impairment review and an impairment charge of £10.1m was taken against  
this goodwill. No further impairment was identified at 20 August 2011.
During the year to 18 August 2012, £2.2m of goodwill was disposed of as a result of disposals from the Leased estate  
(20 August 2011: £0.3m). 76 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
14. Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures
Company
Total
£m
At 20 August 2011 336.4
Additions 1.3
At 18 August 2012 337.7
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings and joint venture as at 18 August 2012 are as follows:
Name of company Nature of business
Subsidiaries
Spirit Pub Company (Managed) Limited Pub operating company
Spirit Pub Company (Leased) Limited Pub operating company
Spirit Pub Company (Trent) Limited Pub operating company
Spirit Pub Company (Holdco) Limited Holding company
Spirit Pub Company (SGE) Limited Intermediate holding company
Spirit Group Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company
Spirit Pub Company (Supply) Limited Group supply company
Spirit Pub Company (Services) Limited Management and administration company
Spirit Pub Company (Investments) Limited Financing company
Joint venture
Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited Property company
The Company owns 100% of the ordinary share capital or indirectly controls 100% of the voting rights of the companies 
listed above, with the exception of Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited, of which the Company indirectly owns 51%  
of the ordinary share capital but can only exercise joint control as both parties have equal voting rights on all decisions. 
All companies are incorporated in England and Wales.
In addition to those investments listed above, the Group also maintains day-to-day control over Spirit Issuer Parent Limited 
and its wholly owned subsidiary, Spirit Issuer plc, a special purpose entity that provides financing to the Group. Although  
no company in the Group owns any shares either directly or indirectly in Spirit Issuer Parent Limited or Spirit Issuer plc,  
the financial statements are also consolidated into the Group financial statements in accordance with SIC 12.
Exemption has been taken to exclude from the above disclosure subsidiary undertakings whose results or financial position 
do not principally affect the financial statements.
15. Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
2012 
£m
2011
£m
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables 4.8 10.3 – –
Amounts owed by related parties – 0.4 8.2 –
Prepayments and accrued income 15.8 15.3 – –
Other receivables 4.1 4.5 – –
24.7 30.5 8.2 – 77 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
16. Deferred tax
The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows:
Group
2012 
£m
2011
£m
At beginning of year 58.8 16.8
Credited to income statement 25.6 39.8
(Charged) / credited to equity (0.7) 2.2
At end of year 83.7 58.8
The Company has no deferred tax balances.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below: 
Deferred tax assets
Group
Tax losses
£m
Retirement
 benefit
 liabilities
£m
Financial 
instruments
£m
Accelerated
 capital
 allowances
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 21 August 2010 24.9 3.8 31.2 – 3.2 63.1
Credited / (charged) to income statement 37.6 (3.6) 0.5 – 2.7 37.2
Credited to equity – 2.2 – – – 2.2
At 20 August 2011 62.5 2.4 31.7 – 5.9 102.5
Credited / (charged) to income statement (20.5) (1.7) 4.8 – (13.2) (30.6)
Charged to equity – (0.7) – – – (0.7)
Transfer – – – 14.1 7.3 21.4
At 18 August 2012 42.0 – 36.5 14.1 – 92.6
Deferred tax liabilities
Group
Accelerated
 capital
 allowances
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 21 August 2010 (44.5) (1.8) (46.3)
Credited to income statement 2.5 0.1 2.6
At 20 August 2011 (42.0) (1.7) (43.7)
Credited to income statement 56.1 0.1 56.2
Transfer (14.1) (7.3) (21.4)
At 18 August 2012 – (8.9) (8.9)
At 18 August 2012, the Group has unused tax losses of £200.3m (August 2011: £268.9m) and unused capital losses of 
£811.5m (August 2011: £504.2m) available for offset against future profits. A deferred tax asset has been recognised in 
respect of £182.6m (August 2011: £250.2m) of such losses, which are expected to be utilised against future profit streams 
within the Group. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining £17.7m (August 2011: £18.7m) of 
losses due to the unpredictability of future profit streams. Current legislation deems that these losses may be carried forward 
for an unlimited number of years.
The 2012 Budget on 21 March 2012 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 22% by 2014. A reduction  
in the rate from 26% to 25% (effective from 1 April 2012) was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, and further reductions  
to 24% (effective from 1 April 2012) and 23% (effective from 1 April 2013) were substantively enacted on 26 March 2012  
and 3 July 2012 respectively.  78 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
16. Deferred tax con tin ued
This will reduce the Group’s future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred tax asset at 18 August 2012 has been 
calculated based on the rate of 23% substantively enacted at 18 August 2012.
It has not yet been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 1% rate reduction (in addition  
to the 1% reduction already substantively enacted on 26 March 2012), although this will further reduce the Group’s future 
current tax charge and reduce the Group’s deferred tax asset accordingly.
17. Inventories
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Goods held for resale 7.7 7.2
The Group consumed £199.0m of inventories during the year (2011: £190.8m) and charged £nil to the income statement for 
the write down of inventories during the year (2011: £nil). 
18. Cash
 Group Company
2012 
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 97.4 139.6 0.5 0.1
19. Non-current assets held for sale
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Non-current assets held for sale 16.9 4.2
At 18 August 2012, non-current assets held for sale represent £10.6m (August 2011: £4.2m) of pubs from the Managed estate 
that are individually being actively marketed for sale with varying expected completion dates within one year, and £6.3m 
(August 2011: £nil) of pubs from the Leased estate. The value of non-current assets held for sale represents the expected  
net disposal proceeds, and is the value after an impairment charge in the year of £6.6m (2011: £10.4m).
20. Trade and other payables
 Group
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Trade payables 41.6 37.3
Other tax and social security payable 22.9 19.4
Other payables 8.2 10.2
Accruals and deferred income 79.2 92.7
151.9 159.6
Included within accruals and deferred income is an amount of £9.4m (2011: £nil) falling due after more than one year. 79 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
21. Borrowings
 2012 2011
 Amounts falling due Amounts falling due
within 
one
 year
£m
after more
 than one
 year
£m
Total
£m
within 
one 
year
£m
after more
 than one 
year
£m
Total
£m
Secured loan notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc 4.5 836.9 841.4 5.0 880.1 885.1
Obligations under finance leases 0.6 9.3 9.9 0.6 9.4 10.0
Total borrowings 5.1 846.2 851.3 5.6 889.5 895.1
Secured loan notes
The secured loan notes have been secured by way of fixed and floating charges over various assets of the Group.
Interest is paid quarterly in arrears on all secured loan notes. The details for the secured loan notes, including the date of the 
final scheduled instalment for each class of note, as indicated in its description, are as follows:
I s s u e d	b y	S p i r i t	I s s u e r	p l c :
 2012 2011
 Amounts falling due Amounts falling due
within 
one
 year
£m
after more
 than one
 year
£m
Total
£m
within 
one
 year
£m
after more
 than one 
year
£m
Total
£m
Class A1 secured floating rate debenture notes 
repayable by September 2026 at LIBOR
1
 +0.22%  
per annum to December 2011 and LIBOR
1
 +0.55% 
thereafter – 144.7 144.7 – 144.7 144.7
Class A2 secured floating rate debenture notes 
repayable by June 2029 at LIBOR
1
 +1.08% per annum  
to December 2011 and LIBOR
1
 +2.7% thereafter – 186.6 186.6 – 186.6 186.6
Class A3 secured fixed / floating rate debenture  
notes repayable by September 2019 at 5.86% to 
December 2014 and LIBOR
1
 +0.55% thereafter – 109.9 109.9 – 116.7 116.7
Class A4 secured fixed / floating rate debenture  
notes repayable by March 2025 at 6.582%  
to December 2018 and LIBOR
1
 +2.775% thereafter – 207.7 207.7 – 227.5 227.5
Class A5 secured fixed / floating rate debenture  
notes repayable by December 2032 at 5.472%  
to December 2028 and LIBOR
1
 +0.75% thereafter – 158.5 158.5 – 168.0 168.0
– 807.4 807.4 – 843.5 843.5
Add: premium arising from fair value adjustment 4.5 29.5 34.0 5.0 36.6 41.6
4.5 836.9 841.4 5.0 880.1 885.1
1 For three month deposits.
In the current year, the Group redeemed notes with a nominal value of £36.1m, being £6.8m Class A3, £19.8m Class A4 and 
£9.5m Class A5 notes. In the year ended 20 August 2011, the Group redeemed notes with a nominal value of £23.0m, being 
£2.0m Class A2, £15.0m Class A4 and £6.0m Class A5 notes.
These figures are net of notes held by the Group not yet cancelled, which as at 18 August 2012 were £2.0m Class A2,  
£6.8m Class A3, £15.6m Class A4 and £15.5m Class A5 notes (20 August 2011: £2.0m Class A2, £20.6m Class A4 and 
£19.0m Class A5 notes). 80 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
21. Borrowings con tin ued
Interest rate swaps
The Group has taken out various interest rate swaps to reduce the interest rate risk associated with floating rate loans  
as follows:
S p i r i t	I s s u e r	p l c
Interest rate swap agreements have been entered into which swap the LIBOR interest rate to a fixed rate of 6.581% to  
March 2012 and 6.831% thereafter on the Class A1 and Class A2 debenture notes and, after their respective step-up dates, 
4.555% on the Class A3, Class A4 and Class A5 debenture notes. The capital amount of these swaps reduces over time  
to match the contractual repayment profile of the floating rate notes. Although these swaps ensure that cash flows are 
perfectly hedged over the life of the notes they were deemed ineffective at the time of the 2006 acquisition of the Group  
by the Punch group, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39, and accordingly all future movements in fair value will  
be recognised in the income statement.
After taking account of the various interest rate swaps entered into by the Group, the interest rate exposure of the Group’s 
financial liabilities is as set out below. There are no financial liabilities other than short term payables excluded from  
this analysis:
 2012  2011
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m
Total
£m
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m
Total
£m
Secured loan notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc 841.4 – 841.4 885.1 – 885.1
Obligations under finance leases 9.9 – 9.9 10.0 – 10.0
Total borrowings 851.3 – 851.3 895.1 – 895.1
Interest rate analysis
The weighted average effective interest rates of interest bearing loans and borrowings, including the effect of interest rate 
swaps, at 18 August 2012 are as follows:
2012
%
2011
%
Secured loan notes 7.7 6.9
Finance leases 6.5 6.5
The average interest rate for Group loans and borrowings is 7.7% (August 2011: 6.9%).
Obligations under finance leases
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
 2012 2011
Minimum
 lease 
payments
£m
Present
 value of
 future
 obligations
£m
Minimum
 lease
 payments
£m
Present 
value of 
future
 obligations
£m
Within one year 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.6
Within one to five years 2.7 2.2 2.7 2.2
Over five years 33.5 7.1 35.1 7.2
36.9 9.9 38.5 10.0 81 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
21. Borrowings con tin ued
Maturity of Group debt
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s debt at 18 August 2012 and 20 August 2011 based on 
contractual, undiscounted cash flows including interest.
 2012
Within 
one year
£m
One to 
two years
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
More than
 five years
£m
Total
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
– capital – 23.1 79.9 704.4 807.4
– interest 7.2 7.2 21.1 54.9 90.4
– interest rate swaps 54.2 54.2 158.1 411.0 677.5
61.4 84.5 259.1 1,170.3 1,575.3
 2011
Within 
one year
£m
One to 
two years
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Total
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
– capital – – 81.8 761.8 843.6
– interest 6.6 6.6 19.7 65.6 98.5
– interest rate swaps 50.5 50.5 151.6 503.8 756.4
57.1 57.1 253.1 1,331.2 1,698.5
The contractual maturity of trade and other payables is within one year.
22. Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
2012
£m
2011
£m
Financial assets
Trade receivables (amortised cost) 4.8 10.3
Cash and short term deposits 97.4 139.6
102.2 149.9
Financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps – at fair value through profit or loss 195.1 161.0
Borrowings (amortised cost) 883.0 922.4
Finance lease obligations 9.9 10.0
1,088.0 1,093.4
All derivative financial instruments are held on the statement of financial position at fair value. Changes in fair value of any 
derivative financial instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivative financial instruments, comprise borrowings, cash and liquid 
resources. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has 
various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and credit risk. 
There is no currency exposure as all material transactions and financial instruments are in sterling. The Group has no material 
exposure to equity securities or commodity price risk and it is the Group’s policy that no speculative trading in financial 
instruments shall be undertaken. The Board reviews and agrees policies for each of these risks and they are summarised  
on pages 23 to 25. 82 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
22. Financial instruments con tin ued
Interest rate risk
As the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, other than cash and cash equivalents, the Group’s income and 
operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. Income and cash flows from cash 
and cash equivalents fluctuate with interest rates.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of equity shareholders’ funds and secured loan notes. The Group 
borrows at both fixed and floating rates of interest and then employs derivative financial instruments such as interest rate 
swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile and to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The  
cash balances attract interest at floating rates. 
Where over-hedging arises (for example, due to early repayment of floating rate notes) the Group will seek to eliminate the 
over-hedging, where this is financially practicable, either by embedding the cost in new swaps or by terminating the over-
hedge. At 18 August 2012, there are £87.3m (August 2011: £49.5m) of interest swaps outstanding on cancelled floating  
rate notes.
The Group has taken out derivative financial instruments such that 100% of all loans at 18 August 2012 (August 2011: 100%) 
were either at fixed rate or were converted to fixed rate as a result of swap arrangements, thereby largely eliminating the 
Group’s exposure to changes in interest rates.
Cash flows associated with cash deposits, debt and interest rate swaps and the fair value of these instruments fluctuate  
with changes in interest rates. If the interest rates had been 1% higher or lower during the year, the effect on the income 
statement would be as follows:
Interest
 receivable
£m
Interest
 payable
£m
Movement 
in fair value 
of interest 
rate swaps
£m
2012
Impact on income statement and equity if interest rates increased by 1%: gain 1.0 – 54.0
Impact on income statement and equity if interest rates decreased by 1%: loss (1.0) – (54.0)
2011
Impact on income statement and equity if interest rates increased by 1%: gain 2.0 – 57.4
Impact on income statement and equity if interest rates decreased by 1%: loss (2.0) – (57.4)
Whilst cash flow interest rate risk is largely eliminated, the use of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments 
exposes the Group to fair value interest rate risk such that the Group would not benefit from falls in interest rates and would 
be exposed to unplanned costs, such as breakage costs, should debt or derivative financial instruments be restructured or 
repaid early.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s funding strategy is to ensure a mix of financing methods offering flexibility and cost effectiveness to match  
the requirements of the Group. The Group is primarily financed by secured loan notes, with approximately 87% (August 2011: 
90%) of the capital balance on these loan notes being repayable after more than five years from 18 August 2012, subject to 
relevant covenants being met. These covenants are formally reported on after each quarter end, but are monitored internally 
on a periodic basis. The Board continues to review alternative sources of finance. The Group’s objective is to smooth the 
debt maturity profile and to arrange funding ahead of requirements where required so maturing short term debt may be 
refinanced or paid as it falls due. Cash flow forecasts are frequently produced to assist management in identifying liquidity 
requirements and are stress tested for possible scenarios. This includes assessment of the ability to meet the restricted 
payment condition in the securitisation structure in order that cash can be released to the top company level. Should the 
securitisation not meet the restricted payment condition, then cash generated may, under certain circumstances, become 
trapped within the securitisation (not made available to the wider Group) to naturally de-lever that securitisation. Cash 
balances are invested in short term deposits such that they are readily available to settle short term liabilities or to fund 
capital additions.  83 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
22. Financial instruments con tin ued
Capital risk
The Group’s capital structure is made up of net debt, issued share capital and reserves. These are managed effectively to 
minimise the Group’s cost of capital, to add value for shareholders and to service debt obligations, ultimately ensuring that 
the Group continues as a going concern. The Group’s principal external debt is held within one securitisation. The securitised 
debt is monitored by a variety of measures, which are reported to the debt providers on a quarterly basis. The primary measure 
is a debt service cover ratio (DSCR). The Group assesses the performance of the business, the level of available funds  
and the short to medium term strategic plans concerning capital spend, as well as the need to meet financial covenants,  
and such assessment influences the level of dividends payable as well as decisions as to whether to buy back debt.  
In the current financial year, the Group has reduced the nominal value of its outstanding securitised debt from £843.5m to 
£807.4m (2011: reduced from £866.5m to £843.5m). The DSCR default financial covenant at 18 August 2012 was 2.0 times 
EBITDA (August 2011: 2.0 times) compared to a financial covenant of 1.3 times.
Credit risk
With the exception of cash and short term deposits invested with banks and financial institutions, there are no significant 
concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented 
by the carrying value as at 18 August 2012. The Group’s objective is to minimise credit risk by ensuring that surplus funds  
are invested with banks and financial institutions with high credit ratings and that the Group deals with third parties  
that have been subject to credit checks or that have good credit scores, where appropriate. Trade and other receivables,  
as shown on the consolidated statement of financial position, comprise a large number of individually small amounts from 
unrelated customers and are shown net of a provision for doubtful debts. Management estimates the provision for doubtful 
debts based on a review of all individual receivable accounts, experience and known factors at 18 August 2012, taking into 
account any collateral held in the form of cash deposits, which is quantified. These cash deposits are applied against  
unpaid debt when licensees leave the pubs, and vary in size. The amount of cash deposits held at 18 August 2012 is £4.4m 
(August 2011: £5.1m). These are held on the statement of financial position within trade and other payables. Receivables  
are written off against the doubtful debt provision when management deems the debt no longer recoverable.
An analysis of the provision held against trade receivables for doubtful debts is shown below:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Provision for doubtful debts at beginning of year 2.0 1.0
Charged to income statement 0.8 2.1
Utilised during the year (0.6) (0.4)
Released during the year (0.1) (0.7)
Provision for doubtful debts at end of year 2.1 2.0
The ageing of trade receivables at 18 August 2012, net of the doubtful debt provision, is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Live debt Current 3.3 8.8
0 – 35 days past due 0.3 0.5
Over 35 days past due 1.2 1.0
4.8 10.3
Live debt represents balances outstanding from current licensees. Closed debt relates to outstanding balances from 
customers that are no longer current licensees of the Group and is fully provided.
There are no indicators at 18 August 2012 that debtors will not meet their payment obligations in respect of the net amount  
of trade receivables recognised in the statement of financial position.  84 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
22. Financial instruments con tin ued
Derivative financial instruments
The carrying values of derivative financial instruments in the statement of financial position are as follows:
 2012 2011
Group
Current
 liabilities
£m
Non-current 
liabilities
£m
Current
 liabilities
£m
Non-current 
liabilities
£m
Interest rate swaps 21.0 174.1 24.7 136.3
The interest rate swaps replace the LIBOR rate on the Group’s secured floating rate loan notes with a fixed rate. The capital 
amount of the swaps reduces over time to match the contractual repayment profile of the associated notes over their life  
(see note 21 for more detail). The swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting, with movements in their fair value being 
recognised in the income statement.
Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities
With the exception of the Group’s secured loan notes, there are no material differences between the carrying value of 
non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values as at 18 August 2012. 
The carrying value of the Group’s secured loan notes at 18 August 2012 is £841.4m (August 2011: £885.1m) and the fair value, 
measured at market value, of this debt at that date is £613.1m (August 2011: £719.9m). 
Fair value hierarchy
Financial instruments carried at fair value are required to be measured by reference to the following levels:
•	level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
•	 level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
•	level 3 – inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
All financial instruments carried at fair value have been measured by a level 2 valuation method.
23. Provisions
Group
Onerous
 contract
£m
Property
 leases
£m
Insurance
£m
Total
£m
At 21 August 2010 2.6 69.9 5.4 77.9
Unwinding of discount effect of provisions 0.6 5.9 – 6.5
Charged to income statement – 20.9 1.4 22.3
Utilised during the year (3.0) (17.7) (2.2) (22.9)
Released to income statement (0.2) – – (0.2)
At 20 August 2011 – 79.0 4.6 83.6
Unwinding of discount effect of provisions – 6.5 – 6.5
(Credited) / charged to income statement – (1.5) 4.7 3.2
Released to income statement on disposal – (1.1) – (1.1)
Utilised during the year – (15.4) (7.7) (23.1)
At 18 August 2012 – 67.5 1.6 69.1 8 5 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
23. Provisions con tin ued
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
Group
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Current 12.1 20.2
Non-current 57.0 63.4
69.1 83.6
Property leases
The provision for property leases has been set up to cover operating costs of vacant or loss making premises. The provision 
covers the expected shortfall between operating income and rents payable for a period of three years for trading properties 
and ten years for non trading properties, being the estimated period to mitigate the losses. 
Insurance
The provision for insurance relates to an estimate of monies that may become payable on claims not yet made to the Group. 
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised within five years from 18 August 2012.
24. Share based payments
At 18 August 2012 the Group had three share incentive schemes by which Directors and employees are able to acquire 
shares in the Company. All of these schemes are equity-settled schemes. 
Long Term Incentive Plan 2011
The first scheme is a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) whereby eligible senior management are granted awards of LTIP 
shares. The shares are issued to LTIP members subject to their continued three year employment from the date of award, 
and to the extent that the performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at the date the award is made are 
satisfied. Further information on the performance conditions of the LTIP are shown in the Report on Directors’ remuneration 
on pages 40 to 49. At 18 August 2012 eligible employees held rights over ordinary shares that may result in the issue of 
7,486,127 shares on 7 November 2014 and 655,589 shares on 8 May 2015.
The exception to this is an award of 59,207 shares made under the LTIP rules on 2 March 2012 which is not subject to 
performance conditions and was satisfied by market purchases of shares.
Share Bonus Plan 2011
The second scheme is a Share Bonus Plan (SBP) in which, at the discretion of the Board, certain senior management who  
are eligible for an annual bonus can participate. Eligible employees are awarded rights to the issue of a maximum number  
of shares at the beginning of a two year period, which they will be entitled to receive at the end of that period if the eligibility 
condition set by the Remuneration Committee at the time the allocation is made is satisfied. At 18 August 2012, eligible 
employees held rights over ordinary shares which have been satisfied by market purchases of these shares. 
Share Incentive Plan 2011
The third scheme is a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) open to all eligible employees, whereby proceeds contributed by employees 
are used to buy shares in the Company at prevailing market values. These shares are called Partnership Shares and are  
held in a trust on behalf of the employee. For every Partnership Share bought by the employee the Company will give the 
employee one share free of charge (Matching Share). The employees have to take their shares out of the plan on leaving the 
Company and will not be entitled to the Matching Share if they leave within three years of purchasing the Partnership Shares. 
If the Company awards dividends to its shareholders, the employee will receive a dividend on each of the Partnership and 
Matching Shares they hold. The Company arranges for the dividends to be used to buy extra shares (Dividend Shares). 
Dividend Shares must be held in the plan for three years before they can be removed unless the employee leaves the 
Company in which case they must be taken out. The scheme was introduced in November 2011 with shares being acquired 
at market values on a monthly basis. 
As at 18 August 2012 726,703 shares had been issued by the Company to the trust at par value. The par value of the shares 
issued that has been deducted from reserves is negligible. The market value of these shares at 18 August 2012 was £0.4m. 8 6 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
24. Share based payments con tin ued
Fair value of share awards
L o n g	T e r m	I n c e n t i v e	P l a n
The key assumptions used in the measurement of the fair values of awards made are as follows:
Grant date 8 May 2012 2 March 2012 9 November 2011
Valuation model (TSR element) Monte Carlo – Monte Carlo
Valuation model (EPS element) Black Scholes – Black Scholes
Valuation model – Black Scholes –
Share price at date of grant £0.56 £0.61 £0.44
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil
Expected volatility 32.3% n/a 60.3%
Expected life 3 years 1.9 years 3 years
Risk-free interest rate 0.52% n/a 0.66%
Expected dividend yield 3.53% 3.21% 4.27%
Fair value per award £0.41 £0.57 £0.33
Expected volatility has been calculated based on a proxy volatility for the Company using the average volatility of  
six companies in the same sector for a period corresponding to the expected life of the option or share award.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed  
option life.
S h a r e	I n c e n t i v e	P l a n
The fair value of the Matching Shares is recognised as the market value of the shares issued at the date of purchase.  
This charge is spread over the three year vesting period on a straight-line basis. 
Movements in awards under share based payment schemes
Reconciliations of movements for the LTIP, SBP and SIP schemes over the 52 weeks to 18 August 2012 are shown below:
 2012
Long Term
 Incentive 
Plan
No.
Share 
Bonus 
Plan
No.
Share
 Incentive 
Plan
No.
Outstanding at beginning of year – – –
Granted during the year 8,767,285 383,319 394,611
Expired during the year – – (11,308)
Forfeited during the year (566,362) – –
Outstanding at end of year 8,200,923 383,319 383,303 87 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
25. Share capital 
The ultimate parent company of the Group, Spirit Pub Company plc, was incorporated on 8 June 2011.
 2012 2011
No. £m No. £m
Allotted, issued, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1 pence 660,012,199 6.6 659,655,957 6.6
Changes in share capital
Under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Share Bonus Plan, no ordinary shares were issued during the year (2011: nil).  
Under the Share Incentive Plan, 356,242 matching shares were issued at par consideration. See note 24 for further details  
of these schemes. The issue of these shares resulted in net cash proceeds of £nil (2011: £nil).
All ordinary shares in issue at 18 August 2012 rank pari passu in all respects.
26. Net debt
(a) Analysis of net debt
2012
£m
2011
£m
Secured loan notes (807.4) (843.5)
Cash and cash equivalents 97.4 139.6
Nominal value of net debt (710.0) (703.9)
Fair value adjustments on acquisition of secured loan notes (34.0) (41.6)
Fair value of interest rate swaps (195.1) (161.0)
Finance lease obligations (9.9) (10.0)
Net debt (949.0) (916.5)
Statement of financial position:
Borrowings (851.3) (895.1)
Derivative financial instruments (195.1) (161.0)
Cash and cash equivalents 97.4 139.6
Net debt (949.0) (916.5)
(b) Analysis of changes in net debt
At 
21 August
 2010
£m
Cash flow
£m
Non-cash
 movements
£m
At
20 August
2011 
movements
£m
Cash flow
£m
Non-cash
 movements
£m
At 
18 August
 2012
£m
Current assets
Cash at bank and in hand 37.9 101.7 – 139.6 (42.2) – 97.4
37.9 101.7 – 139.6 (42.2) – 97.4
Debt 
Borrowings (926.4) 18.8 12.5 (895.1) 28.0 15.8 (851.3)
Subordinated loans from related parties (1,052.2) – 1,052.2 – – – –
Derivative financial instruments (147.6) – (13.4) (161.0) – (34.1) (195.1)
(2,126.2) 18.8 1,051.3 (1,056.1) 28.0 (18.3) (1,046.4)
Net debt per statement of financial position (2,088.3) 120.5 1,051.3 (916.5) (14.2) (18.3) (949.0)
Net debt incorporates the Group’s borrowings, subordinated loans, derivative financial instruments and obligations under 
finance leases, less cash and cash equivalents.
Non-cash movements relate to amortisation of premium on loan notes and fair value movement in derivative financial instruments. 88 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
26. Net debt con tin ued
(c) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2012
£m
2011
£m
(Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year (42.2) 101.7
Cash outflow from change in debt financing 28.0 18.8
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (14.2) 120.5
Non-cash movements in net debt (18.4) 1,050.8
Obligations under finance leases 0.1 0.5
Change in net debt resulting from non-cash flows (18.3) 1,051.3
Movement in net debt (32.5) 1,171.8
Net debt at beginning of year (916.5) (2,088.3)
Net debt at end of year (949.0) (916.5)
27. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group operates two funded defined benefit pension schemes: the Spirit Group Pension Scheme (SGPS) and the  
Spirit Group Retail Pension Scheme (SGRPS). The pension plans have not invested in any of the Group’s own financial 
instruments, nor in properties or other assets used by the Group.
The tables below illustrate the impact of defined benefit schemes on the income statement, the statement of comprehensive 
income (SOCI) and the statement of financial position and relate to both the SGPS and the SGRPS. 
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
Analysis of amounts charged to operating costs:
2012
£m
 2011
£m
Current service cost – –
Analysis of amounts credited / (charged) to finance income and finance costs:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Expected return on assets 20.5 21.7
Interest on scheme liabilities (20.1) (18.6)
Net credit 0.4 3.1
Analysis of amounts recognised in the SOCI in the year:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Actual return on assets 48.6 29.6
Expected return on assets (20.5) (21.7)
Actuarial (loss) / gain on liabilities (15.9) 3.5
Expected actuarial gains recognised in the SOCI 12.2 11.4
Restriction on surplus recognised – (8.4)
Minimum funding restriction (9.3) (10.9)
Actuarial gains / (losses) recognised in the SOCI 2.9 (7.9) 89 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
27. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits con tin ued
Cumulative amounts recognised in the SOCI:
2012
£m
2011
£m
At beginning of year (2.4) 5.5
Net actuarial gains / (losses) in the year 2.9 (7.9)
At end of year 0.5 (2.4)
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Present value of scheme liabilities (390.3) (367.5)
Fair value of scheme assets 419.0 377.4
Net retirement benefit asset 28.7 9.9
Restriction on surplus recognised – (8.4)
Minimum funding restriction (28.7) (10.9)
Net retirement benefit liability recognised in the statement of financial position – (9.4)
Movements in the present value of scheme liabilities are as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Present value of scheme liabilities at beginning of year 367.5 364.1
Interest cost 20.1 18.6
Actuarial losses / (gains) 15.9 (3.5)
Benefits paid (13.2) (11.7)
Present value of scheme liabilities at end of year 390.3 367.5
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 377.4 350.2
Expected return on scheme assets 20.5 21.7
Actuarial gains 28.1 7.9
Contributions paid by employer 6.2 9.3
Benefits paid (13.2) (11.7)
Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 419.0 377.4
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at 18 August 2012 and the expected return on scheme assets is derived as  
a weighted average of the expected return on each asset class, recognising the proportions of the assets invested in each. 
The expected return on each asset class is determined after taking external expert advice and by reference to relevant equity 
and bond indices.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows:
2012 2011
Equities 34.7% 33.7%
Bonds 55.2% 56.9%
Property 8.3% 9.0%
Other 1.8% 0.4% 90 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
27. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits con tin ued
The history of experience adjustments on the schemes for the current and previous financial years is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
2009
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities (390.3) (367.5) (364.1) (362.5) (293.1)
Fair value of plan assets 419.0 377.4 350.2 316.6 333.5
Net asset / (liability) in the scheme 28.7 9.9 (13.9) (45.9) 40.4
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (2.8) 1.0 – (0.4) 21.5
Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.7% (0.3)% – 0.1% (7.3)%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets 28.1 7.9 22.2 (30.6) (23.6)
Percentage of scheme assets 6.7% 2.1% 6.3% (9.7)% (7.1)%
Scheme funding
S p i r i t	G r o u p	P e n s i o n	S c h e m e
The SGPS is a defined benefit scheme operated in the UK. The values of the scheme’s liabilities have been determined  
by a qualified actuary based on the results of an actuarial valuation as at 31 October 2009, updated to 18 August 2012.
The mortality assumptions at the year end are based on standard mortality tables that allow for future mortality 
improvements. The assumptions are that the life expectancy of a member who retires at the age of 65 is as follows:
2012 2011
Male currently aged 45 24 years 24 years
Male currently aged 65 22 years 22 years
Female currently aged 45 25 years 25 years
Female currently aged 65 23 years 23 years
The assumptions used in determining the valuations are as follows:
2012 2011
Rate of increase in pensions 2.6% 3.3%
Discount rate 4.5% 5.2%
Inflation assumption (RPI) 2.9% 3.6%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.0% 2.7%
The assets in the scheme and the expected rate of return were:
Long term
 rate of
return
 expected at
18 August 
2012
Value at 
18 August
 2012
£m
Long term
 rate of 
return
 expected at
20 August
 2011
Value at 
20 August
 2011
£m
Equities 7.25% 52.0 7.25% 46.0
Government bonds 2.50% 31.2 3.50% 30.9
Property 6.75% 12.2 6.75% 11.9
Corporate bonds 4.00% 35.2 5.00% 30.0
Other 1.50% 4.5 1.60% 1.3
Total market value of assets 135.1 120.1
Present value of scheme liabilities (132.0) (122.4)
Net pension asset / (liability) before deferred tax 3.1 (2.3)
Deferred tax (liability) / asset (0.7) 0.6
Net pension asset / (liability) 2.4 (1.7) 91 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
27. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits con tin ued
S p i r i t	G r o u p	R e t a i l	P e n s i o n	S c h e m e
The SGRPS is a defined benefit scheme operated in the UK. The values of the scheme’s liabilities have been determined  
by a qualified actuary based on the results of an actuarial valuation as at 31 October 2009, updated to 18 August 2012.
The mortality assumptions at the year end are based on standard mortality tables that allow for future mortality 
improvements. The assumptions are that the life expectancy of a member who retires at the age of 65 is as follows:
2012 2011
Male currently aged 45 24 years 24 years
Male currently aged 65 21 years 21 years
Female currently aged 45 26 years 26 years
Female currently aged 65 21 years 21 years
The assumptions used in determining the valuations are as follows:
2012 2011
Rate of increase in pensions 2.6% 2.0%
Discount rate 4.5% 5.2%
Inflation assumption (RPI) 2.9% 3.6%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.0% 2.7%
The assets in the scheme and the expected rate of return were:
Long term
 rate of
 return
 expected at 
18 August
 2012
Value at 
18 August
 2012
£m
Long term
 rate of 
return
 expected at 
20 August
 2011
Value at 
20 August
 2011
£m
Equities 7.25% 93.3 7.25% 81.2
Government bonds 2.50% 76.9 3.50% 78.7
Property 6.75% 22.5 5.00% 75.0
Corporate bonds 4.00% 87.9 6.75% 21.9
Other 1.50% 3.3 1.60% 0.5
Total market value of assets 283.9 257.3
Present value of scheme liabilities (258.3) (245.1)
Adjustment due to IFRIC 14 (28.7) (19.3)
Net pension liability before deferred tax (3.1) (7.1)
Deferred tax asset 0.7 1.8
Net pension liability (2.4) (5.3)
In the year ended 18 August 2012, the pension asset of £25.6m (2011: £12.2m) was restricted by £nil (2011: £8.4m), due to 
the Group not having the entitlement to recover all surpluses at the conclusion of the scheme. The asset was restricted to  
the amount that could be recovered through reduced contributions to the related defined contribution scheme. An additional 
liability of £28.7m (2011: £10.9m) has been recognised, being the minimum funding agreed following the triennial valuation of 
the scheme, completed in 2010.
The pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Defined contribution schemes 1.3 1.3 92 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
27. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits con tin ued
Pension risk
Both of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are closed to new members. The schemes are subject to risk regarding 
the relative amount of the schemes’ assets, which are affected by the value of investments and the returns generated by 
such investments, compared to the schemes’ liabilities, which are affected by changes in the life expectancy, actual and 
expected price inflation, changes in bond yields and future salary increases. The difference in value between scheme assets 
and scheme liabilities may vary significantly in the short term, potentially resulting in an increased deficit (or reduced surplus) 
being recognised on the Group’s statement of financial position. 
28. Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
Group
2012
£m
2011
£m
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year 65.6 61.6
Between one and five years 258.6 244.6
After five years 988.9 993.6
1,313.1 1,299.8
The future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases when discounted to present value are £589.9m 
(August 2011: £564.3m).
The Group leases various licensed properties, offices and other commercial properties under non-cancellable operating 
lease agreements. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group also leases vehicles 
under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received are £41.7m (August 2011: £47.6m).
The Group is a lessor of licensed properties to retailers. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The total non-cancellable future minimum lease payments expected to be received in respect of these leases are:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Within one year 19.9 21.0
Between one and five years 81.3 75.9
After five years 119.8 94.6
221.0 191.5
The Company has no operating lease commitments at 18 August 2012 (August 2011: £nil).
29. Capital and other financial commitments
Group
C a p i t a l	c o m m i t m e n t s	f o r	p r o p e r t y ,	p l a n t	a n d	e q u i p m e n t
2012
£m
2011
£m
Contracted but not provided 10.9 17.0
The Company has no capital commitments at 18 August 2012 (August 2011: £nil). 93 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
30. Related party transactions
Group
T r a n s a c t i o n s	w i t h	k e y	m a n a g e m e n t	p e r s o n n e l
The key management personnel of the Group comprise members of the Spirit Pub Company plc Board of Directors and 
other nominated members of the Executive Committee.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Short term employee benefits 4.1 3.2
Post-employment employee benefits 0.3 0.3
Share based payments 0.9 0.1
5.3 3.6
T r a n s a c t i o n s	w i t h	jo i n t	v e n t u r e s
The Group holds 51% of the share capital of Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited, but can only exercise joint control as  
both parties have equal voting rights. During the year, the Group has paid invoices and raised sales invoices on behalf of  
this joint venture which have been recharged via an intercompany account. At 18 August 2012, the Group owed Allied Kunick 
Entertainments Limited £0.6m (August 2011: the Group owed Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited £0.6m).
Year end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Unsecured loan stock receivable 11.8 11.3
Amounts owed to joint ventures (0.6) (0.6)
Total amounts due from joint ventures 11.2 10.7
All rights to receive interest on the unsecured loan stock have been waived by the relevant members of the Group and by  
the joint venture partner of Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited. The amount outstanding at the year end has been fully 
provided by the Group due to the uncertainty of its recoverability.
T r a n s a c t i o n s	w i t h	p e n s i o n	s c h e m e s
Neither the Group nor the Company have had any transactions with any of the pension schemes during the current or prior 
year, other than those disclosed in note 27.
Company
T r a n s a c t i o n s	w i t h	k e y	m a n a g e m e n t	p e r s o n n e l
The key management personnel of the Company comprises members of the Spirit Pub Company plc Board of Directors.  
The Directors do not receive any remuneration from the Company (2011: £nil) as their emoluments are borne by other  
Group companies. The Company did not have any transactions with the Directors during the financial year (2011: £nil). 
T r a n s a c t i o n s	w i t h	s u b s i d i a r y	u n d e r t a k i n g s
During the year, the Company has received a dividend from its subsidiary Spirit Pub Company (Holdco) Limited of £4.6m 
(2011: £nil). There have been no other transactions with subsidiary undertakings in the year to 18 August 2012 (8 June 2011 
to 20 August 2011: nil). 94 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Notes to the financial statements con ti n ued
f o r 	 th e 	 5 2 	 w e e k s 	 e n d e d 	 1 8 	 A u gus t 	 20 1 2
31. Contingent liabilities
In prior years, the Group has disposed of a number of properties for which it remains contingently liable for the head leases 
should the assignee default on the terms of the lease. This may result in a number of leases reverting to the Group, for which 
the annual net exposure to the Group is considered unlikely to exceed £6m per annum. 
At 21 August 2010 a contingent asset of £18.9m existed in relation to the Group’s outstanding gaming machine VAT  
claim. A decision was reached during 2010 in respect of The Rank Group plc’s gaming claim, and this latest ruling fell  
in the taxpayer’s favour. As a result, the Group was able to further pursue its own gaming claim and during the year to  
20 August 2011, the Group’s claim was repaid by HMRC. HMRC agreed to make the repayment of the existing claim,  
subject to the Group providing a guarantee to HMRC that, in the event that the existing decision in The Rank Group plc  
is overturned in a higher court, the amount will be repayable in full. The decision in relation to The Rank Group plc’s claim 
was referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union and at 20 August 2011 the Group recognised the repayment 
amount as a provision. During November 2011, the Court of Justice of the European Union considered the Rank Group plc’s 
gaming claim and found in favour of the taxpayer. As a result of this decision, the Group has recognised the £18.9m in 
exceptional items during the year to 18 August 2012, and a contingent liability for the amount exists at that date.
32. Subsequent events
The financial statements were authorised by Mike Tye and Paddy Gallagher on 15 October 2012. At this date there were  
no adjusting or non-adjusting events after 18 August 2012. 95 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report to the  
members of Spirit Pub Company plc
We have audited the financial statements of Spirit Pub Company plc for the year ended 18 August 2012 set out on  
pages 51 to 94.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied  
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 50, the directors are responsible for  
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards  
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm. 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs  
as at 18 August 2012 and of the group’s loss for the year then ended;
•	the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
•	 the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared  
is consistent with the financial statements. 96 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Independent auditor’s report to the  
members of Spirit Pub Company plc con ti n ued
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
•	 a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	the directors’ statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going concern;
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 34 to 36 relating to the Company’s compliance with the  
nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•	certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration. 
G A Watts (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants, One Snowhill, Snow Hill Queensway, Birmingham, B4 6GH
15 October 2012 97 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Five year financial record
Consolidated trading results 
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
21 August 
2010 
(unaudited)
£m
22 August
 2009
 (unaudited)
£m
23 August
2008
1
(unaudited)
£m
Revenue
2
760.0 734.4 724.0 775.1 810.1
Operating expenses before depreciation and amortisation
2
(613.9) (594.8) (593.0) (623.4) (623.2)
EBITDA
2
146.1 139.6 131.0 151.7 186.9
Depreciation and amortisation
2
(36.7) (34.8) (32.8) (42.5) (43.2)
Operating profit
2
109.4 104.8 98.2 109.2 143.7
Net finance costs
2
(58.3) (60.8) (57.9) (69.3) (71.2)
Profit before tax
2
51.1 44.0 40.3 39.9 72.5
Taxation
2
(12.8) (12.3) (11.4) (11.4) (21.4)
Profit after tax
2
38.3 31.7 28.9 28.5 51.1
Exceptional items (601.6) (181.4) (171.8) (309.3) (271.2)
Earnings per share:
Basic adjusted (pence)
3
5.8 4.8 4.4 4.3 7.8
1  The year ended 23 August 2008 is a 53 week year.
2  Before exceptional items.
3 Earnings adjusted for the impact of exceptional items.
Consolidated statements of financial position 
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
21 August
 2010
 (unaudited)
£m
22 August 
2009
 (unaudited)
£m
23 August
2008
(unaudited)
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1,276.2 1,714.2 1,718.0 1,768.2 2,153.9
Goodwill 214.6 216.8 227.2 231.2 258.5
Operating leases and other intangible assets 48.4 54.8 73.8 78.0 106.9
Other non-current assets 86.8 58.8 210.7 278.2 294.6
Total non-current assets 1,626.0 2,044.6 2,229.7 2,355.6 2,813.9
Non-current assets held for sale 16.9 4.2 37.2 29.2 4.5
Other current assets 129.8 177.3 73.3 112.7 148.5
Current liabilities (190.1) (216.5) (193.1) (199.4) (199.7)
Non-current liabilities (1,080.4) (1,098.6) (2,674.6) (2,702.7) (2,829.6)
Net assets / (liabilities) 502.2 911.0 (527.5) (404.6) (62.4)
Share capital 6.6 6.6 6.6 6.6 6.6
Reserves 495.6 904.4 (534.1) (411.2) (69.0)
Shareholders’ equity / (deficit) 502.2 911.0 (527.5) (404.6) (62.4)
Nominal value of gross debt 807.4 843.5 866.5 996.2 1,250.0 98 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
F in an c i al 	 s t at e m e n ts
Company information
Directors of the Company
Walker Boyd Chairman
Mike Tye Chief Executive Officer
Paddy Gallagher Finance Director
Tony Rice Non-Executive Director
Mark Pain Non-Executive Director
Christopher Bell Non-Executive Director
Julie Chakraverty Non-Executive Director
Financial calendar
Q1 Interim Management Statement 15 January 2013
Annual General Meeting 15 January 2013
Half year end 2 March 2013
Interim results announcement April 2013
Q3 Interim Management Statement June 2013
Year end 17 August 2013
Annual results announcement October 2013
Registered office
Sunrise House
Ninth Avenue
Burton upon Trent
DE14 3JZ
+44 (0)1283 498 400
Company number
07662835
       99 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Business review Governance Financial statements
Advisers
Auditor     
KPMG Audit Plc
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GH
+44 (0)121 232 3000
Principal bankers     
Barclays Bank plc
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B3 2WN
+44 (0)121 480 5562
Financial adviser and joint broker   
Goldman Sachs International
Peterborough Court
133 Fleet Street
London
EC4A 2BB
+44 (0)20 7774 1000
Joint broker 
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London 
E14 5LB
+44 (0)20 7986 4000
Legal adviser
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row
London
EC1Y 8YY
+44 (0)20 7600 1200
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services plc
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
+44 (0)870 702 0003 100 Spirit Pub Company plc
Annual Report 2012
Notes Inside front cover Inside back cover
...in our brands, 
estate, people  
and infrastructure.
Business review
01 Highlights
02 Our business
04 Managed division
06 Our brands
10 Leased division
12 Chairman’s statement
13  Chief Executive Officer’s review
14 Best for team
16  Corporate social responsibility
20 Financial review
22  Principal risks and uncertainties
23 Our key risks and uncertainties
Governance
26  Board of Directors 
28 Executive Management Team
30 Directors’ report
34  Corporate governance statement
37  Nomination & Governance  
Committee report
38  Audit & Risk Committee report
40  Report on Directors’ remuneration
50  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
in relation to the financial statements
Financial statements
51  Consolidated income statement
52  Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
53  Consolidated statement  
of financial position
54  Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
55  Consolidated cash flow statement
56  Company statement  
of financial position
57  Company statement  
of changes in equity
57  Company income statement
57   Company cash flow statement
5 8   Notes to the financial statements
95   Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of Spirit Pub Company plc
97   Five year financial record
98   Company information
99 Advisers
Designed and produced by The College  www.the-college.com
This report is printed using papers which are FSC Mixed Credit certified.
 
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass  
it on to interested readers, return it to Spirit Pub Company plc or dispose of it in 
your recycled paper waste. Thank you. Back cover Front cover
Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2012
Further business 
transformation 
through 
investment...
Spirit Pub Company plc
Sunrise House
Ninth Avenue
Burton upon Trent
Staffordshire
DE14 3JZ 
 
T: +44 (0)1283 498400
W: www.spiritpubcompany.com
Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2012
