 In shape for
growth
www.spiritpubcompany.com
Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 Spirit at a glance
Our goal is to be the number one hospitality 
company in the UK. 
We aim to achieve this by being regarded  
as the best employer, delivering the best guest 
experiences and generating the best returns  
for our Shareholders in the hospitality industry.
We have a high quality estate of 1,227 pubs 
nationwide consisting of 794 Managed pubs  
and 433 Leased pubs and we operate a  
strong portfolio of award winning brands.
Strategic report
02 Chairman’s statement
04  Highlights and key performance 
indicators (KPIs)
06 Chief Executive Officer’s review
09 Business model
10 Our market
12 Our strategy
20 Managed division overview
21 Leased division overview
22 Corporate responsibility
26 Principal risks and uncertainties
30 Our brands
37 Financial review
Governance
40 Board of Directors
42 Executive management team
44 Directors’ report
48 Corporate governance statement
52 Nomination Committee report
53 Audit & Risk Committee report
56 Remuneration report
71  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
in relation to the financial statements
Financial statements
72 Consolidated income statement
73  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
74 Consolidated balance sheet
75  Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity
76 Consolidated cash flow statement
77 Company balance sheet
78 Company statement of changes in equity
78 Company income statement
78 Company cash flow statement
79 Notes to the financial statements
117  Independent Auditor’s report to the  
members of Spirit Pub Company plc only
120 Five-year financial record
121 Company information and advisers
Red ‘bleed’ pulled away 
3mm from r/h edge 
to allow for glued hinge; 
printer to adjust further 
if necessary Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 01
794
Managed pubs
To read more 
about our  
brands and  
operating formats, 
see pages 20-21 
and 30-36
433
Leased and 
tenanted pubs 02 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Chairman’s statement
Underlying pre-tax profits rose by 11% to £60m against 
a backdrop of a continuing difficult, although recovering, 
consumer environment. Strong cash generation during the 
year has further strengthened our balance sheet. As a result, 
the Board recommends an increase in the final dividend to 
1.50 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the full 
year to 2.22 pence per share, an increase of 8%.
We continue to execute our established strategy underpinned 
by continued focus on maximising long term value for all 
stakeholders through our ‘Best for Team’, ‘Best for Guest’ and 
‘Best for Investor’ model. We have continued to invest in pubs, 
brands and people, and have retained our focus on delivering 
a great guest experience whilst further refining our stable of 
brands. Our Managed brands are seeing market leading growth, 
and in our Leased estate it is pleasing to report growth in like 
for like net income. We also continue to trial innovation models. 
We have made further progress in our corporate social 
responsibility programmes, which has been recognised with 
a variety of awards in this area during the year. Our intention 
is to be a responsible retailer in the communities in which we 
operate, and to have appropriate regard to, and to minimise 
our impact on, the environment in which we operate.
I am pleased to report on a strong 
performance in the third full year 
for Spirit as an independent public 
company. We have seen further 
significant progress both in the 
financial performance of the 
business, and execution of our 
established strategy, which has 
left us in an extremely strong 
position for future growth.  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 03
In November 2013, Spirit was ranked 16th in the Sunday 
Times Top 25 Best Big Companies to work for and this award 
demonstrates our commitment to our people and our focus 
on being an employer of choice. The success of our company 
is of course driven by the devotion of our employees, in pub, 
field and Support Centre, and I would like to sincerely thank all 
of them for their impact during the year. 
Although there are some encouraging lead indicators regarding 
the consumer environment, we expect it to remain challenging. 
Despite these challenges, we believe that the continued 
execution of our strategy to deliver hospitality excellence and the 
opportunity to expand our estate through further acquisitions 
will allow us to make further progress in the year ahead.
Walker Boyd
Chairman
“ The success of our company is of course driven 
by the devotion of our employees, in pub, field and 
Support Centre, and I would like to sincerely thank 
all of them for their impact during the year.”
 11 %
Pre-tax profits
Underlying pre-tax profits rose  
by 11% to £60m against a backdrop  
of a continuing difficult, although  
recovering, consumer environment. 04 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Highlights and key performance 
indicators (KPIs)
It has been a strong year for Spirit driven by effective execution  
of our clear and consistent strategy.
Overview
Our KPIs have been selected in alignment with our 
strategic objectives.
Highlights 
 > Strong earnings growth
 > Continued market outperformance in Managed and Leased
 > Revenue up 6%
 > EBITDA
1
 up 7%
 > Profit before tax (PBT)
1
 up 11%
 > Earnings per share
1
 up 13%
 > Strong cash flow and lower leverage
 > £75m earmarked for pub acquisitions
Managed
 > Like for like sales
2
 up 4.4%
 > EBITDAR
1
 margin up 30 basis points
Leased
 > Like for like net income
2
 up 4.2%
 > Average EBITDA
1
 per pub up 10.0%
Financial KPIs
2012 2014 2013
760
801
758
6%
▲
2012 2014 2013
51
60
54
11%
▲
2012 2014 2013
146
159
150
7%
▲
2012 2014 2013
4.8
4.4
1.6
28
bps
▲
Revenue
£m
Managed LFL sales growth
2
%
EBITDA
1
£m
Profit before tax
1
£m
1 Excluding exceptional items.
2  Like for like (LFL) growth rates are shown on a 52 week vs 52 week basis 
to exclude the benefit of an extra week’s trading in the financial year to 
23 August 2014. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 05
Non-financial KPIs
2012 2014 2013
5.8
7.1
6.3
13%
▲
FY12 Q1 FY13 Q1
10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
Spirit
Peach Total
Peach Pub
FY14 Q1 FY14 Q4
2012 2014 2013
94
104
96
8%
▲
2012 2014 2013
23
25
24
30
bps
▲
2014 2013
74
66
8%
 
▲
2012 2014 2013
4.9x
4.0x
4.7x
0.7x
▲
Basic EPS
3
Pence
Net debt / EBITDA
1
Managed EBITDAR
1,4
 margin
%
Leased net income per pub
£000
Net sales like for like year-on-year comparison
2,5
%
Employee engagement
6
%
New measures
During the year, new measures were introduced for guest 
satisfaction, complaints and the ‘right licensee, right concept, 
right execution’ measure in the Leased estate. As such there 
is no historic data for these measures; however they are 
considered to be important measures for monitoring the 
health of the business in future years.
 > Guest satisfaction – 84.8%
 > Complaints – 0.65 per 1,000 covers and 1.46 per 10,000 drinks
 > Right licensee, right concept, right execution – 74%
Our target is to achieve a guest satisfaction score of 90%. 
We do not set specific targets for complaints or ‘right licensee, 
right concept, right execution’ but we aim to continually improve 
on these metrics.
1  Excluding exceptional items.
2  Like for like (LFL) growth rates are shown on a 52 week vs 52 week basis  
to exclude the benefit of an extra week’s trading in the financial year to 
23 August 2014.
3  Basic earnings per share is based on the profit for the period attributable to 
ordinary Shareholders excluding exceptional items and the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding.
4  Earnings before income tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent (includes 
allocated central overheads).
5  The Coffer Peach Business Tracker is widely regarded as the industry 
barometer for year-on-year sales performance, which includes many of our 
key competitors. Peach Pub is sales through pubs whereas Peach Total also 
includes sales through restaurants.
6  Results of the annual employee survey. No comparable data is available 
for 2012.  06 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Together, these factors have contributed to a significantly 
stronger balance sheet. Whilst we have benefitted from a  
milder winter and a 53rd week of trading, both divisions have 
outperformed their respective peers. Profit before tax and 
exceptional items increased by 11% to £60m and earnings 
per share excluding exceptional items was up 13% to 7.1 pence.
Our performance in 2013/14 has given us a solid platform to 
build upon. Our strengthened financial position means that we 
are now ready to capitalise on the progress made to date and 
continue growing the business both organically and through 
acquisitions. Our existing estate continues to offer opportunities 
to optimise our assets and grow investment returns and we are 
now actively acquiring pubs into our Managed division, where 
we see the opportunity to grow our existing brand portfolio from 
c750 to c1,200 sites.
The year ended 23 August 2014 
was a very successful year for 
Spirit, with both our Managed 
and Leased divisions delivering 
a strong financial performance, 
reflecting robust organic growth, 
rigorous cost control and 
productivity improvements, 
further development of our 
brand portfolio, as well as the 
disciplined use of cash and 
pragmatic realisation of assets. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 07
Managed pubs 
Our Managed pubs have delivered strong results throughout 
the year with continued outperformance of the industry 
benchmark, the Coffer Peach Business Tracker. Like for like 
sales were up 4.4% (for the 52 week period) which represents 
an improvement of 10.8% over a three year period. While we 
benefitted from better weather in the first half of the year, we 
faced tougher weather comparatives over the summer months 
and the underlying health of our brands and the strength of our 
estate helped increase our average weekly sales by a further 
5% to £18,100.
Driven by strong sales growth, EBITDA
2
 increased by 8% and 
EBITDAR
2
 margin improved by 30 basis points, giving a total 
EBITDAR
2
 margin improvement of 160 basis points over a three 
year period. Some of the efficiency gains have been partially 
offset by increases in the carbon reduction tax and the cost of 
introducing BT Sport into the estate. The strong performance 
has also resulted in higher bonus costs than in the prior year, 
with the majority of these bonuses being paid to pub employees.
Our focus remains on disciplined capital investment to drive 
returns and innovation to ensure that we have compelling 
brands and pubs which appeal to our guests. In the first half 
of the year we focused on trialling schemes to determine if we 
could identify more effective brands for our uninvested local 
pubs. As a result of these pilots we have identified opportunities 
for a further roll-out of our Flaming Grill brand and have 
developed a new quality local offer, Golden Oak Inns,  
which we have successfully trialled in seven pubs in the year. 
Golden Oak Inns is well suited to smaller but demographically 
well sited pubs and offers excellent food, drink and service  
in a contemporary environment. We see a significant roll-out 
opportunity for this concept across our Locals estate.
We completed 24 Flaming Grill investments in the year with an 
average spend of £140,000 per pub, with five of these pubs 
being transferred from our Leased estate. A further two pubs 
from the Leased estate have been converted to our Fayre & 
Square brand and we commenced our expansion programme 
with the acquisition and conversion of two freehold pubs into 
our Flaming Grill brand. A third pub was acquired in the year 
and opened for trading as a Flaming Grill in September 2014, 
shortly after the year end. We also completed 13 major Taylor 
Walker investments, including the conversion of four unbranded 
pubs and optimising the use of previously redundant space, 
such as installing cellar bars and function rooms.
We continue to seek opportunities to expand our Wacky 
Warehouse brand by investing in under-utilised space. Our 
ambition is to have a Wacky Warehouse play area associated 
with all of our Fayre & Square pubs.
In the early part of the year we repositioned our Chef & Brewer 
offer to a much more premium offer. Indications were that 
this repositioning was not as successful as was expected, 
and as such the offer was once again adjusted closer to the 
mid-market – with focus on delivering a consistently excellent 
guest experience. Results to date are encouraging.
The proportion of our estate invested and branded is now 89% 
and we continue to achieve an average return on investment 
in excess of 25%. 
We have now commenced the refreshment phase of our capital 
investment programme for pubs that had major investment 
spend between three and five years ago. We have completed 
37 of these ‘sparkle spends’ in the year, at an average cost 
of £37 ,000, predominantly in the Taylor Walker estate.
2.8%
Like for like
1
The Leased estate is firmly  
in growth, with like for like sales  
growth of 2.8%.
4.4%
Like for like
1
Managed brands continued  
to achieve further growth  
with like for like sales up 4.4%.
“ Our focus on value for money and delivering a great 
experience for every guest, irrespective of demography 
or occasion, underpins this positive momentum.”
1  Growth rates are shown on a 52 week vs 52 week basis to exclude the benefit 
of an extra week trading in the financial year to 23 August 2014.
2 Excluding exceptional items. 08 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
During the year we have further strengthened our digital 
and customer relationship management (CRM) capability, 
enabling us to better understand and communicate with 
our guests using a combination of both digital and traditional 
marketing. The launch of our loyalty scheme in our Fayre & 
Square estate has enabled us to increase both the frequency 
and the value of visits by appropriately incentivising guests 
with tailored rewards. 
Our acquisition programme commenced in the second half of 
the year with the purchase of three freehold pubs for conversion 
into our Flaming Grill brand, two of which were open for trading 
at the year end with the third opened in September 2014. 
We also acquired 19 leasehold pubs from the Orchid estate 
which as a package are profitable post rent despite being 
uninvested. These pubs are an excellent fit for our existing 
brands and we look forward to rapidly investing in and branding 
these pubs in order to generate good returns. 
We intend to add further pubs to our estate in order to 
supplement organic growth and leverage our highly scalable 
overheads, and we have made £75m available to fund 
acquisitions. Our preference is for freehold assets that will 
be suitable for our strong food-led value brands, with a target 
return of 20%, although we will also acquire leasehold sites 
if these can deliver a target return of 25%.
Since the year end, we have completed the acquisition of 
a further three leasehold pubs from the Orchid estate which 
will be invested and branded in the first quarter of 2014/15. 
In October 2014, we sold a London Pub, the Prince of Wales, 
for proceeds of £15m (approximately 50x EBITDA), reflecting 
the development potential of this site in Earls Court.
Leased pubs 
The Leased estate is firmly in growth, with like for like sales 
growth of 2.8%
1
 and like for like net income increasing by 4.2%
1
. 
Average net income per pub of £104,000 (2013: £96,000) 
demonstrates the high quality of our Leased estate, which 
delivered total operating profit growth of 2% (on a 52 week 
basis), despite having 6% fewer pubs. 
Like for like beer volumes are in growth and have been 
consistently ahead of the market throughout the year 
(source: BBPA). Like for like rent is also in growth and the 
percentage of pubs on substantive leases has increased 
from 94% to 96% at the year end.
Our focus has remained on improving the quality of the estate 
through investment, innovation and selective disposals and we 
have continued to generate returns from investment in excess 
of our 25% hurdle rate. 
We have continued our Leased innovation trials during the year 
and these have evolved from the more restrictive franchise type 
agreements towards more flexible, fixed and variable turnover 
based rent. This is a natural evolution of our approach in 
providing targeted support to our licensees to share with them 
the skills, experience and insight which our Managed estate 
provides us with.
Summary
Looking forward, our strategy remains clear, relevant and 
consistent: firstly, further organic growth from our existing sites, 
and secondly a new strand of growth through acquisition. 
In order to successfully deliver this second leg of growth we will 
need to continue to build our current pipeline of acquisition sites.
We expect both macro and micro economic trends to gradually 
improve over the next year but we expect volatility to remain. 
Our focus on value for money and delivering a great experience 
for every guest, irrespective of demography or occasion, 
underpins this positive momentum. We remain confident in the 
long-term business outlook, based on further organic growth 
from our existing assets and new growth through acquisitions.
Mike Tye
Chief Executive Officer
1  Growth rates are shown on a 52 week vs 52 week basis to exclude the benefit 
of an extra week trading in the financial year to 23 August 2014. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 09
Business model
Our business model is simple – we own or operate pubs that we either 
manage ourselves or that we lease to entrepreneurs who then run  
their own business from those pubs, and we operate only in the UK. 
We strive to ensure that all of our pubs are operated with the 
right model, being Managed or Leased, and that their offer and 
management are appropriate in order to maximise our returns.
Having a mixed estate of both Managed and Leased pubs 
ensures that we have more operating flexibility to ensure that 
we maximise our returns based on finding the appropriate 
operating format for each pub. We perform a regular review 
of our estate which enables us to identify opportunities and 
respond to changing local demographics and social change, 
subject to vacant possession in the case of a Leased pub.
Our Managed estate, with its combination of property assets 
and brands, is one of the highest quality managed pub estates 
nationwide. We invest in these pubs to improve the quality 
of our properties and to ensure that we offer our guests 
compelling reasons to visit our pubs. Our focus on first rate 
talent and leadership ensures that we recruit, develop and 
retain the best people who can consistently deliver the best 
guest experience. We employ over 17 ,000 people and their 
primary focus is to ensure that the guest experience is flawless 
and compelling. 
Our Leased estate is of similarly high quality, with the particular 
feature that a significant proportion of the Leased estate has 
previously been operated as a managed pub, and they are 
therefore typically larger than the pubs in other leased estates. 
These pubs are best operated by highly skilled licensees who 
run them as their own business but who may also choose to 
benefit from our economies of scale in purchasing and certain 
central support functions such as training.
 1,227
Pubs nationwide
consisting of 794 Managed 
pubs and 433 Leased pubs.
Ambition and metrics
Spirit’s ambition is to be the number one hospitality company 
in the UK. 
Our goal is to have each of our three major stakeholder groups 
– our employees (Team), our customers (Guests) and our 
Investors – view us as the best hospitality company compared 
to our competition. In doing so we aim to create a virtuous circle 
of success in terms of the impact of each of those stakeholders 
on the others.
To make our ambition more tangible we have set ourselves 
a small number of challenging targets most relevant to  
each stakeholder group, and we measure our performance 
against those targets. All of those targets are derived from,  
and directly related to, achievement of our business strategy. 
More information about our progress in achieving those targets 
during the course of the year is included later in this report  
(see page 13).
Business overview
Spirit has a high quality estate of 1,227 pubs nationwide 
consisting of 794 Managed pubs and 433 Leased pubs. 
Our Managed estate is predominantly branded, in that each 
pub operates under one of our strong portfolio of award 
winning brands or formats. Our brand and format portfolio 
offers a wide variety of leisure hospitality opportunities and 
has evolved to reflect the increasing polarisation of consumer 
tastes towards both value and premium and ensures that 
we can meet our guest needs across a range of occasions.
Our brands and formats:  10 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Our market
The pub is a British institution which continues to play a major role 
in British society. There are nearly 40,000
1
 licensed pubs in the UK. 
The UK pub industry can be broadly categorised into three business 
models: managed pubs; leased or tenanted pubs; and individual, 
independently owned pubs.
Individual pubs
Individual pubs (sometimes known as free houses) are 
independently owned and operated by private individuals. 
The owner has full operational and managerial control of the 
pub and is free to decide which products to sell. There are 
approximately 12,000
1
 individual pubs operating in the UK. 
Spirit’s pubs compete in two core markets – drinking out and 
eating out, of which more detail is given on the following page. 
Across these markets, there are a wide variety of competitors 
for different occasions, including other pubs, restaurants, bars, 
coffee shops, fast food outlets and sandwich retailers.
Managed pubs
Managed pubs are generally owned by a pub company or 
brewer. The owner of a managed pub employs all of the pub 
staff, is responsible for the operating expenses of the pub and 
generally prescribes the entire range of products offered by 
the pub. Managed pubs tend to be larger and have a higher 
average weekly turnover than leased or tenanted pubs and 
individual, independently owned pubs. There are approximately 
6,000
1
 managed pubs operating in the UK, of which 794 are 
operated by Spirit. 
Leased or tenanted pubs
Leased or tenanted pubs are run and managed by a retailer 
who does not own the premises, but who operates the pub 
under a lease or tenancy agreement. The retailer is generally 
responsible for the maintenance of the pub and is normally 
required to purchase the majority of drink products for resale 
from the owner of the pub. Leased or tenanted pubs tend to 
have a lower average weekly turnover than managed pubs 
and have historically been more dependent than managed pubs 
on the sale of draught beer. There are approximately 22,000
1
 
leased and tenanted pubs operating in the UK, of which 433 
are operated by Spirit.
Industry background
794
Managed pubs
There are approximately  
6,000
1
 managed pubs 
operating in the UK, of which 
794 are operated by Spirit.
433
Leased and 
tenanted pubs
There are approximately 
22,000
1
 leased and tenanted 
pubs operating in the UK, 
of which 433 are operated 
by Spirit.
1 Source: CGA Outlet Index June 2014. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014(F) 2015(F) 2016(F) 2017(F) 2018(F)
4,158
4,037
3,944
3,803
3,677
3,535
3,471
3,394 3,338
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014(F) 2015(F) 2016(F) 2017(F) 2018(F)
77 77
79
81
83
85
88
91
94
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 11
Drinking out Source: CGA.
£28bn 2013 market size
Total drink volume 
equivalent drinks
Eating out Source: Allegra.
£81bn 2013 market size
Total eating out market 
£bn
The decline in the drinking out market has been partially offset 
by an increase in casual dining, with growing demand for more 
food-led and family occasions, and a trend toward polarisation 
of demand toward both premium and value offers. 
Pubs have grown in importance as dining and food 
establishments, with an estimated 2%
1
 increase in covers 
volume in pubs between 2013 and 2014.
1 Source: CGA.
The growth of consumption at home via off-trade and 
supermarkets, increased regulation such as the smoking ban, 
and changing social behaviours have meant that overall volumes 
in the on-trade beer market have been in steady decline for 
over 20 years. This decline was exacerbated by the deep 
consumer recession which started in 2008, increasing pressure 
on discretionary spend. Although the removal of the beer duty 
escalator in March 2014 was a positive step to aid recovery, 
the drinking out market remains in decline, possibly by a further 
16% between 2014 and 2018 (source: Mintel). 
Pubs have had to adapt to the changing market in order to 
continue to prosper. The majority of the on-trade volume decline 
remains in smaller drink-led pubs that have neither the capital 
to invest nor the facilities to evolve their offer to meet changing 
trends. All these factors have created an opportunity for the 
larger managed pub companies to develop food-led branded 
offers with a growing digital presence and to take market share.
 
Net sales like for like year-on-year comparison  Spirit  Peach Total  Peach Pub
%
Spirit Pub Company 
vs Coffer Peach 
Business Tracker
When compared to this 
industry benchmark, it can 
be seen that Spirit’s Managed 
pubs have outperformed 
the market for 16 consecutive 
quarters. The Coffer Peach 
Business Tracker is the 
widely acknowledged industry 
barometer and includes 
many of our key competitors.
10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
FY11Q1
(16wks)
FY11Q2
(12wks)
FY11Q3
(12wks)
FY11Q4
(12wks)
FY12Q1
(16wks)
FY12Q2
(12wks)
FY12Q3
(12wks)
FY12Q4
(12wks)
FY13Q1
(20wks)
FY13Q2
(8wks)
FY13Q3
(12wks)
FY14Q1
(20wks)
FY14Q2
(8wks)
FY14Q3
(12wks)
FY13Q4
(12wks)
FY14Q4
(12wks) 12 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Our strategy
Our established strategy
Our Circle of Success sets out some very basic values  
which are deliberately kept simple so as to maintain focus:
Business model
Own pubs that we  
either manage ourselves  
or lease to entrepreneurs
Best for Team
We are authentic and engaging 
people; we are determined to be the 
best, as individuals and as TEAMS
Best for Guest
We are obsessed with delivering 
the best GUEST hospitality  
all day, every day
Best for Investor
We are in business to make money 
for our INVESTORS; we make  
every penny count Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 13
Compelling 
brands  
and pubs 
Our aim:
To create consistently compelling reasons 
for people to visit our pubs.
First rate  
talent and  
leadership 
Our aim:
To recruit, develop and retain  
the best people.
Flawless 
execution for 
every guest 
Our aim:
To deliver the best guest experience  
for every guest.
Measurement Strategic drivers
Strong measurement and  
analysis systems are core  
to our ability to deliver  
our strategy.
Ambition
To be the number one hospitality company in the UK.
Measurement, monitoring and review
We use a range of financial and non-financial KPIs to measure 
progress against our strategic objectives, and these are set 
out in more detail on pages 4 and 5. 
We also assess and analyse our markets in detail to provide 
a practical context for our strategy – see pages 10 and 11 
for more details.
In order to realise our ambition and to execute our strategy, 
we set ourselves challenging targets, and we have made 
considerable progress in the year:
Target 2014 2013
Guest 
90% recommendation
90% loyalty / retention
 84.8%
2
 1
2
Team 
90% recommendation 
90% succession
3
74%
53.5%
66%
48.3%
Investor 
Progressive EPS growth
4
ROI > 25%
Eventual estate > 1,500 outlets
 12.7%
31%
5
1,227
8.6%
26%
1,229
1 New measure in the year hence no comparable data for 2013.
2  Guest loyalty / retention was not tracked throughout the whole of 2014, 
and as such has not been reported. This is deemed to be an  
important measure for the business, and as such will be  
monitored going forward.
3 General Manager succession. 
4 Pre-exceptional.
5 Excludes sale of the Black Lion pub.
Risk assessment
The risks that we currently believe are likely to have 
the greatest impact on the achievement of our 
strategic objectives should they occur, fall under 
the following categories:
 > Economic climate and competition
 > Recruitment and retention of talent
 > Service standards, brands and reputation
 > Changes in legislation and political risks
 > System failure or cyber security breach
See pages 26 to 29 for further detail of our principal  
risks and uncertainties. 
At the heart of our business  
are three core strategic drivers, 
which together reflect our 
commitment and approach.  
The following pages contain further 
detail on these core strategic drivers.
page 14
page 16
page 18 page 26
pages 4-5 Established objectives 
Continuous evolution of brand propositions
 > Responsive to consumer trends and market
 > Customer relationship management (CRM) and growing 
digital presence
 > Loyalty schemes
Capital strategy
 > Disciplined approach
 > Strong returns
 > Focus on innovation
 > Refresh programme to protect asset quality
 > Acquire new pubs
14 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
794
Managed pubs
High quality and diverse estate, 
covering a wide variety of 
occasions in both the drinking 
and eating out markets.
433
Leased pubs
Our Leased estate is one of 
the best estates in the leased 
and tenanted sector attracting 
the highest calibre licensees 
and providing strong profit 
opportunities.
The estate is primarily 
unbranded, run by small 
multiple operators or 
individuals. Our focus is on 
leveraging our managed 
experience where appropriate 
to help our licensees grow 
their businesses and to share 
the upside with them.
Our strategy
Compelling brands and pubs
We strive to ensure that every brand and pub is compelling and 
distinctive, giving guests equally compelling reasons to visit our pubs. 
We believe that this comprises two major components – evolving our 
brands and investing in our assets and infrastructure.
Five core Managed brands
Pubs 
Taylor Walker and John Barras are our 
drink-led brands. Taylor Walker is focused 
on tourists and city workers with the 
majority of pubs in central London, while 
John Barras is an endorsement over a 
range of community pubs with certain 
common features. 
 
Pub Restaurants 
We have three predominantly food-led 
brands – Fayre & Square (family value 
dining), Chef & Brewer (country pub 
and dining) and Flaming Grill (community 
pubs with a sizzling steak offer). 
 
Wacky Warehouse 
A well-known soft play brand, comprising 
children’s play barns and play areas, the 
majority alongside Fayre & Square pubs. 
Good Night Inns 
We have approximately 1,000 hotel rooms 
associated with our pubs, of which over 
600 carry our own Good Night Inns brand.
Golden Oak Inns 
In addition to our five core brands, 
we have successfully trialled a new 
concept in 2013/14, Golden Oak Inns, 
a high quality local inns brand with a 
contemporary environment and excellent 
food and service.
page 30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 15
Innovation
We are always looking at ways to evolve our brands and 
respond to changing consumer and market trends. In 2014 
we introduced a number of new ideas including the Golden Oak 
Inns trading format and Wacky Corners (play areas within rather 
than adjacent to our pubs), and we have continued to evolve 
and improve Chef & Brewer, Flaming Grill, Fayre & Square and 
Taylor Walker. 
Through digital and CRM schemes we are deepening our 
understanding of what drives our guests’ behaviour using 
the richness of our loyalty data, improving our guest survey 
information, and extending our analysis of all feedback streams. 
Digital channels enable us to communicate more effectively with 
our guests and potential guests across a variety of digital media 
and our digital and traditional marketing combine to provide a 
coherent marketing strategy for each of our brands and offers.
Digital
Our digital marketing strategy is designed to enable guests 
to interact with our brands through a number of online touch 
points; guests use our websites to discover and fully plan 
their visit through detailed pub and menu information before 
reserving their table via an integrated online booking service. 
Paid advertising and search engine optimisation strategies 
are utilised to acquire new guests through mainstream search 
engines, supported by gift card and affiliate programmes 
that increase brand exposure – both online and offline – 
and incentivise guest footfall through voucher redemption. 
Fans and followers are encouraged to engage in two-way 
relationships through our branded Facebook and Twitter pages.
CRM
CRM supports our vision of increasing guest retention and 
growing lifetime value through a deeper understanding of 
guest behaviour, facilitating greater insight and more effective 
communication. Our single customer view holds all guest 
information in a single database, allowing for more efficient 
campaign management and analysis, and a number of online 
and in-pub opportunities are used to increase the number of 
subscribed guests our brands can talk to through electronic 
CRM channels such as email and SMS.
Loyalty
The launch of loyalty schemes has enabled us to increase 
frequency of visit and value by incentivising guests with cash 
rewards, before utilising rich transactional data to target users 
with tailored offers that encourage frequent guests to spend 
more and lapsing guests to revisit. The simple card swipe 
mechanic is popular with guests, who also have the option of 
using a key fob to earn points and spend rewards. In 2014/15 
we will launch a loyalty mobile application to make it easier for 
our guests to earn rewards. 
Portfolio optimisation 
We are constantly looking to optimise our property portfolio 
through regular estate reviews. These enable us to determine 
the appropriate operating format for each pub to ensure that 
we maximise our returns. During the year we invested in and 
rebranded 28 pubs, completed the transfer of seven pubs 
from the Leased estate to the Managed estate, and completed 
55 refurbishments in the Managed estate. 
Investment
Our approach to investment is disciplined. Eighty-nine per cent 
of our Managed estate is now invested and branded and a 
refresh programme is also underway for already invested pubs 
to maintain returns without fully re-investing. Forty-two per cent 
of the Leased estate has been recently invested, and we also 
seek to co-invest with our licensees. Our programme of 
investment continues to deliver returns in excess of our targeted 
hurdle rate of 25%. For internal reporting purposes we measure 
returns in two ways, against the performance for the 12 months 
prior to investment and also against a projected trend based 
upon recent trading performance.
Growth
We are looking to grow our estate and leverage our existing 
scale and skills. During the year we acquired three new pubs 
for our Flaming Grill brand and acquired the leasehold interest 
in 19 pubs from the administrators of the Orchid Group. We 
have acquired a further three Orchid pubs since the year end. 
We have started to build a pipeline of acquisitions with our 
focus being on expanding our Flaming Grill, Fayre & Square 
and Taylor Walker brands.
1.5m
transactions
Fayre & Square loyalty 
programme (‘Reward Card’) 
is a success – to date 
over 160,000 registered 
cardholders and approximately 
1.5 million transactions.
Online
deposit system
 Extended our online deposit 
system to incorporate the 
Flaming Grill brand.
 7 9 2 , 000
covers
Online booking for 
792,000 covers.
30%
Web visitors  
have increased 
by almost 30% 
in 2014 to 
approximately 
11.1 million
£2m
£2m worth of 
sales coming 
through affiliates / 
non-Spirit 
marketing 
channels Established objectives 
Hospitality excellence
 > The best guest experience – every time
 > Teams engaged with a shared vision
 > Incentives to reward great service
 > Hospitality trainer for every pub
Delivering sales growth
 > Increase repeat visits 
 > Greater dwell time and spend per head
 > More guests recommending to friends and family
16 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
“I am here to make my Guests Smile”
“I want to make my Guests Smile”
“I know how to make my Guests Smile” 
“I can make my Guests Smile”
Our strategy
Flawless execution
Flawless execution is all about delivering a consistently great guest 
experience which in turn drives volume and sales. Again, we believe 
that two main objectives are at the core of that proposition.
5,000
We now have 
over 5,000 
employees on 
Team Spirit, 
our internal 
Facebook page
‘Smile’
In order to help achieve our ambition to be the number 
one hospitality company in the UK, we have continued 
to promote a particular way of doing business under the 
banner of ‘Making People Smile’. This gains an emotional 
commitment from our employees to ensure we are all 
focused on delivering the best guest experience and 
making guests smile every time they visit one of our pubs.  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 17
The best guest 
experience – 
every time
Incentives
We know that nothing makes a bigger difference to our business 
than our people. We not only have an annual awards ceremony 
in place that allows us to recognise our star performers but also 
a variety of recognition schemes that run throughout the year. 
These schemes allow us to recognise those employees who 
have made a real contribution to our business.
There is also a specific incentive scheme for pub teams that 
achieve a high score on our Guest Experience Mystery Visit 
(GEMV) programme. We also run a mystery visit scheme  
for our Leased estate, and our licensees welcome the 
feedback received. 
Team Spirit
We now have over 5,000 employees on Team Spirit,  
our internal Facebook page. This forum is used for recognition, 
sharing information, and to share best practice via examples 
of pub teams ‘making our guests smile’. 
Hospitality trainer for every pub
To support our focus on hospitality excellence and flawless 
execution we have a hospitality trainer responsible for every 
Managed and Leased pub to ensure that we provide the best 
quality training to our teams, building the capability to positively 
impact the guest experience and measured through guest 
surveys and mystery visits.
Productivity mindset
In the year, we focused on reinforcing a mindset of productivity 
in the way that everyone works – to use fewer resources to 
achieve the same or a better result, to use the same resources 
to achieve a better result, and to stimulate new approaches to 
how we can improve in all areas of the business. Early examples 
of projects connected with this initiative include an in depth 
consideration of the processes around food production, 
promotional strategy, supply chain and speed of service. 
Systems and infrastructure
We continuously focus on using technology, information and 
processes to make it easier for our pub teams to deliver flawless 
execution, and where possible to improve productivity. Our 
EPOS and back office system, the roll-out of which completed 
in December 2012, continues to help drive efficiency and 
support the initiatives introduced to improve flawless execution. Established objectives 
Recruiting the best people
 > Improved recruitment and selection methods
 > Award winning apprenticeships
Training and development
 > The power of great leadership
 > Weekly / monthly bite size training
Focus on retention
 > Robust succession plans 
 > Stability delivering results
 > Reward and recognition
18 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Our strategy
First rate talent and leadership
Leadership development
Building on the success of previous programmes we continue 
to offer a variety of development options designed to develop 
the skill and talent of leaders across the business to improve 
business performance and ultimately enabling us to achieve 
our ambition. 
The leadership cadre, our senior management and executive 
management team successors, are also taking on more 
accountability for the leadership of the business. In further 
support we created the ‘Spirit 100,’ the top 100 leaders in 
our business across the Company, and which has strengthened 
relationships between the field and Support Centre. 
Talent pipeline and internal succession
An award winning career pathway, continuous improvement in 
the quality of our training and a focus on succession planning 
and better management information have all contributed to 
there being more internal promotions than in previous years. 
Internal promotion reinforces hospitality as a career and 
encourages those starting out in their career to progress. 
Best employer 
Our employees voted us to be one of the best 
businesses to work for in the UK, as we ranked 
16th in the Sunday Times Top 25 Best Big 
Companies to work for in 2014. This is based on 
criteria including fair deal, wellbeing and personal 
growth. This award endorses our commitment  
to recruit, develop and retain the highest calibre team  
and to be an employer of choice.
During the year Spirit won the ‘Best HR Campaign’ and a 
coveted Gold Award for ‘Best Overall Campaign’ at the Institute 
of Internal Communications (IOIC) awards, for its learning and 
development programme.
Diversity
Spirit is committed to providing a working environment and 
conditions where all employees are treated equally and on the 
basis of their merits, abilities and potential without discrimination. 
We are confident that the policies we have in place ensure 
that in practice we adopt this approach to equality, whereby 
all employees are treated equally in respect of recruitment, 
promotion, career development, training and reward. 
As a company, Spirit values diversity in its workforce for the 
strength and vitality that it brings to the business, including 
gender, ethnicity, cultural backgrounds and skills and 
knowledge. The Board is supportive of such matters and is 
satisfied that the Group as a whole, in addition to the Board 
and executive management team, reflect this principle. Within 
the Group, women comprise 53% of total employees, and 
within management women comprise 29%. Twenty per cent 
of the members of the executive management team who report 
to the Chief Executive Officer are women and women also 
comprise 14% at Board level. It is equally important to the 
Board that it also reflects an appropriately diverse balance 
of skills and experience. 
As an employer of 17,136
1
 people our team are central to us being  
able to achieve our goal of excellence in hospitality. We are dedicated 
to finding the best people and helping them to grow to meet their 
potential and we believe that translates into three key objectives.
1 As at 23 August 2014. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 19
Hospitality as a career
Spirit plays a major role in promoting hospitality as a career. 
We have been heavily involved in the government consultation 
on traineeships and the further development of apprenticeships 
in hospitality. We continue to offer work experience  
opportunities and Sector Based Work Academies for the long 
term unemployed. We have also launched ‘Apprentichef’, 
a structured programme with development and pay progression 
to take school leavers through to Kitchen Manager roles.
Spirit offers all employees access to a career pathway, from 
team players through to senior management, clearly showing 
the development and progression opportunities available. 
Our development opportunities include a range of qualifications 
from Level 2 Apprenticeships to Level 7 Master’s programmes. 
All our guest facing employees undertake a series of engaging 
and interactive e-learning sessions as part of our induction 
programme, covering topics such as food hygiene, health 
and fire safety, and Challenge 21.
Graduates and other qualifications 
Our graduate scheme is designed to attract talented individuals 
who are looking to develop a career in hospitality. Spirit offers 
a number of graduate places each year and retention and 
success rates are high with over 80% retention at the end 
the first year and with many graduates promoted to General 
Manager within 18 months of joining Spirit. 
At Spirit we also offer an alternative to university and our 
fully-funded vocational qualifications range from entry level 
apprentices for our team players and team leaders, through to 
a degree in multi-site retail leadership. Three of our employees 
graduated with a Company sponsored Master’s degree from 
Leeds Metropolitan University in June 2014. 
Apprenticeships
Our apprenticeship programme allows our pub team members 
to gain Level 2 qualifications in Food and Beverage, Food 
Processing, Customer Service or Team Leadership, depending 
on job role and career aspirations. We also have a highly 
acclaimed Level 3 programme which has provided a springboard 
for many of our Deputy General Managers and Kitchen 
Managers to progress to become General Managers. During 
the year, Spirit was recognised as a ‘Top 100 Apprenticeship 
Employer’ at the National Apprentice Awards, and won the 
Hospitality Guild’s ‘Partnership of the Year’ award. 
We currently have over 1,500 apprentices either working 
towards or already graduated from Level 2 and Level 3 
qualifications. The apprenticeship programme has retention 
rates of over 75% and over 40% of those completing Level 3 
have been promoted within Spirit. Our timely completion ratio 
continues to be significantly higher than the industry average 
and over 60% of our pubs now have at least one apprentice 
in learning. 
Pensions
Since the May 2013 implementation date, the vast majority of 
employees who are eligible to be enrolled into pension auto-
enrolment schemes have decided to remain in the schemes 
and receive the Company’s matching pension contribution.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
Employees are offered the opportunity to share in the Group’s 
success by owning shares in the Company via the Group’s 
HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan. The plan is open to 
all employees of the Group including the Executive Directors, 
and currently 245 employees participate. Employees have the 
opportunity to purchase up to £1,800 of shares per annum out 
of pre-tax salary (partnership shares), and for every partnership 
share bought by the employee of the Company, we give the 
employee one share free of charge (matching shares). The 
shares are held in trust, using an Employee Benefit Trust (EBT), 
for a period of three years, at the end of which the matching 
shares will normally be released provided that the partnership 
shares have been retained and that the employee is still 
employed by the Group at this time. During this time the shares 
are beneficially owned by employees, attract voting rights and 
are eligible for dividends. The voting rights in respect of these 
shares are exercised by the trustees of the EBT on behalf of 
the employees. If, after three years the employee elects to keep 
the matching shares in the EBT for a further two years (i.e. for 
a total period of five years) the matching shares are released 
to the employee free of tax and National Insurance.
 1 ,500
apprentices
We currently have over 
1,500 apprentices either 
working towards or already 
graduated from Level 2 
and Level 3 qualifications. 01 London / South East 34%
02 North 28%
03 Midlands 28%
04 South West & Wales 6%
05 Scotland 3%
01
02
04
05
03
20 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Managed division overview
Our Managed estate consists of 794 pubs, the majority of which are 
high quality. We benefit from a significant exposure to the economically 
stronger London and South East region, with 34% of our estate within 
that area.
Our brands and formats cover a wide variety of occasions  
in the mass market and have evolved to reflect the increasing 
polarisation of consumer tastes towards both value and 
premium. This has continued to be a trend despite early signs 
of economic recovery, and our offers are currently tailored to 
appropriately respond to this demand.
Managed estate – geographical distribution Managed brands
Managed brands 
Number 
of pubs
Growth 
potential
Chef & Brewer 138 175-200
Fayre & Square 158 225-250
Flaming Grill 109 250-275
Taylor Walker / Metropolitan 123 150-175
Golden Oak Inns 7 150-200
Local pubs 230
Not trading 29
Total Managed 794
Wacky Warehouse
1
95 225-250
1 Includes 15 Wacky Corners and two Wacky Tots Spots.
We consider that our Flaming Grill, Fayre & Square, Wacky 
Warehouse, Taylor Walker, Chef & Brewer and Golden Oak Inns 
brands have further growth potential, with our Locals estate 
providing a source of pubs for conversion into our Flaming Grill 
and Golden Oak Inns brands. See above for detail. See pages 
30 to 36 for further detail of our Managed brands.
 > Continued strategy of a minimum number of brands with 
critical mass to drive simplicity, focus and productivity.
 > Each brand is well positioned in the quadrants to maximise 
the potential guest base. Where appropriate we will move 
some of our low price wet led community locals towards 
food and quality offers. As part of developing this 
proposition, we intend to further develop Golden Oak Inns, 
providing a more aspirational offer for their core guests. 
 > Continued development of each brand proposition 
to increase guest relevance and drive frequency of visits.
 > Value for money equation used in each segment to identify 
areas of differentiation and competitive advantage and 
support guest recruitment strategies.
Quality focus
Price focus
Drink focus   Food focus 01 London / South East 24%
02 North 39%
03 Midlands 21%
04 South West & Wales 5%
05 Scotland 9%
01
02
04
05
03
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 21
Leased division overview
Spirit Leased is one of the highest quality estates in the sector with 
433 sites across the UK. Our Leased estate includes a wide variety 
of pubs from premium food outlets through to great sports-led locals.
Most of our pubs are operated by individual licensees; however, 
a quarter of our pubs are on long term leases with small 
multiple operators, many of whom are highly respected in 
the sector. Our experienced licensees bring their own quality 
operations teams and benefit from the added value that 
we as a major pub company can provide, primarily through 
in-pub training, investment, an extensive product range and 
a managed infrastructure providing retail knowhow and scale.
After a number of years in decline, the business has stabilised 
and has now started to grow. This has been achieved by 
continuing the focus on a combination of investment, innovation 
and robust performance management around the retail offer 
and the calibre of our licensees.
Seventy-four per cent of the Leased estate is now believed 
to have the right licensee, with the right concept and executing 
the offer well.
We aim to maximise the value of each of our Leased pubs 
by continuing to exert greater influence where appropriate 
over the retail offer and leveraging our managed expertise 
and infrastructure. We want to share the upside with high 
calibre retail focused entrepreneurial licensees and assist 
them to position each business for sustainable growth.
For more information visit 
www.spiritleasedpubs.com 
www.facebook.com/spiritleased 
www.twitter.com/spiritleased
Leased estate – geographical distribution
22
103
433
Leased sites 
97
171
40 22 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Corporate responsibility
As part of our business strategy we recognise that the way we do 
business has an impact on the communities in which we operate, 
on the environment and on wider society.
Winner
Winners – European Supply 
Chain Excellence Awards 
2013 – Consumer Products 
Category.
Ultra Bio Fuel 
In partnership with Convert2Green and Kuehne+Nagel, 
Spirit have trialled Ultra Bio Fuel within the existing food 
distribution fleet.
This bio fuel is derived from our own waste cooking oil and 
tests to date indicate an 85% carbon reduction saving per 
annum per vehicle compared with traditional mineral diesel. 
Through our food distribution fleet renewal programme we 
will gradually remove the use of red diesel and as part of 
that renewal programme we are investing in vehicle camera 
technology to create driver efficiencies and improve health 
and safety performance within our distribution network.
Winner
Winners – The Sustainability 
Leaders Awards 2013 – 
Internal Operational 
Engagement.
We are proud to have received a number of awards during the 
year recognising our efforts as responsible corporate citizens. 
Such recognition is welcome, but regardless of whether we win 
awards or not, we believe that our approach to corporate social 
responsibility is a critical part of executing our strategy.
Supply chain
In a macro-economic environment of rising raw material, labour 
and environmental compliance costs, achieving efficiencies 
within the supply chain is more important than ever.
Continued progress towards a consolidated  
supply chain solution
Our supply chain strategy is to leverage our scale and 
infrastructure where appropriate, whilst removing complexity 
in the end to end supply chain to provide a more user friendly 
and efficient ordering platform for the General Managers at 
our Managed pubs, and the licensees of our Leased pubs 
who utilise our supply chain.
Through consolidation of the supply chain we have achieved:
 > A reduction of approximately 29,000 deliveries to our pubs 
per annum, saving around 100 tonnes of carbon emissions.
 > A saving of an average 30 minutes of administration time 
per day per Managed pub.
Waste management 
Spirit was recognised again during the year for its sector 
leading approach to end to end waste management by 
winning the Sustainability Leaders Award 2013 for Internal 
Operational Engagement. 
As a result of the continued success of our recycling scheme 
and key partnerships with our waste service providers, we now 
divert 82% of our waste from landfill. It is our objective to divert 
100% of waste from landfill by 2017.  Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 23
As part of our commitment we have recycled:
 > 1 million litres of used cooking oil
 > 2,100 tonnes of food waste via anaerobic digestion 
 > 1,800 tonnes of cardboard 
 > 43 tonnes of tin
 > 48 tonnes of plastic
 > 9,800 tonnes of glass 
WRAP (Waste and Resources Action Programme)
We have identified WRAP as a key partner in helping us 
correctly identify the factors which have the greatest impact 
on food and packaging waste to help us reduce waste in the 
supply chain and improve compliance in recycling at pub level. 
Just two examples are reviewing ingredients in the meals 
we serve in an effort to reduce food waste and improved 
communication and training to encourage changes in behaviour. 
Environment and energy consumption
During the year Spirit installed front of house energy efficient LED 
lighting in its entire Managed estate, improving the environment 
for guests and our pub employees whilst delivering an average 
reduction in energy consumption of 6%. We have committed 
to a further roll-out of LED lighting with installations in our 
78 Wacky Warehouses due to be completed by February 2015.
On a wider scale, Spirit has negotiated a new dual fuel energy 
contract with Inenco (in partnership with TOTAL Gas and 
Power). From October 2014, TOTAL Gas and Power will supply 
Spirit with 100% renewable electricity, with power generated 
from wind, biomass and hydro sources. As part of that 
agreement, automatic meter readers (AMRs) will be installed or 
renewed across the estate by the close of 2014. The enhanced 
measurement of timely and accurate consumption data that 
we expect from our new AMRs will be used to create a robust 
energy reporting suite to provide a better platform for behavioural 
change on energy consumption within our pubs, and to improve 
the accuracy of forecasting of energy costs.
As part of our ongoing commitment to reduce energy  
usage there are a number of trials underway to automate the 
switching on and off of electrical appliances and gas central 
heating systems, together with trials of more efficient cellar 
cooling technology. 
During the year we commenced our first Energy Saving 
Opportunities Scheme (ESOS) audit. This is a Government 
scheme which requires large enterprises to carry out a 
mandatory programme of energy audits to be undertaken 
by December 2015 and we are well placed to deliver our 
requirements by this date. 
Responsible retailing 
Drinks
We work with all of our suppliers to ensure we play an active role 
in the Department of Health’s Public Health Responsibility Deal 
pledge to lower the units of alcohol consumed in the UK by 1 
billion units each year. Examples of this include the introduction 
of 25ml measures of spirits in all of our pubs, and the ranging 
of lower strength and 0% alcohol, whilst our soft drinks range 
continues to grow. We include a soft drink as an alternative to 
an alcoholic drink as part of our meal deals across all brands. 
To enable our team members to deliver a responsible service 
across our estate, we operate a Challenge 21, and where 
required Challenge 25, scheme of age verification. We also use 
a mystery guest age verification scheme to regularly test our 
procedures. We remain committed to employing initiatives 
in drinks brands and drinks retailing to reinforce the message 
of responsible consumption. For example, during the year we 
have moved away from using price-led promotions and now 
focus promotional activity on range choice and links with food. 
In Chef & Brewer, we pair all of our main course monthly 
specials with the best matching wine instead of a focus on 
discount promotions. In terms of our responsible sourcing 
programme, we now have local ales being sold in over 
500 Managed pubs, supporting many small breweries.
Food
We aim to deliver a sector leading food offer to our guests from 
a supply base of fully accredited and quality assured factories. 
Our suppliers commit to delivering a consistently high standard 
of products into our pubs.
Products supplied to us must satisfy all current food 
manufacturing legislation and environmental health 
requirements. Our products are also fully compliant to 
an agreed specification and agreed sensory evaluation.
All of our menu products are free from added hydrogenated 
vegetable oils, monosodium glutamate and food containing 
or consisting of genetically modified organisms. 
We appreciate that attitudes towards food are changing and 
guests want to know more about the food they eat. We have 
full nutritional content detailed on our brand websites, thus 
helping our guests to make an informed choice. 
Full allergen information is available on our brand websites 
and in house for all 14 declarable allergens, in line with the 
new EU Food Information Regulation 1169/2011 (FIR).
We are committed to working closely with our suppliers 
to ensure that our bespoke products continue to meet the 
Department of Health’s 2012 Public Health Responsibility 
Deal guidelines to reduce salt consumption in the UK. 24 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Corporate responsibility
continued
Sourcing 
We acknowledge our responsibility to minimise our impact 
on the environment by only selecting suppliers with responsible 
and sustainable sourcing policies in place. All of our food 
suppliers are accredited to British Retail Consortium audit 
standards or equivalent. 
We support animal welfare standards and the sustainable and 
ethical sourcing of seafood. Our Taylor Walker and Chef & Brewer 
brands go further than this and use sustainably sourced cod 
caught using wider nets that allow younger, smaller codling to 
slip through and back into the ocean. Spirit is also supporting 
British dairy farming through our partnerships with Beechdean 
Ice Cream and Tomlinson’s Dairy.
All of our Costa coffee beans and ‘own brand’ beans are 100% 
Rainforest Alliance certified and our eggs are sourced from 
British farms.
Community, charity and not for profit activity
We remain committed to raising money for charity and we 
encourage our teams in our pubs and at our Support Centre 
to help us in fundraising for good causes.
Children in Need 
In June 2014, our Wacky Warehouse brand hosted the 
world’s largest party with 78 Wacky Warehouses taking part. 
This was promoted through social media and over 5,000 
children and adults joined in the fun. The super-sized free 
birthday party featured all the ingredients of a Wacky party 
and Wacky mascots were on hand collecting donations for 
Children in Need. Spirit raised £21,000 for Children in Need 
in 2013/14.
Great Ormond Street Hospital 
Great Ormond Street remains the chosen charity for our 
Taylor Walker brand and we plan to raise £250,000 for 
the hospital to build a new medical team resource centre, 
meeting room and relaxation area. So far, we have raised 
£130,000 towards the target, of which £69,000 was raised 
this year. Funds have been raised from barrel pulls in London 
and sponsored cycles across Scotland, as well as selling 
Santa hats at Christmas and pub ghost story booklets 
during Halloween.
Working with catering schools 
and colleges 
Over the past 18 months we have successfully partnered 
with Milton Keynes College, running masterclasses for their 
students on key hospitality topics, and giving them access 
to our online induction material on topics such as food safety 
and health and safety training. We also provide work 
placements so the students get essential real world 
experience to support their academic studies.
Partnering with Prostate Cancer UK 
We partnered with Prostate Cancer UK to support their 
campaign ‘Men United v Prostate Cancer’ during the 
summer months when football matches were being shown 
in our pubs. In total Spirit has raised over £145,000 in the 
last four years through fundraising initiatives for Prostate 
Cancer UK. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 25
We work in partnership with ‘Believe in Young People’, a charity 
committed to helping young people find their right career path. 
We provide nationwide placements in the hospitality sector 
under our ‘Teen Spirit’ work experience programme which was 
awarded the Gold Work Experience Quality Standard in the 
year for the high quality materials we use to support students 
through their placements, which are tailored according to 
individuals’ needs. 
We have also designed a new ‘ApprentiChef’ programme aimed 
specifically at young people to provide a clear development 
programme over a 30 month period and a chance to grow 
a career in Spirit. 
Electronic communication
As part of our ongoing efforts to develop sustainable business 
processes we have switched to paperless wage slips and 
employee discount vouchers. Spirit employees now receive their 
wage slips electronically, providing a reduction of approximately 
215,000 sheets of A4 paper per annum. Also, during the year 
our Human Resources department has introduced a paperless 
digital contracts platform. Switching to electronic contracts 
for salaried employees has saved a minimum of 80,000 sheets 
of paper per annum. 
Human rights
We respect human rights. We accept our responsibility to avoid 
causing or contributing to adverse human rights impacts that 
are directly linked to our operations, and we seek to prevent 
or mitigate any such impacts which may be caused by our 
business relationships. That is not just a matter of legal 
compliance for us, but is more fundamentally connected with 
the way we want to do business, and that is why we do not have 
a separate human rights policy. Our approach to human rights 
is to incorporate our values into the way we do business and 
the way we interact with the communities in which we operate.
Greenhouse gas emissions
This section provides the emissions data and supporting 
information required by The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, Part 7: 
Disclosures Concerning Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
Footprint boundary
An operational control approach has been used to define the 
greenhouse gas emissions boundary, as defined in Defra’s 
latest Environmental Reporting guidelines: ‘Your organisation 
has operational control over an operation if it or one of its 
subsidiaries has the full authority to introduce and implement 
its operating policies at the operation’. 
For Spirit this captures emissions associated with the 
operation of the Managed estate, offices and all Company 
owned and leased vehicles in the UK. There are no overseas 
sites or activities. 
Emissions sources
All material scope one and two emissions are included  
in the emissions calculation:
 > Fuel combustion: stationary (natural gas, coal, biomass, logs); 
mobile (vehicle fuel) 
 > Purchased electricity
 > Fugitive emissions (refrigeration F-gases)
There are no known process emissions and no purchased 
heat or steam. 
Exclusions
Spirit sites that are leased to private landlords do not 
fall within the operational control of the organisation, 
and therefore emissions associated with the Leased 
estate have been excluded.
Methodology and emissions factors
Emissions have been calculated using the methodology set 
out in the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (ref. PB 13944), 
published by Defra in June 2013. Emissions factors are taken 
from DECC / Defra’s June 2014 update. 
Greenhouse gas reporting
The greenhouse gas emissions for Spirit for 2013/14 
are detailed below:
Source
tonnes CO
2
e 
2013/14 %
Fuel combustion (stationary):  
gas, coal, logs 29,163 26.2%
Fuel combustion (mobile):  
owned transport 1,023 0.9%
Facility operation: F-gases 684 0.6%
Purchased electricity 80,393 72.3%
Total 111,263 100%
Note: as this is the first reporting year, no historical comparison 
is available.
Emissions intensity
For purposes of baselining and ongoing comparison, we are 
required to express the greenhouse gas emissions data using 
a ‘carbon intensity’ metric; we are using turnover to calculate 
this metric.
Spirit’s turnover in 2013/14 was £801m, giving an intensity 
of 139 tonnes CO
2
e per £1m turnover.  26 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board has ultimate responsibility for Spirit’s risk management 
framework, and the aim of that framework is that appropriate people 
in the business should identify, evaluate, manage and prioritise 
the material risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed. 
The outcomes are monitored by the Audit & Risk Committee 
(the Committee) and Board according to a structured programme 
of consideration and review.
For the financial year ended 23 August 2014 the Committee 
reviewed the formal risk management framework adopted by 
Spirit, and this was approved by the Board. There has been 
considerable progress in developing and embedding an 
enterprise risk management framework over the three years 
since inception of the business and the focus has shifted 
as appropriate between establishing the framework and 
embedding the right approach to risk using relevant elements 
of that framework. 
Overview of framework
The risk management framework adopted by Spirit has 
continued to evolve from the previous year. It uses risk appetite 
and risk tolerance statements approved by the Board as the 
foundation of a structure which relies on regular ‘risk champions’ 
meetings to populate a risk register which captures and 
scores the principal risks to the business. The risk champions 
represent particular functions in the business but also perform 
a valuable role in calibrating risk across the business. 
1
Assess risk  
appetite
Identify  
risks
Analyse /  
evaluate  
risks
Decide on 
mitigating 
actions and 
ownership
Monitor,  
report and 
track
2
3
4
5
Board
Management
Audit  
& Risk 
Committee
Risk  
assurance
Executive  
management 
team Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 27
The risk register documents and scores risks, first on a gross 
basis based on likelihood and impact of occurrence, secondly 
on a net basis taking account of available mitigation, and finally 
on a target basis to set a realistic goal for the future. In doing so, 
a risk appetite and action plan is also assessed on an individual 
risk basis. 
The risk register is regularly reviewed by the executive 
management team responsible for each function, and then 
collectively at executive management team meetings to 
provide an opportunity for business overview and calibration. 
The Committee reviews the entire risk register at least twice 
a year and the Board reviews the highest ranking risks and 
a key risk indicator dashboard on a regular basis.
Focus in the coming year will be on further embedding 
and refining the risk framework. 
In addition to the risk management framework referred to 
above, in which day to day evaluation and management of risk 
is carried out by management, risk assurance is also provided 
from a number of other sources including, but not limited to, 
internal audit, operational audit and, where appropriate, 
specialist third party internal audit resource. Together they 
provide assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of key 
controls and the management of risk using a ‘three lines of 
defence’ approach which also involves the external Auditor 
as appropriate. 
Methodology of risk assessment
Spirit is exposed to a variety of financial, operational,  
economic and regulatory risks and uncertainties which it  
Risk Impact Mitigating actions 
Market and economy
Economic climate and competition
There is an inherent risk that economic factors 
such as rising interest rates, declining real 
wages, higher unemployment, tax increases, 
lack of consumer credit or falling house prices 
could adversely affect the level of consumer 
confidence, which could result in a negative 
effect on the level of spending by the customers 
of Spirit’s pubs.
With competitor activity increasing, there is also 
a risk that we lose market share.
Team
Guest
Investor
 > There are a series of structured review processes from the strategic plan 
to quarterly brand strategy reviews, periodic executive management team 
reviews, periodic sector development meetings and weekly performance 
updates. These seek to assess, amongst other things, the impact of the 
economic climate on our strategic objectives. These meetings are also 
tasked with producing contingency plans as the economic climate changes, 
such as improving the flexibility of our cost structure.
 > Diverse brand proposition that can adapt to social changes.
 > Menus, pricing and promotional offers are continually monitored and 
reviewed to adapt to the needs of guests.
 > Interest rate swaps continue to be employed to generate the desired interest 
rate profile. For the current year derivative financial instruments were 
employed such that 98% of all loans (August 2013: 100%) were either at 
fixed rate or were converted to fixed rate as a result of swap arrangements.
Cost increases
An increase in costs including food, drink, 
labour and utility costs is an ongoing risk to the 
business. This could be due to a variety of factors 
including, amongst others, the unavailability of 
products, the economic climate, inflationary price 
increases, and / or increases in taxes and duties.
Guest
Investor
 > Supplier contracts have been negotiated so far as practicable to protect 
the Group against significant increases in food, drink and utility costs.
 > The Group has the potential to source products from a number of alternative 
suppliers.
 > Electricity and gas have been partially forward purchased for the next 
financial year and there is a dedicated focus on monitoring and reducing 
utility usage.
 > Careful cost control processes ensure that all costs are budgeted, subject 
to appropriate authorisation and monitored as appropriate.
 > Menus and retail prices are continually monitored and updated to optimise 
the offer.
groups under the following headings: ‘Market and economy’, 
‘Financial’, ‘Operations, people and infrastructure’, ‘Regulatory’, 
and ‘Reputational’.
Our principal risks and uncertainties as they relate 
to achievement of our strategy
Our principal risks and how they are managed are detailed on 
the following pages; however, this is not an exhaustive list of all 
of the risks to which the business is exposed – in transferring 
risks from the register to this report some risks have been 
consolidated for consistency of presentation and are not 
presented in an order of priority or seriousness. They are, 
however, presented to draw particular attention to their impact 
on each of our stakeholders (Team, Guest and Investor) and 
therefore achievement of our strategic objectives.
Our approach to risk is pragmatic. We are concerned about 
risks which score highly at gross level but not all of those risks 
are susceptible to meaningful mitigation. In terms of achieving 
our strategy we are mindful of risks we cannot influence but 
focused on those where, by our actions, we can bring about 
significant mitigation (a meaningful gross to net swing) or get 
closest to achieving our target (smallest net to target gap). 
That said, we are not unduly focused on scoring; it is a guide 
to keep the relativity of risks in perspective but no more.
The risks on our risk register which we currently believe are 
likely to have the greatest impact on achievement of our 
strategic objectives, should they occur, and which therefore 
form the main trends and factors likely to affect the future 
development, performance and position of our business 
over the short term, have been highlighted in red.
 Strategic risks 28 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Principal risks and uncertainties
continued
Risk Impact Mitigating actions 
Operations, people and infrastructure
System failure or cyber security breach
There is a risk that business operations could 
be adversely impacted by the loss or partial loss 
of a critical system or sensitive information due 
to a system failure or cyber security breach.
Team
Guest
Investor
 > Networks and systems are protected by anti-virus software, firewalls and 
network segmentation that are regularly updated.
 > The introduction of more up to date software provides additional in-built security.
 > Regular internal and external penetration testing is performed by accredited 
providers, and if shortcomings are identified they are addressed as appropriate.
 > Incident management, business continuity management and IT disaster 
recovery plans are in place for critical business processes to mitigate the 
effects of the business being unable to operate in the event of a major 
incident – these plans have been audited and further improved in the year.
 > An Information Security Steering Group was established during the year 
to provide guidance and impetus to improve security of information assets.
Recruitment and retention of talent
Failure to recruit, train and successfully retain 
key employees and licensees, and to carry 
out appropriate succession planning, could 
impact the ability to deliver the Company’s 
strategic plan.
Team
Investor
 > A well developed, coherent programme of recruitment, induction training 
and coaching is provided for Group employees, Managed employees and 
new licensees within the Leased estate.
 > Succession planning at all levels is being improved to ensure high calibre 
individuals are retained and talent development is accelerated.
 > Comprehensive leadership development programmes and various training 
programmes at all levels of the business have been ongoing throughout 
the year.
 > The Group carries out bi-annual employee engagement surveys and regular 
listening groups to obtain direct feedback from employees.
 > There is a formal remuneration strategy to ensure individuals and teams 
are paid fairly and competitively.
 > The Group continues to monitor the financial health of licensees.
Leased operating model
Failure to innovate the Leased operating model 
could result in risk to future EBITDA and the 
Group falling behind its competitors within the 
leased pub market. 
The announcement earlier this year that our 
Leased pubs will be regulated under the new 
Statutory Code and Government Adjudicator 
could have adverse implications on the 
profitability of the Leased division.
Investor > There is an appropriate strategic plan in relation to Leased innovation that 
is monitored and updated regularly.
 > Focus has been on creating opportunities for each pub business to grow, 
providing relevant pricing and product ranges to help keep licensees 
competitive and facilitate a recruitment pipeline of quality licensees.
 > We will continue to engage actively with the government in relation to the 
new Statutory Code and Government Adjudicator. However, as things stand 
we do not believe it will significantly affect our operations and will only serve 
to formalise the ways of working that we currently have in place.
Supply chain
Spirit places reliance on external suppliers for 
the supply of food, drink and other products 
and other critical business processes. 
Poor performance and / or poor quality service 
delivery could impact operations and lead to 
financial loss.
Guest 
Investor
 > Active management of key suppliers, including periodic review of service 
levels compared to the service level agreements in place with those suppliers.
 > The disaster recovery and business continuity plans of material suppliers 
are reviewed internally on a regular basis.
 > Product quality is closely monitored and tested, and the Group has access 
to alternative products or suppliers if required.
Financial 
Liquidity and going concern
Spirit’s borrowings are subject to restrictions 
on the release of excess cash and a variety of 
financial covenants. Failure to comply with the 
terms of the loan agreements could restrict the 
ability of the Group to fund the business strategy, 
particularly around dividends and investments, 
by restricting the uses to which cash could be put.
Cash flow volatility (driven by the seasonality 
of cash flows) could also result in a going 
concern risk.
Investor > Cash flow forecasts are produced to assist management in identifying 
liquidity requirements and are stress tested for possible scenarios. 
These include assessments of the ability to meet the restricted payment 
conditions in the debt structure in order that cash can be released to the 
Group outside that structure.
 > Covenants are closely monitored and stress tested to ensure the Group 
is able to generate sufficient returns to service debt and meet covenant 
requirements.
 > During the year the Group re-profiled its A1 and A3 secured loan notes 
to provide more short and medium term liquidity and to ensure more 
financial flexibility.
 > There are a number of other options available to the Group to help meet debt 
service costs if required; for example tighter control of capital expenditure 
within the securitised estate.
 Strategic risks Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 29
Risk Impact Mitigating actions 
Underperforming investments
There is a risk that investment sites do not 
perform due to poor site selection and poor 
brand development and execution, which  
could result in insufficient return on investment.
Investor > Robust analysis is performed to provide effective and focused 
investment decisions.
 > The return on investment (ROI) of invested sites is tracked on a periodic basis 
compared to both budget and a control group.
 > Periodic meetings are held to discuss strategy in relation to investment 
performance and growth.
Pensions
Spirit has two defined benefit pension schemes 
which must be funded to meet required benefit 
payments. The value and funding of the schemes 
are subject to the risks of changes in life 
expectancy, actual and expected price inflation, 
and changes in bond yields. These could result 
in an increase in the pension fund deficit leading 
to unexpected increases in funding requirements. 
Investor > The defined benefit pension schemes are closed to new members and future 
accrual; defined contribution schemes are operated for the Company’s 
employees instead.
 > The Company continues to examine and implement strategies which 
will further mitigate the risks of an increased deficit or reduced surplus – 
the medium to long term risk reduction strategy is currently being reviewed.
 > A close relationship is maintained with the trustees of the pension schemes.
Regulatory
Food, food hygiene, health and safety
There is a risk that a major food hygiene or health 
and safety incident could lead to serious illness, 
injury or loss of life due to poor standards of 
safety compliance and necessary due diligence. 
This could result in fines, prosecution, negative 
publicity, reputational damage and / or negative 
business performance.
Team
Guest
Investor
 > Health and safety policies are formally documented, regularly reviewed 
and briefed to the Support Centre and field based teams and our Managed 
pub teams.
 > Independent inspectors are engaged to carry out professional safety audits 
on a regular basis.
 > Health and safety is reviewed at the periodic operations risk meeting which 
considers all aspects of health and safety across the Managed estate.
 > Pre-planned maintenance and repairs are performed to ensure property 
standards are adequate.
 > Spirit has a specification of all products which all suppliers must adhere to 
and these are regularly checked through internal audits.
 > All new products are analysed chemically regarding their nutritional make up, to 
ensure product quality. Existing products are also tested on a rotational basis.
 > Safety measures are in place to ensure that product integrity is maintained 
and that all food and drink products are fully traceable.
Changes in legislation 
and political risks
Spirit is subject to many different areas of 
regulation, particularly due to the high level of 
control over the sale of alcohol, and can be 
subject to the consequences of delay and failure 
to obtain required licences, permits and 
approvals. Increasing public focus in areas such 
as binge drinking, underage drinking, and health 
impacts over recent years means that the 
government may introduce further regulation.
Guest
Investor
 > The Group works closely with trade bodies to address the key issues 
facing the pub sector.
 > The Group ensures that training provided covers all aspects of licensing 
requirements and has appropriate due diligence measures in place to 
confirm that all pubs meet all licensing legislation.
 > With regard to the late night levy and early morning alcohol restriction orders, 
in areas where Spirit pubs may be affected an appropriate response is made 
as part of consultations and, in the event of implementation, remedial actions 
are taken.
Reputational
Service standards, brands 
and reputation
An issue may occur which could materially 
impact or damage the reputation of one of the 
Managed pub brands. This could affect the 
ability of the brand to attract future guests or 
negatively impact the ability of that brand to 
generate income. Increased use of digital and 
social media may exacerbate or accelerate the 
consequences of any such issue.
Investor > Guests are considered at the heart of the business, and continued focus on 
the guest experience has resulted in improved feedback scores throughout 
the year.
 > A coherent programme of training for all team members, including the 
‘Making People Smile’ philosophy, ensures teams are motivated to create 
a great guest experience.
 > A third party supplier carries out ‘mystery guest’ audits and all guests are 
invited to complete satisfaction surveys so standards can be monitored and 
any specific concerns can be addressed.
 > Independent inspectors and an independent operational audit team provide 
assurance on internal controls within the Managed estate.
 > Active monitoring and management of social media is performed. 30 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
 
Our brands
Taylor Walker
 ‘A traditional, metropolitan 
pub that delivers the great 
British pub experience to 
those that visit, live, work 
and play in the city’
Taylor Walker encapsulates the best of British 
hospitality with landmark pubs serving cask ale, 
premium world lager and classic British dishes. 
Over 70% of the estate is in central London 
with the remainder in other UK cities including 
Edinburgh, York, Newcastle and Birmingham.
Our core guests are tourists and city workers and 
we have continued to enhance the offer based on 
the experience that these key groups are seeking.
Continuing to see the importance of cask ale to  
our guests, we sold over 840 different ales from 
local breweries during the year.
For more information visit 
www.taylor-walker.co.uk
www.facebook.com/taylorwalkerpubs 
www.twitter.com/taylorwalkerpub
Highlights
 > We converted four pubs 
to Taylor Walker, and 
completed 12 major 
refurbishments and 24 
minor refurbishments this 
year as part of our ongoing 
plans to grow the number 
of Taylor Walker pubs and 
refresh our existing estate
 > We have extended the craft 
ale range across the estate 
to allow regular rotation of 
craft ales
 > Taylor Walker Ale 
introduced into 20 prime 
London sites to help 
enhance the Taylor 
Walker brand
 > Launched the ‘Taylor 
Walker History & Ale Trail’ 
mobile application that 
allows guests to follow 
a series of trails between 
some of our iconic pubs
Future plans
 > Extend Taylor Walker Ale 
across the Managed estate
 > Continue to invest to 
increase capacity and 
maximise the sales 
opportunity
 > Develop both drink and 
food ranges to improve 
the tourist and locals’ 
guest experience
 > Introduce a web based 
function room referral site 
to help maximise corporate 
and tour group bookings
6
5
8
103
1
123
sites Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 31
 
Flaming Grill
 ‘Flaming great steaks  
in a flaming great pub’
Flaming Grill pubs offer a friendly welcome and are 
a great place to meet up with friends and family, 
catch up over a drink, watch some sporting action 
and enjoy quality flame grilled food in a vibrant 
atmosphere. Flaming Grill’s fantastic product offer 
and cheeky and irreverent tone are ensuring the 
brand continues to go from strength to strength. 
The popularity of the Flaming Grill challenge dishes 
has engaged the guest base, and subsequently 
led to the creation of dedicated website pages 
and Facebook pages. The brand’s social media 
channels have a strong following, engaging with 
around 70,000 fans and followers every day. 
Flaming Grill is Spirit’s youngest brand with the 
first pubs converted in 2009. Since that point the 
brand has grown rapidly and now has over 100 
pubs, sourced from both community locals and 
food-led pubs. 
For more information visit 
www.flaminggrillpubs.com 
www.facebook.com/flaminggrillpubs 
www.twitter.com/flaminggrillpub
Highlights
 > Double digit volume and 
sales growth
 > Acquired three new Flaming 
Grill pubs and exceeded 
100th Flaming Grill opening 
milestone  
 > Continued innovation on 
the food offer with festivals 
and challenges
 > Successfully evolved 
the menu to incorporate 
‘Rhythm of the Week’ offers 
and ‘stretch’ at both the 
entry and premium ends 
of the menu pricing
 > Launched ‘Blaze’, our 
outdoor food van, visiting 
festivals and events to 
spread the Flaming Grill 
message to our target 
audience
Future plans
 > Introduce ‘Stadium’ bars, 
a dedicated sports / games 
zone for die-hard sports fans
 > Continue focus on 
delivering great value 
through both food and 
drink offers
 > Introduce loyalty schemes 
 > Brand expansion through 
the conversion of existing 
Spirit pubs into the Flaming 
Grill brand and further 
acquisitions
1
47
39
17
5
109
sites 32 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
 
Our brands
continued
Chef & Brewer
 ‘Classic country pubs; 
a warm and relaxing 
atmosphere offering high 
quality pub food and drinks 
at surprisingly good prices’
Proud to offer expertly chosen food and drink 
with the unmistakable hospitality and warmth of 
a real British country pub. With beer gardens in 
the summer, roaring fires in the winter, a monthly 
selection of specials and a rotating cask ale range, 
Chef & Brewer has a broad appeal attracting both 
the more affluent and the more mainstream guest, 
as it satisfies a number of occasions at surprisingly 
good prices.
For more information visit 
www.chefandbrewer.com 
www.facebook.com/chefandbrewer 
www.twitter.com/chefandbrewer
Highlights
 > 429,000 covers booked 
online in 2014
 > Increased engagement 
of kitchen teams through 
the launch of our Chef 
Academy Apprenticeship 
Programme and our annual 
chef skills competition
 > Introduced outdoor bars 
to maximise garden appeal
 > New investment trials 
underway 
Future plans
 > Continue to evolve the 
core food and drink offer
 > Refresh programme to 
maintain estate quality
 > Introduce loyalty schemes
138
sites
3
31
49
48
7 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 33
 
Fayre & Square
 ‘Delicious meals, square deals, 
friendly and efficient service. 
The value pub restaurant 
of choice for families’
Fayre & Square is all about those everyday 
excuses to get together with family and friends; 
those chances to relax, catch up, enjoy great 
deals and quality food and share great times 
in good company.
We are proud to have held our core ‘2 for £10’ 
deal on main course pub favourites since 2007. 
We also offer a compelling range of ‘2 for’ deals 
and ‘2 for £5’ on starters and desserts. 
We are so confident that our guests will love our 
meals we offer a ‘No Quibble’ guarantee – if for 
any reason our guests are not happy with their 
meal we will replace it, no quibble.
For the kids we have Wacky Warehouses, 
Wacky Corners or Wacky Tot Spots at over  
half of our Fayre & Square pubs. 
For more information visit 
www.fayre-square.com 
www.facebook.com/fayreandsquare 
www.twitter.com/fayreandsquare
Highlights
 > Launched loyalty 
programme – to date over 
160,000 registered loyalty 
cards with over 1.5 million 
transactions 
 > All main meals are now 
available as part of a deal
Future plans
 > Fayre & Square reward 
mobile application to be 
launched enabling guests 
to find their nearest pub, 
book a table, and redeem 
offers and rewards in pub 
 > More investments and 
potential acquisitions 
 > Brand expansion through 
the conversion of existing 
Spirit pubs into the Fayre & 
Square brand and further 
acquisitions
158
sites
66
58
23
11 34 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
 
Our brands
continued
Wacky Warehouse
 ‘All day Wacky fun  
for kids and grown-ups’
With 95
1
 sites nationwide, Wacky Warehouse 
is the UK’s leading soft play and activity centre 
provider for children aged up to 12 years old. 
Situated mostly alongside or within our Fayre & 
Square pubs, the brand continues to surge 
ahead of its nearest competitors. 
Wacky Warehouse understands that whilst it is 
vital for children to have fun, its venues need to be 
designed to satisfy the needs of the whole family 
– meaning parents can get a break too.
For more information visit 
www.wackywarehouse.co.uk 
www.facebook.com/wackywarehouse 
www.twitter.com/wacky_warehouse
1 Includes 15 Wacky Corners and two Wacky Tots Spots.
Highlights
 > 21 new sites this year; 
four Wacky Warehouses, 
15 Wacky Corners and 
two Wacky Tot Spots 
 > 20th birthday of Wacky 
Warehouse, consolidating 
its position as the UK’s 
number one soft play 
and party company 
 > New website with online 
booking for parties and 
sales of unlimited play 
monthly cards
 > Through the ‘Little Leaders 
Campaign’, we recruited 
parents and children via 
social media to collaborate 
with us to build a new 
kids’ menu 
Future plans
 > New build Wacky 
Warehouses
 > Continue development of 
‘in-fills’ of Wacky Corners 
and Wacky Tot Spots 
 > Refine brand and 
environment to increase 
engagement and 
competitiveness
 > Build on success of 
the introduction of the 
pub menus by positioning 
Wacky Warehouse as 
‘eat and play’
95
1
sites
46
36
8
5 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 35
 
John Barras
 ‘Your local where there is 
always something going on’
At John Barras you will find everything a great local 
pub should be. A great drinks range, great value 
pub food, a great place to watch sports action, 
and the best entertainment and pub activities;  
all at outstandingly great value.
John Barras has a diverse guest profile, ranging 
from low income young families to affluent 
pre-retirees. It is not ‘all things to all people’, 
it simply appeals to all ages who like similar things, 
and is best defined as ‘Heart of the Community’. 
For more information visit 
www.johnbarras.com 
www.facebook.com/johnbarraspubs 
www.twitter.com/johnbarraspubs
Highlights
 > A more extensive range 
of drink products is now 
available than ever before, 
in particular developing 
further our cask and craft 
beer offer – over 100 of our 
John Barras pubs support 
local breweries by selling 
local ales
 > Launch of a web based 
tool to support the 
communication of 
promotions to our guests
 > Launch of our ‘Local Social’ 
initiative helping General 
Managers to communicate 
with their guests via 
social media
Future plans
 > Continue to develop both 
our food and drinks ranges 
to better cater for guests 
at a local level
 > Develop our credentials as 
the home of sport – launch 
of our ‘Sports Promise’, 
communicating clearly to 
guests the great service 
they can expect during 
each key sporting event
 > Continue to drive  
‘Heart of the Community’, 
by delivering compelling 
reasons to visit
 > Opportunities to convert 
a number of John Barras 
pubs to our new quality local 
format, Golden Oak Inns
110
sites
2
36
35
31
6 36 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
 
Our brands
continued
Good Night Inns
 ‘We’ll make you feel at home’
Good Night Inns is a collection of charming hotels 
with plenty of character which offer a comfortable, 
homely stay for all of our guests. Most of our  
hotels have plenty of tradition and heritage, 
with interesting and varied histories.
With over 600 rooms operating under the brand, 
all of the hotels are conveniently located next to 
one of our pub restaurants.
For more information visit 
www.goodnightinns.co.uk
Highlights
 > Introduced occupancy 
driven rate strategy
 > Relaunched website with 
a number of offers tailored 
to rewarding guests 
Future plans
 > Increase affiliate and online 
travel agency partnerships 
 > Launch new website 
to drive bookings and 
incentivise return visits
28
sites
1
10
12
4
1 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 37
Financial review
Summary consolidated income statement
Before exceptional items
2014
£m
2013
£m Change
Revenue 801 758
Outlet costs (543) (519)
Outlet EBITDAR 258 239 8%
Rent (68) (67)
Onerous lease provision 11 13
Outlet EBITDA 201 186 8%
Central costs (42) (37)
EBITDA 159 150 7%
Depreciation (38) (36)
Operating profit 121 113 7%
Net finance costs (61) (59)
Profit before tax 60 54 11%
Tax (13) (13)
Profit after tax 47 42 12%
Basic adjusted EPS 7.1p 6.3p 13%
Profit after tax before exceptional items 47 42
Exceptional items (net of tax)
1
52 (7)
Profit after tax including exceptional items
1
99 35 187%
Basic EPS including exceptional items
1
15.1p 5.2p 190%
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (see note 1 to the financial statements).
The financial review covers the 53 weeks to 23 August 2014 and 
therefore the results benefit from an additional week of trading 
when compared to the prior year. At the end of the year, the estate 
comprised 794 Managed pubs and 433 Leased pubs, a net reduction 
in the estate size of two pubs from the prior year.
Results for the period 38 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Financial review
continued
Results
Operating profit before exceptional items was up 7% at £121m 
with 9% growth in the Managed estate and 2% growth in the 
Leased estate. 
The quality of earnings continues to improve with a £2m (15%) 
lower credit from the onerous lease provision in EBITDA in the 
period. Inclusive of the discount on the unwind of this provision 
this results in a £1m reduction in credit taken to profit before 
tax. The further reduction in the utilisation of the onerous lease 
provision reflects the actions that have been taken to further 
mitigate the losses on these properties, either through 
investment or through alternative property solutions such 
as sub-lets for alternate use.
The strong performance of the business in the year has resulted 
in higher bonuses being payable and this has contributed £5m 
additional central support costs. 
Net finance costs are higher than in the prior period due to the 
increased regulatory costs of our undrawn liquidity facility.
Tax 
The effective taxation charge for the period was 21.9%
1
. 
The comparable rate for the prior year was 23.4% with the 
movement primarily due to the reduction in corporation 
tax rates.
We have not paid any corporation cash tax in the period 
although we do expect to commence cash tax payments 
in 2014/15. The cash tax rate is expected to be substantially 
below the effective tax rate due to the availability of brought 
forward losses.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items include a £20.2m charge in respect of VAT 
on gaming machines and default interest repayable to HMRC. 
At 21 August 2010 a contingent asset of £18.9m existed in 
relation to the Group’s outstanding gaming machine VAT claim. 
HMRC requested repayment of this amount during 2013/14, 
following a ruling of the Court of Appeal in favour of The Rank 
Group plc (Rank) in October 2013. However, in April 2014 Rank 
were granted leave to appeal directly to the Supreme Court on 
this matter and this case is due to be heard in April 2015. As the 
outcome of the gaming machine VAT claim has yet to be finally 
concluded, the Group has not made a cash payment to HMRC.
The annual property revaluation has resulted in a net increase 
in the valuation of the pub estate of £140m, which comprises 
a credit of £72m taken to the income statement for those pubs 
for which the valuation at August 2014 is assessed to be higher 
than at August 2013. A valuation gain of £68m has been taken 
directly to equity.
Other property related exceptional items arise from the profit 
on disposal of properties of £19m, a £4m credit for the release 
of the onerous lease provision in respect of disposed properties, 
and a non-cash charge of £3m reflecting the impact of 
contracted annual uplifts in property head lease rentals. 
Finance related exceptional items include a £21m charge 
for the mark-to-market of interest rate swaps and a £2m gain 
on the cancellation of debenture bonds and swaps.
The costs of defined benefit pension schemes, which are 
closed to new members, have resulted in a £2m charge to 
exceptional items.
These exceptional items give rise to a £1m tax credit with a 
further £1m tax credit arising due to the impact of the change 
in the statutory rate.
Capital expenditure and disposals
Capital expenditure for the year was £44m, of which £24m 
was invested in our Managed estate, £6m in our Leased estate, 
£3m spent on the acquisition of and investment in three 
freehold pubs and £3m on the purchase of the freehold interest 
of pubs already operated by Spirit.
During the year, focus has been on maintaining disciplined 
capital investment to drive returns and innovation, and to ensure 
that the Group has compelling brands and pubs to attract and 
retain our guests. In the Managed estate, 55 refurbishments 
were completed at an average cost of £166,000, which was 
significantly lower than prior years, reflecting both the smaller 
average footprint of the pubs and also cost efficiencies achieved. 
The success of trials of the Flaming Grill brand in smaller 
footprint pubs and the resultant lower capital spend per pub 
led to the acceleration of the roll-out of this brand in the second 
half of the year. 
The Leased estate benefitted from £6m spent on 43 projects 
and there is a strong pipeline of sites for investment in 2014/15.
Since the year end, we have completed the acquisition of a 
further three leasehold pubs from the Orchid estate which will 
be invested and branded in the first quarter of 2014/15.
Disposal proceeds of £34m were £19m above book values, 
with one pub, the Black Lion located in Bayswater in London, 
achieving a sale price of £27m due to its potential as part of 
a wider development site. The Group continues to operate 
the Black Lion under a short-term agreement until such time 
as the purchaser has achieved planning consent.
1 Excluding exceptional items. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 39
Since the year end, another London pub, the Prince of Wales, 
was sold in October 2014 achieving a sales price of £15m 
(approximately 50x EBITDA) reflecting the development 
potential of this site in Earls Court.
Property valuation
In accordance with our accounting policy we have updated 
the market valuation of our estate to £1,513m at the year end, 
representing an increase in the value of the Managed estate 
of 12% and an increase in the value of the Leased estate of 
2%. This valuation was completed in conjunction with Colliers 
International, independent chartered surveyors, who completed 
physical inspections and individual valuations for 25% of the 
estate with the results of these site visits extrapolated over the 
remaining estate taking into consideration a range of factors 
including location, tenure and operating format.
Cash flow and capital structure
Cash flow from operating activities was £165m, up from £122m 
in the prior year, with working capital benefitting from the 
53rd week. After accounting for capital expenditure, cash from 
disposals, financing costs and tax, there was a net cash inflow 
of £58m (August 2013: £4m) in the period.
At August 2014, the Group had £801m debt in the form of 
long-term mortgage type finance, secured on a portfolio of 
1,072 properties. The debt fully repays over terms extending 
to 22 years and, due to the interest rate swaps, is predominantly 
at fixed rates of interest. Repayments of this debt commenced 
in March 2014, with £7m having been repaid in the year and 
£12m due to be repaid in 2014/15.
On an ongoing basis the Group reviews its capital structure 
and financing options in order to ensure that they appropriately 
reflect the business needs and the strategic intentions for 
the Group. With regard to the upcoming commencement of 
the debt amortisation, the Group successfully re-profiled the 
securitised debt in November 2013 in order to provide greater 
financial flexibility. To effect this re-profiling, a proportion of the 
A1 and A3 bonds were exchanged for new A6 and A7 bonds 
respectively, with the new bonds having a slightly higher 
interest rate and a longer amortisation profile. This re-profiling 
ensured the Group has greater short and medium term financial 
flexibility and provides the Group with an appropriate balance 
between financial flexibility and incremental liquidity, and the 
additional interest cost to the Group. The weighted average 
effective interest rates of interest-bearing borrowings, including 
the effect of interest rate swaps, and excluding finance leases, 
at August 2014 is 7.8% (August 2013: 7.7%).
A key long term objective for the Group has been to reduce 
the net debt to EBITDA
1
 ratio to between 4.0 and 4.5 times and 
maintain appropriate headroom against our financial covenants. 
Gross debt within the debenture was £801m at the year end 
(August 2013: £822m), offset by cash within the debenture 
of £106m (August 2013: £50m), leading to net debenture 
debt of £695m. The Group holds £53m of cash outside the 
debenture structure, giving net debt of £641m at August 2014 
(August 2013: net debt of £706m including £14m of debenture 
bonds held outside the debenture structure (£nil at August 
2014)). The debt to EBITDA ratio (pre-exceptional items) was 
4.0 times at the year-end (August 2013: 4.7 times), which is 
now within the target range set in 2012. 
The Debt Service Cover Ratio (DSCR) which is the primary 
measure under which the performance of the debenture 
is measured, was 1.9 times at the year-end (August 2013: 
2.0 times), giving significant headroom against the default 
covenant DSCR of 1.3 times. There is also significant 
headroom above the DSCR level which is required to be 
met in order to transfer cash out of the debenture structure 
for general corporate purposes.
Cash held by Group companies outside the debenture 
structure was £53m at the year-end (August 2012: £52m). 
These resources will continue to be used to fund plc cash 
outflows, invest in the growth of the business, and fund 
dividend payments to Shareholders.
Pensions
The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, 
both of which are closed to new entrants. The triennial actuarial 
valuation of the schemes, as at October 2012, was completed 
during the year and it was agreed that the deficit funding 
contributions should continue at £5m, the same level as 
in previous years.
As at August 2014, these pension schemes are in a net liability 
position of £4m, reflecting a decrease of £3m in the year 
(net liability of £1m at August 2013). This change in valuation 
is driven by movements in equity markets and corporate bond 
yields in the year, together with updated valuation assumptions.
The Group has adopted IAS 19 (revised) Employee Benefits 
in the year. As a result, annual administration costs of the 
schemes of £1.6m are now charged to administration charges 
(within operating profit), rather than netted against the pensions 
finance charge. 
1 Excluding exceptional items.
The strategic report on pages 2 to 39 was approved by 
the Board and signed on its behalf by Paddy Gallagher, 
Finance Director on 3 November 2014. Name Walker Boyd Mike Tye Paddy Gallagher Tony Rice Mark Pain Christopher Bell Julie Chakraverty
Position Chairman Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Age 62 60 51 62 53 56 43
Length of service on 
Board (as at 3/11/14)
3 years 4 months 3 years 4 months 3 years 3 years 4 months 3 years 4 months 3 years 3 months 2 years 11 months
Independent ✓ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Member of Nomination 
Committee
✓ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Member of Audit & Risk 
Committee
✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Member of Remuneration 
Committee
✓ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Experience Appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman in July 2011 in 
preparation for the demerger 
of Spirit from Punch Taverns plc 
(Punch Taverns) where he was 
Non-Executive Director from 
April 2011.
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director of CSR Plc in 
December 2013.
Walker was Non-Executive 
Chairman of WH Smith, a position 
he held from 1 September 2010 
until 31 August 2013, after joining 
the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in February 2010. He has 
substantial retail expertise both 
in the UK and the USA. He was 
Group Finance Director at Signet 
Jewellers Limited, previously 
Signet Group plc, until June 2010, 
having held this position 
since 1995.
Mike Tye was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer in December 
2011 after briefly holding the 
position of Deputy Chief 
Executive Officer from June 2011. 
This was in connection with the 
demerger of Spirit from Punch 
Taverns where he was Managing 
Director for the Managed 
business from July 2008.
Mike is a Trustee and Board 
Member of Prostate Cancer UK 
from October 2014; and also a 
member of the Government 
Future High Street Forum. 
Mike has spent over 20 years 
working in many different areas 
of the leisure business, mainly 
with Whitbread, Forte and 
Aramark. In recent years, he has 
been Managing Director of: 
Costa Coffee; Premier Travel Inn 
(where he led the acquisition 
and integration of Premier Lodge 
to Travel Inn); and David Lloyd 
Leisure (where he led the business 
turnaround and subsequent sale). 
His early career was spent 
managing FMCG brands and 
running his own wine and spirit 
retail and wholesale business.
Paddy Gallagher was  
appointed Finance Director 
in November 2011. 
Prior to that, Paddy held a 
number of high profile finance 
positions including Chief Financial 
Officer at Rank Group plc, 
Chief Financial Officer at 
Quadriga Worldwide Ltd, 
UK Finance Director at Dell and 
Director of Financial Operations 
at Wang International.
Appointed Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director of Spirit 
in July 2011. Formerly Senior 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Punch Taverns from 
March 2010 and Independent 
Non-Executive Director from 
December 2007. 
Tony has held senior 
management positions with 
BAE Systems and Tunstall plc. 
Tony stepped down as CEO of 
Cable and Wireless at the end 
of 2013. He is a Trustee of Shelter 
and a Non-Executive Director 
of the Whittington Health Trust. 
He is also Chairman of Xerxes Plc. 
Tony was also Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee at Cable & 
Wireless from 2003 to 2006 and 
at Telewest from 2000 to 2003. 
Tony was also appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director of Halma 
plc with effect from 8 August 2014 
and Chair of Miller Homes with 
effect from 23 September 2014.
Appointed Independent 
Non-Executive Director of Spirit 
in July 2011 in preparation for 
the demerger of Spirit from 
Punch Taverns where he was 
an Independent Non-Executive 
Director from December 2007.
Mark has a wealth of experience 
as a listed company main board 
director. Mark served as Chief 
Financial Officer of Barratt 
Developments Plc from 2006 
to 2009. He was previously at 
Abbey National where he held a 
number of senior executive and 
group board positions, including 
Group Finance Director from 
1998 to 2001 and Customer 
Sales Director from 2002 to 2005. 
Mark is a Non-Executive Director 
at Aviva Insurance Limited, 
Johnston Press and Yorkshire 
Building Society and is also 
Chairman of London Square. 
Mark is a Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants.
Appointed Independent 
Non-Executive Director of Spirit 
in August 2011.
Christopher was Chief Executive 
Officer of Ladbrokes plc between 
2006 and 2010. Prior to that, 
he spent 12 years at Allied-Lyons 
and held a number of senior 
positions, six years as Managing 
Director at Hilton Group and eight 
years as Managing Director at 
Ladbroke Group. Christopher is 
also currently Senior Independent 
Director of Quintain Estates and 
Development, and was appointed 
as Chairman of XL Media PLC 
in March 2014. He has also 
been a Board member of the 
Responsible Gaming Strategy 
Board (RGSB) since 2009.
Appointed Independent 
Non-Executive Director of Spirit 
in January 2012.
Julie is a Non-Executive Director 
and Chair of the Innovation 
Committee at Aberdeen Asset 
Management plc. She is also a 
Non-Executive Director at Amlin 
plc and a Trustee of the Girls’ Day 
School Trust.
She previously spent 13 years 
at UBS Investment Bank, 
where she was a board member 
and held a number of global 
leadership positions with a 
specialist background in risk 
management and fixed income. 
Julie was also a Non-Executive 
Director at Paternoster, the 
specialist pensions insurer. 
She started her financial services 
career with JP Morgan.
40 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Board of Directors Name Walker Boyd Mike Tye Paddy Gallagher Tony Rice Mark Pain Christopher Bell Julie Chakraverty
Position Chairman Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Age 62 60 51 62 53 56 43
Length of service on 
Board (as at 3/11/14)
3 years 4 months 3 years 4 months 3 years 3 years 4 months 3 years 4 months 3 years 3 months 2 years 11 months
Independent ✓ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Member of Nomination 
Committee
✓ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Member of Audit & Risk 
Committee
✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Member of Remuneration 
Committee
✓ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Experience Appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman in July 2011 in 
preparation for the demerger 
of Spirit from Punch Taverns plc 
(Punch Taverns) where he was 
Non-Executive Director from 
April 2011.
Appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director of CSR Plc in 
December 2013.
Walker was Non-Executive 
Chairman of WH Smith, a position 
he held from 1 September 2010 
until 31 August 2013, after joining 
the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in February 2010. He has 
substantial retail expertise both 
in the UK and the USA. He was 
Group Finance Director at Signet 
Jewellers Limited, previously 
Signet Group plc, until June 2010, 
having held this position 
since 1995.
Mike Tye was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer in December 
2011 after briefly holding the 
position of Deputy Chief 
Executive Officer from June 2011. 
This was in connection with the 
demerger of Spirit from Punch 
Taverns where he was Managing 
Director for the Managed 
business from July 2008.
Mike is a Trustee and Board 
Member of Prostate Cancer UK 
from October 2014; and also a 
member of the Government 
Future High Street Forum. 
Mike has spent over 20 years 
working in many different areas 
of the leisure business, mainly 
with Whitbread, Forte and 
Aramark. In recent years, he has 
been Managing Director of: 
Costa Coffee; Premier Travel Inn 
(where he led the acquisition 
and integration of Premier Lodge 
to Travel Inn); and David Lloyd 
Leisure (where he led the business 
turnaround and subsequent sale). 
His early career was spent 
managing FMCG brands and 
running his own wine and spirit 
retail and wholesale business.
Paddy Gallagher was  
appointed Finance Director 
in November 2011. 
Prior to that, Paddy held a 
number of high profile finance 
positions including Chief Financial 
Officer at Rank Group plc, 
Chief Financial Officer at 
Quadriga Worldwide Ltd, 
UK Finance Director at Dell and 
Director of Financial Operations 
at Wang International.
Appointed Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director of Spirit 
in July 2011. Formerly Senior 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Punch Taverns from 
March 2010 and Independent 
Non-Executive Director from 
December 2007. 
Tony has held senior 
management positions with 
BAE Systems and Tunstall plc. 
Tony stepped down as CEO of 
Cable and Wireless at the end 
of 2013. He is a Trustee of Shelter 
and a Non-Executive Director 
of the Whittington Health Trust. 
He is also Chairman of Xerxes Plc. 
Tony was also Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee at Cable & 
Wireless from 2003 to 2006 and 
at Telewest from 2000 to 2003. 
Tony was also appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director of Halma 
plc with effect from 8 August 2014 
and Chair of Miller Homes with 
effect from 23 September 2014.
Appointed Independent 
Non-Executive Director of Spirit 
in July 2011 in preparation for 
the demerger of Spirit from 
Punch Taverns where he was 
an Independent Non-Executive 
Director from December 2007.
Mark has a wealth of experience 
as a listed company main board 
director. Mark served as Chief 
Financial Officer of Barratt 
Developments Plc from 2006 
to 2009. He was previously at 
Abbey National where he held a 
number of senior executive and 
group board positions, including 
Group Finance Director from 
1998 to 2001 and Customer 
Sales Director from 2002 to 2005. 
Mark is a Non-Executive Director 
at Aviva Insurance Limited, 
Johnston Press and Yorkshire 
Building Society and is also 
Chairman of London Square. 
Mark is a Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants.
Appointed Independent 
Non-Executive Director of Spirit 
in August 2011.
Christopher was Chief Executive 
Officer of Ladbrokes plc between 
2006 and 2010. Prior to that, 
he spent 12 years at Allied-Lyons 
and held a number of senior 
positions, six years as Managing 
Director at Hilton Group and eight 
years as Managing Director at 
Ladbroke Group. Christopher is 
also currently Senior Independent 
Director of Quintain Estates and 
Development, and was appointed 
as Chairman of XL Media PLC 
in March 2014. He has also 
been a Board member of the 
Responsible Gaming Strategy 
Board (RGSB) since 2009.
Appointed Independent 
Non-Executive Director of Spirit 
in January 2012.
Julie is a Non-Executive Director 
and Chair of the Innovation 
Committee at Aberdeen Asset 
Management plc. She is also a 
Non-Executive Director at Amlin 
plc and a Trustee of the Girls’ Day 
School Trust.
She previously spent 13 years 
at UBS Investment Bank, 
where she was a board member 
and held a number of global 
leadership positions with a 
specialist background in risk 
management and fixed income. 
Julie was also a Non-Executive 
Director at Paternoster, the 
specialist pensions insurer. 
She started her financial services 
career with JP Morgan.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 41 Name Mike Tye Paddy Gallagher Alan Morgan Chris Welham Debbie Moore Bob Broadbridge
Position Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Chief Operating Officer Managing Director, 
Spirit Leased
HR Director IT Director
Age 60 51 37 44 52 55
Length of service  
(as at 3/11/14)
3 years 4 months 3 years 3 years 4 months 2 years 6 months 2 years 6 months 3 years 4 months
Experience Mike Tye was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer in December 
2011 after briefly holding the 
position of Deputy Chief 
Executive Officer from June 2011. 
This was in connection with the 
demerger of Spirit from Punch 
Taverns where he was Managing 
Director for the Managed 
business from July 2008.
Mike is a Trustee and Board 
Member of Prostate Cancer UK 
from October 2014; and also a 
member of the Government 
Future High Street Forum. 
Mike has spent over 20 years 
working in many different areas 
of the leisure business, mainly 
with Whitbread, Forte and 
Aramark. In recent years, he has 
been Managing Director of: 
Costa Coffee; Premier Travel Inn 
(where he led the acquisition 
and integration of Premier Lodge 
to Travel Inn); and David Lloyd 
Leisure (where he led the business 
turnaround and subsequent sale). 
His early career was spent 
managing FMCG brands and 
running his own wine and spirit 
retail and wholesale business.
Paddy Gallagher was  
appointed Finance Director 
in November 2011. 
Prior to that, Paddy held a 
number of high profile finance 
positions including Chief Financial 
Officer at Rank Group plc, 
Chief Financial Officer at 
Quadriga Worldwide Ltd, 
UK Finance Director at Dell and 
Director of Financial Operations 
at Wang International.
Alan Morgan was appointed 
Chief Operating Officer in 2013.
Prior to that, Alan was National 
Operations Director within Spirit 
and had held a number of senior 
operational and commercial roles 
within Whitbread and David Lloyd 
Leisure. Alan is also a Governor 
and Non-Executive Director 
of Milton Keynes College.
Chris Welham was appointed 
Managing Director, Spirit Leased 
in February 2012. 
Prior to that, Chris was 
Operations Director at Greene 
King Pub Partners leading half 
of their Leased business. Chris 
has over 18 years’ experience 
in the industry and has held a 
number of senior operational 
roles in Greenalls, Pubmaster 
and Punch Taverns. Chris is also 
a Non-Executive Director at the 
British Institute of Innkeeping from 
May 2014.
Debbie Moore was appointed 
HR Director in February 2012. 
Prior to that, Debbie held a 
number of high profile HR roles 
including HR Director at the 
Post Office from 2007 to 2012, 
leading the people agenda of that 
organisation through significant 
change which impacted both 
employee engagement and 
business profitability. Previously, 
Debbie has been HR Director 
at Hays plc and UK Retail HR 
Director at the Dixons Group.
Debbie is a Trustee of the Burton 
Breweries Charitable Trust.
Bob Broadbridge was appointed 
IT Director in May 2010. 
Bob joined Spirit from The Health 
Lottery where he held the position 
of Chief Operating Officer for 
IT and Operations. Previously 
he was IT Director at The Tote, 
WH Smith and Superdrug. 
His early career was spent with 
Mars and Cadbury-Schweppes.
42 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Executive management team Name Mike Tye Paddy Gallagher Alan Morgan Chris Welham Debbie Moore Bob Broadbridge
Position Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Chief Operating Officer Managing Director, 
Spirit Leased
HR Director IT Director
Age 60 51 37 44 52 55
Length of service  
(as at 3/11/14)
3 years 4 months 3 years 3 years 4 months 2 years 6 months 2 years 6 months 3 years 4 months
Experience Mike Tye was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer in December 
2011 after briefly holding the 
position of Deputy Chief 
Executive Officer from June 2011. 
This was in connection with the 
demerger of Spirit from Punch 
Taverns where he was Managing 
Director for the Managed 
business from July 2008.
Mike is a Trustee and Board 
Member of Prostate Cancer UK 
from October 2014; and also a 
member of the Government 
Future High Street Forum. 
Mike has spent over 20 years 
working in many different areas 
of the leisure business, mainly 
with Whitbread, Forte and 
Aramark. In recent years, he has 
been Managing Director of: 
Costa Coffee; Premier Travel Inn 
(where he led the acquisition 
and integration of Premier Lodge 
to Travel Inn); and David Lloyd 
Leisure (where he led the business 
turnaround and subsequent sale). 
His early career was spent 
managing FMCG brands and 
running his own wine and spirit 
retail and wholesale business.
Paddy Gallagher was  
appointed Finance Director 
in November 2011. 
Prior to that, Paddy held a 
number of high profile finance 
positions including Chief Financial 
Officer at Rank Group plc, 
Chief Financial Officer at 
Quadriga Worldwide Ltd, 
UK Finance Director at Dell and 
Director of Financial Operations 
at Wang International.
Alan Morgan was appointed 
Chief Operating Officer in 2013.
Prior to that, Alan was National 
Operations Director within Spirit 
and had held a number of senior 
operational and commercial roles 
within Whitbread and David Lloyd 
Leisure. Alan is also a Governor 
and Non-Executive Director 
of Milton Keynes College.
Chris Welham was appointed 
Managing Director, Spirit Leased 
in February 2012. 
Prior to that, Chris was 
Operations Director at Greene 
King Pub Partners leading half 
of their Leased business. Chris 
has over 18 years’ experience 
in the industry and has held a 
number of senior operational 
roles in Greenalls, Pubmaster 
and Punch Taverns. Chris is also 
a Non-Executive Director at the 
British Institute of Innkeeping from 
May 2014.
Debbie Moore was appointed 
HR Director in February 2012. 
Prior to that, Debbie held a 
number of high profile HR roles 
including HR Director at the 
Post Office from 2007 to 2012, 
leading the people agenda of that 
organisation through significant 
change which impacted both 
employee engagement and 
business profitability. Previously, 
Debbie has been HR Director 
at Hays plc and UK Retail HR 
Director at the Dixons Group.
Debbie is a Trustee of the Burton 
Breweries Charitable Trust.
Bob Broadbridge was appointed 
IT Director in May 2010. 
Bob joined Spirit from The Health 
Lottery where he held the position 
of Chief Operating Officer for 
IT and Operations. Previously 
he was IT Director at The Tote, 
WH Smith and Superdrug. 
His early career was spent with 
Mars and Cadbury-Schweppes.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 43 44 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Directors’ report
The Directors present to Shareholders their report and audited 
financial statements of the Group, together with the Independent 
Auditor’s report for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014.
Certain information required for disclosure as part of this report 
is provided in other sections of the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements as appropriate. These include the Corporate 
governance statement, the Nomination Committee report, 
the Audit & Risk Committee report, the Remuneration report 
and the Group financial statements and these are accordingly 
incorporated by reference into (and shall be deemed to form 
part of) the Directors’ report.
In previous years the Directors’ report has included sections 
dealing with the Group’s principal activity, charitable contributions 
and creditor payment policy and practice. Due to changes in 
reporting requirements, we are no longer required to report on 
these issues specifically within this section of the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements. However, the Strategic report 
on pages 2 to 39 includes details of the Group’s main trading 
activities, and the Corporate responsibility report on pages 22 
to 25 includes details of the Group’s charitable contributions.
Strategic report
A review of the year’s activities, information on the risks and 
uncertainties faced by the Group, and likely future developments 
in the business of the Group are included in the Strategic report. 
The management of business risk is set out in the Audit & Risk 
Committee report on pages 53 to 55, Spirit’s Principal risks and 
uncertainties on pages 26 to 29 and KPIs are shown on pages 
4 and 5.
Results and dividends
The results of the Group for the year are set out in the 
Consolidated income statement on page 72. An interim 
dividend of 0.72 pence per share was paid to Shareholders 
on 3 June 2014. The Directors have proposed a final dividend 
of 1.50 pence per share which, subject to approval by 
Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in January 
2015, will be payable on 10 February 2015 to Shareholders 
on the register as at 16 January 2015. This will bring the total 
dividend for the year to 2.22 pence per share (2013: 2.05 pence).
Directors
Biographies of the Directors currently serving on the Board 
are given on pages 40 and 41.
As at 23 August 2014, and as at the date of this report, 
the Board was made up of seven members, consisting of 
the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive 
Directors, all four of whom were independent in accordance 
with the criteria set out in B.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code).
There were no Board changes during the year.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code all Directors 
will offer themselves for re-election at the AGM on 13 January 
2015. The procedure for the appointment, replacement and 
re-election of Directors and the role of the Nomination 
Committee is set out in the Corporate governance statement 
and Nomination Committee report on pages 48 to 52.
Details of Directors’ service contracts are set out in the 
Remuneration report on pages 56 to 70.
There are no special provisions contained in any of the 
Directors’ contracts for loss of office beyond normal contractual 
obligations; further details of Directors’ contracts are contained 
within the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 70.
*  Wherever in this report we refer to ‘he’, ‘his’ or ‘him’ those references are 
deemed to include ‘she’, ‘hers’ or ‘her’ as the context requires. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 45
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of Directors, who held office at 
23 August 2014, in the share capital of the Company are 
shown below.
At
3 November
2014
Ordinary
shares
At
23 August 
2014
Ordinary
shares
At
17 August
2013
Ordinary
shares
Walker Boyd 200,000 200,000 200,000
Mike Tye 709,408 709,055 664,026
Paddy Gallagher 116,952 116,952 101,276
Tony Rice 810,000 810,000 503,013
Mark Pain 29,177 29,177 29,177
Christopher Bell 110,266 110,266 110,266
Julie Chakraverty 100,000 100,000 100,000
None of the Directors have any other interests in the shares or 
other securities of the Company or of any other company in the 
Group save for the interests disclosed elsewhere in the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements 2014.
A statement of the Directors’ remuneration is set out in the 
Remuneration report on pages 56 to 70.
Directors’ conflicts of interests
The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors’ general duties 
concerning conflicts of interest and related matters. The Board 
has agreed an approach and adopted guidelines for dealing 
with conflicts of interest and has added responsibility for 
authorising conflicts of interest under the schedule of matters 
reserved for the Board.
During the year, any conflicts of interests of the Directors and 
their connected persons were reviewed. The Board confirmed 
that it was not aware of any situations that may or did conflict 
with the interests of the Company, other than those that may 
arise from Directors’ other appointments, as disclosed in their 
biographies on pages 40 and 41.
The Nomination Committee will continue to conduct periodic 
reviews of conflict authorisations to determine whether the 
authorisation given should continue, be added to or be revoked 
by the Board.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, 
the Board authorised the Company Secretary to receive 
notifications of conflicts of interest on behalf of the Board and 
to make recommendations as to whether the relevant matters 
should be authorised by the Board. The Company has 
complied with these procedures.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract 
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Directors’ insurance and indemnities
As at the date of this report, there are qualifying third party 
indemnity and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, 
governed by the Companies Act 2006, in place under which 
the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors and 
the Company Secretary of the Company and the Directors 
and the Company Secretary of any member of the Group 
or of an associated company or certain companies in which 
the Company has a direct or indirect minority shareholding 
or other interest, to the extent permitted by law and the 
Company’s Articles of Association, against all liability arising 
in respect of any act or omission in their duties.
The Company’s indemnity provision was in place throughout 
the year and remains in place as at the date of this report. The 
indemnity is uncapped in amount but does not provide cover in 
the event that the act or omission constitutes wilful misconduct 
or recklessness, is conduct which would entitle the Company to 
dismiss the Director or officer summarily without compensation 
or pay in lieu of notice or if the Director or officer is entitled to 
recover any amount in relation to the liability from any other 
person. In accordance with Section 236 of the Companies Act 
2006, the Group also maintains directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance in respect of its Directors and Officers. 46 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Directors’ report
continued
Substantial shareholdings
As at 31 October 2014, being the last business day prior to 
the approval of this report, the Company has been notified 
of the following substantial interests (representing 3% or more) 
(in accordance with Chapter 5 of the DTR and Section 793 of the 
Companies Act 2006) in the ordinary shares of the Company:
Shareholder
Total 
holding 
%
Shareholding made up of:
Ordinary 
shares
Contracts 
for 
difference
Schroders 12.60 83,213,531 –
Alchemy Special Opportunities 6.30 40,522,000 –
Aberforth Partners 5.24 34,574,520 –
Old Mutual Asset Managers 4.53 29,901,315 –
Norges Bank 3.80 25,108,712 –
Glenview Capital Management 3.71 24,486,697 –
Legal & General 3.45 22,793,777 –
Political contributions
During the year the Group made no political contributions. 
The Company does not make donations and has no intention 
of making donations to what are generally regarded as political 
parties or organisations within the European Union. However, 
as the legislation is very broadly drafted, as a precautionary 
measure a resolution to permit the Company to make donations 
and incur political expenditure is included as a resolution at the 
Company’s AGM.
The environment and greenhouse gas emissions
The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental 
laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral 
to its business operation. It is also committed to introducing 
measures to limit any adverse effects its business may have 
on the environment and will promote continuous improvement 
in accordance with best available techniques.
The Corporate responsibility report on pages 22 to 25 includes 
the greenhouse gas emissions disclosures required by the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic report and Directors’ report) 
Regulations 2013. This information is incorporated by reference 
into (and shall be deemed to form part of) the Directors’ report.
Financial instruments
The Group’s policy on the use of financial instruments is set 
out in note 21 to the financial statements.
Share capital and change of control
As at 23 August 2014, the Company’s issued share capital 
comprised a single class of ordinary shares which carry no right 
to fixed income. Details of the issued share capital, together 
with details of the movements in the Company’s issued share 
capital during the year, are shown in the share capital note on 
page 110. 
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
As at the date of this report, the Company does not hold any 
shares in Treasury.
The Company is party to certain non-material agreements 
(including trust deeds relating to the Company’s employee 
share incentive plans) that contain change of control provisions 
in the event of the takeover of the Company but these are not 
considered to be significant on an individual basis.
Authority of the Directors to allot shares
At the previous AGM held on 14 January 2014, the Company 
obtained Shareholder authority to buy back up to 66,039,854 
shares (representing approximately 10% of the Company’s 
issued equity share capital at the time). At the Company’s 
forthcoming AGM, authority will be sought to buy back up 
to 66,056,074 shares (representing approximately 10% of the 
Company’s issued equity share capital as at the time of the 
AGM). This authority will only be exercised by the Directors 
if it is considered that it will result in an increase in earnings 
per share and will benefit Shareholders generally as a whole.
Authority will also be sought at the forthcoming AGM for 
Directors to allot up to 220,186,915 shares in the Company 
(representing approximately one-third of the Company’s issued 
equity share capital (excluding treasury shares)) and up to 
440,373,829 equity securities (representing approximately 
two-thirds of the Company’s issued equity share capital 
(excluding treasury shares)). The Board will also seek authority 
to disapply pre-emption rights over 33,028,037 shares 
(representing approximately 5% of the Company’s issued 
equity share capital at the time).
Further details of the above resolutions are contained within 
the Notice of Meeting sent to Shareholders with this report. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 47
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the 
Company other than those which may from time to time be 
applicable under existing laws and regulations (for example 
under the Market Abuse Directive) and the Company is not 
aware of any agreements between Shareholders that may result 
in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. 
In addition, there are no people holding securities that carry 
special rights with regard to control of the Company.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority, Directors and persons discharging 
managerial responsibility of the Company require prior approval 
from the Company to deal in the Company’s securities, and are 
prohibited from dealing during a close period.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended 
at a general meeting of Shareholders by special resolution, 
and on a show of hands every member who is present in 
person and proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote. On a poll 
every member who is present in person and proxy shall have 
one vote for every share of which he is the holder. A Shareholder 
may appoint more than one proxy in relation to their holdings 
provided that each proxy does not vote in relation to the 
same shares.
Annual General Meeting
The forthcoming AGM will be held on 13 January 2015. 
The notice convening the AGM sent to Shareholders with this 
report gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights 
and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to 
resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
Post balance sheet events
On 21 October 2014, a pub in the Managed estate was sold 
for net proceeds of £15.0m.
Going concern
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial 
review on pages 37 to 39. Note 21 to the consolidated financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities, and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
After reviewing budgets and other longer term plans and 
making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, they adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the financial statements.
Audit information
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there  
is no relevant audit information (as defined in Section 418  
of the Companies Act 2006) of which the external Auditor is 
unaware, and that all Directors have taken all reasonable steps 
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the external Auditor is aware of that information. 
KPMG LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in 
office as Auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be 
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board
Paddy Gallagher
Finance Director
3 November 2014 48 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Corporate governance statement
Introduction from the Chairman
The Board continues to believe that a strong and effective 
governance system is critical to business integrity and to 
promoting and maintaining investors’ trust in the Company. 
We also keep our governance framework under review for 
comparison with best practice in companies of a similar size 
and nature. As part of our review processes, during the year 
we appointed an external evaluator to carry out an impartial 
review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, 
both collectively and in terms of the balance of skills, experience 
and knowledge of the Directors. The outcome of the review was 
very satisfactory and further details can be found on page 51. 
The Directors’ report on pages 44 to 47 (which includes 
information as required by section 7.2.6 of the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules (DTR), as permitted by section 7.2.9 
of the DTR), the Nomination Committee report on page 52, 
the Audit & Risk Committee report on pages 53 to 55 and 
the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 70 are incorporated 
by reference into (and shall be deemed to form part of) this 
statement and together explain how the Board operates, 
and how the Board and its Committees function to achieve 
compliance with the Main and Supporting Principles as set 
out in the Code. 
Walker Boyd
Chairman
3 November 2014
Statement of compliance
Following the publication by the Financial Reporting Council 
of the new version of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the Code)
1
 in September 2012, this is the first year the 
Company has been required to report against the Code. The 
Listing Rules have yet to be updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority and continue to require that certain compliance 
statements are made in relation to the predecessor edition of 
the Code, issued in June 2010. The Board confirms that the 
Company continues to demonstrate its commitment to effective 
corporate governance by being fully compliant with all of the 
provisions set out in both editions of the Code and with Chapter 
7 of the DTR during the 53 week period ended 23 August 2014. 
Internal control
The Board maintains overall responsibility for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The Audit & Risk Committee report on pages 53 to 55 details 
the features of the Company’s systems of internal control 
and how such systems are designed to manage rather than 
to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Company’s 
strategic objectives. 
Membership of the Board and its Committees
Role
Audit & Risk
 Committee
Nomination
 Committee
Remuneration
 Committee
Walker  
Boyd
Chairman ✓ 
(Chairman)
✓
Mike Tye Chief Executive 
Officer
Paddy 
Gallagher
Finance 
Director
Tony Rice Senior 
Independent 
Non-Executive 
Director
✓ ✓ ✓ 
(Chairman)
Mark Pain Independent 
Non-Executive 
Director
✓ 
(Chairman)
✓ ✓
Christopher 
Bell
Independent 
Non-Executive 
Director
✓ ✓ ✓
Julie 
Chakraverty
Independent 
Non-Executive 
Director
✓ ✓ ✓
1  A copy of the Code as referred to in this report can be found on the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website: https://frc.org.uk/Our-Work/Codes-Standards/
Corporate-governance/UK-Corporate-Governance-Code.aspx Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 49
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer 
are distinct and separate, with a clear division of responsibilities. 
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective 
engagement and contribution of all Non-Executive Directors 
and Executive Directors. The Chief Executive Officer is 
responsible for all the Group’s businesses and acts in 
accordance with the authority delegated by the Board. 
Responsibility for the development of policy, strategy and 
operational management is delegated to the Chief Executive 
Officer, Finance Director and executive management team.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director (SID)
Since his appointment as SID in 2011 Tony Rice continues to 
be responsible for supporting the Chairman and monitoring the 
division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief 
Executive Officer. He is also available to address Shareholders’ 
concerns which have not been satisfactorily resolved through 
the normal channels. As part of the external evaluation of the 
Board referred to above, conclusions in relation to the Chairman 
were collated by the external evaluator and submitted to the SID 
for consideration as part of his leadership of the overall review 
of the Chairman’s performance.
Non-Executive Directors
The Company actively encourages its Non-Executive Directors 
to constructively challenge the strategy proposed by the 
Executive Directors by scrutinising and challenging the 
Company’s performance. The Non-Executive Directors must 
satisfy themselves as to the integrity of financial information, 
and that financial controls are robust and defensible. In addition, 
they must ensure that appropriate remuneration and succession 
planning arrangements are in place in relation to the Executive 
Directors and the executive management team.
Where Non-Executive Directors have concerns regarding 
the running of the Company, they are encouraged to escalate 
the matter with the relevant individual Executive Director,  
at a meeting of the Board or with the Company Secretary. 
To supplement their knowledge and experience, Non-Executive 
Directors are authorised to serve on other company boards 
as long as they set aside enough time to make a satisfactory 
commitment to their role at Spirit. However, to ensure Executive 
Directors remain focused, they are not permitted to take more 
than one non-executive directorship in, or the chairmanship of, 
a FTSE 100 company. In the year under consideration neither 
of the Executive Directors were non-executive directors in, 
or chairman of, a FTSE 100 company.
The role and responsibility of the Board
The work of the Board and its committees is structured 
around scheduled meetings which are linked to key events in 
the Company’s corporate calendar, with additional meetings 
convened to consider matters which are time critical, or which 
require further discussion.
Whilst the Board has delegated the normal operational 
management of the Company to the Executive Directors and 
its executive management team, it retains a schedule of matters 
which are specifically reserved for its decision. In summary 
these include strategy, changes to capital structure, approval of 
financial reporting (on the recommendation of the Audit & Risk 
Committee where appropriate), ensuring the maintenance  
of a sound system of internal control and risk management, 
corporate governance, and approval (or otherwise) of 
recommendations on Board appointments from the 
Nomination Committee and remuneration from the 
Remuneration Committee.
The main committees established by the Board are the 
Nomination Committee, Audit & Risk Committee and 
Remuneration Committee. The membership of each committee 
is made up of all four Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman, 
with the exception of the Audit & Risk Committee where the 
Chairman attends by invitation only. Further details of the 
committees and their functions can be found on pages 52 
to 70. Each committee operates within defined terms of 
reference, copies of which are available from the Company 
Secretary and can also be found at www.spiritpubcompany.com. 
In addition, separate committees are also set up by the 
Board from time to time to consider specific issues when 
the need arises. 
Together, however, the Board is collectively responsible to 
the Company’s Shareholders for the Group’s performance 
and sets the strategic aims and objectives of the Group to 
fulfil this responsibility. The Board determines the Company’s 
key policies, agrees on performance criteria and delegates 
to its executive management team their planning and 
implementation. Overall, the Board ensures that all necessary 
resources are in place in order for the Company to meet its 
objectives and that all decisions are taken objectively and in 
the long term interest of the Company and its stakeholders.  50 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Corporate governance statement
continued
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the Company 
by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed 
by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the 
Company, whether relating to the management of the business 
or not. In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers 
of the Company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge  
any of its undertaking, property, assets (present and future) 
and uncalled capital as well as to issue debentures and other 
securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation.
Meetings of the Board and its committees
During the year the Board met nine times, the Nomination 
Committee met twice and the Audit & Risk Committee and 
the Remuneration Committee both met four times. Attendance 
at these meetings was as follows:
Board
Audit & Risk
 Committee
Nomination
 Committee
Remuneration
 Committee
Walker Boyd 9 (by invitation) 2 4
Mike Tye 9 (by invitation) (by invitation) (by invitation)
Paddy Gallagher 9 (by invitation) n/a n/a
Tony Rice 8 3 1 4
Mark Pain 8 4 2 4
Christopher Bell 9 3 1 4
Julie Chakraverty 9 4 2 4
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Chairman met 
independently of the Executive Directors with the Non-Executive 
Directors on several occasions to allow informal discussions 
on a variety of issues. The Non-Executive Directors, led by the 
SID, also met without the Chairman being present.
The standing agenda for meetings of the Board includes reports 
from the Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director, Investor 
Relations department and Governance and Risk Assurance 
department, with the Chief Executive Officer and Finance 
Director supplementing each report with an overview of how 
the Group is performing against expectations. In addition, the 
Board receives reports and presentations from other members 
of the executive management team, senior management and 
external advisers regularly throughout the year.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice, 
at the Company’s expense, should they require it to discharge 
their duties. They also have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the 
Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters and 
providing assistance and information on corporate 
administration and legal matters. 
Balance, independence and diversity
The Board includes a combination of both Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors so that no individual or small group 
can dominate proceedings or the Board’s decision making. 
The Directors believe that the composition of the Board and 
the Committees is appropriate for Spirit with a correct balance 
of skills and experience in each case. 
Taking that balance of skills and experience into account, 
and bearing in mind that the Company celebrated its third 
anniversary as an independently listed company during 
the year, the term of service as Non-Executive Directors of 
Tony Rice, Mark Pain and Christopher Bell, all of whose terms 
of service would otherwise have expired, were extended by 
a further three years. Additionally the term of service of the 
Chairman was also extended by up to three years. 
In the year under consideration the Chairman has asked that the 
Nomination Committee develop medium term succession plans 
during 2015 for the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman 
to ensure that the continuity of the Board is optimised. 
The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors, namely 
Tony Rice, Mark Pain, Christopher Bell and Julie Chakraverty, 
to be independent in accordance with the criteria set out in 
B.1.1 of the Code and also considered Walker Boyd to be 
independent upon his appointment as Chairman. Accordingly, 
over half of the Directors on the Board are independent in 
character and judgement and free from relationships or 
circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear 
to affect, their judgement. 
As a company, Spirit values diversity throughout its workforce 
and this is an equally important consideration at Board level, 
in order to ensure that the Board also reflects an appropriate 
balance of skills, diversity in all forms, and experience. This is 
a primary consideration whenever the Nomination Committee 
makes an appointment to the Board, as it evaluates the 
requirements of the role and aims to find the individual 
best suited to the role. This decision is always based upon 
characteristics, knowledge, experience and merits, regardless 
of gender. Further information about the split of diversity 
throughout the Group can be found in the Strategic report 
on page 18. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 51
Board evaluation
During the year an external evaluation of the Board was 
conducted by Absolute Board Excellence. Since the Company’s 
incorporation in 2011 this was the first time that the Board had 
been externally evaluated. The results of the evaluation were 
discussed at the Board meeting in July 2014. Areas of particular 
strength identified by the review included Board relationships, 
both within the Board and between the Board and the wider 
business, and the quality of leadership and debate.
The principal recommendations from the evaluation included 
widening Board debate to include further external perspective 
where appropriate, improving the quality of management 
information by further clarifying agendas and the format /  
content of Board papers, and encouraging a more consistent 
consideration of development and succession planning. 
Relations with Shareholders
The Company encourages two-way communication with both 
its institutional and private Shareholders and aims to provide 
a timely response to all enquiries. There is a regular dialogue 
with institutional Shareholders as well as presentations after 
the Company’s annual and interim results announcements. 
The Chairman also writes to the top ten Shareholders  
on an annual basis inviting them to correspond with the 
Non-Executive Directors if they so wish.
The Board uses its Annual General Meeting (AGM) to 
communicate with institutional and private Shareholders and 
welcomes participation from all Shareholders. The Chairman 
seeks to ensure that the Chairmen of the Nomination, Audit & 
Risk and Remuneration Committees and the SID attend the 
AGM to answer any relevant questions. All members of the Board 
are available to meet with major Shareholders if requested.
Communications with Shareholders are given high priority 
to ensure that there is a balanced and well understood 
assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. 
The Company aims to provide as much information as is 
commercially sensible in each case to existing and potential 
investors, recognising that proper communication is the best 
way to develop understanding of the Group’s strategy, 
performance and growth potential. 52 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Nomination Committee report
Introduction from the Chairman
As there were no changes to the Board composition 
during the year, the attention of the Nomination Committee 
(the Committee) was focused on development of succession 
planning for Directors and the executive management team.
Further details about the membership of the Committee,  
its role and responsibilities, and the activities it has carried out 
during the year, are set out below. 
Walker Boyd
Nomination Committee Chairman
3 November 2014
Membership of the Committee
Walker Boyd (Committee Chairman);
Tony Rice;
Mark Pain;
Christopher Bell; and
Julie Chakraverty. 
The Committee’s terms of reference state that it will meet at 
least twice annually, but otherwise then as and when required. 
The Chief Executive Officer, HR Director and Company 
Secretary may also attend meetings of the Committee,  
although they are not permitted to be present during 
discussions in connection with their own succession. 
During the year, two meetings of the Committee took place 
which focused on:
 > Succession planning for Directors and senior executives, 
including Non-Executive Director rotation.
 > Leadership development.
 > Reviewing any conflicts of interest at Board level.
Role and responsibilities
The main purpose of the Committee is to review the structure, 
size and composition (including the skills, knowledge and 
experience) of the Board and make recommendations to 
the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed 
necessary. This is to ensure that it is effective in discharging 
its responsibilities.
Performance evaluation
It is usual practice for the Board to undergo an internal 
evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees 
and Chairman. This year however the process has been led 
by an external evaluator. Further details about the evaluation 
can be found in the Corporate governance statement on 
pages 48 to 51.
In addition, to assist their own personal development, each 
Director bi-annually reviews their personal development plan 
to set their goals and assess their progress during the year. 
Ongoing training and proactive coaching is provided by the 
Company to develop, support and update the knowledge and 
skills of its Board, including days out in trade, regular meetings 
with the executive management team, internal and external 
courses and continual dialogue with peers and colleagues. 
Directors are expected to take responsibility for their own 
individual developmental needs in conjunction with the 
Chairman, Company Secretary and HR Director.
Appointment, replacement and removal of Directors
Although there were no changes to the Board composition 
during the year, the Committee maintains formal and rigorous 
selection and appointment criteria, which is supplemented 
by an intensive induction process which includes:
 > Individual time with the Chairman, the Chief Executive 
Officer and other members of the Board and executive 
management team.
 > Meetings with the Company’s external advisers, brokers  
and lawyers.
 > An internal induction course which introduces the Group,  
its divisions and its employees.
 > Visits to the Group’s Managed and Leased pubs and those  
of competitors. 
The Company may, by special resolution, remove any Director 
before the expiration of his period of office. More particularly 
the office of a Director shall be vacated if: (i) he resigns or offers 
to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer; (ii) he 
becomes physically or mentally incapable of acting as a Director 
and remains so for more than three months; (iii) he is absent 
without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board 
(whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends) 
for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his 
office is vacated; (iv) he becomes bankrupt or compounds 
with his creditors generally; (v) he is prohibited by law from 
being a Director; (vi) he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the 
Companies Act 2006; or (vii) he is removed from office pursuant 
to the Company’s Articles of Association. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 53
Audit & Risk Committee report
Introduction from the Chairman
All members of the Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee) 
are independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company,  
and all contribute their own financial experience to effectively 
assess the external and internal audits of the Company and 
its internal control and risk management systems.
The Committee focused on a number of topics during the year 
and ensured that it remained up-to-date with revisions to the 
Code and the related Guidance on Audit Committees. Further 
details about the membership of the Committee, its role and 
responsibilities and activities it has carried out during the year, 
are set out below. 
Mark Pain
Audit & Risk Committee Chairman
3 November 2014
The members of the Committee comprise Mark Pain 
(Chairman of the Committee), Tony Rice, Christopher Bell 
and Julie Chakraverty. The Board is satisfied that Mark Pain 
has significant, recent and relevant financial experience. 
Biographies of the Audit & Risk Committee members 
are shown on pages 40 and 41.
The Committee is compliant with Section C.3.1 of the Code 
and satisfies the requirements of Chapter 7.1 of the DTR. 
In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee holds 
a minimum of four meetings each financial year with further 
meetings called as required. The meetings are held quarterly 
at an appropriate time, and align to the external reporting 
timetable ensuring that there is sufficient time to address any 
issues. All members of the Committee are expected to attend 
all of the meetings, and attendance at these meetings by the 
Committee members is shown in the Corporate governance 
statement on page 50. The internal and external Auditors 
together with the Chairman, Finance Director, the Company 
Secretary and other persons may also attend the meetings 
by invitation.
During the financial year to 23 August 2014, four meetings 
of the Committee took place which focused on:
 > Reviewing the 2014 interim results and the 2014 Annual 
Report and Financial Statements (the ‘Annual Report’).
 > Reviewing the anti-bribery, hospitality and ethics procedures 
and policies.
 > Monitoring the Company’s risk management framework 
and internal controls (for which the Board has overall 
responsibility).
 > The internal audit function and non-audit services provided 
by the external Auditor.
 > The internal audit plan for the year and the monitoring 
of progress in delivery of that plan.
 > Internal audit reports delivered during the year.
 > The external audit plan.
 > Reviewing the Company’s financial controls, treasury 
and whistleblowing policies.
 > Reviewing and evaluating the effectiveness and the overall 
performance of the internal and external Auditors.
 > Reviewing the business continuity procedure and incident 
management planning.
 > Reviewing and updating the Company’s risk register.
 > Approving certain structural changes to the internal audit 
and risk management functions towards the end of the year. 
 > Reviewing the authority limit and contract authorisation 
procedures.
The Committee’s responsibilities are set out in its terms of 
reference, which are available on the Company’s website. 
They are unchanged in the year, and comprise all matters 
indicated by the DTR and the Code including:
 > Monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the annual and 
interim financial statements of the Company and any formal 
announcements relating to the Company’s financial 
performance.
 > Reviewing the policies and process for identifying and 
assessing the Company’s business risks.
 > Reviewing the internal audit plan and resourcing and 
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function.
 > Making recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external 
Auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of a new external Auditor.
 > Approving and reviewing the policy on the use of the external 
Auditor for non-audit services.
 > Reviewing and monitoring the external Auditor’s 
independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the 
audit process, taking into consideration relevant guidance.
At the Board’s request, the Committee has reviewed the 
Annual Report for the year ended 23 August 2014 and has 
advised the Board that taken as a whole they are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information necessary for 
Shareholders to assess the Company`s performance, business 
model and strategy.  54 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Audit & Risk Committee report
continued
Significant issues considered by the Committee 
in relation to the financial statements for 2013/14 
During the year, a number of areas in relation to the financial 
statements were considered by the Committee including areas 
raised by the external Auditor, KPMG LLP, of which the most 
significant were:
Valuation of the property portfolio, including operating 
leases and those assets held for sale 
The Committee considered the outputs of the estate valuation 
at year end, reviewed the methodology adopted by the external 
valuers and management, and discussed the approach with 
the external Auditor. The Committee also considered whether 
assets held for sale are appropriately valued and presented.
Recoverability of goodwill 
The Committee reviewed management’s paper which set out 
the assumptions used and conclusions reached in assessing 
the recoverability of goodwill, which was further supported by 
sensitivity analysis. 
Deferred tax
The Committee considered the recoverability of the Group’s 
deferred tax assets and concluded that these were appropriately 
recognised in the financial statements.
The Committee also reviewed a number of other areas, 
including the process for accounting for supplier rebates 
and concluded that these were not material issues.
Risk management, internal control  
and internal audit
The Committee is dedicated to ensuring that the ‘three lines 
of defence’ of controls, management oversight and independent 
assurance are functioning effectively in protecting the interests 
of Shareholders. 
Risk management
The responsibility for managing risk is retained by the Board, 
but the Committee’s terms of reference provide that the Group’s 
risk management policy and framework, the adequacy of risk 
information and reporting together with the effectiveness of the 
internal control environment and the effectiveness of internal 
audit, are monitored by the Committee.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Group’s 
risk register and the risk management framework, which 
provides that business risks are reviewed at least quarterly. 
The Committee performs a full review of the risk register twice 
a year, reviewing the appropriateness of the considered 
risk profile and challenging mitigations and action plans as 
necessary. A summary of these risks can be found in Spirit’s 
Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 26 to 29.
Internal control
The Committee also has oversight of internal control systems. 
The features of the Group’s systems of internal control include:
 > An established organisational structure with clearly defined 
lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
 > Documented policies and procedures which are 
regularly reviewed.
 > Comprehensive budgets and forecasts which are reviewed 
and revised on a regular basis, with performance monitored 
against them and explanations obtained for material variances.
 > A detailed investment approval process with a hierarchical 
approval structure and post investment appraisals.
 > An internal audit function which performs regular 
assessments of the quality and effectiveness of risk 
management and of the internal control environment.
 > Regular reporting from internal audit, control updates, 
changes to accounting policies as well as any accounting 
and legal developments.
 > Documented fraud, ethics, bribery, and whistleblowing 
policies and procedures, regular review of current 
whistleblowing regulations, and reporting of any 
whistleblowing incidents to the Committee (whether  
using the whistleblowing process or otherwise).
 > A regular review of treasury policies and activities 
by the Committee.
 > Appointment of staff of the highest calibre to fulfil their allotted 
responsibilities together with an established programme of 
management and staff development and succession planning.
 > Formal financial reporting processes for preparation of the 
consolidated accounts.
During the year the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control of the Group was kept under review to ensure the 
effectiveness of those controls in order to safeguard 
Shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets, and offer 
assurance that robust financial reporting processes are in place. 
Such systems, including controls for financial, operational, 
compliance and risk management matters, are designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the 
Group’s strategic objectives. However, it should be recognised 
that these systems can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Internal audit
The internal audit plan is made up of key audit areas that are 
reviewed annually, rotational audits that are reviewed at least 
once every five years, follow-up audits, audits driven by the 
risk register and ad-hoc reviews as requested. The Committee 
has an active role in setting and approving the internal audit plan. 
The internal audit function is co-sourced with PwC and the 
Committee undertakes an assessment of performance of the 
function as a whole, on an annual basis via a combination of 
questionnaires and more in depth interviews of key stakeholders. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 55
External Auditor
One of the primary purposes of the Committee is to make 
a recommendation on the appointment or re-appointment 
of the external Auditor. Spirit has been an independently audited 
plc for three years and the date of appointment of the external 
Auditor was on demerger on 1 August 2011. As such, partner 
rotation and Auditor rotation have not been required, 
nor otherwise deemed necessary in view of the benefits of 
continuity. There are no contractual obligations which acted 
to restrict the Committee’s choice of external Auditor.
During the year a new approach was adopted to review the 
effectiveness of external audit, whereby a thorough review will 
be performed every three years (or more regularly as required), 
and a more high level review in intervening years. This approach 
uses questionnaire and interview tools in combination to 
consider feedback in its proper context. Given that this was the 
first year of adopting this approach, a thorough review has been 
performed this year. 
To maintain the independence of the external Auditor, the Board 
has determined a policy detailing what non-audit services can 
be provided by the Company’s external Auditor. Under this 
policy, the external Auditor is invited to provide services where 
their position as Auditor renders them best placed to undertake 
the work. In the case of other services no contracts in excess 
of £50,000 in value can be awarded to the external Auditor, 
without prior approval. Furthermore, no contracts can be 
awarded once commitments of half the current audit fee have 
been made, without prior approval. During the year £58,000 
in non-audit fees were paid to the external Auditor.
Employee concerns
The Group has in place documented ethics policies and 
a structured whistleblowing process to enable employees 
to raise concerns about possible improprieties that may 
occur within the Group. Any reported incidents are internally 
investigated and documented with follow up action taken 
as appropriate. 56 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Remuneration report
Introduction from the Chairman
I am pleased to take this opportunity to summarise the 
Company’s remuneration strategy and the way it has been 
implemented during the year under review.
Spirit’s senior management team have performed very well 
this year. As well as exceeding their financial targets for both 
the Leased and Managed divisions, they have delivered on 
a number of objectives that will position the business for future 
success. These include the debt re-profiling that will give us 
the financial capability to acquire and invest in properties over 
the next few years and the commencement of the acquisition 
programme with the purchase of three standalone sites and 
19 Orchid sites that further improve prospects for growth. 
As a people oriented business our success in being ranked 
16th in the Sunday Times Top 25 Best Big Companies to work 
for 2014 is particularly pleasing and reinforces our view of the 
strength of the leadership at all organisational levels.
In accordance with the new regulations governing the disclosure 
and approval of Directors’ remuneration, our remuneration 
report has been split into two parts. The Remuneration policy 
is being put to a binding vote at the AGM on 13 January 2015 
and the Directors’ Remuneration report will be put to a second 
non-binding vote.
Tony Rice
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
3 November 2014
Remuneration outcomes in 2013/14
During the year, the Company’s strong portfolio of Managed 
brands continued to achieve further growth with like for like 
sales up 4.4%
1
. Following the stabilisation of the Leased estate 
in the prior year, the Leased estate returned to growth in the 
year with like for like net income increasing by 4.2%
1
.
Reflecting the progress of the Group’s profit performance 
during the financial year the level of bonus payable for the 
year was 106.5% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer 
and 71% of salary for the Finance Director.
The 50% of the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 
(LTIP) awards subject to an earnings per share (EPS) 
performance condition completed their performance period 
in the year with the EPS targets fully achieved, resulting in 
100% of these awards vesting.
The remaining 50% of the 2011 LTIP awards are subject to a 
relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance condition 
for which the performance period ends on 8 November 2014. 
Current calculations estimate that the Company’s performance 
will be between median and upper quartile with 82.2% of these 
awards forecast to vest. The final results for these awards will 
be reported in next year’s Remuneration report. 
Remuneration arrangements for 2014/15
The remuneration policy is designed to drive business 
performance and, in so doing, deliver Shareholder value. 
During the year we made no substantial changes to our 
policy and the main features of the remuneration arrangements 
for Executive Directors are as follows:
 > Base salaries were reviewed and were increased by 2% 
from October 2014 which is in line with the general workforce.
 > The other elements of fixed pay (benefits and pension) 
remain unchanged.
 > Annual bonus continues to be capped at a maximum of 
150% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 
100% of base salary for the Finance Director. In each case, 
75% is based on financial metrics and 25% is based on the 
achievement of individual targets. No bonus will be payable 
unless a threshold level of profit before tax (PBT) is achieved.
 > Long term incentive awards are granted under the Company’s 
LTIP . Grant levels in November 2014 will be 150% and 100% 
of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and Finance 
Director respectively. Awards will vest for a combination of 
sliding scale relative TSR and adjusted fully diluted EPS 
performance targets. The performance targets remain 
consistent with those applying to awards granted in the 
prior year.
I hope that you will be supportive of the two resolutions 
to approve the Remuneration report at this year’s AGM.
1  Growth rates are quoted on a 52 week vs 52 week basis to exclude the benefit 
of an extra week’s trading in 2014. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 57
Future policy table for Executive Directors
Element Purpose and link 
to strategy
Operation (including 
framework to assess 
performance)
Maximum 
opportunity
Performance 
metrics
Salary
Attract, motivate and retain 
the best candidate for 
the role. 
Reflect an individual’s 
skills, experience, role 
and responsibilities.
The Committee normally 
reviews salaries for 
Executive Directors every 
12 months unless there is 
a significant change in 
responsibilities.
Any changes are normally 
effective from October 
each year.
Pay reviews take into 
account personal 
performance, changed 
responsibilities and pay 
review budgets for the 
general workforce.  
The Committee also 
considers the results of 
benchmarking against 
companies of a similar size 
and in similar industries and 
the impact of any increase 
to base salaries on the total 
remuneration package.
The salaries for new 
Executive Directors 
(including internal 
promotions) will take into 
account the above and 
be set to reflect their skills 
and previous experience.
There is no prescribed 
maximum salary or 
maximum annual increase. 
The increase will typically 
be in line with the general 
increase for the broader 
employee population but 
on occasions may need to 
recognise, for example, an 
increase in the scale, scope 
or responsibility of the role. 
Current salary levels are 
disclosed in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report.
None.
Benefits
Provide market competitive 
benefits or cash alternative.
Benefits in kind include 
the provision of a car or 
car allowance, payment of 
private fuel, private medical 
scheme, life assurance and 
permanent health insurance.
The Committee may wish 
to offer Executive Directors 
other employee benefits 
on broadly similar terms 
as those offered to other 
employees from time to time.
No prescribed maximum.
The value of insured 
benefits can vary from year 
to year based on the cost 
of providing those benefits.
Car allowance of £11,000 
or equivalent Company car.
None.
Remuneration policy (not subject to audit) 
The approach of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee)
to remuneration is designed to help drive business performance 
and maximise Shareholder value. In order to align the interests 
of the Executive Directors and other members of the executive 
management team with Shareholders’ interests, the Committee 
has developed a remuneration approach which achieves 
an appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay. 
Accordingly, a significant proportion of remuneration is linked 
to the achievement of challenging short and long term 
performance targets.
The Committee regularly reviews its approach in light of market 
conditions, performance, strategy, key performance indicators, 
the structure and levels of remuneration across the Group 
and developments in corporate governance and best practice. 
The Committee also considers the level of social and 
governance risk associated with its approach to remuneration 
to ensure that there are sufficient safeguards in this regard. 
For the purposes of Section 226D(6)(b) of the Companies Act 
2006, it is intended that the following policy will take effect 
from the date of the AGM which is scheduled to be held on 
13 January 2015. 58 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Remuneration report
continued
Element Purpose and link 
to strategy
Operation (including 
framework to assess 
performance)
Maximum 
opportunity
Performance 
metrics
Pension
Provide a market 
competitive pension.
Contribution may be made 
to the Group’s defined 
contribution pension plan 
and / or a cash alternative 
may be provided (e.g. 
where HMRC limits would 
be exceeded). 
25% of basic salary for the 
Chief Executive Officer and 
20% of basic salary for the 
Finance Director. 
Where a cash alternative 
is offered these rates are 
reduced by the employer’s 
national insurance liability.
None.
Annual bonus
Drive and reward the 
achievement of short term 
Company objectives.
Deferred element 
encourages long term 
shareholding and aids 
retention whilst discouraging 
excessive risk-taking.
Based on a range of 
stretching targets with 
the majority of the bonus 
subject to financial 
measures. Targets are 
reviewed annually as part 
of the budgeting process. 
Two-thirds of the bonus 
is normally paid in cash; 
the remaining one-third 
(net of tax) is deferred into 
shares and held for a further 
two years.
Dividends are received 
on the deferred shares.
Clawback provisions are 
in place.
150% of salary maximum 
(for 2014/15 levels see 
page 63 of the Directors’ 
Remuneration report).
Performance period 
normally measured over 
one year. 
Performance metrics 
will be primarily related 
to profit-based targets 
although other metrics 
(e.g. personal and / or 
strategic objectives) may 
apply to part of the bonus.
No more than 20% of 
bonus will be payable 
for threshold financial 
performance.
Long Term 
Incentive Plan
Incentivise share ownership, 
retention and long-term 
performance in line with 
Group strategy.
Awards have a performance 
period of three years.
The level of vesting is 
dependent on continued 
employment over the three 
year vesting period and 
achievement of the agreed 
performance conditions. 
The Committee will review 
annually the suitability of 
the agreed performance 
measures.
Dividend equivalents may be 
awarded in respect of vested 
LTIP awards.
Clawback provisions are 
in place.
Maximum annual award 
is 200% of salary  
(for 2014/15 levels see  
page 63 of the Directors’ 
Remuneration report).
Normally based on a three 
year performance period.
Will be subject to financial 
targets (e.g. EPS) and / or 
share price related 
measures (e.g. TSR).
A maximum of 25% of an 
award vests at threshold 
performance, increasing 
to full vesting at maximum 
performance. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 59
Element Purpose and link 
to strategy
Operation (including 
framework to assess 
performance)
Maximum 
opportunity
Performance 
metrics
All-Employee Share 
Incentive Plan
Encourages long term 
shareholding in the 
Company and commitment 
to the Company. 
Invitations made by the 
Committee under the 
HMRC approved Share 
Incentive Plan.
Matching shares granted 
at a 1:1 ratio to the 
partnership shares.
Executives are eligible to 
participate on the same 
terms as other employees 
in accordance with the 
prescribed HMRC limits. 
Continued employment 
with the Group and 
commitment to hold the 
partnership shares for a 
minimum of three years.
Shareholding 
guidelines
Encourages long term 
shareholding in the 
Company to provide 
alignment between 
executives and 
Shareholders.
Requirement to build up 
a significant shareholding. 
Targets are set to encourage 
Executive Directors to retain 
shares received from share 
incentive schemes. Only 
beneficially held shares 
and those held under share 
incentive schemes with 
no performance conditions 
attached count towards 
the shareholding guidelines.
The Executive Directors’ 
shareholding and position 
against the requirement 
are set out on page 68 
of the Directors’ 
Remuneration report.
None.
Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees
Reflects time commitment 
and responsibilities of 
each role.
Reflects level of fees 
paid for similar positions 
in the market.
Cash fee normally paid 
four weekly.
Fees are normally reviewed 
annually but an increase is 
not always given.
Includes a Chairman’s 
fee and standard 
Non-Executive Director fee. 
Additional fees are payable 
to Committee Chairs and the 
Senior Independent Director.
No maximum fee or 
maximum fee increase.
Fee increases for 
Non-Executive Directors 
will not normally exceed 
the average salary increase 
awarded to Executive 
Directors although increases 
may be above this level 
(e.g. if there is an increase 
in the time commitment 
or responsibility level).
Non-Executive Directors 
will be reimbursed for any 
normal business related 
expenses and any taxable 
benefit implications that 
may result.
Current fee levels are 
disclosed on page 63  
of the Directors’ 
Remuneration report.
The maximum limit in the 
Articles of Association is 
£0.5m (in aggregate).
None.
Choice of performance measures and target setting
For both the annual bonus and long term incentive plans, 
our policy is to choose performance measures which help 
drive and reward the achievement of our strategy, and also 
provide alignment between employees and Shareholders. 
The Committee reviews metrics annually to ensure they 
remain appropriate and reflect the future strategic direction 
of the Group.
The annual bonus is primarily based on financial measures which 
the Committee believes will reward Executive Directors for 
sustainable business performance and enhance Shareholder 
value. As a result of the Committee’s desire to align executive 
reward with the Company’s key strategic objectives, part of the 
bonus may be based on personal objectives. This will reward 
Executive Directors for the achievement of specific and 
challenging individual targets providing that the threshold level 
of performance against financial measures is achieved. For each 
performance metric, maximum payout requires significant 
outperformance of target levels. 60 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Remuneration report
continued
For long term incentives the Committee believes that the 
blend of EPS and TSR targets provides an appropriate 
balance between incentivising and rewarding good financial 
performance on the one hand whilst, on the other hand, 
providing a strong and direct alignment with the interests 
of institutional Shareholders by rewarding stock market 
outperformance. Performance against the EPS and TSR 
targets will be independently calculated and then reviewed 
by the Committee. The Committee retains discretion over 
the calculation of EPS in order to appropriately adjust for 
any material one-off items including (but not limited to): major 
acquisitions, changes in accounting policies and major share 
issues and any other variation to the Company’s share capital.
The Committee retains discretion to use different measures 
for future awards if these are better aligned to the Company’s 
strategy. The Committee will consult with Shareholders 
as appropriate.
Approach to recruitment
The principle applied in recruitment of a new Executive Director 
is for the remuneration package to be set in accordance with 
the terms of the Company’s approved remuneration policy in 
force for existing Executive Directors at the time of appointment. 
Each element of the remuneration policy is set out in further 
detail below: 
Salary
The salaries for new Executive Directors (including internal promotions) will be set to reflect their skills, previous experience 
and package, the Company’s intended pay positioning, and the market rate for the applicable role. 
In those cases where it is appropriate to offer a below median salary initially, the Committee will have the discretion to allow 
phased salary increases over a period of time for newly-appointed Executive Directors (including internal promotions) to reflect 
increased experience. As a result, in certain years, this may involve increases in base salary that are in excess of the rate for 
the wider workforce and inflation.
Benefits
Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to other Executive Directors, taking account of local market practice, 
with relocation expenses or arrangements provided if necessary. Legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual may 
also be paid by the Company.
Pension
In line with policy offered to existing Executive Directors.
Incentive 
opportunity
The aggregate ongoing (i.e. after the year of appointment) incentive opportunity offered to new recruits will be no higher than 
that offered under the annual bonus plan and the LTIP policy to the existing Executive Directors. In the year of appointment 
the annual bonus opportunity will be no higher than that offered to existing Executive Directors. The Committee may award 
up to 200% of salary under the LTIP although in exceptional circumstances the Committee may go above this limit in relation 
to buyout awards (see below). Different performance measures and targets may be set initially for the annual bonus plan 
and LTIP, taking into account the different responsibilities of the individual and the point in the financial year at which they join.
‘Buyout’ awards
The Committee may offer additional cash and / or share-based ‘buyout’ awards when it considers these to be in the best 
interests of the Company and, therefore, Shareholders, including awards made under Listing Rule 9.4.2 R. Any such ‘buyout’ 
payments would be based solely on remuneration lost when leaving the former employer and would reflect the delivery 
mechanism (i.e. cash, shares, options), time horizons and performance conditions attached to that remuneration. 
Where appropriate the Committee may make use of the exceptional limit under the LTIP to facilitate these awards.
Transitional 
arrangements 
for internal 
appointments 
to the Board
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay 
out according to its terms on grant, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing 
remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put to Shareholders for approval 
at the first AGM following the appointment.
Differences in pay policy between employees 
and Executive Directors
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors aims to attract 
and retain the best staff and to focus their remuneration on 
the delivery of long term sustainable growth by using a mix 
of salary, benefits, bonus and longer term incentives. 
There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration 
policy for the Executive Directors and other employees, which 
the Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different 
levels of responsibility of employees across the Company. 
The remuneration of Executive Directors is tailored to have 
a greater focus on performance related pay compared with 
that of other employees across the Company. This includes 
the award of an annual LTIP to the Executive Directors as it 
is understood they have the greatest potential to influence 
Company level performance. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 61
Policy on payment for loss of office
Payment for termination will be determined according to the 
following principles set out below:
Fixed 
remuneration
The Executive Director will be entitled to base salary, pension and other benefits for any part of the notice period worked 
(and any period of garden leave). On termination, the Executive Director will be entitled to payment for any accrued but 
untaken holiday.
The Company may elect to pay a sum in lieu of notice for all or any part of the notice period, calculated by reference to 
the value of salary (and pension and other contractual benefits in respect of Mike Tye). Such payments will be made in 
instalments subject to mitigation. 
Where the employment is being terminated by the Company for gross misconduct (or other circumstances entitling the 
Company to treat the contract as at an immediate end) termination will be immediate and no payment in lieu of notice will 
be made.
Annual bonus
Under the annual bonus plan, an employee who ceases employment or is under notice prior to the payment of bonus 
typically will not receive any payment. However, the Committee has discretion to make a bonus payment, payable in cash, 
but pro-rated for the period of time served from the start of the financial year to the date of termination (excluding any garden 
leave). Any such bonus payment typically would be subject to the normal bonus targets, tested at the end of the year, 
and would take into account individual performance over the notice period served.
Deferred shares
Bonus deferred into shares will be released once the remaining deferral period has elapsed. 
Long Term 
Incentive Plan
Under the LTIP, unvested awards will normally lapse upon cessation of employment. However, if an Executive Director ceases 
employment in certain specified circumstances (or for any other reason at the discretion of the Committee) the Committee 
has discretion to allow awards to vest at the normal vesting date, or earlier. If the Committee exercises this discretion, awards 
are pro-rated to reflect time served since the date of grant and are based on the achievement of the performance criteria as 
determined by the Committee.
Share Incentive 
Plan
The Executive Directors participate on the same basis as for other employees. 
Approach to service contracts and letters 
of appointment
The Committee’s policy is to offer service contracts for 
Executive Directors with notice periods of 12 months.  
All Non-Executive Directors’ appointments are terminable  
on one month’s notice by either party, with the exception  
of the Chairman whose appointment is terminable at six 
months’ notice on either side. 62 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Remuneration report
continued
Illustration of remuneration scenarios
The chart below details the hypothetical composition of 
each Executive Director’s remuneration package and how 
it could vary at different levels of performance based on the 
application of the policy set out on pages 57 to 61 for 2014/15.
Minimum Maximum
■ LTIP
■ Bonus
■ Fixed pay
Target
FD
Minimum Maximum Target
CEO
£651
100%
£1,095
£638
£419
100% 66%
21%
13%
38%
31%
31%
£2,133
35%
35%
31%
£1,132
16%
26%
57%
Executive Directors’ remuneration
£000
The above chart is for indicative purposes only and does 
not include any assumptions in respect of future share price 
movements. The amounts shown are those applicable for 
2014/15 with the exception of benefits which are based 
on actual amounts for 2013/14. The assumptions in respect 
of each scenario are as follows:
 > Minimum: fixed remuneration only (i.e. salary, benefits 
and pension). The salary and pension amounts are those 
applicable for 2014/15.
 > Target: fixed remuneration plus target annual bonus 
opportunity (40% of the maximum bonus opportunity) 
plus 25% vesting of the maximum award under the LTIP .
 > Maximum: fixed remuneration plus maximum annual bonus 
opportunity plus 100% vesting of the maximum award 
under the LTIP .
 > Annual bonus maximum and LTIP award levels are based 
on the application of the policy for 2014/15 as set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration report.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Group
The Committee does not consult directly with employees 
when determining remuneration policy for Executive Directors. 
However, the Committee is informed of pay decisions across 
the organisation including information on general pay increases 
and pay structures, to ensure that decisions on Executive 
Director pay are made with reference to the policy applying 
throughout the organisation and are consistent with those on 
which pay decisions for the rest of the workforce are taken. 
How Shareholder views are taken into account
The Committee considers Shareholder feedback received 
on the Directors’ Remuneration report each year and any 
comments received from Shareholder representative bodies 
more generally. Shareholders’ views are seriously considered 
when shaping and implementing remuneration policy. When 
any material changes are proposed to the remuneration policy, 
the Committee Chairman will inform major Shareholders in 
advance, and will generally offer a meeting to discuss these. 
Key areas of discretion in the remuneration policy
The Committee operates the Group’s variable incentive 
plans according to their respective rules and in accordance 
with HMRC rules where relevant. To ensure the efficient 
administration of these plans, the Committee will apply certain 
operational discretions. These discretions are implicit in the 
policy stated above, but we have listed them for clarity. 
They include, but are not limited to:
 > Discretion in exceptional circumstances to amend previously 
set incentive targets or to adjust the proposed payout to 
ensure a fair and appropriate outcome.
 > Certain decisions relating to the Long Term Incentive Plan 
awards for which the Committee has discretion as set out 
in the rules of the relevant share plans, which have been 
approved by Shareholders. 
 > The decisions on exercise of malus and / or clawback rights.
Legacy arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Remuneration 
policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any 
commitments entered into with current or former Executive 
Directors before the current legislation on remuneration policies 
came into force or before an individual became an Executive 
Director (such as the payment of outstanding incentive awards) 
even where it is not consistent with the policy prevailing at the 
time such commitment is fulfilled. Details of any payments to 
former Executive Directors will be set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report as they arise. 
External directorships for Executive Directors
Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted 
to accept one outside appointment on an external board 
or committee as long as it is not deemed to interfere with 
the business of the Company. Any fees received in respect 
of such an appointment, which are disclosed as a footnote 
to the Directors’ single total figure of remuneration table set out 
on page 64, are retained by the Executive Directors concerned. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 63
Service contracts and letters of appointment
The service contracts and letters of appointment of the 
Directors include the following terms:
Executive Directors
Company 
notice period Contract date
Unexpired term of 
contract (months)
Mike Tye 12 months 26 June 2008 Rolling contract
1
Paddy Gallagher 12 months 7 November 201 1 Rolling contract
1
Non-Executive 
Directors
Company 
notice period
Date of first 
appointment
Unexpired term of 
contract (months)
Walker Boyd 6 months 4 July 2011 34
Mark Pain 1 month 4 July 2011 34
Tony Rice 1 month 4 July 2011 34
Christopher Bell 1 month 1 August 2011 35
Julie Chakraverty 1 month 20 January 2012 4
1  Contract will continue until terminated by notice either by the Company  
or the Director.
Directors’ Remuneration report
The following report will be subject to a second non-binding 
vote at the forthcoming AGM and sets out how the Company’s 
remuneration policy will be implemented in 2014/15, and how 
it has been implemented in 2013/14. 
Application of remuneration policy for 2014/15
Executive Directors’ base salaries
The Committee has awarded modest cost of living salary 
increases of 2% for the forthcoming year, which reflect the 
general level of increase given to employees across the business. 
Basic salary
From 
6 October 2013
From 
5 October 2014
Mike Tye £484,500 £494,190
Paddy Gallagher £331,500 £338,130
Pension and benefits
Both Mike Tye and Paddy Gallagher have elected to receive a 
cash supplement of 25% and 20% of salary (net of employer’s 
national insurance) respectively in lieu of a contribution to the 
defined contribution scheme. 
Annual bonus plan
The annual bonus in 2014/15 will operate on the same basis 
as in 2013/14 and will be consistent with the policy detailed 
in the Remuneration policy in terms of the performance 
conditions. Maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of base salary 
for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% of base salary for the 
Finance Director. Payments under the bonus will be based 
75% upon the achievement of profit before tax (PBT) targets and 
25% on challenging personal objectives set by the Committee. 
The PBT target will be based on delivery of the Group’s own 
internal plans, which are comprehensively set, scrutinised 
and agreed by the Board, overlaid on the financial forecasts 
and expectations in the investor community. Threshold payout 
(being 26.67% of the bonus subject to the PBT target) will be 
awarded for achieving 98% of budgeted PBT rising to maximum 
payout (being 75% of the maximum bonus) for achieving 108% 
of budgeted PBT.
The 25% of the bonus awarded for achievement of personal 
and / or strategic objectives is also subject to an underpin and 
none of this element of the bonus will pay out if the threshold 
level, 98% of budgeted PBT, is not met.
The specific PBT targets and the personal objectives are 
deemed to be commercially sensitive and these will be 
disclosed retrospectively in the 2015/16 Directors’ 
Remuneration report.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Awards of 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer 
and 100% of base salary for the Finance Director will be made 
under the LTIP in 2014/15 on the same terms as set out in the 
policy table. The performance conditions are anticipated to be 
as follows:
 > EPS element (50%): this represents growth in the Company’s 
adjusted fully diluted EPS. 12.5% of LTIP awards will vest for 
annual compound EPS growth of 7% p.a. increasing on a 
straight line basis to 25% vesting for annual compound EPS 
growth of 10% p.a. Vesting then increases on a straight line 
basis to 50% for annual compound EPS growth of 12% p.a.
 > Relative TSR element (50%): this represents the Company’s 
TSR relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment trusts and financial services companies). 12.5% of 
LTIP awards will vest if the Company is ranked at the median, 
increasing pro-rata to 50% vesting for a ranking at upper 
quartile or better.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
Fees were last reviewed in June 2014 with effect from 
24 August 2014. 
2013/14
From 
24 August 2014
Chairman’s fee £180,000 £190,000
Base fee £42,000 £45,000
Additional fee for chairing the 
Audit & Risk or Remuneration 
Committee £10,000 £10,000
Senior Independent Director fee £3,000 £3,000 64 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Remuneration report
continued
The following parts of the Remuneration report are subject to audit, other than elements explaining the application of the 
remuneration policy for 2014.
Single total figure of remuneration
The detailed emoluments received by the Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 23 August 2014 are shown 
below and are derived from the Remuneration policy on page 57. No payments were made for loss of office, and no payments 
were made to past Directors.
Director £000 Year
Base salary
 / fees
Taxable 
benefits
1
Annual 
bonus
2
Long term 
incentive
3
Pension 
contributions
4
Other
5
Total 
Executive Directors
Mike Tye 2013/14 483 33 514 1,453 106 1 2,590
2012/13 475 38 178 – 104 – 795
Paddy Gallagher 2013/14 331 13 234 497 60 – 1,135
2012/13 325 15 65 – 65 – 470
Chairman
Walker Boyd 2013/14 180 – – – – – 180
2012/13 180 – – – – – 180
Non-Executive Directors
Tony Rice 2013/14 55 – – – – – 55
2012/13 55 – – – – – 55
Mark Pain 2013/14 52 – – – – – 52
2012/13 52 – – – – – 52
Christopher Bell 2013/14 42 – – – – – 42
2012/13 42 – – – – – 42
Julie Chakraverty 2013/14 42 – – – – – 42
2012/13 42 – – – – – 42
1  Taxable benefits include the provision to every Executive Director of a car or car allowance (including payment of private fuel and running expenses), and private 
medical insurance. In the 2012/13 Annual Report the figures included non-taxable benefits.
2  The annual bonus is paid two-thirds in cash and one-third in shares with the portion deferred into shares subject to an additional holding period of two years  
with no further performance conditions attached. The calculation for the 2013/14 annual bonus payment amount is set out on page 65. 
3  Long term incentive awards vesting under the LTIP. This value incorporates an estimated vesting of the TSR element of the 2011 LTIP for which the performance 
period does not end until 8 November 2014. Further details are set out on pages 65 and 66. 
4  Mike Tye receives a payment in lieu of contributions to the Group’s pension scheme equivalent to 25% of salary (net of employer’s national insurance). 
Until 21 November 2013 the Company contributed an amount equivalent to 20% of salary to the Group’s pension scheme on behalf of Paddy Gallagher,  
after which he received a payment in lieu of contributions equivalent to 20% of salary (net of employer’s national insurance).
5  The face value of the matching awards granted under the SIP in the year. Further details may be found on page 67. 
Additional information in respect of the single figure table 
Annual bonus
For 2013/14 the maximum bonus opportunities for Mike Tye and Paddy Gallagher were 150% and 100% of salary respectively. 
Seventy-five per cent of the payout was determined by performance against profit targets established at the start of the financial 
year. The remaining 25% was measured by performance against personal objectives, which are subject to an underpin requiring 
the threshold profit target to be achieved before any payout can be awarded for performance against personal objectives.
We have set out below performance against the profit targets and personal objectives for the 2013/14 annual bonus.
Profit targets (75% of maximum bonus opportunity)
Bonus payout 
(% of total bonus)
Threshold 20%
Target 30%
Maximum 75%
Actual payout 51%
The PBT achieved of £60.3m fell between the Target and Maximum for bonus purposes. The bonus payout was equivalent to 51% 
of maximum bonus. The Committee will disclose the actual 2013/14 targets in next year’s Remuneration report when they are no 
longer considered to be commercially sensitive. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 65
Personal objectives (25% of maximum bonus opportunity)
Personal objectives for Executive Directors are set each year and are designed to relate to the Company’s priorities, both financial 
and non-financial.
For the Chief Executive Officer in 2013/14, personal objectives included defining future growth strategies, delivery of the key 
priorities (Compelling Brands, Flawless Execution, Talent and Leadership), improvement in key business ratios and development 
of the organisation structure.
For the Finance Director in 2013/14, personal objectives included completion of refinancing, commencement of a retail investor 
programme, improving losses on onerous leases and improvement of returns on investment.
The Committee determined that the objectives had been largely satisfied, resulting in the level of award shown in the table below.
Summary
2013/14 bonus payout  
as a % of maximum opportunity
2013/14 
bonus 
payout 
in £000
Profit 
target 
Personal 
objectives Total
Mike Tye 51% 20% 71% £514
Paddy Gallagher 51% 20% 71% £234
Long Term Incentive Plan
The LTIP awards granted on 9 November 2011 substantially completed their performance period in the 2013/14 financial year and 
accordingly have been included in the 2013/14 single total figure of remuneration. These awards are based 50% on a three-year 
EPS growth performance condition and 50% on a relative TSR performance condition against the constituents of the FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts and financial services companies). 
Details of the performance targets, the level of achievement against them and the resultant level of vesting are set out in the 
tables below.
EPS growth (50% of maximum opportunity)
Annual compound growth in adjusted  
diluted EPS over the period
2
 % of LTIP award which will vest
Performance condition Less than 7% per annum 0%
7% per annum 12.5%
10% per annum 25%
15% or more per annum 50%
Actual performance
1
15.5% per annum 50%
1  In determining the level of vesting achieved for the November 2011 LTIP award the Committee has exercised its discretion in accordance with the performance 
condition to ensure that EPS for 2014 is measured on a basis consistent with the EPS for 2011 as envisaged by the Committee at the time of grant. The 2014 EPS 
has therefore been adjusted to 7.4 pence, to reflect the change in budgeted interest charges arising from the debt re-profiling which completed in November 2013. 
For the same reason an adjustment will also be made to the 2015 EPS, for the LTIP awards made in November 2012.
2 Vesting on a straight line basis between these targets.
TSR performance (50% of maximum opportunity)
The following table refers to TSR performance to 30 September 2014. The final vesting results will be provided in next year’s 
Remuneration report.
Rank of the Company’s TSR against the  
TSR of the members of the comparator group % of LTIP award which will vest
Performance condition Below median 0%
At median 12.5%
Between median and upper quartile Between 12.5% and 50% on a straight-line basis
Upper quartile or above 50%
Actual performance 58.62 of 188 companies 41.1%
1
1  TSR has been calculated using a base average share price (plus dividends) over the three months to 8 November 2011 and an end average share price 
(plus dividends) over the period 9 August 2014 to 30 September 2014. 66 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Remuneration report
continued
Summary 
2013/14 LTIP expected payout 
as a % of maximum opportunity
2013/14 
expected 
number of 
LTIP shares 
vesting
2013/14 
expected 
face value 
of LTIP 
shares 
vesting
1
£000 EPS growth 
TSR 
performance Total
Mike Tye 50% 41.1% 91.1% 1,939,166 £1,453
Paddy Gallagher 50% 41.1% 91.1% 663,398 £497
1 The face value of LTIP shares vesting is calculated using the average share price over the final quarter of the financial year, being 74.94 pence.
 
Scheme interests awarded during the year
LTIP awards granted in the year
On 8 November 2013, Executive Directors were granted awards under the LTIP which will vest in 2016, with one half of the award 
subject to challenging EPS growth targets and the remaining half subject to a relative TSR performance condition against the 
constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts and financial services companies). Further detail on these awards 
is set out below:
Executive
Number of 
LTIP awards
1
Basis Face value
2
Mike Tye 961,564 150% of base salary £726,750
Paddy Gallagher 438,608 100% of base salary £331,500
1  LTIP awards are structured as nil-cost options.
2  Based on a share price of 75.58 pence, which was the average share price over three dealing days immediately prior to grant.
One half of the LTIP awards granted on 8 November 2013 are subject to a growth in EPS performance condition over the three 
financial years to 20 August 2016. This half of the awards vest according to the following schedule:
Annual compound growth in adjusted diluted EPS
1
% of LTIP award which will vest
Less than 7% per annum 0%
7% per annum 12.5%
10% per annum 25%
12% or more per annum 50%
1 Vesting on a straight line basis between these targets.
The remaining half of the awards granted on 8 November 2013 are subject to a relative TSR performance condition against 
the constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts and financial services sector companies) at the date of grant. 
TSR performance is measured over the period 8 November 2013 to 7 November 2016 with the awards vesting in accordance 
with the following schedule. 
Rank of the Company’s TSR against the  
TSR of the members of the comparator group % of LTIP award which will vest
Below median 0%
At median 12.5%
Between median and upper quartile Between 12.5% and 50% on a straight-line basis
Upper quartile or above 50%
Deferred share bonus
One third of all bonuses paid (after tax) are deferred into Company shares and released after a two year period with no 
further performance conditions attached. The following shares were acquired on 1 November 2013 in respect of the 2012/13 
financial year:
Executive
Number of 
Share Bonus 
Plan (SBP) 
awards Face value
1
Mike Tye 42,961 £31,469
Paddy Gallagher 15,676 £11,483
1 Based on a share price of 73.25 pence, which was the average share price over three dealing days immediately prior to grant. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 67
SIP options granted in the year
The Group operates a HMRC approved SIP scheme. All eligible employees, including Executive Directors, may be invited to 
participate on similar terms for a fixed period of three years. The face value of the matching awards are included in the other 
column of the single figure table as they are not subject to any performance conditions aside from retaining the shares and 
remaining in employment with the Company for a period of three years.
Executive
Number of 
partnership 
shares 
purchased 
during 
the year
Number of 
dividend 
shares 
purchased 
during 
the year
Number of 
matching 
shares 
conditionally 
awarded 
during 
the year
Face value 
of matching 
shares
1
Vesting 
date
2
Mike Tye 2,068 314 2,068 £1,530 Various
Paddy Gallagher 0 0 0 £0 Various
1 Based on a closing share price of 74 pence.
2  Participants buy shares monthly under the Share Incentive Plan and the Company provides one matching share for each share purchased.  
These are first available for vesting three years after purchase.
Directors’ interests in shares
The table below sets out details of Executive Directors outstanding share awards.
At 17 August 
2013
Granted 
during the 
period
Exercised 
during the 
period
Lapsed
during the 
period
At 23 August 
2014
Date of 
award
Date of 
release
Mike Tye
2011 LTIP
1
2,128,613 – – – 2,128,613 09.11.11 09.11.14
2012 LTIP
1
1,185,918 – – – 1,185,918 09.11.12 09.11.15
2013 LTIP
1
– 961,564 – – 961,564 08.11.13 08.11.16
2011 SBP
2
161,605 – 161,605 – – 27.10.11 26.10.13
2012 SBP
2
93,611 – – – 93,611 01.11.12 31.10.14
2013 SBP
2
– 42,961 – – 42,961 01.11.13 31.10.15
2011 SIP
3
2,708 – – – 2,708 2011/12 Various
3
2012 SIP
3
2,340 – – – 2,340 2012/13 Various
3
2013 SIP
3
– 2,068 – – 2,068 2013/14 Various
3
Paddy Gallagher
2011 LTIP
1
728,209 – – – 728,209 09.11.11 09.11.14
2012 LTIP
1
540,945 – – – 540,945 09.11.12 09.11.15
2013 LTIP
1
– 438,608 – – 438,608 08.11.13 08.11.16
2012 SBP
2
26,276 – – – 26,276 01.11.12 31.10.14
2013 SBP
2
– 15,676 – – 15,676 01.11.13 31.10.15
1  Awards granted under the 2013 LTIP are subject to the performance conditions as outlined on page 66 of this report. The 2011 and 2012 LTIP are subject to the 
same performance conditions (over the relevant performance periods), but the EPS growth required for maximum vesting is 15% or more per annum (compared 
with 12% or more per annum for the 2013 LTIP).
2  Any awards held under the SBP or SIP are not subject to any performance conditions. SIP shares are dependent on the retention of the partnership shares until 
the release date. 
3  Participants buy shares monthly under the SIP and the Company provides one matching share for each share purchased. These are first available for vesting three 
years after purchase. 68 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Remuneration report
continued
Share ownership
The Directors’ interests in the Company’s shares as at 23 August 2014 were as follows:
Director
Beneficially owned at
Outstanding 
SBP awards
Outstanding 
LTIP awards
Outstanding 
SIP awards
Shareholding 
requirement 
(% of base 
salary)
Current 
shareholding 
(% of base 
salary)
1,2
% of 
guideline 
achieved
17 August 
2013
23 August 
2014
Executive Directors
Mike Tye 403,762 709,055 136,572 4,276,095 7,116 150% 130% 87%
Paddy Gallagher 75,000 75,000 41,952 2,352,735 – 100% 26% 26%
Non-Executive Directors
Walker Boyd 200,000 200,000 – – – – – –
Tony Rice 503,013 809,997 – – – – – –
Mark Pain 29,177 29,177 – – – – – –
Christopher Bell 110,266 110,266 – – – – – –
Julie Chakraverty 100,000 100,000 – – – – – –
1  Awards held under the SBP and SIP are included in the current shareholding as there are no further performance conditions attached to these awards. SIP shares 
are dependent on the retention of the partnership shares until the release date. 
2  For the purposes of determining compliance with the requirement, shares are valued based on the share price on 23 August 2014.
The following sections of the Directors’ Remuneration report are not subject to audit.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table sets out the percentage change in distributions to Shareholders and employee remuneration costs.
2013/14 2012/13 % change
Employee remuneration costs (£m)
1
206.9 193.2 7.1%
Dividends (£m)
2
13.8 12.8 7.8%
1  Based on the figure shown in note 7 to the financial statements.
2  Based on the cash returned to Shareholders through dividends as shown in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Percentage increase in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer
The table below shows the movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current 
and previous financial year compared to salaried employees of the Company. 
Element of remuneration
Chief 
Executive 
Officer 
% change
Employees 
% change
Salary 1.7%
1
3.7%
2
Taxable benefits 0% 0%
Annual bonus 288% 548%
3
1  The salary review took effect part way through the year and therefore this change is less than the increase in base salary which took effect on 6 October 2013.
2 All salaried employees as the most relevant comparator.
3 All Support Centre employees as the most relevant comparator. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 69
Total Shareholder Return performance graph
The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of Spirit, with dividends reinvested, from 1 August 2011 (the first 
day of trading in Spirit shares) to 23 August 2014 against the corresponding changes in a hypothetical holding in shares in the 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). The FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) was chosen as a suitable comparator 
index as it represents a broad equity index in which the Company is a constituent member. The chart only represents TSR 
performance from 1 August 2011 as this date represents the first day Spirit traded as an independent company and no TSR data 
is therefore available prior to this date.
160
140
120
100
80
60
Total Shareholder Return (rebased)
1 August 2011 20 August 2011 23 August 2014 17 August 2013 18 August 2012
Spirit Pub Company plc
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts)
Source: Thomson Reuters
This graph compares the TSR performance of Spirit Pub Company plc with the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) over the period 
from 1 August 2011 (the first day of trading in Spirit Pub Company shares) to 23 August 2014. The other points plotted show the TSR performance at intervening 
financial year ends.
During the year the Company’s share price varied between £0.665 and £0.88 and ended the year at £0.74.
The table below shows the total remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer over the same period as the TSR chart shows above. 
Note that all share awards are valued at the date of vesting.
Year ending Chief Executive Officer
Total 
remuneration 
£000
Annual 
bonus
(% of max)
1
Long term 
incentives
(% of max)
2
23.08.2014 Mike Tye £2,590 71% 91.1%
17.08.2013 Mike Tye £795 25% –
18.08.2012
3
Mike Tye £940 50% –
18.08.2012
4
Ian Dyson £1,161 – –
20.08.2011
5
Ian Dyson £789 67% –
1  Note that this shows the annual bonus payments as a percentage of the maximum opportunity.
2  Shows the number of shares which vested as a percentage of the maximum number of shares which could have vested. For the years ending 20 August 2011 
and 18 August 2012, Ian Dyson did not have any outstanding LTIPs that could have vested in the year. For the years ending 18 August 2012 and 17 August 2013 
the long term incentive vesting opportunity for Mike Tye was in respect of awards granted under the historic Punch LTIP. For the year ending 23 August 2014 
the value incorporates an estimated vesting of the TSR element of the 2011 LTIP for which the performance period does not end until 8 November 2014.
3  This represents the remuneration received by Mike Tye for performing the role of Chief Executive Officer following his appointment on 16 December 2011.
4  This figure includes payments to Ian Dyson following his departure from the Company on 16 December 2011, equivalent to 12 months of pay and benefits in line 
with his contract of employment.
5  Reflects remuneration during the period from demerger on 1 August 2011 to 20 August 2011. 70 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Remuneration report
continued
Adviser to the Committee
During the year, the Committee received independent remuneration advice from New Bridge Street (NBS), part of Aon plc. 
This independent adviser was appointed by the Committee and is accountable to it. Aon plc also provides consulting advice 
to the Group in respect of its pension schemes and actuarial, investment and other advice to the pension scheme trustees. 
The Committee does not believe that the independence of its adviser is compromised by these other appointments. The terms 
of engagement between the Committee and NBS are available from the Company Secretary on request. NBS is a signatory 
to the Remuneration Consultants’ Code and has provided a statement confirming its independence. In line with best practice, 
the Committee will assess, from time to time, whether the appointment of NBS remains appropriate or should be put out to 
tender as part of its effectiveness review. For the year under review NBS’s total fees charged were £43,000 (excluding VAT). 
The Committee also consults with the Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and the HR Director. 
Dilution
In accordance with institutional Shareholder guidelines, the Committee sets a limit on the amount of shares that can be  
issued to satisfy all of its employee share plan awards of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital in any rolling ten year period. 
Of this 10%, only half can be issued to satisfy awards under the discretionary arrangements. At demerger, Shareholder approval 
was obtained to equitably divide Punch’s historic dilution between Punch and Spirit based upon whether holders of awards were 
to be employed by Punch or Spirit post demerger. Accordingly, the Company’s current dilution position is as follows:
Limit
Current 
dilution level
10% in ten years 2.63%
5% in ten years 2.5%
Statement of Shareholder voting 
At last year’s AGM, the Directors’ Remuneration report received the following votes from Shareholders:
Total number 
of votes
% of 
votes cast
Votes cast in favour 506,552,723 99.42%
Votes cast against 2,947,416 0.58%
Total votes cast (excludes withheld votes) 509,500,139 100%
Votes withheld
1
11,847,509 –
1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast ‘for’ and ‘against’ a resolution.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf:
Tony Rice
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Spirit Pub Company plc
3 November 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 71
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
in relation to the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Remuneration report and the Financial Statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. In that respect the Directors 
have prepared the Group and Company Financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of 
the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 > Select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently.
 > Make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent.
 > Present information, including accounting policies,  
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable 
and understandable information.
 > In respect of the Group financial statements, to provide 
additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the Group’s financial position 
and performance.
 > State whether IFRS as adopted by the European Union  
and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been  
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed  
and explained in the Group and Company Financial 
statements respectively.
 > Prepare the financial statements on the going concern  
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the  
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
and Group’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Financial 
statements and the Remuneration report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The Directors are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
a)  the Financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, 
as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Company and the Group;
b)  the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces; and
c)  the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide 
the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
On behalf of the Board
Mike Tye   Paddy Gallagher
Chief Executive Officer   Finance Director
3 November 2014    3 November 2014 72 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Notes
53 weeks to 23 August 2014 52 weeks to 17 August 2013
1
Pre- 
exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items
2
£m
Total
£m
Pre- 
exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items
2
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 2 800.9 – 800.9 758.2 – 758.2
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation (641.5) (17.0) (658.5) (608.7) (5.3) (614.0)
EBITDA
3
2 159.4 (17.0) 142.4 149.5 (5.3) 144.2
Depreciation and amortisation (38.2) – (38.2) (36.2) – (36.2)
Property related gains / (losses) (including impairment) 6 – 71.6 71.6 – (20.6) (20.6)
Profit / (loss) on sale of non-current assets – 18.7 18.7 – (2.4) (2.4)
Operating profit / (loss) 3 121.2 73.3 194.5 113.3 (28.3) 85.0
Finance income 4 0.5 2.0 2.5 0.5 0.8 1.3
Finance costs 5 (61.4) (4.3) (65.7) (59.5) (0.1) (59.6)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps 6 – (21.1) (21.1) – 42.0 42.0
Profit before tax 60.3 49.9 110.2 54.3 14.4 68.7
UK income tax (charge) / credit 8 (13.2) 2.4 (10.8) (12.7) (21.4) (34.1)
Profit / (loss) attributable to owners  
of the parent company 47.1 52.3 99.4 41.6 (7.0) 34.6
Earnings / (loss) per share 9
Basic (pence) 7.1 8.0 15.1 6.3 (1.1) 5.2
Diluted (pence) 7.1 7.8 14.9 6.3 (1.1) 5.2
Dividends 10
Interim paid (pence) 0.72 0.68
Proposed (pence) 1.50 1.37
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1. 
2 Exceptional items are explained in note 1 and analysed in note 6. 
3  EBITDA represents earnings before depreciation and amortisation, property related gains / (losses) (including impairment), profit / (loss) on sale of non-current 
assets, finance income, finance costs, movement in fair value of interest rate swaps and UK Corporation tax of the Group.
Consolidated income statement
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 73
Notes
53 weeks to 
 23 August 
2014
£m
 52 weeks to
17 August 
2013
1
£m
Profit attributable to owners of the parent company 99.4 34.6
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Re-measurement loss on defined benefit pension schemes 26 (8.0) (5.8)
Unrealised gain on revaluation of the property portfolio 67.5 58.6
Tax credit / (charge) relating to components of other comprehensive income 8 1.5 (1.8)
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss and other comprehensive gains 61.0 51.0
Total comprehensive gain attributable to owners of the parent company 160.4 85.6
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1.
Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014 74 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Notes
23 August 
2014
£m
17 August 
2013
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 1,435.2 1,314.0
Operating leases 12 66.4 61.3
Goodwill 12 212.1 213.7
Deferred tax assets 16 38.5 47.8
Retirement benefit asset 26 – 1.8
1,752.2 1,638.6
Current assets
Inventories 17 9.2 8.5
Trade and other receivables 15 26.0 25.7
Assets held for sale 18 11.3 2.9
Cash and cash equivalents 25 159.1 101.6
205.6 138.7
Total assets 1,957.8 1,777.3
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
1
19 (151.9) (127.9)
Borrowings 20 (14.7) (28.1)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (20.8) (21.1)
Provisions 22 (35.3) (11.2)
(222.7) (188.3)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables
1
19 (15.5) (12.5)
Borrowings 20 (813.6) (816.8)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (133.8) (126.4)
Retirement benefit obligations 26 (3.8) (2.4)
Provisions 22 (42.2) (53.8)
(1,008.9) (1,011.9)
Total liabilities (1,231.6) (1,200.2)
Net assets 726.2 577.1
Equity
Called up share capital 24 6.6 6.6
Revaluation reserve 275.4 209.2
Merger reserve
2
1,587.2 1,587.2
Share based payment reserve
2
4.5 2.9
Retained earnings (1,147.5) (1,228.8)
Total equity 726.2 577.1
1 Trade and other payables at 17 August 2013 of £140.4m have been amended to present £12.5m due after more than one year separately on the balance sheet.
2  Other reserves of £1,590.1m at 17 August 2013 have been amended to present the merger reserve of £1,587 .2m and share based payment reserve of £2.9m separately.
On behalf of the Board
Mike Tye  Paddy Gallagher
3 November 2014  3 November 2014
Consolidated balance sheet
at 23 August 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 75
Share 
capital
£m
Revaluation 
reserve
£m
Merger 
reserve
1
£m
Share based 
payment 
reserve
1
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 18 August 2012 6.6 155.2 1,587.2 1.4 (1,248.2) 502.2
Profit for the period
2
– – – – 34.6 34.6
Other comprehensive gains / (losses)
2
– 54.0 – – (3.0) 51.0
Total comprehensive gain – 54.0 – – 31.6 85.6
Dividends paid – – – – (12.8) (12.8)
Share based payment expense – – – 1.5 0.6 2.1
At 17 August 2013 6.6 209.2 1,587.2 2.9 (1,228.8) 577.1
Profit for the period – – – – 99.4 99.4
Other comprehensive gains / (losses) – 66.2 – – (5.2) 61.0
Total comprehensive gain – 66.2 – – 94.2 160.4
Dividends paid – – – – (13.8) (13.8)
Share based payment expense – – – 1.6 0.9 2.5
At 23 August 2014 6.6 275.4 1,587.2 4.5 (1,147.5) 726.2
1 Other reserves of £1,590.1m reported in the prior period have been amended to present the merger reserve and share based payment reserve separately.
2 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1.
Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014 76 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
53 weeks to 
23 August 
2014
£m
52 weeks to 
17 August 
2013
1
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating profit 194.5 85.0
Depreciation and amortisation 38.2 36.2
Exceptional operating items (73.3) 28.3
EBITDA before exceptional items 159.4 149.5
Decrease in provisions (10.2) (10.2)
Working capital and other non-cash movements 22.4 (11.8)
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in operating profit (6.4) (6.0)
Net cash generated from operating activities 165.2 121.5
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (44.1) (52.7)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and assets held for sale 34.2 12.8
Interest received 0.5 0.6
Net cash used in investing activities (9.4) (39.3)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (62.6) (63.2)
Capitalised issue costs paid (6.9) –
Repayment of borrowings (6.9) –
Repayment of derivative financial instruments and other costs on repayment of borrowings (7.6) (1.9)
Repayments of obligations under finance leases (0.5) (0.1)
Dividends paid (13.8) (12.8)
Net cash used in financing activities (98.3) (78.0)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 57.5 4.2
Opening cash and cash equivalents 101.6 97.4
Closing cash and cash equivalents 159.1 101.6
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1.
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 77
Notes
23 August 
2014
£m
17 August 
2013
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 14 342.3 339.8
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 9.7 15.9
Total assets 352.0 355.7
Net assets 352.0 355.7
Equity
Called up share capital 24 6.6 6.6
Merger reserve 329.8 329.8
Share based payment reserve 4.5 2.9
Retained earnings 11.1 16.4
Total equity 352.0 355.7
On behalf of the Board
Mike Tye  Paddy Gallagher
3 November 2014  3 November 2014
Company balance sheet
at 23 August 2014
Company number
07662835 78 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Share 
capital
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Share based 
payment 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 18 August 2012 6.6 329.8 1.4 8.6 346.4
Profit for the period – – – 20.0 20.0
Dividends paid – – – (12.8) (12.8)
Share based payment expense – – 1.5 0.6 2.1
At 17 August 2013 6.6 329.8 2.9 16.4 355.7
Profit for the period – – – 7.6 7.6
Dividends paid – – – (13.8) (13.8)
Share based payment expense – – 1.6 0.9 2.5
At 23 August 2014 6.6 329.8 4.5 11.1 352.0
Company income statement
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s income statement has not been included in these 
financial statements. The Company’s profit for the period was £7.6m (2013: £20.0m).
Company cash flow statement
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
53 weeks to 
23 August 
2014
£m
52 weeks to 
17 August 
2013
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating result – –
Net cash generated from operating activities – –
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings 8.0 28.2
Interest received 0.1 –
Net cash generated from investing activities 8.1 28.2
Exceptional finance costs paid (0.5) –
Dividends paid (13.8) (12.8)
Net cash used in financing activities (14.3) (12.8)
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (6.2) 15.4
Opening cash and cash equivalents 15.9 0.5
Closing cash and cash equivalents 9.7 15.9
Company statement of changes 
in equity
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 79
1. Accounting policies
Corporate information
Spirit Pub Company plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England. The Company’s shares are listed 
on the London Stock Exchange.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as adopted by the European Union. The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted 
by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The Company has taken 
advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement 
and related notes.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the 
financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain items, 
principally land and buildings, derivative financial instruments and retirement benefits.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of 
the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Further details regarding cash forecasting and the monitoring of financial covenants are contained in note 21. 
The Directors are of the opinion that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future, and feel it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements. 
Further information in relation to the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Strategic report on pages 9 to 39 and Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 26 to 29. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowings are described in the Financial review on 
pages 37 to 39 and in notes 20 and 21, together with information on the Group’s strategies surrounding managing interest rate risk, 
liquidity risk, capital risk and credit risk. 
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred 
thousand pounds, except where indicated.
New standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards
The IASB and IFRIC have issued and endorsed the following standards and amendments which are effective for the Group  
and the Company in these financial statements:
 > IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
 > IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised 2011)
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements. 
This standard applies to assets, liabilities and an entity’s own equity instruments that, under other IFRSs, are required or permitted 
to be measured at fair value or when disclosure of fair value is provided. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to 
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, i.e. an exit 
price. The standard has not had an impact on the Group’s measurement of position or performance, but has resulted in additional 
disclosures, see notes 11, 12, 18 and 21.
Notes to the financial statements
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
80 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
1. Accounting policies continued
New standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards continued
The amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits makes changes to the recognition and measurement of the defined benefit pension 
expense and termination benefits and disclosures relating to all employee benefits. The interest cost and expected return on scheme 
liabilities and assets used in the previous version of IAS 19 have been replaced with a ‘net interest’ amount which is calculated 
by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit obligation. This amendment has a corresponding impact on remeasurement 
gains and losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, with no overall change to the net retirement benefit liability 
in the balance sheet. The impact of the adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) on the current and comparative periods is set out below:
53 weeks to
23 August 
2014
£m
52 weeks to
17 August 
2013
£m
Consolidated income statement
Increase in exceptional operating costs (1.6) (0.7)
Decrease in exceptional finance income (21.8) (20.1)
Decrease in exceptional finance expense 20.0 17.8
Decrease in exceptional income tax charge 0.8 0.7
Decrease in profit for the period (2.6) (2.3)
Decrease in basic earnings per share (in pence) 0.4 0.4
Decrease in diluted earnings per share (in pence) 0.4 0.3
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Decrease in re-measurement loss on defined benefit pension schemes 3.4 3.0
Increase in exceptional income tax charge (0.8) (0.7)
Decrease in other comprehensive gains for the period 2.6 2.3
Net movement in total comprehensive gains – –
In addition, the above decrease in profit and decrease in other comprehensive gains have impacted on the consolidated statement 
of changes in equity, the reconciliation from operating profit to cash generated from operating activities (see consolidated cash flow 
statement) and a number of notes to the financial statements. There were no impacts on the consolidated balance sheet.
The IASB and IFRIC have issued and endorsed the following standards, which are not yet effective and have not been early 
adopted by the Group and Company, which will be adopted in future accounting periods:
 > IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
 > IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
 > IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
 > IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (2011)
 > IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011)
 > IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
The amendments to published standards that have an effective date of after these financial statements have not been adopted 
early by the Group.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and amendments will have a material impact on the Group’s 
reported income or net assets in the period of adoption. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 81
1. Accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation
Consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from 
the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The Group’s interest in its joint venture was incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of accounting,  
prior to that company becoming a wholly owned subsidiary in January 2014.
All intra-group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in full. 
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the fair value 
of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Costs related to the acquisition, other than those 
associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred. Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured 
at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Where assets are transferred between segments or disposed, the apportioned 
value of goodwill allocated to those assets is also transferred or charged to the income statement respectively.
Goodwill carried in the balance sheet is not amortised. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary 
acquired, the gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment
Freehold and long leasehold land and buildings are initially stated at cost and subsequently at valuation.
Landlord’s fixtures and fittings include removable items, which are generally regarded as within landlord ownership. These are 
depreciated in accordance with the policy detailed below. 
Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual values, by equal annual 
instalments as follows:
Licensed properties, unlicensed properties and owner-occupied properties
50 years or the life of the lease if shorter
Fixtures and fittings (including landlord’s fixtures and fittings)
5 to 15 years
IT and other assets (including IT equipment and motor vehicles)
5 to 15 years
Freehold land is not depreciated.
An annual assessment of residual values is performed and there is no depreciable amount if residual values are the same as, 
or more than, book value. Residual values are based on the estimated amount that would be currently obtainable from disposal 
of the asset net of disposal costs if the asset were already of the age and condition expected at the end of its useful life. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
82 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
1. Accounting policies continued
Impairment 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment or more frequently 
if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Assets that are subject to 
depreciation or amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. A review for indicators of impairment is performed annually. An impairment loss is recognised 
for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of 
an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use. Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the period 
in which it occurs. When an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change 
in the original estimate, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, up to the 
carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods.
Revaluation
Surpluses which arise from the revaluation are recorded directly within the revaluation reserve unless they are reversing a revaluation 
decrease which has been recognised in the income statement previously, in which case the surplus is recognised in the income 
statement, up to the amount previously recognised in the income statement. Where the revaluation exercise gives rise to a deficit, 
this is reflected directly in the revaluation reserve to the extent that a surplus exists against the same asset. Any residual amount is 
then recognised in the income statement.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment in value in the financial statements of the Company.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amount. An estimate 
for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Receivables are written off against the doubtful 
debt provision when management deems the debt to be no longer recoverable.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits.
Assets held for sale
Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are not depreciated.
Assets held for sale and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale 
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the 
asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale and completion should 
be expected within one year from the date of classification.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic resources as a result 
of past events.
Provisions are measured at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance 
sheet date. Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of money is material. The discount rate used to determine the 
present value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 83
1. Accounting policies continued
Borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with 
the borrowings. 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method. Amortised cost is calculated taking account of any issue costs, and any discounts or premiums on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised, as well as through the 
amortisation process.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risk associated with interest rate 
fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially accounted for and subsequently remeasured to fair value. 
Changes in fair value of any derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately 
in the income statement.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds, net of direct issue costs.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve represents capital contributions received and amounts recognised on the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company 
(Holdco) Limited as part of the demerger from the Punch Taverns plc group in 2011.
Taxation
Income tax expense comprises both the income tax payable, based on taxable profits for the period, and deferred tax.
Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or where the 
deferred tax asset or liability arises on an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and, at the time 
of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled 
or the asset is realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Movements 
in deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement, except where they relate to items charged or credited directly to 
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
For properties acquired as part of a business combination, movements in the deferred tax liability resulting from indexation 
allowance are taken to the income statement until the tax base cost plus indexation allowance reaches the fair value on acquisition, 
and directly to equity thereafter for historic revaluation surpluses. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
84 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
1. Accounting policies continued
Leases 
Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified 
as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and 
the present value of the minimum lease payments. The asset is then depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the 
asset or the lease term. A corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are 
apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability. Finance charges are recognised in finance costs.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. 
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The fair values attached to operating head leasehold interests on acquisitions are deemed to represent lease premiums, and are 
carried as intangible assets. These operating leases are capitalised at cost and subsequently stated at valuation. 
Other payments made on entering into or acquiring operating leases are included in prepayments and amortised over the lease 
term on a straight-line basis.
Pensions
The Group operates two defined benefit schemes (see note 26) which require contributions to be made to separately administered 
funds. The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit arrangements is the difference 
between the fair value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities. Any defined benefit assets are limited to the 
total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits in the form of any future refunds from the 
plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. The cost of providing benefits under the plans is determined separately for 
each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial method. The current service cost is charged to operating profit. The net interest 
income / (charge) on the net retirement benefit assets / liabilities is shown within exceptional finance income / (costs). 
Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in full as they occur in other comprehensive income.
The Group also contributes to money purchase pension plans for employees (see note 7), amounts payable are charged to the 
income statement as they fall due.
Share based payments 
A number of employees of the Company’s subsidiaries (including Directors) receive an element of remuneration in the form of share 
based payments, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares.
Share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value of transactions involving the granting of 
shares is determined by the share price at the date of grant. The fair value of transactions involving the granting of share options 
is calculated by an external valuer based on a binomial model. In valuing share based payments, no account is taken of any 
performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Spirit Pub Company plc (‘market conditions’).
The cost of share based payments is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in the share based payment reserve, 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Company’s estimate of how many of the awards will eventually vest. 
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market 
condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other 
performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of a share based payment award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not 
been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, 
as measured at the date of the modification.
Where a share based payment award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not yet 
recognised for the award is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated 
as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification to 
the original award, as described in the previous paragraph. The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share 
dilution in the computation of earnings per share. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 85
1. Accounting policies continued
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and 
services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and VAT. All operations take place solely in the United Kingdom.
Drink and food sales 
Revenue in respect of drink and food sales is recognised at the point at which the goods are provided, net of any discounts 
or volume rebates allowed.
Rents receivable 
Rents receivable are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Other income
Other income includes the Group’s share of net machine income which is recognised in the period to which it relates; revenue 
in respect of hotel rooms is recognised at the time of the guest visit.
Dividend distribution
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by the Company’s Shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Exceptional items
In order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance, profit is presented excluding items which management consider 
will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-recurring nature or as a result of specific accounting treatments. 
Further detail on the nature of exceptional items is included in note 6.
Significant accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the 
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. 
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgements including those relating to income taxes,  
deferred tax, financial instruments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, valuations, provisions and 
post-employment benefits.
Management bases its estimates and judgements on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets 
and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different 
assumptions and conditions.
The estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are detailed below.
Property valuations
The Group carries its property portfolio at open market valuation. The valuations, which are supported by market evidence and 
a rolling five-year programme of site visits by independent property surveyors, are prepared with regard to factors such as current 
and future projected income levels taking account of the location, quality of the pub, and recent market transactions in the sector. 
Changes in these assumptions such as the valuation basis applied in comparable market transactions, or the income level 
generated by a pub, could materially impact the valuation of these properties.
Impairment of property , plant and equipment and operating leases
Property, plant and equipment and operating leases are reviewed for impairment if circumstances suggest that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. Recoverable amounts are determined based on value-in-use calculations and estimated sale 
proceeds. These calculations require assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount 
rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. Actual outcomes may vary from these estimates. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
86 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
1. Accounting policies continued
Significant accounting estimates and judgements continued
Goodwill impairment
The Group assesses whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis. The recoverable amounts of the groups of cash-
generating units (CGUs) to which goodwill has been allocated is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations 
require assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the 
value-in-use of those cash flows. These assumptions are disclosed in note 13. Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates.
Retirement benefit asset / liability
The present value of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and depend on a number 
of actuarial assumptions, which are disclosed in note 26. Any change in these assumptions could impact the carrying amounts 
of retirement benefit assets / liabilities.
Onerous lease provisions 
The Group provides for its onerous obligations under operating leases where the property is closed or vacant and for properties 
where rental expense is in excess of income. The estimated timings and amounts of cash flows are determined using the 
experience of internal and external property experts; however, any changes to the estimated method of exiting from the property 
could lead to changes to the level of the provision recorded.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised. When assessing 
the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised, consideration is given to the timing and level of future taxable 
income following reviews of budgets and forecasts. 
Authorisation of financial statements
The Group’s and Company’s financial statements for Spirit Pub Company plc for the period ended 23 August 2014 were authorised 
for issue by the Board of Directors on 3 November 2014 and the balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by Mike Tye 
and Paddy Gallagher.
2. Segmental analysis 
The Group has two reportable segments, a Managed estate and a Leased estate, which are the Group’s strategic business units. 
Each strategic business unit consists of a number of cash-generating units (CGUs), which are individual pubs. These CGUs 
generate their own revenues, which are consolidated to give the Group revenue and as a result, Group revenue is not reliant 
on one significant customer. 
The Group’s risks and returns are affected predominantly by the differences in the products and services provided by the strategic 
business units.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker is represented by the Executive Directors and the executive management team of the Group. 
Performance is measured based on segmental EBITDA, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by 
the Executive Directors and the executive management team. The Spirit Pub Company plc Board consider adjusted segmental 
EBITDA when assessing the performance of the business and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
The Group operates solely in the United Kingdom, and therefore has only one geographical segment.
Between 17 August 2013 and 23 August 2014, six pubs with a fair value of £2.9m transferred from the Leased to the Managed 
estate and two pubs with a fair value of £0.5m transferred from the Managed to the Leased estate. Between 18 August 2012 and 
17 August 2013, one pub with a fair value of £0.7m transferred from the Leased to the Managed estate and five pubs with a fair 
value of £3.8m transferred from the Managed to the Leased estate. As a result of these intra-group transfers, £nil (2013: £0.2m) 
of goodwill was transferred from the Managed estate to the Leased estate and £0.3m (2013: £nil) of goodwill was transferred from 
the Leased estate to the Managed estate. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 87
2. Segmental analysis continued
2014
Managed
£m
Leased
£m
Total
£m
Drink revenue 378.7 59.8 438.5
Food revenue 294.8 – 294.8
Rental income – 18.8 18.8
Other revenue 44.5 4.3 48.8
Revenue 718.0 82.9 800.9
Operating costs
1
(591.9) (49.6) (641.5)
EBITDA
1
126.1 33.3 159.4
Depreciation and amortisation (36.1) (2.1) (38.2)
Operating profit before exceptional items 90.0 31.2 121.2
Operating exceptional items 73.3
Net finance costs (63.2)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (21.1)
UK income tax charge (10.8)
Profit attributable to owners of the parent company 99.4
2013
2
Managed 
£m
Leased
£m
Total
£m
Drink revenue 359.9 58.1 418.0
Food revenue 278.6 – 278.6
Rental income – 18.5 18.5
Other revenue 39.7 3.4 43.1
Revenue 678.2 80.0 758.2
Operating costs
1
(561.6) (47.1) (608.7)
EBITDA
1
116.6 32.9 149.5
Depreciation and amortisation (33.9) (2.3) (36.2)
Operating profit before exceptional items 82.7 30.6 113.3
Operating exceptional items (28.3)
Net finance costs (58.3)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps 42.0
UK income tax charge (34.1)
Profit attributable to owners of the parent company 34.6
1 Before exceptional items.
2 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
88 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
2. Segmental analysis continued
2014
Managed
£m
Leased
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets 1,537.4 356.0 – 1,893.4
Unallocated assets – – 64.4 64.4
Total assets 1,537.4 356.0 64.4 1,957.8
Segment liabilities (224.2) (15.5) – (239.7)
Unallocated liabilities – – (991.9) (991.9)
Total liabilities (224.2) (15.5) (991.9) (1,231.6)
Net assets / (liabilities) 1,313.2 340.5 (927.5) 726.2
2013
Managed
£m
Leased
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets 1,360.7 348.9 – 1,709.6
Unallocated assets – – 67.7 67.7
Total assets 1,360.7 348.9 67.7 1,777.3
Segment liabilities (184.4) (15.1) – (199.5)
Unallocated liabilities – – (1,000.7) (1,000.7)
Total liabilities (184.4) (15.1) (1,000.7) (1,200.2)
Net assets / (liabilities) 1,176.3 333.8 (933.0) 577.1
2014 2013
Managed
£m
Leased
£m
Total
£m
Managed
£m
Leased
£m
Total
£m
Capital expenditure
Investment spend 39.5 8.6 48.1 36.7 12.5 49.2
With the exception of the transfer of pubs, there are immaterial sales between the business segments. Segment assets include 
property, plant and equipment, operating leases, goodwill, inventories, receivables and assets held for sale, and exclude centrally 
held cash of £45.8m (17 August 2013: £44.2m), deferred tax assets of £18.1m (17 August 2013: £21.5m), retirement benefit assets 
of £nil (17 August 2013: £1.8m) and other assets of £0.5m (17 August 2013: £0.2m), while segment liabilities comprise operating 
liabilities and exclude corporate borrowings of £816.7m (17 August 2013: £835.0 m), related derivatives of £154.6m (17 August 2013: 
£147.5m), retirement benefit liabilities of £3.8m (17 August 2013: £2.4m) and other liabilities of £16.8m (17 August 2013: £15.8m). 
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and operating leases. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 89
3. Analysis of expenses 
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit / (loss):
2014 
£m
2013
1
£m
Drink and food costs (244.2) (234.8)
Managed pub running costs (297.4) (282.4)
Leasehold rentals (56.0) (53.4)
Depreciation and amortisation (38.2) (36.2)
Gains / (losses) related to the revaluation of the property portfolio 71.6 (20.6)
Profit / (loss) on sale of non-current assets 18.7 (2.4)
Other costs
2
(60.9) (43.4)
Total costs deducted from revenue to determine operating profit / (loss) (606.4) (673.2)
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1.
2 Included within other costs are £17.0m of costs (2013: £5.3m) relating to exceptional items.
Auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Statutory audit services 
Audit of Group financial statements 0.2 0.2
Audit of subsidiary companies pursuant to legislation – –
 
Audit related assurance services 0.1 –
In addition to the fees disclosed above, the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes have paid £0.1m to the Group’s Auditor  
in the period to 23 August 2014 (2013: £nil) for non-audit services.
The accounts of the parent company do not include details of remuneration receivable by the Auditor and its associates for 
non-audit services, as the Group accounts are required to include this information as required by Regulation 5(1)(b) of the 
Companies (Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements) Regulations 2008 on a consolidated basis.
4. Finance income
2014 
£m
2013
1
£m
Bank interest receivable 0.5 0.5
Exceptional finance income (note 6) 2.0 0.8
Total finance income 2.5 1.3
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
90 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
5. Finance costs
2014 
£m
2013
1
£m
Interest payable on secured loan notes 55.7 53.3
Other interest payable 0.7 0.6
Effect of unwinding discounted provisions (note 22) 5.0 5.6
Exceptional finance costs (note 6) 4.3 0.1
Total finance costs 65.7 59.6
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1.
6. Exceptional items
In order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance, profit is presented excluding items which management consider will 
distort comparability, either due to their significant non-recurring nature or as a result of specific accounting treatments. Included in 
the consolidated income statement are the following exceptional items:
2014 
£m
2013
1
£m
Operating
Restructuring, redundancy and other related one-off costs
2
– (1.5)
Movement on property liabilities
3
3.5 –
VAT repayable
4
(15.9) –
Retirement benefit scheme expenses
5
(1.6) (0.7)
Profit / (loss) on sale of non-current assets 18.7 (2.4)
Gains / (losses) related to the revaluation of the property portfolio 71.6 (20.6)
Impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods (3.0) (3.1)
73.3 (28.3)
Finance income
Loan note and interest rate swap redemptions
6
2.0 0.8
2.0 0.8
Finance costs
Interest on VAT repayable
4
(4.3) –
Net interest on net retirement benefit assets / obligations
5
– (0.1)
(4.3) (0.1)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps
7
(21.1) 42.0
Total exceptional items before tax 49.9 14.4
Tax
Tax impact of exceptional items 1.5 (10.8)
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods (0.1) (4.1)
Tax charge in respect of the change in tax rate
8
1.0 (6.5)
2.4 (21.4)
Total exceptional items after tax 52.3 (7.0)
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1.
2 In the prior period, relates to redundancy costs following a reorganisation of the Group.
3 Represents release of property lease provision on disposal of properties.
4  Represents the amount provided in relation to the amount repayable by the Group in respect of its gaming machine VAT claim, net of amounts refunded by a third 
party, see note 22.
5  Represents the administration expenses of the defined benefit pension schemes, and the net interest on net defined benefit assets / obligations. The net interest 
is a non-cash item and the administration expenses and net interest income are excluded from underlying profit.
6  Represents the write off of swap fair value adjustments and associated break costs on the cancellation of swaps, and the write off of debt fair value adjustments 
and break costs on monoline insurance on the cancellation of secured loan notes.
7 Represents the movement in the fair value of interest rate swaps that are classified as fair value through profit and loss.
8 See note 16 for detail of the changes in tax rate. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 91
7. Employees and Directors
Staff costs
2014 
£m
2013
£m
Wages and salaries 190.9 178.4
Social security costs 10.6 10.4
Share based payments 3.1 2.4
Pension costs 2.3 2.0
206.9 193.2
The Group operates defined contribution schemes, the costs of which are included above.
The average number of employees during the period was as follows:
2014 2013
Management and administration
1
423 449
Retail staff
1
16,038 16,351
16,461 16,800
1 Employee numbers relate to actual employees rather than full-time employee equivalents.
Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 70.
8. Tax
(a) Tax charged / (credited) in the income statement
2014 2013
1
Pre- 
exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items
£m
Total
£m
Pre- 
exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items
£m
Total
£m
Current tax
UK corporation tax – current period 5.9 (5.9) – (0.1) 0.1 –
UK corporation tax – adjustments in respect of prior periods – – – – – –
5.9 (5.9) – (0.1) 0.1 –
Deferred tax (note 16)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
– current period 7.3 4.4 11.7 12.8 10.7 23.5
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
– change in standard rate of tax – (1.0) (1.0) – 6.5 6.5
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
– adjustments in respect of prior periods – 0.1 0.1 – 4.1 4.1
7.3 3.5 10.8 12.8 21.3 34.1
Total tax charge / (credit) in the income statement 13.2 (2.4) 10.8 12.7 21.4 34.1
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
92 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
8. Tax continued
(b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The effective rate of tax is different to the full rate of corporation tax. The differences are explained below: 
2014 
£m
2013
1
£m
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 110.2 68.7
Tax at current UK tax rate of 22.2% (2013: 23.6%)
2
24.5 16.2
Effects of:
Net effect of expenses not deductible for tax purposes and non-taxable income (before exceptional items) (0.2) (0.2)
Net effect of expenses not deductible for tax purposes and non-taxable income (exceptional items) – (0.3)
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods (exceptional items) 0.1 4.1
Impact of change in tax rate (1.0) 6.5
Net effect of permanent differences arising in respect of disposals and revaluations of property portfolio (12.6) 7.8
Total tax charge reported in the income statement 10.8 34.1
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1.
2 See note 16 for detail of the changes in tax rate.
Details of the exceptional tax credits and debits are included in note 6.
(c) Tax charged in other comprehensive income
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, tax movements recognised directly in equity through the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income were as follows:
2014 
£m
2013
1
£m
Deferred tax
Deferred tax charge on unrealised gain on revaluation of the property portfolio 1.2 3.1
Deferred tax credit on re-measurements of defined benefit pension schemes (1.8) (1.3)
Deferred tax credit on share based payment expense (0.9) –
Deferred tax (credit) / charge recognised directly in equity (1.5) 1.8
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 93
9. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is based on the profit for the period attributable to ordinary Shareholders and the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary Shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period (adjusted for the effects of dilutive options).
The weighted average number of shares during the period is 660.4 million (2013: 660.2 million). There are 7.2 million potential 
dilutive ordinary shares at 23 August 2014 (17 August 2013: 5.4 million) in relation to employee share awards.
Reconciliations of earnings are set out below:
2014 2013
1
Earnings
£m
Per share 
amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Per share 
amount
pence
Basic profit 99.4 15.1 34.6 5.2
Diluted profit 99.4 14.9 34.6 5.2
Supplementary earnings per share figures:
Basic earnings before exceptional items 47.1 7.1 41.6 6.3
Diluted earnings before exceptional items 47.1 7.1 41.6 6.3
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1.
10. Dividends
2014 
£m
2013
£m
Declared and paid in the period
Interim dividend for 2014: 0.72 pence (2013: 0.68 pence) per share 4.8 4.4
Final dividend for 2013: 1.37 pence (2012: 1.30 pence) per share 9.0 8.4
13.8 12.8
Proposed final dividend for approval at AGM
Final dividend for 2014: 1.50 pence (2013: 1.37 pence) per share 9.9 9.0
Total proposed dividend for 2014: 2.22 pence (2013: 2.05 pence) per share 14.7 13.4
The Board recommended on 21 October 2014 the proposed final dividend for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014. This did not 
qualify for recognition in the financial statements at 23 August 2014 as it had not been approved by the Shareholders at that date. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
94 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
11. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings
£m
Fixtures 
and 
fittings
£m
IT and 
other 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
At 18 August 2012 1,154.9 121.3 – 1,276.2
Reclassification
1
(1.4) (17.0) 22.7 4.3
Additions 28.8 11.6 8.8 49.2
Revaluation
2
8.9 (18.5) – (9.6)
Net transfers from assets held for sale 9.2 0.8 – 10.0
Disposals (9.1) (0.4) – (9.5)
At 17 August 2013 1,191.3 97.8 31.5 1,320.6
Additions 18.7 24.6 4.8 48.1
Revaluation
2
96.9 2.3 – 99.2
Net transfers to assets held for sale (9.8) (0.8) – (10.6)
Disposals (12.5) (0.4) – (12.9)
At 23 August 2014 1,284.6 123.5 36.3 1,444.4
Accumulated depreciation
At 18 August 2012 – – – –
Reclassification
1
– – 4.3 4.3
Charge for the period 11.5 18.9 2.3 32.7
Net transfers to assets held for sale – 0.8 – 0.8
Revaluation
2
(11.5) (19.7) – (31.2)
At 17 August 2013 – – 6.6 6.6
Charge for the period 13.4 18.5 2.6 34.5
Revaluation
2
(13.4) (18.5) – (31.9)
At 23 August 2014 – – 9.2 9.2
Net book value at 23 August 2014 1,284.6 123.5 27.1 1,435.2
Net book value at 17 August 2013 1,191.3 97.8 24.9 1,314.0
1 During the period, the Group re-classified IT equipment and other assets into a separate category.
2  The Group’s revaluation gain of £131.1m comprises £61.4m (2013: £45.8m) shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and £69.7m 
(2013: £24.2m) in the consolidated income statement.
The cost of work in progress within property, plant and equipment at 23 August 2014 was £7.9m (17 August 2013: £14.7m).
(a) Revaluation of property, plant and equipment
At 23 August 2014, the Group’s property portfolio has been revalued to open market value. The Directors have performed this 
valuation with reference to a sample valuation of 299 properties (2013: 238 properties) which were valued, at that date, by Colliers 
International, independent chartered surveyors. This sample was reviewed by management in conjunction with Colliers to ensure 
that it provided sufficient coverage both geographically, by tenure and for the Managed estate, by brand. Colliers and management 
extrapolated the findings of these formal valuations across the remaining properties and it is with reference to these findings that 
the Directors have performed their valuation.
These valuations have been incorporated into the financial statements and the resulting revaluation adjustments have been taken 
to the revaluation reserve or income statement as appropriate. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 95
11. Property, plant and equipment continued
(a) Revaluation of property, plant and equipment continued
The sample of properties was valued at market value, in accordance with the provisions of Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS) Appraisal and Valuation Standards (‘The Red Book’) assuming each asset is sold as part of the continuing enterprise in 
occupation individually as a fully operational trading entity. The market value has been determined having regard to assumptions 
such as current and future projected income levels, which represents a key unobservable input. Projected income levels take 
account of the location, the quality of the pub or restaurant, recent market transactions in the sector and potential alternative use 
value. In addition, the valuation was based on the valuer’s assumptions and models. Changes in these variables and assumptions 
could materially impact the valuations.
These valuations and the assumptions made are discussed and reviewed with the Board and the Group’s Auditor.
These techniques are consistent with the principles in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and use significant unobservable inputs 
such that the fair value measurement of each property within the portfolio has been classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy 
(see note 21).
A summary of the key inputs used in the valuation of the property portfolio are as follows:
Managed Leased Total
Closing number of pubs 794 433 1,227
Average EBITDA multiple 7.5x 6.6x –
£m £m £m
Property valuation at 23 August 2014 1,218 258 1,476
Non-pub specific property related assets 27 10 37
Valuation at 23 August 2014 1,245 268 1,513
A sensitivity analysis has been conducted on the valuation of the property portfolio to give an indication of the impact of 
movements in the most sensitive assumption, being projected income. The analysis considers the impact of a change in this 
assumption with the other variables held constant. In practice changes in one assumption may be accompanied by changes in 
another. This sensitivity analysis should not be taken as a projection of likely future valuation movements. Increasing the projected 
income used in the revaluation by 2.5% would increase the valuation by £40m. Decreasing the projected income used in the 
revaluation by 2.5% would decrease the valuation by £40m.
If the properties had not been revalued, the historical cost net book value of property, plant and equipment would be £1,423.5m 
(17 August 2013: £1,425.6m).
During the year, the Group reclassified IT equipment, motor vehicles and unlicensed properties from Land and buildings and 
Fixtures and fittings into a separate category, IT and other assets. These items are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
(b) Assets held under finance leases
The Group leases various licensed properties, offices and other commercial properties and other assets under finance leases. 
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Included in property, plant and equipment above are properties held under finance leases with a net book value of £15.3m 
(17 August 2013: £13.7m).
(c) Assets held as security
Included within the net book value of property, plant and equipment above are licensed properties with a net book value of 
£1,391.4m (17 August 2013: £1,286.3m) over which the Group’s borrowings are secured by way of fixed and floating charges. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
96 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
12. Goodwill and operating lease intangible assets
Operating 
leases
£m
Goodwill
£m
Cost or valuation
At 18 August 2012 48.4 224.7
Disposals – (0.9)
Revaluation
1
12.9 –
At 17 August 2013 61.3 223.8
Net transfers to assets held for sale (0.1) –
Disposals – (1.6)
Revaluation
1
5.2 –
At 23 August 2014 66.4 222.2
Amortisation and impairment
At 18 August 2012 – 10.1
Charge for the period 3.5 –
Revaluation
1
(3.5) –
At 17 August 2013 – 10.1
Charge for the period 3.7 –
Revaluation
1
(3.7) –
At 23 August 2014 – 10.1
Net book value at 23 August 2014 66.4 212.1
Net book value at 17 August 2013 61.3 213.7
1  The Group’s revaluation gain of £8.9m (2013: £9.4m) comprises £6.0m (2013: £12.8m) shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and £2.9m 
(2013: £3.6m debit) in the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill has been reduced in the period by £1.6m (2013: £0.9m), representing the apportioned value of goodwill allocated to those 
pubs disposed of during the period. 
At 23 August 2014, the goodwill assigned to the Managed estate is £144.0m (17 August 2013: £144.7m) and the goodwill assigned 
to the Leased estate is £68.1m (17 August 2013: £69.0m).
(a) Revaluation of operating leases
As detailed in note 11, the Group has a policy of revaluing its property portfolio, and as a result a revaluation gain has been 
recognised in operating leases at 23 August 2014. 
The valuation techniques are described in note 11. These are consistent with the principles in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 
and use significant unobservable inputs such that the fair value measurement of each operating lease intangible asset has been 
classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy (see note 21).
If the properties had not been revalued, the historical cost net book value of operating leases would be £49.2m (17 August 2013: 
£51.6m). There is no material difference between the carrying value of operating leases and their historical cost net book value 
adjusted for the reversal of historic impairments.
(b) Assets held as security
Included within operating leases are properties with a net book value of £62.7m (17 August 2013: £54.0m) over which the Group’s 
borrowings are secured by way of fixed and floating charges. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 97
13. Impairment losses
Property, plant and equipment and operating leases
When any indicators of impairment are identified, property, plant and equipment and operating leases are reviewed for impairment 
based on each cash-generating unit (CGU). The cash-generating units are individual pubs. The carrying values of these individual 
pubs are compared to the recoverable amount of the CGUs, which is the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell.
At 23 August 2014 and 17 August 2013, a review of indicators of impairment was performed. There were no indicators of impairment 
and therefore no impairment was identified.
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to groups of CGUs based on the benefits to the Group that arise from each business combination. The two 
groups of CGUs are identified by their pub operating format (Managed or Leased) and this is the lowest level at which goodwill is 
monitored by the Group. 
During the period to 23 August 2014, a goodwill impairment review was performed by means of comparing the recoverable 
amount of the CGUs to the carrying value of the unit including goodwill. The recoverable amount of the CGUs was determined 
based on value-in-use calculations. These value-in-use calculations are based on earnings before interest and tax and extrapolated 
for a period of 50 years using a multiple of ten as the terminal value. The pre-tax risk-adjusted discount rate applied to cash flow 
projections range between 8% and 9% (2013: range between 8% and 9%). These cash flows are based on forecast cash flow 
information for the next four year period based on our internal forecasts and an average growth rate of 2.25% (2013: 2.25%) 
applied subsequently for a further period of 46 years based on our long term forecasts. Based on this review no impairment 
of goodwill has been identified (2013: £nil). Management considers the impact of changes in assumptions to the value-in-use 
calculations, in particular the sensitivity of the calculation to changes in growth rates and discount rates and have stress tested 
these calculations across a range of scenarios. Neither a reduction in the growth rate to 0.25% over the 50 year period nor an 
increase in the discount rate to 10.0% would lead to an impairment of goodwill.
During the 53 week period to 23 August 2014, £0.6m of goodwill was disposed of as a result of disposals from the Leased estate 
(2013: £0.8m) and £1.0m of goodwill was disposed of as a result of disposals from the Managed estate (2013: £0.1m). Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
98 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
14. Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Opening balance 339.8 337.7
Additions 2.5 2.1
Closing balance 342.3 339.8
Additions represent capital contributions relating to share based payment expenses.
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 23 August 2014 are as follows:
Name of company Nature of business
Subsidiaries
Spirit Pub Company (Managed) Limited Pub operating company
Spirit Pub Company (Leased) Limited Pub operating company
Spirit Pub Company (Trent) Limited Pub operating company
Spirit Pub Company (Holdco) Limited Holding company
Spirit Pub Company (SGE) Limited Intermediate holding company
Spirit Group Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company
Spirit Pub Company (Supply) Limited Group supply company
Spirit Pub Company (Services) Limited Management and administration company
Spirit Pub Company (Investments) Limited Financing company
The Company owns 100% of the ordinary share capital of Spirit Pub Company (Holdco) Limited and indirectly controls 100% of the 
voting rights of the other subsidiaries listed above.
All companies are incorporated in England and Wales.
In addition to those investments listed above, the Group also maintains day-to-day control over Spirit Issuer Parent Limited and its 
wholly owned subsidiary, Spirit Issuer plc, a special purpose entity that provides financing to the Group. Although no company in 
the Group owns any shares either directly or indirectly in Spirit Issuer Parent Limited or Spirit Issuer plc, the financial statements are 
also consolidated into the Group financial statements in accordance with SIC 12.
Exemption has been taken to exclude subsidiary undertakings from the above disclosure whose results or financial position do not 
principally affect the financial statements.
 
15. Trade and other receivables
Group
2014
£m
2013
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables 4.3 4.9
Prepayments 13.0 15.8
Other receivables 8.7 5.0
26.0 25.7 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 99
16. Deferred tax
The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows:
Group
2014
£m
2013
1
£m
Opening balance 47.8 83.7
Charged to income statement (10.8) (34.1)
Credited / (charged) to equity 1.5 (1.8)
Closing balance 38.5 47.8
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1.
The Company has no deferred tax balances.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period are shown below: 
Deferred tax assets
Group
Tax 
losses
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
liabilities
£m
Financial 
instruments
£m
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances
£m
Total
£m
At 18 August 2012 42.0 – 36.5 14.1 92.6
Charged to income statement
1
(15.9) (1.3) (14.4) (4.2) (35.8)
Credited / (charged) to equity
1
– 1.4 (0.1) – 1.3
At 17 August 2013 26.1 0.1 22.0 9.9 58.1
(Charged) / credited to income statement (6.2) (1.1) 1.4 (4.4) (10.3)
Credited to equity – 1.8 – – 1.8
At 23 August 2014 19.9 0.8 23.4 5.5 49.6
1 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1.
Deferred tax liabilities
Group
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 18 August 2012 (8.9) (8.9)
Credited to income statement 1.7 1.7
Charged to equity (3.1) (3.1)
At 17 August 2013 (10.3) (10.3)
Charged to income statement (0.5) (0.5)
Charged to equity (0.3) (0.3)
At 23 August 2014 (11.1) (11.1)
At 23 August 2014, the Group has unused tax losses of £118.5m (17 August 2013: £148.6m) and unused capital losses of £750.9m 
(17 August 2013: £809.3m) available for offset against future profits. A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 
£99.6m (17 August 2013: £130.7m) of such losses, which are expected to be utilised against future profit streams within the Group. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining £18.9m (17 August 2013: £17.9m) of losses due to the 
unpredictability of future profit streams. Current legislation deems that these losses may be carried forward for an unlimited number 
of years.
Factors affecting future current tax charges
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 24% (effective from 1 April 2012) and to 23% (effective from 1 April 2013) 
were substantively enacted on 26 March 2012 and 3 July 2012 respectively. Further reductions to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) 
and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. This will reduce the Group’s future current tax 
charge accordingly. The deferred tax asset at 23 August 2014 has been calculated based on the rates of 20% and 21% 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
100 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
17. Inventories
2014
£m
2013
£m
Goods held for resale 9.2 8.5
The Group consumed £208.5m of inventories during the period (2013: £200.2m) and charged £nil to the income statement for the 
write-down of inventories during the period (2013: £nil).
18. Assets held for sale
2014
£m
2013
£m
Assets held for sale 11.3 2.9
At 23 August 2014, assets held for sale represents £6.0m (17 August 2013: £0.7m) of pubs from the Managed estate and £5.3m 
(17 August 2013: £2.2m) of pubs from the Leased estate. These pubs are being actively marketed for sale, individually, with varying 
expected completion dates within one year.
When a pub is being actively marketed for disposal, it is written down to fair value less costs to sell (being the expected net 
disposal proceeds), when this is lower than carrying value, and transferred to assets held for sale. This has resulted in an 
impairment charge in the period of £0.9m (2013: £nil). This is a non-recurring fair value which has been measured using  
observable inputs, being the prices for recent sales of similar businesses, and is therefore within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
 
19. Trade and other payables
2014 2013
Amounts falling due
Total
£m
Amounts falling due
Total
£m
within 
one year
£m
after 
more than 
one year
£m
within 
one year
£m
after 
more than 
one year
£m
Trade payables 43.9 – 43.9 38.6 – 38.6
Other tax and social security payable 24.9 – 24.9 22.6 – 22.6
Other payables
1
9.2 15.5 24.7 8.5 12.5 21.0
Accruals and deferred income 73.9 – 73.9 58.2 – 58.2
151.9 15.5 167.4 127.9 12.5 140.4
1 Other payables at 17 August 2013 of £21.0m have been amended to present £12.5m due after more than one year separately.
The contractual maturity of trade and other payables is within one year, with the exception of an amount of £15.5m (17 August 2013: 
£12.5m) in respect of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods within other payables which falls due after more than one year. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 101
20. Borrowings 
2014 2013
Amounts falling due
Total
£m
Amounts falling due
Total
£m
within 
one year
£m
after 
more than 
one year
£m
within 
one year
£m
after 
more than 
one year
£m
Secured loan notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc 13.5 803.2 816.7 27.5 807.5 835.0
Obligations under finance leases 1.2 10.4 11.6 0.6 9.3 9.9
14.7 813.6 828.3 28.1 816.8 844.9
(a) Secured loan notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc
On 7 November 2013, Spirit Issuer plc issued £101.3m Class A6 secured loan notes and £58.4m Class A7 secured loan notes 
at nominal value. The proceeds of the issue of these new classes of secured loan notes were used to purchase, at nominal value, 
and cancel £101.3m Class A1 secured loan notes and £58.4m Class A3 secured loan notes.
Interest is paid quarterly in arrears on all secured loan notes. The details for the secured loan notes, including the date of the final 
scheduled instalment for each class of note, as indicated in its description, are as set out below. The Group has taken out various 
interest rate swaps to reduce the interest rate risk associated with floating rate notes, see note 21.
2014 2013
Amounts falling due
Total
£m
Amounts falling due
Total
£m
within 
one year
£m
after 
more than 
one year
£m
within 
one year
£m
after 
more than 
one year
£m
Class A1 secured floating rate notes repayable 
by September 2026 at LIBOR
1
 +0.55% 6.9 29.6 36.5 23.1 121.6 144.7
Class A2 secured floating rate notes repayable  
by June 2029 at LIBOR
1
 +2.7% – 186.6 186.6 – 186.6 186.6
Class A3 secured fixed / floating rate notes repayable 
by September 2019 at 5.86% to December 2014 and 
LIBOR
1
 +0.55% thereafter 5.2 46.3 51.5 – 109.9 109.9
Class A4 secured fixed / floating rate notes repayable 
by March 2025 at 6.582% to December 2018 and 
LIBOR
1
 +2.775% thereafter – 207.7 207.7 – 207.7 207.7
Class A5 secured fixed / floating rate notes repayable 
by December 2032 at 5.472% to December 2028 and 
LIBOR
1
 +0.75% thereafter – 158.5 158.5 – 158.5 158.5
Class A6 secured floating rate notes repayable by 
December 2036 at LIBOR
1
 +1.8% to September 2018 
and LIBOR
1
 +3.3% thereafter – 101.3 101.3 – – –
Class A7 secured fixed / floating rate notes repayable 
by December 2036 at 5.86% to December 2014, 
LIBOR
1
 +3.95% to September 2018 and LIBOR
1
 
+5.45% thereafter – 58.4 58.4 – – –
Nominal value of secured loan notes 12.1 788.4 800.5 23.1 784.3 807.4
Add: premium arising from fair value adjustment 3.0 19.8 22.8 4.4 23.2 27.6
Less: capitalised issue costs (1.6) (5.0) (6.6) – – –
Secured loan notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc 13.5 803.2 816.7 27.5 807.5 835.0
1 For three-month deposits.
The figures above are net of notes held by the Group not yet cancelled, which as at 23 August 2014 were £nil (17 August 2013: 
£2.0m Class A2, £6.8m Class A3, £2.8m Class A4 and £2.7m Class A5 notes).
The secured loan notes have been secured by way of fixed and floating charges over various assets of the Group. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
102 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
20. Borrowings continued
(a) Secured loan notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc continued
Maturity profile of secured loan notes
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s secured loan notes at 23 August 2014 and 17 August 2013 based 
on contractual, undiscounted cash flows including interest. 
2014
Within 
one year
£m
One to 
two years
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
More than
 five years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
– capital 12.1 10.5 34.0 743.9 800.5
– interest 4.4 4.4 12.9 41.2 62.9
– interest rate swaps 57.7 56.8 168.2 537.9 820.6
74.2 71.7 215.1 1,323.0 1,684.0
2013
Within 
one year
£m
One to 
two years
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
More than
 five years
£m
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
– capital 23.1 34.2 69.9 680.2 807.4
– interest 4.1 4.0 11.5 27.5 47.1
– interest rate swaps 57.7 56.0 160.8 385.3 659.8
84.9 94.2 242.2 1,093.0 1,514.3
(b) Obligations under finance leases
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
2014 2013
Minimum 
lease 
payments
£m
Present 
value of 
future 
obligations
£m
Minimum 
lease 
payments
£m
Present 
value 
of future 
obligations
£m
Within one year 1.2 1.2 0.7 0.6
Within one to five years 4.1 3.4 2.7 2.2
Over five years 32.2 7.0 32.5 7.1
37.5 11.6 35.9 9.9
(c) Interest rate analysis
The weighted average effective interest rates of interest-bearing borrowings, including the effect of interest rate swaps, at the 
balance sheet date are as follows:
2014
%
2013
%
Secured loan notes 7.8 7.7
Finance leases 6.5 6.5
Total borrowings 7.7 7.6 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 103
21. Financial instruments
(a) Derivative financial instruments
The carrying values of derivative financial instruments in the balance sheet are as follows:
2014 2013
Current 
liabilities
£m
Non-current 
liabilities
£m
Current 
liabilities
£m
Non-current 
liabilities
£m
Interest rate swaps 20.8 133.8 21.1 126.4
The Group has taken out various interest rate swaps to reduce the interest rate risk associated with floating rate notes as follows:
Spirit Issuer plc
Interest rate swap agreements have been entered into which swap the LIBOR interest rate to a fixed rate of 6.681% on the Class 
A1, Class A2 and Class A6 notes and, after their respective step-up dates, 4.555% on the Class A3, Class A4, Class A5 and Class 
A7 notes. Prior to September 2012, the interest rate swap agreements swapped the LIBOR interest rate to 6.581% on the Class A1 
and Class A2 notes.
The capital amount of these swaps reduces over time to reflect the reduction in the capital amounts of the floating rate notes 
(see note 20 for more detail). At their inception, these swaps ensured that cash flows were perfectly hedged over the life of the 
notes, however, they were deemed ineffective at the time of the 2006 acquisition of the Group by the Punch Taverns plc group, 
in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39, and therefore do not qualify for hedge accounting, with movements in their fair 
value being recognised in the income statement.
In November 2013, the Group purchased and cancelled a portion of the A1 and A3 notes and issued new A6 and A7 notes. 
The portion of the swaps associated with the A1 and A3 notes cancelled has been redesignated to the new A6 and A7 notes. 
As the contractual repayment profile of the A6 and A7 notes differs to the contractual repayment profile of the A1 and A3 notes, 
the A6 and A7 swaps no longer match the contractual repayment profile of those notes.
The interest rate exposure of the Group’s financial liabilities (excluding short-term payables) is predominantly fixed, after taking 
account of the various interest rate swaps entered into by the Group.
(b) Financial risk management
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and credit risk. There is 
no currency exposure as all material transactions and financial instruments are in sterling. The Group has no material exposure to 
equity securities or commodity price risk and it is the Group’s policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments shall be 
undertaken. The Board reviews and agrees policies for each of these risks and they are summarised on pages 27 to 29.
Interest rate risk
As the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, other than cash and cash equivalents, the Group’s income and operating 
cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. Income and cash flows from cash and cash 
equivalents fluctuate with interest rates.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of equity Shareholders’ funds and secured loan notes. The Group borrows at 
both fixed and floating rates of interest and then employs derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to generate 
the desired interest rate profile and to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The cash balances attract interest 
at floating rates. 
Where over-hedging arises (for example, due to early repayment of floating rate notes) the Group will seek to eliminate the 
over-hedging, where this is financially practicable, either by embedding the cost in new swaps or by terminating the over-hedge. 
At 23 August 2014, there are £5.7m (17 August 2013: £16.7m) of interest swaps outstanding on cancelled floating rate notes. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
104 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
21. Financial instruments continued
(b) Financial risk management continued
Interest rate risk continued
The Group has taken out derivative financial instruments such that 98% of all loans at 23 August 2014 (17 August 2013: 100%) 
were either at fixed rate or were converted to fixed rate as a result of swap arrangements, thereby largely eliminating the Group’s 
exposure to changes in interest rates.
Cash flows associated with cash and cash equivalents, debt and interest rate swaps and the fair value of these instruments 
fluctuate with changes in interest rates. If the interest rates had been 1% higher or lower during the period, the effect on the income 
statement would be as follows:
Interest 
receivable
£m
Interest 
payable
£m
Movement 
in fair value 
of interest 
rate swaps
£m
2014
Impact on income statement and equity if interest rates increased by 1%: gain / (loss) 1.3 (0.1) 44.0
Impact on income statement and equity if interest rates decreased by 1%: (loss) / gain (1.3) 0.1 (44.0)
2013
Impact on income statement and equity if interest rates increased by 1%: gain 1.0 0.2 50.2
Impact on income statement and equity if interest rates decreased by 1%: loss (1.0) (0.2) (50.2)
Whilst cash flow interest rate risk is largely eliminated, the use of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments exposes 
the Group to fair value interest rate risk such that the Group would not significantly benefit from falls in interest rates and would be 
exposed to unplanned costs, such as break costs, should debt or derivative financial instruments be restructured or repaid early.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s funding strategy is to ensure a mix of financing methods offering flexibility and cost-effectiveness to match the 
requirements of the Group. The Group is primarily financed by secured loan notes, with approximately 93% (17 August 2013: 84%) 
of the capital balance on these loan notes being repayable after more than five years from the balance sheet date, subject to 
relevant covenants being met. These covenants are formally reported on after each quarter end, but are monitored internally on a 
periodic basis. The Board continues to review alternative sources of finance. The Group’s objective is to smooth the debt maturity 
profile and to arrange funding ahead of requirements where required, so maturing short term debt may be refinanced or paid as 
it falls due. Cash flow forecasts are frequently produced to assist management in identifying liquidity requirements and are stress 
tested for possible scenarios. This includes assessment of the ability to meet the restricted payment condition in the securitisation 
structure in order that cash can be released to the top company level. Should the securitisation not meet the restricted payment 
condition, then cash generated may, under certain circumstances, become trapped within the securitisation (not made available 
to the wider Group) to naturally de-lever that securitisation. During the period to 23 August 2014, the restricted payment condition 
was met at each measurement date, including at 23 August 2014.
Cash balances are invested in short-term deposits such that they are readily available to settle short-term liabilities or to fund 
capital additions. Included within cash and cash equivalents held by the Group is £26.7m (2013: £1.2m) held in disposal proceeds 
accounts within the Debenture for which there are some restrictions in place regarding their use. The permitted uses for this 
restricted cash include the acquisition of licensed properties into the securitisation and the purchase of the securitisation’s own 
debt. Subsequent to the period end, £23.4m was released from the disposal proceeds accounts, as the conditions for such a 
release were met. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 105
21. Financial instruments continued
(b) Financial risk management continued
Capital risk
The Group’s capital structure is made up of net debt, issued share capital and reserves. These are managed effectively to 
minimise the Group’s cost of capital, to add value to Shareholders and to service debt obligations, ultimately ensuring that the 
Group continues as a going concern. The Group’s principal external debt is held within one securitisation. The securitised debt is 
monitored by a variety of measures, which are reported to the debt providers on a quarterly basis. The primary measure is a debt 
service cover ratio (DSCR) which compares free cash flow to debt service (being interest and capital amortisation). The Group 
assesses the performance of the business, the level of available funds and the short to medium-term strategic plans concerning 
capital spend, as well as the need to meet financial covenants, and such assessment influences the level of dividends payable as 
well as decisions as to whether to buy back debt. In the current period, the Group reduced the nominal value of its outstanding 
securitised debt from £807.4m to £800.5m. At 23 August 2014 the DSCR was 1.9 times (17 August 2013: 2.0 times) compared 
to the default financial covenant of 1.3 times (17 August 2013: 1.3 times).
Credit risk
With the exception of cash and cash equivalents invested with banks and financial institutions, there are no significant 
concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by 
the carrying value as at the balance sheet date. The Group’s objective is to minimise credit risk by ensuring that surplus funds 
are invested with banks and financial institutions with high credit ratings and that the Group deals with third parties that have 
been subject to credit checks or that have good credit scores, where appropriate. Trade and other receivables, as shown on the 
consolidated balance sheet, comprise a large number of individually small amounts from unrelated customers and are shown 
net of a provision for doubtful debts. Management estimates the provision for doubtful debts based on a review of all individual 
receivable accounts, experience and known factors at the balance sheet date, taking into account any collateral held in the form 
of cash deposits, which is quantified. These cash deposits are applied against unpaid debt when licensees leave the pubs, and 
vary in size. The amount of cash deposits held at 23 August 2014 is £4.0m (17 August 2013: £4.2m). These are held on the balance 
sheet within trade and other payables. Receivables are written off against the doubtful debt provision when management deems 
the debt no longer recoverable. 
An analysis of the provision held against trade receivables for doubtful debts is shown below:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Opening provision for doubtful debts 1.9 2.1
Charged to income statement 0.3 0.3
Utilised during the period (1.0) (0.5)
Closing provision for doubtful debts 1.2 1.9
The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date, net of the doubtful debt provision, is as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Live debt Current 3.9 3.5
0-35 days past due 0.1 1.0
Over 35 days past due 0.3 0.4
4.3 4.9
Live debt primarily represents balances outstanding from current licensees. Closed debt relates to outstanding balances from 
customers that are no longer current licensees of the Group and is fully provided.
There are no indicators at 23 August 2014 that debtors will not meet their payment obligations in respect of the net amount of trade 
receivables recognised in the balance sheet.  Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
106 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
21. Financial instruments continued
(c) Financial instruments fair value estimation
Financial instruments carried at fair value are required to be measured by reference to the following levels:
 > Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 > Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly  
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
 > Level 3 – inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (i.e. unobservable inputs).
Notes 11 and 12 include disclosures in relation to land and buildings that are measured at fair value and note 18 includes 
disclosures in relation to assets held for sale for which a fair value is measured.
The following table presents the Group’s financial liabilities that are measured at fair value. Financial assets of the Group, which 
principally comprise trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents, are not included in this note because their book value 
approximates their carrying value.
At 23 August 2014
Fair value hierarchy
Total
fair value
£m
Amortised
cost
£m
Total 
carrying
value
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Trade payables – 43.9 – 43.9 43.9
Finance lease obligations – 11.6 – 11.6 11.6
Secured loan notes due within one year – 12.0 – 12.0 13.5 13.5
Secured loan notes due after more than one year – 784.1 – 784.1 803.2 803.2
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Interest rate swaps due within one year – 20.8 – 20.8 20.8
Interest rate swaps due after more than one year – 133.8 – 133.8 133.8
Total liabilities – 1,006.2 – 1,006.2 1,026.8
At 17 August 2013
Fair value hierarchy
Total
fair value
£m
Amortised
cost
£m
Total 
carrying
value
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Trade payables – 38.6 – 38.6 38.6
Finance lease obligations – 9.9 – 9.9 9.9
Secured loan notes due within one year – 20.9 – 20.9 27.5 27.5
Secured loan notes due after more than one year – 709.5 – 709.5 807.5 807.5
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Interest rate swaps due within one year – 21.1 – 21.1 21.1
Interest rate swaps due after more than one year – 126.4 – 126.4 126.4
Total liabilities – 926.4 – 926.4 1,031.0
The fair value of interest rate swaps are determined based on publicly available yield curves used in discounted cash flows, 
tested for reasonableness against a third party valuation.
There have been no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 during the period. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 107
22. Provisions
Property 
leases
£m
VAT 
repayable
£m
Insurance
£m
Total
£m
At 18 August 2012 67.5 – 1.6 69.1
Unwinding of discount effect of provisions 5.6 – – 5.6
Charged to income statement – – 3.4 3.4
Utilised during the period (12.6) – (0.5) (13.1)
At 17 August 2013 60.5 – 4.5 65.0
Unwinding of discount effect of provisions 5.0 – – 5.0
Charged to income statement – 20.2 3.5 23.7
Amounts refunded from third parties – 2.0 – 2.0
Released to income statement on disposal (4.3) – – (4.3)
Utilised during the period (11.3) – (2.6) (13.9)
At 23 August 2014 49.9 22.2 5.4 77.5
 
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Current 35.3 11.2
Non-current 42.2 53.8
77.5 65.0
Property leases
The provision for property leases has been set up to cover operating costs of vacant or loss-making premises. The provision 
covers the expected shortfall between operating income and rents payable for a portfolio of trading and non-trading properties. 
The estimated period required to mitigate these losses is identified on an individual property basis by reference to the forecast 
profitability and investment programme for each property.
VAT repayable
The VAT provision represents the Group’s outstanding gaming machine VAT claim and the associated default interest.
At 21 August 2010 a contingent asset of £18.9m existed in relation to the Group’s outstanding gaming machine VAT claim. 
A decision in the taxpayer’s favour was reached during 2010 in respect of The Rank Group plc’s gaming claim, allowing the 
Group to further pursue its own gaming claim and during the period to 20 August 2011, the Group’s claim was repaid by HMRC. 
HMRC agreed to make the repayment of the existing claim, subject to the Group providing a guarantee to HMRC that, in the event 
that the existing decision in The Rank Group plc is overturned in a higher court, the amount will be repayable in full. The decision 
in relation to The Rank Group plc’s claim was referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union and at 20 August 2011 the 
Group recognised the repayment amount as a provision. During November 2011, the Court of Justice of the European Union 
considered the Rank Group plc’s gaming claim and found in favour of the taxpayer, and as a result, the Group recognised the 
£18.9m in exceptional items during the period to 18 August 2012, and disclosed a contingent liability at 18 August 2012 and 
17 August 2013.
On 30 October 2013 the Court of Appeal found in favour of HMRC in The Rank Group plc’s gaming claim. As a result, in January 
2014, HMRC issued letters to the Group seeking repayment of amounts due (as outlined in ‘Revenue & Customs Brief 01/14’). 
Accordingly, at 23 August 2014 the Group has recognised a provision for the amount previously repaid to the Group of £17.9m as 
well as statutory interest of £3.0m and default interest of £1.3m. The Group received a £2.0m refund from a third party in respect of 
fees associated with the claim. At 23 August 2014, the cash has not been paid to HMRC as The Rank Group plc has been granted 
permission to appeal to the Supreme Court, with the hearing to be held on 20 April 2015.
Insurance
The provision for insurance relates to an estimate of monies that may become payable on claims not yet made to the Group or are 
outstanding on existing claims. The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised within five years of the balance sheet date. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
108 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
23. Share based payments
At 23 August 2014 the Group had three types of share based payment arrangements which Directors and employees are able 
to acquire shares in the Company. All of these schemes are equity-settled schemes. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2011
The first scheme is a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) whereby eligible senior management are granted awards of LTIP shares. 
The shares are issued to LTIP members subject to their continued three-year employment from the date of award, and to the extent 
that the performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at the date the award is made are satisfied. Further information 
on the performance conditions of the LTIP are shown in the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 70. At 23 August 2014 eligible 
employees held rights over ordinary shares that may result in the issue of 6,682,826 shares on 7 November 2014, 644,140 shares 
on 8 May 2015, 5,228,176 shares on 9 November 2015 and 3,868,482 shares on 8 November 2016.
The exception to this is an award of 59,207 shares made under the LTIP rules on 2 March 2012 which was not subject to 
performance conditions and was satisfied by market purchases of shares. This award vested in full on 6 February 2014.
Share Bonus Plan 2011
The second scheme is a Share Bonus Plan (SBP) whereby, at the discretion of the Board certain senior management, who are 
eligible for an annual bonus, can participate. Eligible employees are awarded rights to the issue of a maximum number of shares 
at the beginning of a two year period, which they will be entitled to receive at the end of that period if the eligibility condition set 
by the Remuneration Committee at the time the allocation is made is satisfied. At the balance sheet date, eligible employees held 
rights over ordinary shares which have been satisfied by market purchases of these shares. 
Share Incentive Plan 2011
The third scheme is a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) open to all eligible employees, whereby proceeds contributed by employees are 
used to buy shares in the Company at prevailing market values. These shares are called Partnership Shares and are held in a trust 
on behalf of the employee. For every Partnership Share bought by the employee the Company will give the employee one share 
free of charge (Matching Share). The employees have to take their shares out of the plan on leaving the Company and will not 
be entitled to the Matching Share if they leave within three years of purchasing the Partnership Shares. If the Company awards 
dividends to its Shareholders, the employee will receive a dividend on each of the Partnership and Matching Shares they hold. 
The Company arranges for the dividends to be used to buy extra shares (Dividend Shares). Dividend Shares must be held in the 
plan for three years before they can be removed unless the employee leaves the Company in which case they must be taken out. 
The scheme was introduced in November 2011 with shares being acquired at market values on a monthly basis. 
As at 23 August 2014 1,643,758 shares had been issued by the Company to the trust at par value (17 August 2013: 1,256,380 
shares). The par value of the shares issued that has been deducted from reserves is negligible. The market value of these shares 
at 23 August 2014 was £1.2m. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 109
23. Share based payments continued
Fair value of share awards
Long-Term Incentive Plan
The key assumptions used in the measurement of the fair values of awards made are as follows:
Grant date
9 November 
2013
9 November 
2012
8 May 
2012
2 March 
2012
9 November 
2011
Valuation model (TSR element) Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Monte Carlo – Monte Carlo
Valuation model (EPS element) Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes – Black Scholes
Valuation model – – – Black Scholes –
Share price at date of grant £0.78 £0.59 £0.56 £0.61 £0.44
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil £nil £nil
Expected volatility 26.7% 28.5% 32.3% n/a 60.3%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years 1.9 years 3 years
Risk-free interest rate 0.78% 0.26% 0.52% n/a 0.66%
Expected dividend yield 2.63% 3.29% 3.53% 3.21% 4.27%
Fair value per award £0.59 £0.44 £0.41 £0.57 £0.33
Expected volatility has been calculated based on a proxy volatility for the Company using the average volatility of six companies 
in the same sector for a period corresponding to the expected life of the option or share award.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
Share Incentive Plan
The fair value of the Matching shares is recognised as the market value of the shares issued at the date of purchase. This charge 
is spread over the three-year vesting period on a straight-line basis. 
Movements in awards under share based payment schemes
Reconciliations of movements for the LTIP, SBP and SIP schemes over the 53 weeks to 23 August 2014 are shown below:
2014
Long-term 
Incentive 
Plan
No.
Share 
Bonus 
Plan
No.
Share 
Incentive 
Plan
No.
Outstanding at 17 August 2013 13,144,395 281,492 667,220
Granted during the period 4,175,090 66,036 319,853
Exercised during the period (59,207) (161,605) –
Forfeited during the period (836,654) – (132,809)
Outstanding at 23 August 2014 16,423,624 185,923 854,264 Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
110 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
24. Share capital 
2014 2013
No. £m No. £m
Allotted, issued, called-up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1 pence 660,528,331 6.6 660,321,591 6.6
Changes in share capital
Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Share Bonus Plan, no ordinary shares were issued during the period (2013: nil). Under the 
Share Incentive Plan, 206,740 matching shares were issued at par consideration (2013: 309,392). See note 23 for further details of 
these schemes. The issue of these shares resulted in net cash proceeds of £nil (2013: £nil).
All ordinary shares in issue at 23 August 2014 rank pari passu in all respects.
25. Net debt
(a) Analysis of net debt
2014
£m
2013
£m
Secured loan notes (800.5) (807.4)
Cash and cash equivalents 159.1 101.6
Nominal value of net debt
1
(641.4) (705.8)
Fair value adjustments in respect of secured loan notes (16.2) (27.6)
Fair value of interest rate swaps (154.6) (147.5)
Finance lease obligations (11.6) (9.9)
Net debt (823.8) (890.8)
Balance sheet:
Borrowings (828.3) (844.9)
Derivative financial instruments (154.6) (147.5)
Cash and cash equivalents 159.1 101.6
Net debt (823.8) (890.8)
1 Nominal value of net debt excludes finance lease obligations.
(b) Analysis of changes in net debt
At 
18 August 
2012
£m
Cash flow
£m
Non-cash 
movements
£m
At 
17 August 
2013
£m
Cash flow
£m
Non-cash 
movements
£m
At 
23 August 
2014
£m
Current assets
Cash at bank and in hand 97.4 4.2 – 101.6 57.5 – 159.1
97.4 4.2 – 101.6 57.5 – 159.1
Debt 
Borrowings (851.3) – 6.4 (844.9) 14.3 2.3 (828.3)
Derivative financial instruments (195.1) 0.3 47.3 (147.5) 5.9 (13.0) (154.6)
(1,046.4) 0.3 53.7 (992.4) 20.2 (10.7) (982.9)
Net debt per balance sheet (949.0) 4.5 53.7 (890.8) 77.7 (10.7) (823.8)
Net debt incorporates the Group’s borrowings, derivative financial instruments and obligations under finance leases, less cash and 
cash equivalents.
Non-cash movements relate to the amortisation of premium on loan notes, capitalised issue costs and derivative financial 
instruments together with fair value movements on derivative financial instruments. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 111
25. Net debt continued
(c) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2014
£m
2013
£m
Increase in cash and cash equivalents in the period 57.5 4.2
Cash outflow from change in debt financing 20.2 0.3
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 77.7 4.5
Non-cash movements in net debt (10.7) 53.7
Obligations under finance leases – –
Change in net debt resulting from non-cash flows (10.7) 53.7
Movement in net debt 67.0 58.2
Opening net debt (890.8) (949.0)
Closing net debt (823.8) (890.8)
 
26. Retirement benefits
The Group operates two funded defined benefit pension schemes: the Spirit Group Pension Scheme (SGPS) and the Spirit Group 
Retail Pension Scheme (SGRPS).
Both schemes operate in the UK and are final salary pension plans, which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed 
level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits provided depends on members’ length of service and their salary in the final 
years leading up to retirement. Pensions in payment are updated in line with the retail price index.
The benefit payments are from trustee-administered funds. Plan assets held in trusts are governed by UK regulations, as is the 
nature of the relationship between the Group and the trustees and their composition. Responsibility for governance of the plans 
– including investment decisions and contribution schedules – lies jointly with the Group and the board of trustees. The board of 
trustees must be composed of representatives of the Group and scheme participants in accordance with the schemes’ regulations.
There have been no amendments, curtailments or settlements to the schemes during the period.
Following the completion of the triennial actuarial valuations of the pension schemes, minimum funding plans have been agreed, 
setting out contributions to be made by the Group. The expected contributions to the two defined benefit pension schemes in the 
period ending 22 August 2015 are £5.0m. The level of contributions required to be made to the defined benefit plans may affect the 
amount, timing and uncertainty of the Group’s future cash flows.
As explained in note 1, with effect from 19 August 2012 the Group has adopted revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits, and accordingly 
the 17 August 2013 comparative figures have been restated.
(a) Net retirement benefit liability
2014 2013
SGPS
£m
SGRPS
£m
Total
£m
SGPS
£m
SGRPS
£m
Total
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 157.9 310.8 468.7 143.3 292.6 435.9
Present value of scheme liabilities (159.3) (307.5) (466.8) (141.5) (277.8) (419.3)
Net retirement benefit (liability) / asset (1.4) 3.3 1.9 1.8 14.8 16.6
Impact of minimum funding requirement / asset ceiling – (5.7) (5.7) – (17.2) (17.2)
Net retirement benefit (liability) / asset recognised  
in the balance sheet (1.4) (2.4) (3.8) 1.8 (2.4) (0.6) Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
112 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
26. Retirement benefits continued
(a) Net retirement benefit liability continued
At 23 August 2014, the SGRPS net retirement benefit asset of £3.3m was subject to an asset ceiling of £4.6m (17 August 2013: 
the SGRPS net retirement benefit asset of £14.8m was restricted to £4.9m), being the amount that could be recovered through 
reduced contributions to the related defined contribution scheme. A liability of £5.7m (17 August 2013: £7.3m) has also been 
recognised, being the minimum funding requirement agreed following the triennial valuation of the scheme, completed in 2013.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation for the 53 week period to 23 August 2014 was 23 years for the 
SGPS and 19 years for the SGRPS. The expected maturity profile of the undiscounted defined benefit payments is as follows:
Within 
one year
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
Six to 
10 years
£m
More than 
10 years
£m
Total
£m
As at 23 August 2014 13.5 63.3 100.5 953.8 1,131.1
(b) Movements in net retirement benefit liability
Fair 
value of 
scheme 
assets
£m
Present 
value of 
scheme 
liabilities
£m
Sub-total
£m
Impact of 
minimum 
funding 
requirement 
/ asset 
ceiling
£m
Total
£m
At 18 August 2012 419.0 (390.3) 28.7 (28.7) –
Expenses (0.7) – (0.7) – (0.7)
Net finance cost 19.1 (17.9) 1.2 (1.3) (0.1)
Amounts included in income statement 18.4 (17.9) 0.5 (1.3) (0.8)
Remeasurements:
–  Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included 
in interest expense / (income) 6.0 – 6.0 – 6.0
– Gain from change in financial assumptions – (15.4) (15.4) – (15.4)
– Experience (gains) / losses 0.9 (10.1) (9.2) – (9.2)
–  Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included 
in interest expense – – – 12.8 12.8
Amounts included in other comprehensive income 6.9 (25.5) (18.6) 12.8 (5.8)
Contributions from employers 6.0 – 6.0 – 6.0
Payments from plans – benefit payments (14.4) 14.4 – – –
At 17 August 2013 435.9 (419.3) 16.6 (17.2) (0.6)
Expenses (1.6) – (1.6) – (1.6)
Net finance cost 20.9 (20.0) 0.9 (0.9) –
Amounts included in income statement 19.3 (20.0) (0.7) (0.9) (1.6)
Remeasurements:
–  Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included 
in interest expense / (income) 20.3 – 20.3 – 20.3
– Gain from change in financial assumptions – (40.7) (40.7) – (40.7)
–  Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included 
in interest expense – – – 12.4 12.4
Amounts included in other comprehensive income 20.3 (40.7) (20.4) 12.4 (8.0)
Contributions from employers 6.4 – 6.4 – 6.4
Payments from plans – benefit payments (13.2) 13.2 – – –
At 23 August 2014 468.7 (466.8) 1.9 (5.7) (3.8) Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 113
26. Retirement benefits continued
(c) Financial assumptions
The values of both schemes’ liabilities have been determined by a qualified actuary based on the results of actuarial valuations 
as at 31 October 2012, updated to the balance sheet date.
The significant actuarial assumptions used in determining the valuations are as follows, and apply to both schemes:
2014 2013
Rate of increase in pensions 3.1% 3.3%
Discount rate 4.2% 4.8%
Inflation assumption (RPI) 3.4% 3.6%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.5% 2.7%
The mortality assumptions at the period end are based on standard mortality tables that allow for future mortality improvements. 
The assumptions are that the life expectancy of a member who retires at the age of 65 is as follows:
2014 2013
SGPS SGRPS SGPS SGRPS
Male currently aged 45 25 years 24 years 25 years 24 years
Male currently aged 65 23 years 22 years 23 years 22 years
Female currently aged 45 27 years 27 years 27 years 27 years
Female currently aged 65 24 years 24 years 24 years 24 years
(d) Fair value of scheme assets
Both schemes’ assets are stated at their market values at the balance sheet date and the expected return on scheme assets is 
derived as a weighted average of the expected return on each asset class, recognising the proportions of the assets invested in 
each. The expected return on each asset class is determined after taking external expert advice and by reference to relevant equity 
and bond indices.
23 August 2014 17 August 2013
SGPS
£m
SGRPS
£m
Total
£m
SGPS
£m
SGRPS
£m
Total
£m
Equities 48.5 76.8 125.3 55.8 97.0 152.8
Debt – government bonds 46.6 100.4 147.0 36.8 84.0 120.8
Debt – corporate bonds 47.6 105.4 153.0 37.3 85.2 122.5
UK Property 14.0 25.8 39.8 12.2 22.4 34.6
Other 1.2 2.4 3.6 1.2 4.0 5.2
Net pension asset 157.9 310.8 468.7 143.3 292.6 435.9
The assets above are quoted with the exception of UK Property. The fair values of the assets have not materially changed due 
to the adoption of IFRS 13.
The pension schemes have not invested in any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor in properties or other assets used 
by the Group. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
114 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
26. Retirement benefits continued
(e) Sensitivities
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the schemes’ liabilities are set out below. The illustrations 
consider the single change shown with the other assumptions assumed to be unchanged. In practice changes in one assumption 
may be accompanied by offsetting changes in another assumption. Changes in market values may also occur at the same time 
as the changes in assumptions and may or may not offset them.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% Increase by £56m
Rate of inflation Increase by 0.5% Increase by £47m
(f) Risks and uncertainties
Both of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are closed to new members. The schemes are subject to risk regarding 
the relative amount of the schemes’ assets, which are affected by the value of investments and the returns generated by such 
investments, compared to the schemes’ liabilities, which are affected by changes in the life expectancy, actual and expected price 
inflation and changes in bond yields. The difference in value between scheme assets and scheme liabilities may vary significantly 
in the short term, potentially resulting in an increased deficit (or reduced surplus) being recognised on the Group’s balance sheet. 
27. Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
Group
2014
£m
2013
£m
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year 67.9 64.3
Between one and five years 267.8 253.0
After five years 917.1 921.2
1,252.8 1,238.5
The future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases when discounted to present value are £586.2m 
(17 August 2013: £546.8m).
The Group leases various licensed properties, offices and other commercial properties under non-cancellable operating lease 
agreements. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group also leases vehicles under 
non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The Group operates 173 licensed properties under non-cancellable operating lease agreements for which the Group has agreed 
to undertake to lease for a further ten years when the current leases expire in 2034. An estimate of the future minimum rental 
payments under the current leases, including the additional ten year extension, is included in the table above.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received are £41.9m (17 August 2013: £35.5m).
The Group is a lessor of licensed properties to retailers. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The total non-cancellable future minimum lease payments expected to be received in respect of these leases are:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Within one year 17.4 18.5
Between one and five years 59.9 58.9
After five years 81.8 74.3
159.1 151.7
The Company has no operating lease commitments at 23 August 2014 (17 August 2013: £nil). Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 115
28. Capital and other financial commitments
Group
Capital commitments for property , plant and equipment
2014
£m
2013
£m
Contracted but not provided 8.9 12.9
The Company has no capital commitments at 23 August 2014 (17 August 2013: £nil).
29. Related party transactions
Group
Transactions with key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Group comprise members of the Spirit Pub Company plc Board of Directors and other 
nominated members of the executive management team.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Short term employee benefits 3.4 2.6
Post-retirement benefits 0.3 0.3
Share based payments 1.9 1.4
5.6 4.3
Transactions with joint ventures
Prior to 29 January 2014, the Group held 51% of the share capital of Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited, a joint venture with 
Kunick (109) Limited. On 3 April 2013, Kunick (109) Limited entered liquidation. As a result of the liquidation of Kunick (109) Limited, 
and following advice on the terms of the joint venture arrangements, the Group has since the date of liquidation of Kunick (109) 
Limited borne 100% of the Shareholder costs of Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited.
On 29 January 2014 the remaining 49% of the share capital of Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited was transferred to the 
Group for £nil consideration. As a consequence, at 23 August 2014, the Group holds 100% of the share capital of Allied Kunick 
Entertainments Limited.
During the period to 17 August 2013, the Group paid invoices and raised sales invoices on behalf of Allied Kunick 
Entertainments Limited.
Balances arising from transactions with joint ventures
2013
£m
Unsecured loan stock receivable 13.0
Amounts owed to joint ventures (0.7)
Total amounts due from joint ventures 12.3
The amount owed to the Group and outstanding at 17 August 2013 was fully provided for by the Group due to the uncertainty  
of its recoverability.
Transactions with defined benefit pension schemes
Neither the Group nor the Company have had any transactions with any of the pension schemes during the current or prior 
periods, other than those disclosed in note 26. Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014
116 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
29. Related party transactions continued
 
Company
Transactions with key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Company comprise members of the Spirit Pub Company plc Board of Directors. 
The Directors do not receive any remuneration from the Company (2013: £nil) as their emoluments are borne by other Group 
companies. The Company did not have any transactions with the Directors during the period (2013: £nil). 
Transactions with subsidiary undertakings
During the period, the Company has received dividends from its subsidiary Spirit Pub Company (Holdco) Limited of £8.0m 
(2013: £28.2m). There have been no other transactions with subsidiary undertakings in the period (2013: nil).
30. Contingent liabilities
In prior periods, the Group has disposed of a number of properties for which it remains contingently liable for the head leases 
should the assignee default on the terms of the lease. This may result in a number of leases reverting to the Group for which the 
annual net exposure to the Group is considered unlikely to exceed £1.8m per annum (17 August 2013: £6.0m). 
At 17 August 2013 the Group disclosed a contingent liability of £18.9m in relation to the Group’s outstanding gaming machine 
VAT claim. At 23 August 2014 a current provision is recognised in respect of this amount, see note 22.
31. Post balance sheet events
On 21 October 2014, a pub in the Managed estate was sold for net proceeds of £15.0m.
The financial statements were authorised by Mike Tye and Paddy Gallagher on 3 November 2014. At this date there were 
no adjusting or non-adjusting events after the balance sheet date. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 117
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Spirit Pub Company plc for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2014 set out on pages 
72 to 116.
In our opinion: 
 > The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 23 August 
2014 and of the Group’s profit for the 53 weeks then ended.
 > The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union.
 > The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
 > The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect 
on our audit were as follows:
Valuation of the property portfolio, including those assets held for sale and operating leases (£1,513 million)
Refer to page 54 (audit and risk committee report), pages 81, 82 and 84 (accounting policy) and pages 94 to 96 (financial disclosures).
The risk
The Group’s balance sheet includes significant assets with respect to the property portfolio as land and buildings, public house 
fixtures and fittings, operating leases and assets held for sale. The Group carries its property portfolio at open market value which 
is supported by market evidence determined with reference to judgemental factors such as current and future projected income 
levels, location, quality of the pub and comparable market transactions in the sector. The properties are subject to a rolling five 
year programme of site visits by independent property surveyors and those properties are valued at that date in accordance 
with provisions of Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Standards (‘The Red Book’). The remainder 
of the property portfolio is subject to an extrapolation technique using multiples supplied by the independent valuer and it is with 
reference to this that the Directors have performed their valuation.
The risk is that the assumptions made by the Directors are inaccurate or that the extrapolation or sampling techniques used 
are not appropriate, and as a result assets are stated at an inappropriate estimate of their open market value. 
Our response
Our procedures included, amongst others, using KPMG valuation specialists to challenge the appropriateness of the valuation 
methodology used by management together with the sampling and extrapolation techniques applied. We evaluated the competence 
and objectivity of the independent property surveyors and compared the available market transaction data and sales activity in 
the sector to the relevant assumptions used in the valuation to identify any areas that required further consideration. We critically 
assessed valuation assumptions applied by the Directors, including the justification for any significant changes to assumptions 
since the prior period including improvements in multiples at a brand and geographical level along with understanding any 
movements in value which were not consistent with our expectations. 
We also reviewed the disclosures provided in relation to the valuation assumptions, key inputs and sensitivities.
Independent Auditor’s report to the 
members of Spirit Pub Company plc only 118 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Independent Auditor’s report to the 
members of Spirit Pub Company plc only
continued
Recoverability of goodwill (£212.1 million)
Refer to page 54 (audit and risk committee report), page 81 (accounting policy) and page 96 (financial disclosures).
The risk
The Group’s balance sheet includes goodwill arising from historical acquisitions. As the Group’s market capitalisation as at 
23 August 2014 is lower than its net asset value there is an indicator present that the goodwill carrying value may be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts of the groups of cash generating units (“CGUs”) to which goodwill has been allocated is based on 
value-in-use calculations. These calculations require assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows and the choice of 
a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the value in use of those cash flows.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment 
of the recoverability this is considered to be one of the key judgemental area in the audit. 
Our response
Our procedures included, amongst others, critically assessing the key assumptions applied by the Group in determining the 
recoverable amount of CGUs. In particular, we evaluated the appropriateness and consistency of underlying assumptions in 
determining the cash flows including considering the appropriateness of the growth assumptions applied by reference to historical 
forecasting accuracy, a comparison of forecast cash flows to those currently being achieved by the CGUs, and challenging the 
Group where such future cash flows were significantly higher than current levels or did not reflect known or probable changes in 
business environment. We also challenged the key inputs used in the calculation of the discount rates used by the Group, including 
comparisons with external data sources and comparator group data using our own valuation specialists. We performed our 
own sensitivity analysis, including a reasonable reduction in assumed growth rates and cash flows and an increase in the applied 
discount rate. We considered the sum of the discounted cash flows compared to the Group’s market capitalisation to assess 
the reasonableness of those cash flows. We assessed whether the Group’s disclosures about sensitivity of the outcome of the 
impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Carrying value of the deferred tax asset (£38.5 million)
Refer to page 54 (audit and risk committee report), page 83 (accounting policy) and page 99 (financial disclosures).
The risk
The Group’s balance sheet includes deferred tax assets, mostly generated by brought forward losses and temporary differences 
on financial instruments. The risk is that carrying value of the deferred tax asset is not recoverable as it is dependent on the 
Group’s ability to access and utilise those losses and temporary differences in future accounting periods.
Our response
Our procedures included, amongst others, analysing and challenging the recognition of deferred tax asset assumptions applied 
by the Group, with the use of our own UK tax specialists, with regard to the availability of losses and temporary differences within 
the group and their planned utilisation. We compared actual utilisation of current year losses to forecasts and critically reviewed 
the expected future taxable profits and planned loss utilisation model. We reviewed any group structure or trade restrictions known 
to impact on the loss utilisation and considered how those potential impacts had been addressed in the accounting. 
We also assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions relating to expected future 
taxable profits.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £2.8m. This was determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group profit before taxation, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the 
Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group. Materiality represents 2.5% of Group profit before tax and 2.3% 
of Group profit before tax adjusted for the provision in relation to the gaming machine VAT claim as disclosed in note 6 and the 
profit on sale of non-current assets as disclosed on the face of the income statement. Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 119
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit 
with a value in excess of £140,000 in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for group reporting purposes of all components were performed by the group audit team and covered 100% of total Group 
revenue, Group profit before taxation and total Group assets. These audits were performed to materiality levels based on the 
relevant local statutory materialities and ranged from £3,000 to £2.1 million.
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
 > The part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
 > The information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial 
statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 > We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ statement 
that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy; or
 > The audit and risk committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 > Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
 > The parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or 
 > Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
 > We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 > The Directors’ statement, set out on page 47 , in relation to going concern.
 > The part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 48 to 51 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation to the financial statements set out on page 71, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair  
view. A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body and is subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, 
which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this 
report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Greg Watts (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
One Snowhill, Snow Hill Queensway, Birmingham, B4 6GH
3 November 2014 120 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
Consolidated trading results
23 August 
2014
1
£m
17 August 
2013
2
£m
18 August 
2012
3
£m
20 August 
2011
3
£m
21 August 
2010
3
 
(unaudited)
£m
Revenue
4
800.9 758.2 760.0 734.4 724.0
Operating expenses before depreciation and amortisation
4
(641.5) (608.7) (613.9) (594.8) (593.0)
EBITDA
4
159.4 149.5 146.1 139.6 131.0
Depreciation and amortisation
4
(38.2) (36.2) (36.7) (34.8) (32.8)
Operating profit
4
121.2 113.3 109.4 104.8 98.2
Net finance costs
4
(60.9) (59.0) (58.3) (60.8) (57.9)
Profit before tax
4
60.3 54.3 51.1 44.0 40.3
Taxation
4
(13.2) (12.7) (12.8) (12.3) (11.4)
Profit after tax
4
47.1 41.6 38.3 31.7 28.9
Exceptional items 52.3 (7.0) (601.6) (181.4) (171.8)
Earnings per share:
Basic adjusted (pence)
5
7.1 6.3 5.8 4.8 4.4
1 The period ended 23 August 2014 is a 53 week period. All other periods are 52 week periods.
2 Restated for the impact of IAS 19 (revised 2011), see note 1 to the financial statements.
3 The comparative periods ending 18 August 2012, 20 August 2011 and 21 August 2010 have not been restated for the impact of IAS19 (revised 2011).
4 Before exceptional items.
5 Earnings adjusted for the impact of exceptional items.
Consolidated balance sheets
23 August 
2014
£m
17 August 
2013
1
£m
18 August 
2012 
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
21 August 
2010 
(unaudited)
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1,435.2 1,314.0 1,276.2 1,714.2 1,718.0
Goodwill 212.1 213.7 214.6 216.8 227.2
Operating leases 66.4 61.3 48.4 54.8 73.8
Other non-current assets 38.5 49.6 86.8 58.8 210.7
Total non-current assets 1,752.2 1,638.6 1,626.0 2,044.6 2,229.7
Assets held for sale 11.3 2.9 16.9 4.2 37.2
Cash and cash equivalents 159.1 101.6 97.4 139.6 37.9
Other current assets 35.2 34.2 32.4 37.7 35.4
Current liabilities (222.7) (188.3) (190.1) (216.5) (193.1)
Non-current liabilities (1,008.9) (1,011.9) (1,080.4) (1,098.6) (2,674.6)
Net assets / (liabilities) 726.2 577.1 502.2 911.0 (527.5)
Share capital 6.6 6.6 6.6 6.6 6.6
Reserves 719.6 570.5 495.6 904.4 (534.1)
Shareholders’ equity / (deficit) 726.2 577.1 502.2 911.0 (527.5)
Nominal value of gross debt 800.5 807.4 807.4 843.5 866.5
Nominal value of net debt 641.4 705.8 710.0 703.9 828.6
1  Current liabilities at 17 August 2013 of £200.8m and non-current liabilities of £999.4m have been amended to present £12.5m previously presented within current 
liabilities as non-current liabilities, see note 19.
Five-year financial record Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014 121
Company information and advisers
Company information
Directors of the Company
Walker Boyd Chairman
Mike Tye Chief Executive Officer
Paddy Gallagher Finance Director
Tony Rice Non-Executive Director
Mark Pain Non-Executive Director
Christopher Bell Non-Executive Director
Julie Chakraverty Non-Executive Director
Financial calendar
Q1 Interim Management Statement January 2015
Annual General Meeting 13 January 2015
Half year end 7 March 2015
Interim results announcement April 2015
Q3 Interim Management Statement June 2015
Year end 22 August 2015
Preliminary results announcement October 2015
Registered office
Sunrise House
Ninth Avenue
Burton upon Trent
DE14 3JZ
+44 (0)1283 498 400
Company number
07662835
Advisers
Auditor
KPMG LLP
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GH
+44 (0)121 232 3000
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank plc
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B3 2WN
+44 (0)121 480 5562
Financial adviser and joint broker 
Goldman Sachs International
Peterborough Court
133 Fleet Street
London
EC4A 2BB
+44 (0)20 7774 1000
Joint broker 
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT
+44 (0)20 7260 1000
Legal adviser
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row
London
EC1Y 8YY
+44 (0)20 7600 1200
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services plc
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
+44 (0)870 702 0003
Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.instinctif.com
 
 
  Spirit Pub Company plc
Sunrise House
Ninth Avenue
Burton upon Trent
Staffordshire
DE14 3JZ 
 
T: +44 (0)1283 498 400
www.spiritpubcompany.com
Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2014
