 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2011
Sportingbet Plc
4th Floor, 45 Moorfields
London EC2Y 9AE
Tel: +44 20 7184 1800
Email: investor@sportingbet.com
www.sportingbetplc.com
Sportingbet Plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
04 Geographic diversity
06 Group Chief Executive’s Q&A
08 Best-in-class products
10 Key performance indicators
12 Building on our core strengths
14 Regulation in brief
16 Building from external   
growth drivers
Business Review
18 Overview
20 Europe and Australia
22 Corporate social responsibility
25 Financial review
26 Management of principal risks
30 Board of Directors
Governance
32 Corporate Governance Statement
36 Directors’ Report
39 Remuneration Report
45 Regulatory Developments
Financials
48 Independent Audit Report 
49 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
50 Consolidated Balance Sheet
51 Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity 
52 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
53 Notes to the Financial Statements
78 Parent Company Independent 
Auditor’s Report
79 Parent Company Balance Sheet
80 Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
85 Shareholders’ Information
87 Financial Summary
88 Corporate Directory Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2011
Sportingbet Plc
4th Floor, 45 Moorfields
London EC2Y 9AE
Tel: +44 20 7184 1800
Email: investor@sportingbet.com
www.sportingbetplc.com
Sportingbet Plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
04 Geographic diversity
06 Group Chief Executive’s Q&A
08 Best-in-class products
10 Key performance indicators
12 Building on our core strengths
14 Regulation in brief
16 Building from external   
growth drivers
Business Review
18 Overview
20 Europe and Australia
22 Corporate social responsibility
25 Financial review
26 Management of principal risks
30 Board of Directors
Governance
32 Corporate Governance Statement
36 Directors’ Report
39 Remuneration Report
45 Regulatory Developments
Financials
48 Independent Audit Report 
49 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
50 Consolidated Balance Sheet
51 Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity 
52 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
53 Notes to the Financial Statements
78 Parent Company Independent 
Auditor’s Report
79 Parent Company Balance Sheet
80 Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
85 Shareholders’ Information
87 Financial Summary
88 Corporate Directory Business 
fundamentals
01
Geographic 
diversity
Regulatory and gaming risk 
exposure minimised by a highly 
tailored local market offering.
See page 4
02
Best-in-class  
product suite
A sportsbook product that  
is increasingly valuable and 
difficult to replicate.
See page 8
03
Building on our  
core strengths
Providing an enhanced and 
unique customer experience 
through enterprise and 
innovation.
See page 12
04
Benefit from external  
growth drivers
Positive market trends indicate 
significant potential to expand.
See page 16 Business 
fundamentals
01
Geographic 
diversity
Regulatory and gaming risk 
exposure minimised by a highly 
tailored local market offering.
See page 4
02
Best-in-class  
product suite
A sportsbook product that  
is increasingly valuable and 
difficult to replicate.
See page 8
03
Building on our  
core strengths
Providing an enhanced and 
unique customer experience 
through enterprise and 
innovation.
See page 12
04
Benefit from external  
growth drivers
Positive market trends indicate 
significant potential to expand.
See page 16 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 01
Gross Gaming Revenue by Product – 2011
 2011 2010
Sports  71% 69%
Casino and games 21% 21%
Poker 8% 10%
 2011 2010
Football  58.7% 61.7%
Australia horseracing 21.5% 15.9%
Tennis 4.4% 4.4%
Basketball 4.2% 3.3%
Multiples 3.8% 4.5%
Horseracing 0.9% 1.0%
Other 6.4% 9.2%
Sports Revenue Breakdown – 2011
NGR by domain – 2011
 2011 2010
Turkey 22.4% 17.6%
Australia 17.9% 15.5%
Greece 14.2% 18.2%
Spain 13.2% 14.9%
Emerging markets 5.1% 3.2%
Germany 4.8% 3.2%
UK 4.5% 4.7%
Poland 3.6% 4.7%
Czech Republic 3.1% 3.2%
Bulgaria 2.8% 2.8%
Scandinavia 1.5% 3.3%
Other Europe 6.9% 10.3%
OVERVIEW
Overview
Highlights
Financial highlights for the year
2011 2010
Amounts wagered 2,053.9 1,971.3
Total revenue 206.3 207.5
EBITDA
**
51.4 46.5
Adjusted operating profit
**
38.1 35.4
Group operating profit 24.4 7.1
Adjusted diluted EPS
**
 (p) 6.3 6.2
Diluted EPS (p) 3.9 0.7
* Excluding discontinued territories and at constant currency
** Adjusted to exclude exceptional items of £10.8m (2010: £24.5m), share option charge and amortisation of other 
intangible assets
 > Integration of Centrebet proceeding well and in line with expectations
 > EBITDA for the year up 11% to £51.4m
 > Amounts wagered up 4% year on year to £2,054m with NGR up 1%
*
 > Amounts wagered online in Australia up 62% 
 > In:play continues to perform strongly – now 67% of European amounts 
wagered (2010: 61%) at an industry leading margin of 9.7%
 > Final dividend of 1.1p making a total of 1.7p (2010: 1.6p)
 > Solid start to new financial year: NGR up 17% in first two months 02 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Overview
Chairman’s statement
“Our long-term trading 
strategy has been 
consistently executed 
leveraging our proprietary 
best-in-class trading 
technology which  
has enabled us to  
deliver an outstanding 
trading performance”
Peter Dicks, Chairman
This has been a year of significant 
progress for the Group both in terms 
of financial performance and corporate 
developments. Agreement with the US 
Department of Justice in September 
2010 was followed in August 2011 by 
the acquisition of Centrebet in Australia 
and the passing of regulations in two of 
our largest markets, Greece and Spain. 
Sportingbet is now well positioned to 
maximise the growth opportunities 
available to it as the global online gaming 
market continues to develop. We already 
have market leadership in around 50% 
of the territories in which we operate.
I am pleased to announce a strong set of 
financial results for the year with EBITDA 
increasing 11% to £51.4m. The benefits 
of operating across a broad geographical 
base were demonstrated with strong 
growth in our Emerging Markets division, 
Australia and some of our European 
countries, offsetting the economic 
weakness in two of our largest markets, 
Greece and Spain. This limited the overall 
decrease in revenue to 1% although the 
comparative period did benefit from the 
Football World Cup which is estimated to 
have benefited last year’s NGR by £8.5m. 
The decrease in revenue was more than 
compensated for at the profit level by 
tight cost control. In addition to the 
cost synergies being realised following 
the Centrebet acquisition, the focus on 
adjusting the cost base to reflect the 
economic conditions and the increased 
cost of newly regulated markets will 
continue over the coming periods. 
Our overall strategy of providing a first 
class sports betting product offering 
customers an unprecedented number of 
betting opportunities at all times of the 
day, remains unchanged. Sports betting 
is our focus as it offers the greatest 
scope to differentiate our product from 
competitors and provides significant 
barriers to new entrants. Our long-term 
trading strategy has been consistently 
executed leveraging our proprietary 
best-in-class trading technology which 
has enabled us to deliver an outstanding 
trading performance. This success has 
been clearly demonstrated by an in:play 
margin of nearly 10% compared to 5% 
or less for our competitors. To provide 
a comprehensive suite of products for 
our customers, we supplement the 
core sports offering with casino, games 
and poker products bought in from 
the leading suppliers in the industry. 
As the online gaming industry matures, 
governments across the world are 
recognising the significant potential 
contribution from online gaming tax 
revenues as a means to replenish 
national budget deficits and the need 
to bring in regulation to protect the 
consumer and provide a stable trading 
environment. We welcome these 
moves and have been exploring ways 
of increasing the percentage of our 
revenue derived from regulated markets.  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 03
OVERVIEW
In line with this strategy we recently 
acquired Centrebet International 
Limited, a business which predominantly 
operates in the regulated Australian 
market. This acquisition has raised the 
percentage of the Group’s proforma 
revenue derived from regulated 
markets to over 32% for the 2010/11 
financial year. Following completion 
of the acquisition on 31 August 2011, 
the integration of Centrebet with our 
existing Australian sportsbook business 
is progressing well and the enlarged 
operation has a market leading position 
with over 30% share in what is a fast 
growing and dynamic online sports 
betting market. The acquisition will 
be earnings enhancing (excluding 
amortisation of intangible assets) in the 
first full year post acquisition (2012/13).
The percentage of revenue from 
regulated markets is also expected 
to increase significantly over the 
coming year as countries introduce 
online gaming legislation. Two of our 
largest markets, Spain and Greece 
which account for 27% of the Group’s 
revenue, have passed laws regulating 
their markets from the beginning of 
January 2012. In addition, several of 
the other smaller markets in which 
we operate are moving quickly in the 
same direction. The Group is currently 
paying tax in Spain and intends to pay 
tax in Greece when the bill is finally 
passed into law. The Group expects to 
apply for a licence in both countries.
Based on our experience in the regulated 
Australian market, while in the short 
term regulation and the implementation 
of the associated tax regimes are 
expected to reduce profitability, there 
is an opportunity to grow profits in the 
medium term despite the greater cost 
base. The opportunities represented 
by the increased ability to advertise, 
improved trustworthiness from being 
licensed and better payment processing 
efficiency, combined with an existing 
strong brand presence, provide a 
platform for medium term profit growth. 
In the Australian case it took three years 
to recover profitability with the high 
growth rates experienced during this 
period continuing up to the present time. 
The rollout of the Group’s mobile phone 
offering has been very encouraging 
since its launch last year. Actives now 
account for 15% of total customers 
in our largest markets. The rollout has 
gathered momentum in the last six 
months with a total of 11 countries 
now covered. The take up of the mobile 
product is expected to continue to grow 
significantly over the next three years 
as smart phone and tablet penetration, 
a key driver of uptake, is expected to 
exceed 50% in the markets we serve. 
Finally, I am pleased to announce that 
the Board has proposed a final dividend 
of 1.1p (2010: 1.1p). This brings the total 
dividend for the year to 1.7p (2010: 1.6p), 
an increase of 6% year on year, and 
reflects the considerable progress the 
Group has made recently. If approved 
by shareholders the dividend will be 
payable on 12 January 2012 to ordinary 
shareholders registered as of the close 
of business on 16 December 2011.
closecontrol 04 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business fundamentals
Geographic diversity
The world’s best online betting service 
with markets in 28 countries and over 
700,000 active customers worldwide Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 05
Global strategy, local execution
Our customers across the world 
live and breathe sport and our 
ability to offer a global service, that 
reflects their culture and passions, 
is a cornerstone of our business. 
Betting behaviour is different around 
the world. In South American cultures 
they bet less frequently but the stakes 
are higher: in Nordic countries bets are 
smaller, more considered. Ice Hockey is 
only popular in Russia and other Eastern 
European countries and the Europeans 
are ardent basketball fans. Our skill 
lies in understanding and reflecting 
these different sporting cultures in 
the 28 countries where we operate.
A leading international player
We are a major force in Europe handling 
around 79 million bets during the 
year from over 400,000 active sports 
enthusiasts. Horseracing fans dominated 
the buoyant Australian market, placing 
part of the 29 million bets in Australia 
and following the Centrebet acquisition; 
Sportingbet will be the leading player 
in this fast-paced market increasing 
our football and internet coverage.
We are making good inroads in markets 
where traditional betting routes are not 
well-established, allowing the internet 
to become the de facto standard 
from the start. Football is a national 
obsession in emerging markets – Asia, 
South America and South Africa in 
particular – making these attractive 
long-term prospects for growth.
Reducing risk
The depth and breadth of our 
geographic cover spreads our economic 
risk, diversifies our exposure to high 
profile matches and spreads the load 
on our systems as activity moves across 
the different time zones around the 
globe. It delivers economies of scale 
and puts our brand in front of circa 
50,000 active players every day.  06 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Andrew McIver,  
Group Chief Executive, 
discusses the key events 
of the year and looks 
forward to 2012
How would you summarise 
Sportingbet’s year?
Despite economic pressure in two of 
our biggest markets, Greece and Spain, 
we delivered a robust performance 
and hit our profit target of £38.1m. We 
benefited from a good performance in 
Australia and our Emerging Markets – a 
clear demonstration of the benefits of 
having a geographically diverse business.
I was pleased that we finally settled 
with the US Department of Justice in 
September 2010. This has been a long 
and arduous process so it was good to 
reach a conclusion and give shareholders 
certainty on the potential liability. We 
could now re-enter the US, subject to 
the prevailing regulation, if we felt it 
was appropriate to do so. More recently 
the successful acquisition of Centrebet, 
secured our market position in the 
buoyant Australian market and gave 
a welcome boost to performance. 
How will the Centrebet acquisition 
generate shareholder value?
The acquisition of Centrebet brings a 
number of benefits. Firstly, it consolidates 
our position as the leading fixed 
odds bookmaker in the fast growing 
Australian market and it puts us in 
prime position to benefit from any 
future regulation changes in online 
casino, poker and in:running products.
Secondly, we will be able to extend 
our capabilities in the wider sports 
and internet arena where Centrebet 
is particularly strong, complementing 
our leading presence in horseracing 
and telephone betting.
Finally, we expect to deliver significant 
cost savings as we merge operations and 
this integration is progressing well so far.
Overview
Group Chief Executive’s Q&A
wellpositioned Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 07
OVERVIEW
How do you view increased 
regulation in your markets?
Very positively! We welcome regulation 
because it provides certainty over 
revenues and profit streams. Our 
experience in Australia suggests that 
after an initial profit hit as we began 
to pay tax, within three years, profits 
recovered and growth returned. This 
demonstrates the positive impact of 
being able to market products more 
widely and with the acquisition of 
Centrebet, we have taken a major step 
along the regulatory path in that market. 
We are following moves towards 
regulation in Spain and Greece closely 
and expect this trend to continue – 
look at the developments in Italy and 
even Germany. We meet extensively 
with licensing authorities to put our 
views forward – they are often well 
received – and we are very happy to 
contribute to the regulatory debate.
What is unique about Sportingbet’s 
customer proposition?
I think the clue is in the name! We are 
focused on delivering an industry leading 
sports betting proposition built on our 
fast growing in:running product, an 
unrivalled selection of bets and a well 
thought-out customer engagement 
model. We expect our staff to have a 
passion for sport and support almost 
anything sporting. This is underpinned 
by a significant investment in customer 
service. We recruit multi-lingual staff 
and train them to understand betting 
and how our products work and 
even to acquire another language, 
if they want to extend their skills. 
Why is in:running betting so popular 
and what is its impact on revenue?
In:running betting took off as soon 
as it became technically possible 
because it dramatically increases the 
level of involvement in a sports event, 
maintaining the excitement throughout. 
From the constraints of the win, lose, 
draw, starting point, we now offer up 
to 200 possible bets during a match. 
From our point of view, we have seen 
revenues for our in:play product rise to 
67% of European amounts wagered 
within a very short period of time.
Do you see mobile betting as a key 
area of growth?
Yes, certainly. Mobile currently represents 
about 15% of our actives and this 
is growing at a steady 150% year 
on year. There are some key market 
drivers dictating pace and momentum 
in ‘new technologies’ in general. 
Smart phone penetration and flat 
data packages are growing strongly 
and demographics are working in our 
favour. In addition, with the advent of 
platforms like Google, PPC, Facebook 
and the Apple App Store, who have 
all recently begun to regulate, mobile 
accessibility and activity is set to increase. 
What will management focus  
on over the next few years?
Customer retention remains key 
to the future so we will continue 
investing in our products to give the 
customer a richer, more rewarding 
experience, alongside expanding 
our mobile capabilities.
In the short-term, bedding in Centrebet 
will be a key priority alongside ensuring 
we compete effectively in the newly 
regulated markets like Spain and Greece 
and keep a watching brief on other 
countries on the regulatory path. 
Growth will remain top of the agenda 
as we expand our international presence 
but this will be combined with an 
increased focus on cost management 
as we tackle the challenge of the 
harsh economic conditions facing 
European markets together with the 
incoming cuts that regulation brings. 
wellpositioned 08 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business fundamentals
Best-in-class products
Offering sports fans everywhere an 
unrivalled range of betting opportunities 
every minute of every hour of every day  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 09
Sportsbook
Representing 71% of our revenues, this 
is where we lead the field with 8,000 
different betting opportunities every 
single day. Football tops the popularity 
league but Tennis and Basketball each 
now represent 4% of amounts wagered.
in:play
Now accounting for 67% of our 
sportbook stakes, in:play has captured 
the imagination of sporting fans, adding 
up to 200 live betting opportunities 
to raise the excitement of the game. 
Customers can now bet on who will 
get the next corner, free-kick, throw-
in, goal kick and card. Our unique, 
in-house technology means we can run 
over 40 simultaneous in:play markets 
at any given time on a single game.
Live streaming
Over 8,500 premium events are now 
avidly watched by our customers across 
the world (with the exception of those 
based in the UK and Scandinavia), 
engaging them in the live game as they 
bet on an extensive range of events from 
European, Asian and South American 
football to horseracing, basketball, 
snooker, darts and many others.
ParadisePoker.com
With up to 10,000 concurrent players, 
ParadisePoker.com is one of the world’s 
best known online poker rooms. The 
software is run by leading gambling 
software specialist, G-Tech G2, on the 
International Poker Network (“IPN”). Our 
flagship promotion, the ParadisePoker 
Tour is now in its second season, 
attracting poker aficionados from 
all over Europe to sell-out events.
Casino
We offer over 300 games from industry-
leading games providers that include 
roulette, blackjack, slots and live dealer 
tables. Our live dealer casino from the 
pioneer of video-streamed live dealer 
gaming, Evolution, includes local 
language dealers putting us at the 
cutting edge of the online casino market. 10 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Overview
Key performance indicators
Key performance indicators (“KPIs”) 
enable us to understand what is 
driving our financial performance,  
and give us a better understanding  
of how customers are engaging 
with us. 
Number of sports bets 
The number of sports bets is a simple 
KPI showing us how many bets are 
placed during a given period. We can 
then break these results down to track 
number of bets per active, per country 
and per product. Such analysis allows us 
to monitor engagement, ensuring our 
customer interaction is second to none. 
Europe and Emerging Markets 
million
0 20 40 60 80
2010-11
2009-10
2008-09
2007-08
Sports bets have seen a steady 
increase year on year as a result of 
our continual improvement of our 
product offering, especially in:play, 
combined with an increase in our 
investment in both marketing across 
all our European domains and 
investment in mobile betting.
Australia million
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
2010-11
2009-10
2008-09
2007-08
Australia has seen a significant increase 
in sports bets numbers as the benefits of 
mobile betting, TV advertising and other 
marketing campaigns were implemented 
post the relaxation on advertising 
regulations in September 2008.
Percentage of sports net gaming 
revenue (“NGR”)
NGR is the amount retained by Sportingbet 
from bets placed by our customers net of 
promotional bonuses. Being able to see our 
NGR percentage year on year for each of 
our individual products allows us to make 
decisions on how best to develop these 
products and the customer experience. 
Europe and Emerging Markets million
0 2 4 6 8 10
2010-11
2009-10
2008-09
2007-08
Our world class trading team has 
continued to provide an industry 
leading net gaming revenue percentage 
across Europe and Emerging Markets. 
Their expertise, combined with our 
sole ownership of our technology sets 
us apart from the competition. 
Australia %
0 1 2 3 4 5
2010-11
2009-10
2008-09
2007-08
The shift in numbers over the last 
four years reflects the move from 
telephone to internet and mobile 
betting in the Australian market. This 
move has brought with it a large and 
diverse base of lower stake bettors. 
As internet and mobile operations have 
taken over the majority of the Australian 
business, it is no surprise that sports 
net gaming revenue percentage has 
increased, moving the Australian business 
away from its traditional higher, but less 
frequent, staking telephone customers, to 
more low but frequent staking bettors. 
At Sportingbet, our Board of Directors 
monitor a series of selected customer 
KPIs to ensure that we as a company 
are doing everything in our power to 
make our shareholder’s investment 
worthwhile.  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 11
OVERVIEW
game     plan
Sports yield per active
A good indicator of how much our 
customers bet and the amount of 
profit we make once their winnings 
have been paid. Essentially, sports 
yield is the net gaming revenue per 
active sports betting customer. 
Europe and Emerging Markets £ 
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
2010-11
2009-10
2008-09
2007-08
As the in:play product develops we 
find our customers are more loyal to 
our brand. They are more engaged, 
they stay longer on our website and 
the frequency of their betting has 
increased. The combination of all these 
factors has resulted in a year on year 
increase in sports yield per active across 
Europe and the Emerging Markets, 
and will continue to improve as we 
add more in:play events and markets. 
Active sports customers
This is simply the number of 
customers placing at least one real-
money sports bet in the period. 
Australia
0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000
2010-11
2009-10
2008-09
2007-08
The rise in active sports customers is 
a measure of our success at recruiting 
and retaining customers. The significant 
increase in 2011 reflects the benefits 
of TV advertising which began in the 
second half of the 2009-10 financial year, 
along with the accessibility created by 
improvements in both online and mobile.  12 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business fundamentals
Building on our  
core strengths
A powerful combination of in-depth 
market knowledge and our bespoke IT 
platform gives us the competitive edge Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 13
Wide geographical spread
Our ability to spread our risk across 
multiple territories not only reduces 
our economic and trading exposure 
but also gives us economies of 
scale as we capture the rising 
global passion for international 
sporting events and iconic teams.
An industry-leading trading team
Underpinning our performance is the 
best risk management team in the 
business: over 100 specialists who 
deliver industry leading margins. 
Highly respected for their knowledge, 
they bring experience, creativity 
and inspiration to our game.
Unique trading technology
Owning our core technology gives us 
the agility to respond to changes in 
markets and regulations at the pace/
speed we dictate. Developed in-house 
over a number of years, our technology 
is unique and enables us to trade 24/7 
across 28 countries simultaneously.
Strong brand awareness
One of our most valuable assets, our 
brand awareness is well ahead of the 
pack in our key markets: Australia, 
Spain and Greece. Supported by 
innovative sponsorship deals and blue 
chip partnerships, we continue to invest 
in our brand to drive customer loyalty, 
attract new people to betting and lower 
the cost of customer acquisition. 
Award winning customer service
Winning the prestigious Gold award 
for the best medium-sized call centre 
EMEA, in the Contact Centre World 
awards for 2011, puts our 180-strong 
customer service team firmly in a league 
of their own. Based in Dublin, they 
support customers in 28 countries: 24 
hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days 
a year, in 34 different languages.
Regulatory expertise
Licensing regimes around the world 
are evolving and our dedicated team 
contributes to the regulatory debate. 
They ensure we are primed and  
ready to exploit the opportunities  
that emerge as standards change –  
putting us in pole position to 
move into new markets swiftly. 14 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Overview
Regulation in brief
The speed of regulation has increased  
dramatically in the last twelve months
This time last year, operators were 
reeling from the regulation of the 
French market. The introduction of 
a new tax regime together with our 
low market share and the cost of the 
IT work required to obtain a licence in 
France, led us to conclude that it was 
economically unviable and we therefore 
chose to withdraw from the French 
market in May 2010. Since then we have 
blocked all services to French citizens. 
Italy was next with its updated gambling 
bill permitting a number of non-
Italian bookmakers to obtain licences 
to operate online. In July 2011 Italy 
extended its licensable offerings to 
include cash ring games for poker and 
other casino games. Whilst the technical 
requirements are unique and complex, 
the basic economics of the approach 
are heading in the right direction for 
both operators and customers alike.
Since then we have seen both Spain and 
Greece publish gambling bills, although 
they are still yet to issue licences. Spain 
is due to start its licence application 
process in November 2011 with the first 
licences expected during December. As 
for Greece, we await the announcement 
of the new licensing regime, amidst 
news that tax may be payable during 
the period prior to this announcement. 
Further North, and we had high hopes 
for regulation in Denmark. Unfortunately, 
the process has recently been postponed 
pending input from the EU Commission. 
We expect a decision imminently. 
We are confident that in the new 
financial year we will have licences 
in Denmark, Italy and Spain. We will 
continue operating in a regulated 
Greek market with our successful 
Greek business however it is 
unclear if the Greek regulator will 
have resolved its licencing process 
during this financial year.
The European Union recently 
published a “Green Paper” which 
called on all Member States in the 
EU to consider all the potential 
issues in relation to online gambling, 
including a form of harmonisation. 
Given the timescales involved in 
implementing this Green Paper compared 
with the rate at which EU members 
are moving towards regulation, such 
harmonisation is unlikely to occur in 
the short-term, and the most likely 
trend to continue is for jurisdictions 
to introduce licensing regimes which 
may or may not be tempered by 
European Commission intervention. 
Here in the UK the government 
announced (in July 2011) its intention to 
proceed with plans regarding a system 
for the regulation of remote gambling 
in the UK. This will also look at whether 
operators who advertise in the UK 
should face new regulatory requirements 
– which would attract consequential 
licence fees – to ensure a more even 
financial treatment of both UK and non-
UK operators who target this market. 
Further afield and in Australia we 
have begun to see a growing trend to 
impose product fees (e.g. race fields 
and sporting fixtures) which essentially 
add an additional tax to that paid by 
the operator in the state in which the 
operator is licensed. We continue our 
discussions regarding the provision 
of our other products (casino, games 
and poker) as well as in:play which 
remain prohibited in Australia. 
The United States continue to prohibit 
online gambling. Following our 
settlement with the Department of 
Justice in September 2010, we believe 
we can now draw a line under our 
previous activities in the United States. 
As for Asia, we have no operations or 
activities due to the prohibitive regulatory 
regimes in many Asian countries. 
The Sportingbet Group continues 
to provide its services only from 
jurisdictions where is it licensed and 
regulated, and therefore the position 
in its place of supply (and where its 
regulator and applicable local laws 
deem the gambling transaction to 
take place) is explicitly legal. 
In order to provide our worldwide 
gambling service, the Sportingbet Group 
currently maintains licences in Alderney, 
Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Curaçao, 
Malta, South Africa and the UK.  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 15
OVERVIEW
Case Study – Spain
We currently find ourselves in a 
transition period between the 
passing of the parliamentary bill 
in July and the award of licences 
before Christmas. During this 
period we continue to operate 
in Spain with the consent of 
the regulator, providing we pay 
25% gross profit tax during 
this period. Failure to pay this 
tax would invalidate any licence 
application later in the year.
The Spanish regulator is taking 
an approach between that of 
France and Denmark with a 25% 
gross profit tax on fixed odds 
betting. Sports betting is allowed 
with an approved catalogue 
of markets. Poker, roulette, 
backgammon and baccarat are 
also all allowed. Slots, lottery and 
scratch cards are not allowed.
Whilst there is no certainty on 
the overall impact of regulation 
on Spanish profitability in the 
short-term, we are confident that 
the Sportingbet Group will be 
able to overcome the immediate 
increases in operating costs 
from both tax and increased 
marketing activities as we have 
proven in the Australian market. 
Spain represents one 
of our largest markets 
accounting for 13% of 
net gaming revenue. 
With the passing of a 
new online gambling 
bill earlier this year, we 
expect the application 
and licensing process 
to commence in 
November 201 1.
goaldifference
A more detailed review of how 
regulation has impacted our 
business over the last twelve 
months is given in Regulatory 
Developments on pages 45 to 47. 16 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business fundamentals
Building from external 
growth drivers Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 17
Smart phone take up
The take up of our mobile product 
is expected to continue to grow 
significantly over the next three years 
as smart phone and tablet penetration 
is expected to exceed 50% in the 
markets we serve. Worldwide 3G 
subscriptions were above 900 million 
in 2010 as consumers continued to 
demand anytime, anywhere access 
to applications and services.
Broadband penetration
Our growth strategy continues to take 
advantage of ever increasing global 
broadband penetration, allowing 
customers to benefit from improved 
connection speeds. With data travelling 
at a faster rate, the user experience 
is enhanced and product innovation 
can take advantage of improvements 
to the distribution channel.
Global sports
Sports have now become established 
as global brands, as individual 
teams, leagues and sports become 
supported in areas well outside 
their traditional heartlands.
The English Football Premier 
League now broadcasts in over 200 
territories, with a global audience 
of around 500 million people. 
Confidence in internet transactions
The rise in secure online transactions, 
reflected in the continued increase 
in internet banking, online shopping 
and other ecommerce activities 
leaves us well placed as the betting 
community becomes increasingly 
accustomed with the internet as a 
purchasing tool in everyday life. 18 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business review
Overview
This has been a year of significant 
progress for the Group both in terms 
of financial performance and corporate 
developments. We have delivered a 
strong set of financial results with 
EBITDA increasing 11% to £51.4m. The 
benefits of operating across a broad 
geographical base were demonstrated 
with strong growth in our Emerging 
Markets division, Australia and some of 
our European territories, offsetting the 
economic weakness in Greece and Spain.
With the acquisition of Centrebet in 
Australia and the passing of regulations 
in two of our largest markets, 
Greece and Spain, Sportingbet is 
now well positioned to maximise the 
European opportunities available to 
it as the global online gaming market 
continues to develop and regulate.
Our overall strategy of providing a first 
class sports betting product offering 
customers an unprecedented number 
of betting opportunities at all times of 
the day, remains unchanged. This is 
underpinned by our proprietary best-
in-class in:play offer, superb trading 
team and focus on giving customers 
what they want especially in new 
growth areas such as mobile.
The Group has had a solid start to 
the new financial year with NGR in 
the first two months 17% above 
the same period last year.
runawayleader
Sportingbet Group
Sportingbet is one of the world’s leading 
online gaming operators with divisions 
focused on Europe (which includes 
Emerging Markets in Africa and South 
America) and Australia. The European 
operation is based in the Channel Islands, 
operating under a licence provided 
by the Alderney Gambling Control 
Commission. This is supported by an 
operational centre in Dublin providing 
customer services and administrative 
support. The Group’s Australian division 
is based in Darwin operating under 
a licence provided by the Northern 
Territory Government. In total the 
Group now employs over 600 people. 
Betting on sports is at the heart of the 
Sportingbet business, accounting for 
71% (2010: 69%) of Group gross gaming 
revenue. The growth in sports betting 
of 4.6% has primarily been driven by 
bets placed whilst the game is ‘in:play’, 
which accounts for 67% of European 
amounts wagered. Our in:play product 
has been growing strongly at 24% per 
annum over the last three years and 
with an in:play margin of 9.7% (2010: 
9.3%), we continue to be the industry 
leader. In addition, in:play traded in 
450 out of the 500 distinct football 
divisions we offered in 2010/11 and 
we currently trade between 800-900 
football matches in:play per week. Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 19
BUSINESS REVIEW
Although football is our core product, 
accounting for 42% of gross gaming 
revenue, the Group offers betting 
markets on all major global sports. 
We have successfully implemented our 
internally developed football and tennis 
derivatives programmes and taken our 
in:play service on these two sports to a 
higher level of differentiation both on 
pricing and market types. As an example 
we have implemented our internally 
developed football instants market, 
offering next corner, next free kick and 
next throw-in on more than 75% of all 
in:play football matches offered. The 
breadth of our sports coverage with 
football, tennis, and basketball, through 
to local sports such as ice hockey and 
handball is now firmly established. 
While sports betting remains the 
focus of the business, we provide 
a complete range of other gaming 
products to our customers including 
casino, games and poker. Casino and 
games contribute 21% of Group gross 
gaming revenue whilst poker makes up 
the remaining 8%. These products are 
not offered to our Australian customers 
due to regulatory constraints. 
The Group achieved an operating 
margin of 18.5% (excluding exceptional 
items, share option charge and 
amortisation of intangible assets) 
during the year which was above the 
prior year’s 17.1% due to savings in 
payment processing and staff costs. 
Outlook
The Group has had a solid start to the 
new financial year with NGR in the first 
two months 17% above the same period 
last year and in line with expectations.
With regulatory change well under way 
in Europe we are confident that the 
increased advertising opportunities, 
improved payment processing and stable 
business platform this provides will drive 
profitable growth in the medium-term.
Whilst the economic outlook remains 
challenging, our diversified business 
model across the different economic 
cycles of Europe, Australia and 
South America gives us confidence 
for the current financial year. 
leadingedge 20 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business review
Europe and Australia
Europe
The European business (incorporating 
the financial results for the Emerging 
Markets Division) performed well in 
difficult economic conditions. The 
gross amount wagered (pre bonus 
adjustment) on sports increased by 
0.8% to £1,184.0m (2010: £1,174.9m), 
generating gross gaming revenue of 
£118.9m (2010: £121.4m) down 2.1%. 
Underlying gross gaming revenue at 
constant currency increased by 1.5%. 
Two of our largest markets Greece and 
Spain were affected by particularly 
challenging economic conditions and as 
a result we saw amounts wagered fall by 
22% and 2% respectively. This impacted 
the number of sports actives, which fell 
by 10%. However, by providing markets 
to bet on every minute of every day we 
saw the number of sports bets placed 
rise by 4.1% to 78.9m (2010: 75.7m) 
and the number of bets per customer 
increased to 184 (2010: 159). Although 
the average bet size decreased marginally 
to £15.01 (2010: £15.51), yield per sports 
customer increased from £254 to £277.
Once again the European business 
produced an industry leading sports 
margin of 10.0% (2010: 10.3%). 
In:play betting in our European 
business accounted for 67% of 
the value of bets placed during the 
year and amounts wagered on live 
betting increased 9.0% year on year 
generating total NGR of £76.4m and 
equating to a gross margin of 9.7%.
The Emerging Markets division again 
saw strong NGR growth up 56% driven 
by our Brazilian operation and our 
regulated South African operation.
The continued increase in smart phone 
penetration has driven mobile usage 
to an average of around 15% in our 
more mature domains, with the take up 
varying widely from country to country. 
Those customers using smart phones 
tend to spend more across both online 
and mobile channels. Next year will 
see the introduction of Mobile Casino 
and Games, which is expected to 
incrementally increase mobile revenues 
by the end of the financial year.
Regulation offers new marketing 
opportunities in the mobile marketing 
space as Google’s Pay Per Click, Apple’s 
App Store and social media sites such 
as Facebook with their strong mobile 
following (44% of online users/350m 
mobile users) open up their doors 
to betting and gaming companies 
where they were previously closed.
Casino and games gross revenue fell 
by 1.5% to £47.5m (2010: £48.2m). 
Our industry leading product range 
led to a 16% increase in the number 
of bets, but the difficult economic 
conditions in markets such as Spain 
and, in particular, Greece caused a 
14% decrease in the average bet size. 
Poker gross revenue decreased to £17.7m 
(2010: £21.7m) in challenging market 
conditions, despite the closure late in our 
financial year of the US facing businesses 
of some of our competitors. Our casino 
and games and competitive poker 
product remain an essential part of our 
offering, creating a ‘one stop shop’ which 
has proven to increase customer loyalty. 
2011 2010 +/–
Sports actives 429,154 477,234 –10%
Sports bets 78.9m 75.7m 4.1%
Sports bets/active 184 159 16.0%
Sports bet size £15.01 £15.51 –3.2%
Yield per sports active £277 £254 9.0%
Casino and games bets 581.4m 499.6m 16.0%
Casino and games bet size £2.43 £2.82 –14.0% Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 21
BUSINESS REVIEW
Australia
Gross amounts wagered in Australia 
increased by 11% from £745.3m to 
£825.0m resulting in a pre-tax margin 
of £50.0m (2010: £45.5m). Gambling 
taxes in Australia amounted to £9.8m 
in the period (2010: £10.5m). After 
accounting for these taxes, the post tax 
margin increased by 15% from £35.0m 
to £40.2m. After bonuses, NGR increased 
by 11% from £33.6m to £37.2m. 
The sports margin in Australia was 
well above the long term average 
in the year at 4.9% (2010: 4.7%) 
as certain horseracing results 
favoured the bookmaker. 
In line with our strategy of expanding 
the higher margin internet business, 
the online operations performed very 
strongly with the number of actives up 
64% and the number of bets up 53%. 
The internet business now accounts for 
77% of the gross margin compared to 
52% in the prior year. Not surprisingly, 
the traditional high roller telephone 
business was affected by difficult 
economic conditions causing active 
telephone customer numbers to decrease 
by 27% with the amount wagered 
on the telephone down by 20%. 
Our Australian mobile platform was 
successfully launched last year. The 
proprietary owned product continued 
to perform strongly this year with 
NGR up substantially to over 5% of 
divisional NGR. As in other countries 
the mobile product is increasing 
the frequency of customer bets and 
producing a higher margin as it tends 
to have been used to supplement 
existing betting opportunities. 
In common with other Australian 
based gaming operators, Sportingbet 
has made a claim to recover GST 
from the Australian Tax Office 
relating to overseas wagers. Based on 
recent court judgements the Group 
believes that the AUS$9.1m (£5.6m) 
being claimed will be recovered. 
Many of the product fee issues created 
when the Australian states liberalised 
their regulations in September 2008 
have been satisfactorily resolved to 
date. However New South Wales fees 
remain the subject of a court case 
which is expected to be resolved in 
late 2011. As Sportingbet has always 
paid the required fees, a finding in our 
favour would result in a repayment 
of around AUS$13m (£10.4m) and 
probably lower on-going fees.
2011 2010 +/–
Internet
Sports bets 26.4m 17.3m +53%
Sports bet/active 341 326 +4.5%
Sports bets size A$26 A$28 –9.2%
Sports margin (post tax) 6.8% 6.5% +4.0%
Telephone
Sports bets 1.4m 1.6m –10%
Sports bet/active 77 107 –27%
Sports bets size A$427 A$535 –20%
Sports margin (post tax) 2.5% 3.5% –27%
The acquisition of Centrebet was 
completed on 31 August 2011 following 
the year end. Although it is relatively 
early in the integration process the signs 
are very promising. Our intention remains 
to keep both brands operating on one 
platform, thereby targeting maximum 
revenue upside through diversification 
whilst also extracting the largest 
possible cost savings from synergies. 
The combined business has around 
one third of the Australian internet 
gambling market which is regulated, 
taxed and fast growing. In addition 
there is the medium term possibility of 
significantly increasing the profitability 
of the company if the Australian 
Government regulate to allow betting 
in:play, online casino, games and poker. 22 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business review
Corporate social responsibility
The Company’s objective is to provide a ‘protected 
entertainment environment’ in which our customer care 
programmes give responsible adults the confidence of 
knowing that their money is safe, whilst providing the 
Company with the confidence that all reasonable steps  
are being taken to protect the vulnerable.
Social Responsibility Committee
The Committee is chaired by Non-
Executive Director, Brian Harris, and 
its other members are Non-Executive 
Director Sean O’Connor, and the 
Company’s General Counsel, Daniel 
Talisman, who also acts as the 
Committee’s Secretary. Sean O’Connor 
has resigned as a Director from the Board 
(and from his committee memberships, 
of which the Social Responsibility 
Committee is one) with effect from 16 
December 2011. The Board intends to 
review the composition of all committees 
(including the Social Responsibility 
Committee) following the release of 
the Company’s financial year results on 
5 October 2011. The Committee met 
five times during the last financial year. 
The Head of Compliance and the Group 
Head of Human Resources attend its 
meetings and the Group Chief Executive 
is appraised of the Committee’s work 
at least twice in the course of the year.
The Committee is responsible for 
reviewing the Company’s policies on 
corporate social responsibility and 
stimulating Group-wide best practice 
on matters including age verification, 
fraud, money laundering, responsible 
gaming, self-exclusion and privacy.
Appropriate recommendations are 
made to the Company’s Board. 
Terms of Reference can be viewed 
on www.sportingbetplc.com and are 
available in writing on request.
Customers
As a service business, the core of 
Sportingbet’s policies on social 
responsibility lies in our approach 
to our customers. All employees are 
committed to winning and retaining 
the trust and loyalty of our customers.
The guiding principle behind 
Sportingbet’s policies can be  
summarised as ‘Know Your Customer’. 
Procedures to achieve this mean 
far more than merely collecting 
documentary evidence of people’s 
identities. It is about understanding their 
individual requirements, appreciating 
concerns and closely researching 
their patterns of behaviour.
Knowing one’s customers and creating 
profiles of their activities and preferences 
leads to targeted and appropriate 
marketing strategies. This lies at the 
heart of the Company’s Customer 
Relationship Management polices.
The way different customers spend 
money and what they spend it on 
provides an overall understanding of 
their motivation. For almost all of the 
Company’s customers online gambling 
is an entertainment pastime, and 
Sportingbet’s products, promotions and 
culture make their relationship with the 
Company an enjoyable experience.
It is the small minority, however, who 
may be potential fraudsters, underage 
gamblers or problem players that result 
in the need for comprehensive systems 
and procedures to protect the Company 
and, often, the customer. Of course, 
nothing can ever be entirely secure 
against determined offenders, but the 
Company commits much time and 
investment to finding organisational and 
software driven approaches to excluding 
the vulnerable and identifying fraud.
With multi-player environments such as 
poker, the Company is particularly vigilant 
about the risk of collusion or irregular 
fund movements between participants. 
Systems have been designed to highlight 
unusual or concerning patterns of play.
Sportingbet has selected URU and 
Aristotle as independent third party 
suppliers to provide online age and 
identity verification services. Customers’ 
registration details are verified against 
third party suppliers’ databases to  
ensure that they are over 18 years old. 
These databases utilise data harvested 
from a variety of global governmental 
and corporate official records containing 
known individuals aged over 18 only. 
Employees
The Board of Sportingbet is of the firm 
belief that the Company’s success is 
due to the quality and commitment 
of its workforce. The Company’s 
employee management priorities, 
including its remuneration strategies, 
are based on recruiting and retaining 
the best people in the industry and on 
encouraging working practices that 
improve productivity, reduce costs, 
develop talent and give job satisfaction.
The Board recognises the need for 
communication with employees at 
every level. Weekly sales notes and all 
quarterly results announcements are 
circulated to employees and copies of 
the Annual Report and Accounts are 
also made available. The Company 
is committed to developing ongoing 
communication with all of its employees. 
This is achieved through a variety of 
channels, including the Group’s intranet, 
to ensure that everyone is informed of 
the Group’s progress and recognises 
the key roles that they, as employees, 
play in Sportingbet’s success. 
Sportingbet has conducted two 
employee engagement surveys to date, 
in February 2010 and February 2011, 
measuring employee engagement across 
ten key areas specific to Sportingbet.  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 23
BUSINESS REVIEW
The results of these surveys are used 
throughout the year in order to raise 
Sportingbet’s engagement with staff.
The Group is committed to a policy of 
equal opportunity in matters relating 
to employment, training and career 
development of employees and is 
opposed to any form of less favourable 
treatment afforded on the grounds of 
age, disability, sex, marital status, sexual 
orientation, nationality, race or religion.
Health and Safety Policy
Sportingbet is committed to providing 
safe and healthy working conditions 
for our employees and has adopted a 
health and safety policy to implement 
this ambition. The policy covers:
•	 identifying hazards in the workplace, 
assessing the risks associated with 
them, and implementing appropriate 
preventive and protective measures; 
•	 safeguarding the health and safety 
of visitors, contractors and of any 
members of the general public who 
could be affected by our activities; 
•	 ensuring the workplaces under our 
control are maintained in a safe 
condition, without risks to health, 
and with safe means of access; 
•	 providing and maintaining safe 
equipment with procedures in place 
for reporting faulty equipment;
•	 providing all employees with 
sufficient information, instruction 
and training to enable them to work 
safely and to raise standards of 
health and safety in the workplace 
for themselves and their colleagues;
•	 establishing and implementing 
safe methods of work;
•	 maintaining procedures to be followed 
in the event of an emergency; and
•	 ensuring adequate resources are 
made available to fulfil this policy. 
The Board is ultimately responsible 
for health and safety. Specific local 
managers have delegated responsibilities 
for the day to day operation of the health 
and safety policy in their own locations.
Group Finance Director Jim Wilkinson is 
responsible for ensuring compliance with 
this policy and for health and safety in all 
the Company’s offices. He is competent 
to advise and assist the Board in the 
discharge of their duties under this policy. 
Trade and charitable organisations
The Company recognises the 
obligation upon the gaming industry to 
demonstrate its commitment to self-
regulation. The Company is supportive 
of the role that the industry’s trade 
associations can play in this regard 
and Sportingbet is an active member 
of the Remote Gambling Association 
(RGA) holding a seat on its Executive 
Committee and being represented 
on various RGA sub-committees.
The Company has signed up to the 
RGA’s Codes on Social Responsibility 
and Age Verification, the provisions 
of which the Company endorses.
Sportingbet invests time and resources 
in meeting and communicating with 
officers and politicians of governments, 
and national online gaming licensing 
authorities. The Company’s management 
remains committed to playing its part in 
promoting the value of legislation that 
will lead to a regulated approach to the 
industry, not least as a mechanism for 
protecting the vulnerable elements of 
society from unscrupulous operators.
powerplay 24 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business review
Corporate social responsibility
Recognising that some customers may 
be affected by gambling dependency, 
the Company has continued to 
provide funding in the UK to The 
GREaT Foundation (formerly known 
as the Responsibility in Gambling 
Trust). The Company has also made 
donations to the following organisations 
and charities: the Island Academy 
International School in Antigua; HEROS 
(Homing Ex-Racehorses Organisation 
Scheme), Friends of Israel Sport Centre 
for the Disabled and sponsorship of 
a Lords Taverners’ celebrity cricket 
event in the Channel Islands. 
Community liaison
In order to encourage a socially 
integrated work environment, the 
Company has placed an emphasis on 
investing in the local communities in 
which it operates. In Guernsey, where 
the Company’s primary licence and 
operations are based, the Company has 
invested a significant amount of time 
and money into the local community, 
including sponsoring the Guernsey 
Football Club, the Rising Stars Fund 
that supports Guernsey’s elite athletes, 
Guernsey Table Tennis, the Channel 
Islands Athletics Club and local events 
such as the Sportingbet Channel 
Islands Sports Personality of the Year 
Awards and the Inaugural Guernsey 
Community Foundation Awards which 
celebrates individuals and companies that 
contribute to the Guernsey community.
In Antigua, where the Group has held 
sports betting and gaming licences for 
many years, the Company continues 
to donate a significant sum of money 
to the Island Academy International 
School to fund bursaries for a number 
of less privileged local children.
In the United Kingdom, Sportingbet 
supports the Home Office funded 
scheme, Tackling Knives Action 
Programme. In the West Midlands, this 
programme has been implemented 
through “Braveheart” – a scheme which 
takes youth leaders, policemen, former 
gang members and community workers 
into the Scottish Islands for a week 
to improve their leadership skills, self 
reliance and confidence. In conjunction 
with the Wolverhampton Wanderers 
FC Community Trust, Sportingbet has 
sponsored three of its employees to act 
as members and to join youth leaders on 
this scheme, and is working with West 
Midlands police and community groups 
in the area to encourage other companies 
to join the “Braveheart” programme.
Environmental management
Sportingbet, as with many online 
businesses, causes a relatively low 
level of environmental damage. 
Nevertheless, the Company monitors 
its effects on the environment. 
Where an environmental impact does 
occur, for e.g. through transport and 
certain areas of consumption and 
waste management, the Company 
is committed to bringing about 
continuous improvement in reducing 
its adverse environmental impact. 
Sportingbet’s environmental 
policy includes:
•	 complying with all relevant 
national and regional legislation 
as a minimum standard;
•	 complying with codes of practice 
and other requirements such as 
those specified by regulators;
•	 promoting practical energy efficiency 
and waste minimisation measures;
•	 requiring each office to recycle its 
paper waste;
•	 encouraging the use of public 
transport and environmentally 
friendly modes of transport 
where this is practicable; and
•	 providing a shared inter-office 
IT network and communications 
technology that reduces the 
need for business travel. 
In order to achieve this Sportingbet:
•	 ensures employees are trained 
and motivated to conduct their 
activities in an environmentally 
responsible manner;
•	 reviews the policy on a regular 
basis to take into account 
any new developments in 
environmental management; and
•	 allocates sufficient management 
resources to ensure effective 
implementation of the 
environmental policies.
Facilities for recycling office waste 
are in place at our offices. During 
2010/2011 our offices recycled waste 
paper, spent toner and ink cartridges, 
obsolete computer hardware, 
printers and mobile phones.
The Head of Compliance is responsible 
for the implementation and monitoring 
of the environmental policy. The 
environmental policy is reviewed by 
the Social Responsibility Committee. Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 25
BUSINESS REVIEW
Business review
Financial review
Trading summary
Amounts wagered for the year ended 31 
July 2011 grew by 4.2% to £2,053.9m 
(2010: £1,971.3m), earning net gaming 
revenue (“NGR”) of £204.0m (2010: 
£207.5m), down 1.7% on the prior 
year. At constant currency and taking 
into account our exit from France and 
Norway in the prior year, NGR was 
up 1.2% on a like for like basis.
Amounts wagered on sports betting 
in Europe (incorporating the financial 
results for the Emerging Markets 
division) grew by 0.8% to £1,174.6m 
(2010: £1,165.1m), earning NGR of 
£109.5m (2010: £111.6m) down 1.9% 
year on year. On a like for like basis 
European sports NGR was up 3.9%. 
Casino and gaming contributed a 
further £44.0m, and poker £13.3m, 
to both amounts wagered and NGR 
(2010: £44.9m and £17.4m). 
Amounts wagered on Australian 
sports betting grew by 10.5% to 
£822.0m (2010: £743.9m), earning 
post betting tax NGR of £37.2m 
(2010: £33.6m). This growth excludes 
the Centrebet acquisition which was 
completed following the year end.
As a percentage of amounts wagered, 
the European and Australian sports 
NGR were 9.3% and 4.5% respectively 
(2010: 9.6% and 4.5%). However, 
amounts wagered and NGR are stated 
after a deduction for customer bonuses 
of £20.3m (2010: £18.8m). Without 
the bonus deduction the equivalent 
numbers would have been 10.0% 
and 4.9% (2010: 10.3% and 4.7%).
Costs (excluding exceptional items, 
share option charge and amortisation) 
in the year were £168.2m (2010: 
£172.1m), accounting for 81.5% 
of total revenue (2010: 82.9%).
Operating profit (before exceptional 
items, share option charge and 
amortisation) for the year increased 
8% to £38.1m (2010: £35.4m). 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (before exceptional 
items and share option charge) increased 
11% to £51.4m (2010: £46.5m). 
Operating profit after the exceptional 
costs of £10.8m (2010: £24.5m), 
share option charge of £1.2m (2010: 
£2.0m) and amortisation of other 
intangible assets of £1.7m (2010: 
£1.8m) was £24.4m (2010: £7.1m).
Net finance cost was £0.6m 
(2010: £0.2m). 
Corporation tax increased to £3.1m 
(2010: £3.0m) due to the increased 
profitability of our Australian business. 
Exceptional costs totalled £10.8m 
(2010: £24.5m). These costs relate 
mostly to the acquisition of Centrebet 
International Limited and the possible 
disposal of the Turkish language website. 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (before 
exceptional items, share option charge 
and amortisation) was 6.6p (2010: 
6.5p). Diluted earnings per share (before 
exceptional items, share option charge 
and amortisation) was 6.3p (2010: 
6.2p). Basic Group statutory earnings 
per share was 3.9p (2010: 0.8p).
As at 31 July 2011, the Group had 
£180.2m (2010: £58.9m) of cash and 
liquid resources on its balance sheet. 
After taking into account £123.6m 
held in respect of the acquisition of 
Centrebet, £22.7m (2010: £18.2m) 
of customer liabilities, £4.0m (2010: 
£4.0m) of bank loans secured on 
residential properties in the Channel 
Islands and £3.1m (2010: £2.5m) of 
finance leases, net cash at the period 
end stood at £26.8m (2010: £34.2m). 
Treasury management
The Group’s treasury function provides 
a centralised service for the provision of 
finance and the management and control 
of liquidity, foreign exchange and interest 
rates. The function operates as a cost 
centre and manages the Group’s treasury 
exposure to reduce risk in accordance 
with policies approved by the Board. 
It is not the policy of the Group to 
trade in or enter into speculative 
transactions. Authorities, procedures 
and reporting responsibilities are 
documented and regularly reviewed. 
Due to the international nature of its core 
activities, the Group’s reported profits, 
net assets and cash flows are all affected 
by foreign exchange rate movements. 
Operations are financed by a mixture of 
retained profits, bank borrowings and 
long-term loans. In addition, various 
financial instruments, such as trade 
receivables and trade payables, arise 
directly from the Group’s operations. 
Certain customers in the Australian 
region are allowed to place bets on 
credit. The Group’s policy of respect of 
credit risk is to require that appropriate 
credit checks are made on potential 
customers before bets are placed 
and credit limits set accordingly. 
The Group continues to use 
forward currency contracts to 
manage foreign currency risks. 
frontrunner 26 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business review
Management of  
principal risks
Legal and Regulatory
Risk Description Mitigation
Increasing regulation 
in online gambling
The regulatory position on online gaming is 
changing rapidly; many countries are reviewing 
their position, especially in Europe and are 
drafting new legislation. These will affect the 
tax paid in many jurisdictions however it will 
also have the potential to open the market 
to a greater number of customers. There is 
a risk that the new regulations could inhibit 
revenues or result in having to withdraw from 
markets to avoid breaching regulations.
We are working to identify countries that 
are looking to introduce new regulations 
and where possible we become actively 
involved in shaping their new regulations 
and educating them in the technicalities 
of implementing gaming bills. At the same 
time we are aligning our internal processes 
and infrastructure to ensure we are well 
placed to meet the requirements of the new 
regulatory regimes. We are also monitoring 
our global strategy on a country by country 
basis to ensure the Group’s balanced portfolio 
remains so in the face of these changes. In 
addition, the Group limits its regulatory risk 
from any one country by accepting wagers 
from a large numbers of jurisdictions.
Risk Description Mitigation
Dependence on 
regulatory licences
There can be no assurance that any jurisdiction 
in which licences are held by or on behalf 
of the Group will not change its licensing 
requirements, including the terms and conditions 
to which the licences and approvals currently 
held by or on behalf of the Group are subject. 
If the regulatory scheme of any jurisdiction in 
which the Group operates were to change 
its licensing requirements, the Group may 
be required to expend significant capital or 
other resources in order to comply with the 
new requirements and/or may not be able 
to meet the new requirements, either or a 
combination of which could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s business, 
financial condition and results of operations.
The Group has diversified its risk by obtaining 
multiple licences. Betting activities are 
licensed in Alderney, Antigua and Barbuda, 
Australia, Northern Cyprus, South Africa 
and the UK. The Board believes the Group 
has a good relationship with the relevant 
regulatory authorities but there can be no 
guarantee that these licences will be renewed 
or that they will not be terminated early.
Risk governance and responsibilities
The Board has overall responsibility 
for risk management and considers 
the risk process as an integral 
part of strategic planning. 
The Executive Directors make 
recommendations on the overall approach 
to risk management and identify the 
principal risks and uncertainties.
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
assessing the scope and effectiveness 
of the process established to identify, 
assess, manage and monitor risks.
Risk management process
The Board routinely monitors risks 
that could materially and adversely 
affect the Group’s ability to achieve 
strategic goals, financial condition 
and results of operations.
The Board considers the following 
impact areas in assessing risks:
•	 Legal and regulatory
•	 Marketplace
•	 Technology
•	 Customers
•	 Reputation
•	 Employees
The Board is supported by executive 
management personnel within the 
above mentioned areas of the business 
who collectively play a key role in risk 
management and regularly report 
to the Board through the Audit 
Committee. The risk management 
processes are reviewed formally by 
the Audit Committee annually.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The risks outlined here are those 
principal risks and uncertainties that the 
Executive Directors consider material to 
the Group. They are not presented in 
any order of priority. Additional risks and 
uncertainties, not currently known to the 
Directors, or that the Directors currently 
consider immaterial, may also adversely 
affect the Group’s business, results of 
operations or financial condition. Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 27
BUSINESS REVIEW
Marketplace
Risk Description Mitigation
Competition
The online betting market is highly 
competitive. The Group competes with 
a number of companies, some of which 
have greater financial, marketing and other 
resources. As a result, these companies 
may adopt more aggressive pricing policies 
or undertake more extensive marketing 
and advertising campaigns. This may have 
a negative impact on revenues or profit 
margins achieved by the Group in the 
future. The Group would face an increase 
in competition if competitors expanded or 
focused more on online sports betting or if 
there were new entrants in the market.
The Group closely monitors competition within 
the online gambling industry and has a long 
term approach to improving its products, 
marketing and IT infrastructure. In addition 
the Group has a diversified geographical 
base which spreads the competitive risk. 
Technology
Risk Description Mitigation
Dependence on 
advanced information 
systems (technology 
changes)
The Group’s operations are highly dependent 
on technology and advanced information 
systems and there is a risk that such 
technology or systems could fail. In addition 
to such failure, there can be no assurance 
that such technology or systems will not be 
subject to damage or interruption caused by 
human error, unauthorised access, computer 
viruses, distributed denial of service (DDoS) 
attacks, increase in volume in usage of online 
services, sabotage, natural hazards or disasters 
or other similarly disruptive events, including 
other security breaches, or will be able to 
support a significant increase in online traffic 
or increased customer numbers. Any failure 
or disruption of, or damage to, the Group’s 
technology or systems, could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s business, 
financial condition or results of operations. 
The Group has in place data recovery and 
systems recovery procedures, security 
measures and business continuity plans in the 
event of failure or disruption of, or damage 
to, the Group’s technology or systems. 28 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business review
Management of  
principal risks
Technology
Risk Description Mitigation
Over-reliance on 
third parties
The Group has relationships with a number 
of key third party suppliers who provide 
products and services to the Group. 
Infrastructure suppliers, network and 
telecommunication suppliers and application 
service providers are long-term partners in 
providing an infrastructure which seeks to 
ensure the delivery of sophisticated, high 
performance transaction processing systems. 
However, the Group exercises little control 
over many of these third party suppliers 
and is reliant on them to perform their 
services in accordance with the terms of 
their contracts, which increases vulnerability 
to problems with the products and services 
they provide. Any adverse event affecting 
the Group’s relationship with key suppliers 
could have a material adverse effect on 
the Group’s reputation, business, financial 
condition and results of operations.
The Group is increasing the number 
of third party suppliers to reduce the 
dependency on the current suppliers and is 
performing a number of functions internally 
previously undertaken by third parties.
Customers
Risk Description Mitigation
Fraud
As an online business, the Group experiences 
fraudulent activity on customer accounts in 
the form of deposits from stolen credit cards 
and debit cards. These amounts are written off 
as a loss to the business. Although the direct 
financial impact of these transactions is small 
(well under 1% of total deposits from cards), 
we are at risk of temporarily losing the ability 
to process credit & debit card transactions in 
some territories if the percentage of disputed 
transactions there exceeds the thresholds that 
are laid down by the card schemes. Losing the 
ability to process card transactions can reduce 
our ability to acquire and retain customers. 
The Group has a Risk Management 
department whose role is to monitor 
transactions for signs of fraudulent activity, 
and to carry out Know-Your-Customer 
procedures. Fraud detection and prevention 
software is used by the Risk Management 
team. The Group sources multiple payment 
service providers to mitigate the risk of 
losing any single funding channel. Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 29
BUSINESS REVIEW
Customers
Risk Description Mitigation
Money Laundering
As an online business that has no face-to-face 
contact with customers, the Group faces the 
possibility of reputational damage if there 
was a serious incident of a customer using 
our service to carry out money laundering 
or terrorist financing. Such an incident could 
have a damaging effect on the brand, and 
on the attitudes of customers, regulators, 
and business partners towards the Group.
The Group’s Risk Management department 
monitors customer activity for signs of 
money laundering, and carries out Know-
Your-Customer procedures, in order to 
minimise the risk of money laundering.
Reputation
Risk Description Mitigation
Brand reliance
The Group’s success depends on a strong 
brand and if the Group is not able to maintain 
and enhance its brand its ability to expand 
its base of customers, advertisers and 
affiliates will be impaired and its business 
and operating results will be harmed. The 
Directors anticipate that, as the Group’s 
market becomes increasingly competitive, 
maintaining and enhancing the Group’s 
brand may become increasingly difficult.
The Directors believe that the brand identity 
that the Group has developed has significantly 
contributed to the success of its business. 
The Group spends more than 30% of net 
gaming revenue on marketing and reviews 
and monitors the success of all marketing 
and sponsorship expenditure. The Group 
intends to continue to acquire domain 
names as suitable opportunities arise.
Employees
Risk Description Mitigation
Loss of key personnel 
(retention)
Sportingbet is positioned in the very 
competitive B2C space. Many of our 
employees have skill sets which are very 
attractive not only to our competitors 
but in the “e” space in general. 
Being a relatively small organisation it is easier 
to identify key retention issues by employee. 
A range of solutions are in place to manage 
such risks. Interventions for specific risks 
range from Braveheart type initiatives to 
increased responsibilities, key projects as well 
as ensuring that base pay is competitive. 
Risk Description Mitigation
Failure to attract quality 
staff (acquisition)
Given the industry sector we operate in 
approximately 20% of potential candidates 
for jobs will decide the gaming sector is not 
for them. Our business activities in Turkey, 
on occasion, make us less attractive as an 
employer than some of our competitors.
Our Head of Resourcing has built up excellent 
relationships with key head-hunters and 
recruitment agencies. As a result they 
work hard on our behalf when looking 
for candidates. Even with the threat of 
acquisition many candidates see this as a 
career advancing opportunity, by learning 
new skills in the event of a takeover/merger. 
In the absence of equity we are being creative 
in relation to notice periods and exclusivity 
clauses to ensure offers are converted to 
acceptances in the current climate.  30 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Business review
Board of Directors
Peter Dicks
Chairman and  
Non-Executive Director
Peter Dicks, aged 69, joined 
the Board of Sportingbet as 
Chairman in January 2000. He 
resigned in September 2006 and 
rejoined in February 2008 as a 
result of US related matters. Peter 
was co-founder of Abingworth 
Plc, and is currently a director of a 
number of quoted and unquoted 
companies including Graphite 
Enterprise Trust PLC, Polar 
Capital Technology Trust, Private 
Equity Investor, Mears Group 
and Standard Microsystems a 
US NASDAQ quoted company. 
Peter is also a director of Daniel 
Stewart and Company.
Andrew McIver
Group Chief Executive
Andrew McIver, aged 48, 
formerly Group Finance 
Director, took over as Group 
Chief Executive in October 
2006. Andrew qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant with 
Arthur Andersen. Following 
two years in the Corporate 
Finance department at Dresdner 
Kleinwort Wasserstein, he held 
senior finance positions at Signet 
Group Plc, Ladbrokes Group Plc 
and British Telecom’s internet 
division. He was Director of 
Finance with House of Fraser 
Plc for four years before joining 
Sportingbet in December 2001.
Jim Wilkinson
Group Finance Director
Jim Wilkinson, aged 45, joined 
Sportingbet Plc as Group 
Finance Director in February 
2008, prior to which he held 
the same positions at Johnson 
Services Group plc (2004–
2007) and Informa Group plc 
(1998–2004). Jim qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant 
with Touche Ross London.
 
Brian Harris
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Brian Harris, aged 65, joined 
Sportingbet as a Non-Executive 
Director in 2003. The founder 
and senior partner of a London 
law firm with an international 
clientele, he has acted for foreign 
governments, multi-national 
corporations, national airlines, 
high net worth individuals and 
privately owned companies. He 
is actively involved in sporting 
charity work for the disabled. Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 31
BUSINESS REVIEW
Sean O’Connor
Non-Executive Director
Sean O’Connor, aged 62, joined 
Sportingbet as a Non-Executive 
Director in 2000. Was acting 
Chairman of Sportingbet Plc from 
September 2006 to February 
2008. During the year to July 
2011 he was the Chairman of 
Cape PLC and Springboard 
Urban. He was also a director 
of a number of public and 
private companies including the 
Graphite Enterprise Trust PLC 
and Crow TV. He was previously 
Chairman of the Stoves Group 
PLC and of MediaKey Plc.
Sean O’Connor will resign 
from the Board of Directors 
on 16 December 2011.
Nigel Payne
Non-Executive Director
Nigel Payne, aged 52, joined 
Sportingbet in 2000 and is 
now a Non-Executive Director. 
He was Group Chief Executive 
between 2001 and 2006. Nigel 
was the Group Financial Director 
of Polestar Magazines and has 
held directorships at Scottish 
& Newcastle and Brann Direct 
Marketing. Nigel is a Partner in 
Merlin Financial Advisors LLP 
and is a director of Mucky Pups 
Childcare Limited, Bettor Logic 
Limited, Golfbidder Limited 
and Hangar8 plc. Nigel is a 
qualified Chartered Accountant.
Nigel Payne will resign from 
the Board of Directors on 
16 December 2011. 
Rory Macnamara
Non-Executive Director
Rory Macnamara, aged 56, 
joined Sportingbet as a Non-
Executive Director in June 
2011. Rory qualified as an ACA 
with Price Waterhouse before 
joining Morgan Grenfell, later 
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, in 
1981 as an investment banker. 
Over the following 17 years 
he advised clients on a wide 
range of corporate finance 
issues and became Head of 
the Advisory/M&A division in 
1995 and Deputy Chairman the 
following year. In 1999 Rory 
joined Lehman Brothers as Head 
of UK Coverage and led teams 
advising a number of major UK 
and international clients. In 2001 
he became an independent 
consultant working with Lehman 
Brothers on M&A projects 
and with other companies on 
their business development 
and financial and acquisition 
strategies. Besides this extensive 
corporate finance experience 
he also brings to Sportingbet 
a significant understanding of 
public company management 
from the many boards he has 
joined over the last 10 years.
Chris Moss
Non-Executive Director
Chris Moss, aged 57, joined 
Sportingbet as a Non-Executive 
Director in September 2011. Chris 
has over 25 years’ marketing, 
brand and product management 
experience. He started his 
marketing career at Virgin 
Atlantic in 1985 and rose to the 
position of Marketing Director. 
He then joined Microtel, and 
was responsible for founding 
and launching the Orange 
brand name. Subsequent to this 
role he joined Lloyds Bank and 
TSB as Brand Director. More 
recently as CEO he launched 
118118. He also runs a brand 
consultancy called Famoss, 
and is Chairman of Untap.it, a 
not-for-profit social enterprise. 32 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Compliance
The Company recognises the importance of the principles of 
good corporate governance and the Board is pleased to report 
its continued commitment to achieving high standards 
throughout the year. The Board complies with the provisions  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (“Code”) issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council other than as set out below and  
in the section headed “Audit Committee”.
All the Non-Executive Directors (other than Nigel Payne and 
Sean O’Connor) are considered by the Board to be independent 
of management and free of any relationship which could 
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. Given Nigel Payne’s previous position as an 
Executive Director, and the fact that Sean O’Connor has  
served on the Board for more than nine years, they are not 
considered to be independent as defined by the Code. However, 
following the Board refreshment process described in more 
detail below, both have resigned as Directors with effect from 
16 December 2011.
Sean O’Connor’s length of service related in part to the complex 
regulatory environment in which the Group operates and the 
issues associated with its historic US business. The threat of 
prosecution in the US made it more challenging for the 
Company to attract Non-Executive Directors of suitable quality 
and experience generally and this contributed to the length of 
service of some of the Board members. These issues have been 
resolved with the recent settlement between the Company and 
the US Department of Justice.
The Board recognises that there are areas of Code non-
compliance. First, that at least half of the Board is not currently 
made up of independent Non-Executive Directors (provision 
B.1.2 of the Code), secondly, that the Nomination Committee  
is not made up of a majority of independent Non-Executive 
Directors (provision B.2.1 of the Code) and thirdly, that the 
Audit Committee does not consist of three independent 
Non-Executive Directors (provision C.3.1 of the Code). 
Therefore, the Board has been engaged in a detailed process 
with external consultants to appoint suitably qualified 
independent Non-Executive Directors to the Board. As a result, 
Rory Macnamara was appointed to the Board with effect from 
27 June 2011. Rory Macnamara brings considerable experience 
and expertise and is also suitably qualified to act as Chair of the 
Audit Committee as he has recent and relevant financial 
experience. He was therefore appointed Chairman of the Audit 
Committee on 27 June 2011 and, since his appointment, has 
been fully involved in the Audit Committee process for the 
financial year ended 31 July 2011.
In addition to Rory Macnamara, the Board identified Chris Moss 
who joined the Board on 6 September 2011 as a further 
independent Non-Executive Director. Therefore, after Sean 
O’Connor and Nigel Payne have left the Board on 16 December 
2011, two-thirds of the Board will be independent for the 
purposes of the Code. The Board refreshment process will 
continue and the Company hopes to identify a suitable 
Corporate Governance Statement
replacement for Brian Harris during 2012 as he will cease to  
be independent for the purposes of the Code due to his  
length of service on the Board. With two new independent 
Non-Executive Directors, the Board is now able to revisit the 
composition of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees in order to comply with the Code and intends  
to do so following the release of the Company’s financial  
year results on 5 October 2011. 
The Board is accountable to the Company’s shareholders for 
good governance and the statement set out below describes 
how the principles identified in the Code are applied by 
the Group.
The Board constitution and procedures
As referred to above, the issues associated with the Company’s 
historic US business made it more challenging for the Company 
to attract Non-Executive Directors of suitable quality and 
experience. The Nomination Committee has undertaken a 
comprehensive review of Board composition and performance 
and as a result Rory Macnamara and Chris Moss have been 
appointed Non-Executive Directors and Brian Harris replaced 
Sean O’Connor as Senior Independent Director as announced by 
the Company on 24 March 2011. The process is ongoing as the 
Nomination Committee will continue to look for suitably qualified 
and experienced individuals in line with Code provision B2. 
Previous annual reviews have consistently found that the size, 
composition and expertise of the Company’s Non-Executive 
Directors have been appropriate for the Company’s requirements. 
This financial year’s review took into consideration two new 
factors which were not present during the previous review: (i) the 
Company’s move from the AIM market to the Official List of the 
London Stock Exchange and its inclusion in the FTSE 350 earlier 
this year; and (ii) that in September 2010 the Company entered 
into a non-prosecution agreement with the US Attorney for the 
Southern District of New York, acting on behalf of the US 
Department of Justice. Following these events, the Nomination 
Committee concluded that the Board would be strengthened 
with the addition of new Non-Executive Directors, and Rory 
Macnamara and Chris Moss were appointed. The Company 
anticipates that it will re-enter the FTSE 350 following the 
acquisition of Centrebet International Limited and so, in order  
to comply with the requirements placed on FTSE 350 companies 
by the Code, the Nomination Committee will continue its Board 
review process during the forthcoming financial year.
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors 
which, at the end of the financial year, comprised two Executive 
and five Non-Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors (other than Nigel Payne and Sean 
O’Connor) are considered by the Board to be independent of 
management and free of any relationship which could materially 
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the 
Board, and ensures that all Directors receive all relevant 
information on financial, business and corporate issues prior  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 33
GOVERNANCE
to meetings. The Group Chief Executive’s responsibilities focus 
on coordinating the Company’s business and implementing 
Group strategy.
A formal schedule of matters is reserved for consideration by 
the Board, which met 11 times during the year. The Board 
is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and 
investment policy, approval of major capital expenditure 
projects and consideration of significant financing matters. It 
reviews the strategic direction of individual trading subsidiaries, 
their codes of conduct, their annual budgets, their progress 
towards achievement of these budgets and their capital 
expenditure programmes. In addition, the Directors have access 
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and all 
Directors are able to take independent professional advice in 
the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
All new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction  
on joining the Board as well as training and advice on their 
responsibilities as necessary. All Directors, in accordance with 
the Code, submit themselves for re-election and new Directors 
are subject to a transparent and rigorous appointment process 
(including submitting themselves for re-election at the first 
Annual General Meeting after their appointment). 
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board 
processes and procedures are appropriately followed and 
support effective governance and decision making.
Board Committees
The Board delegates clearly defined powers to its Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees whilst the 
Company’s Social Responsibility Committee, as reported on 
pages 22 to 24, is responsible for reviewing the Company’s 
policies on corporate social responsibility and making 
appropriate recommendations to the Board. The minutes of 
each Committee are circulated to and reviewed by the Board.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is currently chaired by Rory Macnamara 
(who has recent and relevant financial experience for this role, 
as indicated on page 31). Its other members are Nigel Payne, 
who was chair of the Audit Committee until Rory Macnamara’s 
appointment, Peter Dicks and Sean O’Connor. The Company 
recognises that Nigel Payne is not considered to be independent 
but believes that the Committee will benefit from his continued 
presence while the new Chairman familiarises himself with the 
role. Both Nigel Payne and Sean O’Connor will resign from the 
Board and the Audit Committee on 16 December 2011.
The Company believes that an Audit Committee with a 
membership of three independent Non-Executive Directors 
reflects the size and needs of the business (as defined by the 
Code) going forward. The Company recognises that it does not 
comply with provision C.3.1 in that not all the members of the 
Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors (as 
defined by the Code, and as explained above). The appointment 
of Rory Macnamara on 27 June 2011 reflects the steps taken by 
the Company to comply with this provision. The resignations  
of Nigel Payne and Sean O’Connor and the ongoing Board 
refreshment process is intended to result in full compliance  
with the Code provision C.3.1, namely that all three members  
of the Audit Committee should then be independent. 
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year (and met 
twice during the last financial year) and normally invites a 
representative of both the auditors and the Executive Directors 
to attend its meetings, the latter usually being the Group 
Finance Director. The Committee’s Secretary is Daniel Talisman, 
the Company Secretary. At the end of each meeting the 
auditors are invited to meet with the Committee with no 
Executive or staff members present. The Terms of Reference of 
the Committee include monitoring the integrity of the Financial 
Statements, monitoring the internal and external audit function 
and reviewing accounting policies, financial controls and 
financial reporting procedures. The Audit Committee is also 
responsible for assessing the objectivity and independence of 
the external auditors where they also provide non-audit services 
to the Company. In the current financial year, non-audit fees 
totalling £0.8m were paid to the external auditors. This was due 
to the number of major transactions the Company undertook 
during the last financial year. These included the acquisition of 
Centrebet International Limited and the convertible bond issued 
by the Company in June 2011. The Audit Committee’s view was 
that the current auditors were the most suitable supplier of the 
non-audit services due to the skills and experience of the 
auditors. The Committee considers that there are appropriate 
safeguards in place to ensure the continued objectivity and 
independence of the Company’s auditor. The Committee also 
has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal control and risk management systems, described in 
more detail later in this section. During the year, the Committee 
received presentations from senior management on the key 
risks and control issues in their respective business areas and 
reviewed risk mitigation plans for critical risks. Terms of 
Reference for the Committee can be viewed on the Company’s 
website and are available in writing on request. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Peter Dicks. Brian 
Harris, Sean O’Connor and Nigel Payne (appointed on 25 
October 2010) are its other members. The Committee’s 
Secretary is Daniel Talisman, the Company Secretary. The 
Company recognises that having the Chairman of the Company 
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee does not comply 
with provision of D.2.1 of the Code and that this provision also 
requires the Committee to be made up of three independent 
Non-Executive Directors. As noted above, Sean O’Connor and 
Nigel Payne will resign on 16 December 2011. With two new 
independent Non-Executive Directors, the Board is now able  
to revisit the composition of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees in order to comply with the Code  
and intends to do so following the release of the Company’s 
financial year results on 5 October 2011. The Remuneration 
Committee meets when necessary during the year (and met 
eight times during the last financial year) and considers the  34 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
terms of employment and overall remuneration for the 
Executive Directors, including pension rights and any 
compensation payments. Further, the Committee makes 
decisions regarding grants or awards under share plans, salaries 
and incentive compensation. The Executive Directors appraise 
the Remuneration Committee on the level and structure of 
remuneration set for senior management. Terms of Reference 
for the Committee can be viewed on the Company’s website 
and are available in writing on request.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by 
the Executive Directors.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Sean O’Connor who 
will resign on 16 December 2011 and its other members are 
Peter Dicks, Nigel Payne who will resign on 16 December 2011 
and Brian Harris. With two new, independent Non-Executive 
Directors, the Board is now able to revisit the composition of 
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees in order 
to comply with the Code and intends to do so following the 
release of the Company’s financial year results on 5 October 
2011. The intention is that the Committee will consist of three 
independent Non-Executive Directors as required by provision 
B.2.1 of the Code.
The Committee’s Secretary is Daniel Talisman, the Company 
Secretary. The Committee sits formally at least twice a year (and 
met three times during the last financial year). The Terms of 
Reference for the Committee (including the terms and 
conditions of appointment of Directors) can be viewed on the 
Company’s website and are available in writing on request.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and formally 
reviewing the performance, composition, balance and expertise 
of the Board as a whole and making an appraisal of the 
contribution of individual Directors, including a review of their 
time commitment and attendance records. The Committee 
also considers succession planning for the Board and Group 
senior management. The annual review process carried out by 
the Board and the new appointment made during the course 
of this financial year and referred to in more detail above 
were designed to ensure the Committee is meeting these 
responsibilities. When necessary the Committee prepares a 
description of the role to be filled and engages external 
consultants to administer a detailed search and the generation 
of a shortlist. Any recommendations for appointments or 
replacements are brought before the Board.
Evaluation
The Board continued its ongoing evaluation processes of itself 
and its Committees to assess their performance and identify 
areas in which their effectiveness, policies and processes might 
be enhanced. As part of this process the Board continues 
to comply with the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators’ Code of Good Boardroom Practice. The 
performance of individual Directors has been considered by 
the Chairman and Group Chief Executive in discussion with 
other Non-Executive Directors. The Non-Executive Directors 
considered the performance of the Chairman, taking into 
account the views of the Executive Directors.
Communication with investors
The Group places considerable importance on communication 
with its institutional and private shareholders and responds 
quickly to all queries received. There is regular dialogue with 
institutional shareholders as well as general presentations after 
each quarter end and the issue of preliminary results.
All shareholders have at least 20 working days’ notice of the 
Annual General Meeting at which all Directors are introduced 
and available for questions. The Executive Directors endeavour 
to meet the Company’s larger institutional shareholders at 
the time of the Company’s quarterly results announcements  
and the Senior Independent Director, Sean O’Connor (up to 
24 March 2011) and Brian Harris (since 24 March 2011) have 
been available to shareholders throughout the year.
Accountability and audit
(a) Internal control
The Group has complied with provision C.2.1 of the Code and 
the Turnbull Guidance for the year ended 31 July 2011 and up 
to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements. The Board has ensured that there has been an 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks faced by the Group. This process has been 
regularly reviewed by the Board.
Whilst acknowledging the overall responsibility for the system 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, the Board 
is aware that the system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and 
can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The Group’s internal control procedures continue to be 
reviewed, progressively developed and formalised to ensure that 
they sufficiently meet the requirements of the Group. Executive 
members of the Board are involved daily in all aspects of the 
business and they attend regular management meetings at 
which performance against plan and business prospects are 
reviewed. Additionally, the Board seeks to continually 
strengthen the internal control system where this is consistent 
with improving the relationship between risk and reward.
Corporate Governance Statement Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 35
GOVERNANCE
Other key features and the processes for reviewing effectiveness of the internal control system that the Committee has applied 
during the current financial year are described as follows:
•	 Monthly management information, including financial accounts and key performance indicators, have been defined and are 
produced on a timely basis for review by the Board.
•	 A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses culminates in an annual budget which is reviewed and approved by 
the Board. Results for the Group and for its main constituent businesses are reported monthly against the budget to the Board 
and revised forecasts for the financial year are considered each quarter.
•	 A comprehensive financial and accounting package sets out the principles of the minimum standards required by the Board for 
effective financial control. This package sets out the financial and accounting policies and procedures to be applied throughout 
the Group. Compliance with the policies and procedures set out in this package is reviewed regularly. Formal reports for the 
Board are prepared by the senior management on the operation of those elements of the system for which they are responsible.
•	 The Company has clearly defined guidance for capital expenditure. These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review 
procedures, levels of authority and stringent due diligence requirements where businesses are being acquired.
External audit
The Audit Committee meets periodically to review the adequacy of the Group’s internal control systems, accounting policies and 
compliance with applicable accounting standards and to consider the appointment of external auditors and audit fees. The Group’s 
auditors are invited to attend its meetings. The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within its 
terms of reference and obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice as necessary. The auditors and individual 
Board members are afforded the opportunity for separate meetings with the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee consists 
wholly of Non-Executive Directors.
The award of non-audit work to the auditors is subject to pre-clearance by the Audit Committee if the fee exceeds specified 
thresholds. As a matter of best practice and in accordance with the International Standard on Auditing 260, the auditors have held 
discussions with the Audit Committee on the subject of auditor independence and have confirmed their independence in writing.
Board and Committee attendance
Possible  
meetings Number
Meetings 
attended
Peter Dicks Board 11 11
Audit 2 2
Remuneration 8 8
Nomination 2 2
Brian Harris Board 11 11
Remuneration 8 8
Nomination 2 2
Andrew Mclver Board 11 11
Sean O’Connor Board 11 11
Audit 2 2
Remuneration 8 8
Nomination 2 2
Nigel Payne Board 11 11
Audit 2 2
Remuneration 6 6
Nomination 2 2
Jim Wilkinson Board 11 11
Rory Macnamara Board 2 1
Audit 1 1 36 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Directors’ Report
The Directors submit their Annual Report and Financial 
Statements of the Group for the year ended 31 July 2011.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the operation of 
interactive licensed betting and gaming operations over the 
internet. In Australia only, interactive betting is conducted over 
the internet and telephone.
Results and dividends
The results of the Group for the year are set out on page 49 
and show a profit after taxation for the year of £20.7m (2010: 
£3.9m). The Directors recommend payment of a final dividend 
of 1.1p per ordinary share (2010: 1.1p). An interim dividend of 
0.6p (2010: 0.5p) was paid on 31 March 2011, meaning a total 
dividend for the financial year of 1.7p (2010: 1.6p).
Review of the business and future developments
A more detailed review of the business and future 
developments is given in the Business Review on pages 
18 to 21.
Directors
The following Directors have held office during the year and 
subsequently: 
P Dicks  Chairman and Non-Executive
A McIver  Executive
J Wilkinson  Executive
N Payne  Non-Executive
S O’Connor Senior Independent Non-Executive*
B Harris  Senior Independent Non-Executive**  
R Macnamara Non-Executive
C Moss  Non-Executive
* Up to 24 March 2011.
** From 24 March 2011.
All Directors will retire by rotation at this year’s Annual General 
Meeting and will each seek re-election, being eligible.
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company and 
options for such shares were as shown on pages 39 to 44 both 
reflecting the year end figures and any subsequent changes. No 
Director has any interest in any other Group company. Details of 
the Directors’ remuneration and service contracts appear on 
pages 39 to 44.
Auditor
The auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP, is willing to continue in 
office and a resolution to re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP will 
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Related party transactions
Transactions with related parties are disclosed in Note 22 of the 
Group Financial Statements.
Corporate governance
The Board’s statement on Corporate Governance appears on 
pages 32 to 35 and policies in relation to employees appear on 
pages 22 to 23.
Charitable donations
During the year, the Group donated approximately £240,000  
to a number of charities. This figure includes donations to the 
GREaT Foundation (formerly the Responsibility in Gambling 
Trust), the Island Academy International School, Antigua, HEROS 
(Homing Ex-Racehorses Organisation Scheme). Included in this 
total was a donation of £16,500 to the Friends of Israel Sport 
Centre for the Disabled, of which Brian Harris is the founder.
Directors’ indemnity
Details of the Directors’ indemnity insurance can be found in 
the Remuneration Report.
Purchase of own shares
The Company was granted authority at the Extraordinary 
General Meeting in December 2010 to purchase its own shares 
up to a limit of 10% of its issued ordinary share capital. No 
shares were purchased during the year under review.
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company is comprised of 
ordinary shares of 0.1p each. Each share carries the right to one 
vote per share on a poll. The liability of members of the 
Company is limited to the amount unpaid, if any, on the shares 
held by them. All issued shares of the Company are fully paid.
Changes to the Company’s share capital are set out in Note 19. 
At 4 October 2011 the issued share capital stood at 
660,831,780.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor  
on the transfer of shares. No person has any special rights of 
control over the Company’s share capital and all issued shares 
are fully paid. 
During the last year, the Company did not purchase any shares 
as treasury shares.
Use of financial instruments
Information on the use of financial instruments by the Group  
is contained in Note 18.
Policy and practice of payment of suppliers
In respect of the Group’s next financial year, it is the policy of 
the Group that each company within the Group should agree 
appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with 
suppliers by means ranging from standard written terms to 
individually negotiated contracts. Payments are to be made in 
accordance with these terms and conditions. At 31 July 2011 
the Company had a trade creditor balance of £nil (2010: £nil). 
Group trade payables represented 28 days of purchases  
(2010: 18 days). Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 37
GOVERNANCE
Substantial shareholdings
As at the opening of dealing on 4 October 2011 the following Shareholders hold, or control, interests in 3% or more of the 
Company’s voting rights:
Number  
of shares
Voting rights 
%
Majedie Asset Management 64,428,737 9.75
UBS Global Asset Management 60,122,159 9.10
Marathon Asset Management 58,188,349 8.81
Paradise Poker 44,497,096 6.74
DBS Advisors Ltd 35,857,703 5.43
Legal & General Investment Management 35,577,364 5.39
Henderson Global Investors 24,769,237 3.75
Fidelity Investments 23,861,250 3.61
BlackRock 21,212,883 3.21
Credit Suisse as principal 21,203,858 3.21
Treasury management
The Board has laid out its policy on treasury management in the Financial Review on page 25.
Going concern
The Directors have considered the implications of the potential impact of regulatory uncertainties discussed in Note 21. The 
Directors have reviewed the cash flow projections for the Group in light of these uncertainties and have considered the financial 
resources available to the Group. Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have 
adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 16 December 2011. The Notice of the Meeting is set out in a separate explanatory 
circular. The Notice contains special business, including the renewal of authority to the Board to allot shares and the disapplication 
of statutory pre-emption rights on equity issues for cash – both in accordance with ABI and NAPF Guidelines. Shareholders should 
complete the Proxy form accompanying the Notice of Meeting in accordance with the Notes contained in the Notice of Meeting.
Significant agreements
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to identify those significant arrangements to which the Company is party that take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover offer becoming fully unconditional, and 
the effects of any such agreements. 
IOESL and Interactive Sports (C.I.) Limited (together the “Sportingbet Party”) have entered into an agreement with SEE Sports 
Limited and Flyer International S.A. (“Flyer”) in relation to the provision of online gaming services in Greece (the “Joint Venture 
Agreement”). Clause 12.5 of the Joint Venture Agreement provides that if any third party or series of connected third parties acquires 
the ownership or control of more than 50% of the beneficial and/or legal shareholding and/or legal voting rights of a Sportingbet 
Party, and the Sportingbet brand ceases to exist as a separate stand-alone brand or be supported by such third party, Flyer shall be 
entitled to terminate the Joint Venture Agreement with immediate effect.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have elected  
to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union 
(“IFRSs”), and the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 38 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of 
the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these 
Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently;
•	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
•	 state whether applicable accounting standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the Financial Statements; and
•	 prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Group and the Company and enable 
them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with  
the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud  
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of information to the auditors
So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware. Each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he 
ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
To the best of my knowledge:
•	 the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
•	 the management report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face.
On behalf of the Board
A McIver
Director
4 October 2011
Company registration number: 3534726
Directors’ Report Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 39
GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Report
Information subject to audit
1. Directors’ emoluments
£000 Notes 
Salary/
fees Bonuses
Share 
options
LTIP Benefits
Total
emoluments
2011
Pension
2011
Total
emoluments
2010
Pension
2010
Executive Directors
Andrew McIver 1, 2, 8 537 – 310 8 855 83 3,113 100
Jim Wilkinson 2, 8 315 – 125 1 441 51 1,555 45
Non-Executive Directors
Peter Dicks 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 160 – – – 160 – 160 –
Brian Harris 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 120 – – – 120 – 120 –
Sean O’Connor 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 90 – – – 90 – 130 –
Nigel Payne 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 88 – – – 88 – 128 –
Rory Macnamara 4, 9 6 – – – 6 – – –
 1,316 – 435 9 1,760 134 5,206 145
1. Aggregate emoluments for Andrew McIver, as the highest paid Director, excluding pension contributions, amounted to £855,227 (2010: £3,113,315). 
2. The average total emoluments of the Executive Directors was £648,522 (2010: £2,333,925). The average total emoluments of non-Board employees was £58,406 
(2010: £62,650). The ratio between the two averages was 11:1 (2010: 37:1). The average total emoluments of the Executive Directors (excluding share options) was £430,598 
(2010: £936,619). The ratio to non-Board employees was 8:1 (2010: 15:1).
3. Member of the Social Responsibility Committee. 
4. Member of the Audit Committee. 
5. Member of the Remuneration Committee. 
6. Member of the Nomination Committee.
7. Included within salary/fees is an annual share award valued at £40,000 which forms part of the Non-Executive remuneration.
8. The Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) awards relate to the final payments in the previous financial year of a scheme put in place in 2006 following the Group’s withdrawal  
from the US.
9. Rory Macnamara is paid salary/fees of £75,000. As he was appointed on 27 June 2011 the figure above has been prorated accordingly.
10. Sean O’Connor and Nigel Payne were paid consultancy fees in addition to their emoluments, details of which are available at Note 22 to the Financial Statements.
2. Interests of Directors in share options and share plans of the Company
Notes
No. of
options at
1 August 
2010
No. of
options at
31 July 
2011
Date of
grant
Exercise price 
(p)
Earliest
exercise
date
Expiry of
exercise
period
Executive Directors
Andrew McIver 1 1,959,566 1,567,652 20/01/09 – 01/11/11 01/12/12
Jim Wilkinson 1 1,077,760 862,208 20/01/09 – 01/11/11 01/12/12
Non-Executive Directors
Peter Dicks – – – – – –
Nigel Payne – – – – – –
Sean O’Connor – – – – – –
Brian Harris – – – – – –
Rory Macnamara – – – – – –
1. Share awards granted under the Sportingbet Restricted Share Plan 2009. During the financial year, Andrew McIver surrendered 391,914 awards under this plan in consideration 
of receiving an equivalent cash sum and 215,552 shares were released to Jim Wilkinson.
2. 3,496,788 awards were exercised during this financial year (2010: 18,158,451) of which 391,914 awards were surrendered and 215,552 exercised by Directors of the Company 
(2010: 2,999,932). The market price of shares at 31 July 2011 was 55.5p and the range during the financial period was 40.25p to 79.85p. A summary of the performance 
criteria upon which awards or options may be exercised is set out below.  40 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
3. Interests of Directors in shares in the Company
Notes 2011 2010
Executive Directors
Andrew McIver 1 2,834,481 4,234,481
Jim Wilkinson 2 972,787 1,517,166
Non-Executive Directors
Peter Dicks 3 416,878 581,308
Sean O’Connor 4 441,873 593,685
Brian Harris 5 294,031 378,461
Nigel Payne 6 111,398 176,398
1. Andrew McIver sold 1,400,000 shares on 8 October 2010.
2. Jim Wilkinson sold 650,000 shares on 8 October 2010. Jim Wilkinson received an interest in 215,552 shares on 24 November 2010, following the release of an award under  
the 2009 Share Plan; 109,931 shares were sold to meet the tax liability of this award. 
3. Peter Dicks received an interest in 35,570 shares on 2 August 2010 forming part of his Non-Executive remuneration. Peter Dicks sold 200,000 shares on 8 October 2010.
4. Sean O’Connor received an interest in 35,570 shares on 2 August 2010 forming part of his Non-Executive remuneration. Sean O’Connor sold 200,000 shares on 8 October 
2010. Sean O’Connor received an interest in 7,502 shares on 11 January 2011 and in 5,116 shares on 31 March 2011 pursuant to the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment 
Plan (“DRIP”).
5. Brian Harris received an interest in 35,570 shares on 2 August 2010 forming part of his Non-Executive remuneration. Brian Harris sold 120,000 shares on 8 October 2010.
6. Nigel Payne received an interest in 35,570 shares on 2 August 2010 forming part of his Non-Executive remuneration all of which he subsequently gifted. Nigel Payne sold 
65,000 shares on 8 October 2010.
Remuneration policy
Historic
The Company’s remuneration policy has been heavily influenced by both the Group’s and the industry’s history – in particular the 
exit from the market in the United States. As a result, the central principle of the Group’s historic remuneration policy has been 
retention, in order to deliver stability during the Group’s post-US “turnaround” period. That period culminated in the settlement 
between the Company and the US Department of Justice, with the “turnaround” successfully achieved.
Policy review
The Company’s strategy is to continue to operate in both licence-issuing markets and markets which are yet to issue online licences 
within a regulated, non-discriminatory framework (“non-licence issuing markets”). This means that the Group continues to face 
regulatory and operational risks, in the non-licence issuing markets served by the Group’s European and Emerging Markets 
Divisions. The Company has increased the proportion of its overall business generated from licence-issuing, competitive markets  
and plans to continue this approach in the future. As a result, the risks facing the Group today are not on the same scale as in 2007 
(immediately post-US exit) or 2005 (the point at which the Group had reached a pinnacle in terms of its growth and success prior  
to the US legislative changes which led to the Group’s enforced withdrawal from the US market).
Following a review undertaken by the Company’s external remuneration consultants, MM&K, the Committee has agreed upon a 
policy shift from “retention” to “value creation” – essentially, shareholders and Directors share in the added valued generated from 
the successful implementation of the Company’s strategy.
As recommended by the consultants, the Group’s policy will be:
a) to continue to pay at or about market upper quartile levels in order to attract and retain key management talent and to reflect 
the risks associated with operating a global online betting and gaming business in both licence-issuing, competitive markets and 
non-licence issuing markets;
b) to ensure all incentive remuneration (short-term and long-term) is wholly performance related and linked to demanding 
performance criteria; and
c) to allow remuneration arrangements which pre-dated the Company’s move to the Official List in 2010 and which may not have 
been compliant with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (as was then in force) to be honoured up to 31 July 2012. 
This date coincides with the expiration of the Restricted Share Plan 2009.
Remuneration Report
Information subject to audit Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 41
GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Peter Dicks and its 
other members are Brian Harris, Sean O’Connor and Nigel 
Payne. Both Sean O’Connor and Nigel Payne will resign on 16 
December 2011. The Company recognises that having the 
Chairman of the Company as Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee does not comply with the provision of D.2.1 of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (“Code”) and that this 
provision also requires the Committee to be made up of three 
independent Non-Executive Directors. From 16 December 2011, 
Sean O’Connor will be replaced by Rory Macnamara and Nigel 
Payne will be replaced by Chris Moss both of whom are 
independent for the purposes of the Code. The Board intends 
to revisit the composition of the Remuneration Committee in 
order to comply with the Code and intends to do so following 
the release of the Company’s financial year results on 5 October 
2011. In line with the policy shift to “value creation”, the 
Remuneration Committee seeks to structure total benefits 
packages, including base salaries, which align the interests  
of shareholders and senior management with particular 
importance weighted upon the performance-related elements 
of such total remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee aims to seek and retain the 
appropriate calibre of people and recommends fee levels to the 
Board consistent with prevailing market conditions, peer group 
companies and Directors’ roles and responsibilities.
Specifically, when considering adoption of the Sportingbet 
Restricted Share Plan 2009, the Remuneration Committee 
assessed the needs of the Company for the period through to 
2012 compared to the Company’s needs when the Sportingbet 
2006 Restricted Share Plan was introduced in November 2006 
immediately following the enactment of the Unlawful Internet 
Gambling Enforcement Act 2006.
Directors’ remuneration will continue to be the subject of 
regular review in accordance with the new remuneration policy 
in the next financial year. 
Terms of reference
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee include:
•	 To determine the remuneration and benefits, including 
incentive arrangements, of the Executive Directors, the 
directors of divisional companies and other employees of 
similar status.
•	 To set targets for performance-related pay elements of 
remuneration packages.
•	 To review recommendations from the Board on the overall 
remuneration and benefits policy of the Group, with the 
power and authority to amend it if appropriate.
•	 To have regard to the provisions of the Combined Code and 
associated guidance in its decision-making.
The Directors intend that the Company’s remuneration policy 
will be set by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with 
the terms of reference set out above for the following financial 
year and subsequent financial years.
Salary review – CEO and CFO
Following an external benchmarking exercise to assess the 
salaries of both Chief Executive Officers and Chief Financial 
Officers across the Company’s peer group
1
, Jim Wilkinson was 
awarded a salary increase of 6% to £315,000 on 1 August 
2010. As has been the case since Andrew McIver became 
Group Chief Executive in 2006, Andrew McIver was not 
awarded an increase in salary for the 2010–2011 financial year. 
Following a change in the taxation of pension contributions, 
Andrew McIver elected to receive the sum of £16,667 from  
his pension contribution as salary instead. The Remuneration 
Committee has decided that there will be no increase in 
Directors’ salaries in the 2011–12 financial year.
Service contracts
The Company’s policy on the duration of Directors’ contracts  
is that for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors notice 
periods will be no more than one year served by the Company 
or the Director.
Andrew Mclver and Jim Wilkinson have service contracts, dated 
18 January 2006 and 21 January 2008 respectively, which provide 
for 12 months’ notice by the Company or the Director and  
contain non-compete obligations. There are no payments or 
compensation on early termination of the contract, save that 
where a payment is made in lieu of notice and the Executive 
commences new employment during such a period, they are 
under an obligation to repay the Company any prorated amounts.
In the event of termination or constructive dismissal following  
a sale or reconstruction of Sportingbet each of the Executive 
Directors is entitled to the equivalent of 24 months’ salary, 
bonus, pension contributions and other benefits payable under 
his respective service contract.
Peter Dicks, Brian Harris, Sean O’Connor and Nigel Payne, each 
of whom is a Non-Executive Director, has a contract for services 
with a termination period of 12 months’ notice. It is  
the Company’s policy that a proportion of their fee is paid in 
Sportingbet shares, which are to be retained until they cease  
to be a Director of the Company. In line with the policy of the 
Remuneration Committee the Company has agreed that this 
arrangement whereby the proportion of their fee is paid in 
Sportingbet shares shall terminate on 31 July 2012. Given that 
Sean O’Connor and Nigel Payne will resign on 16 December 
2011, it is anticipated that this arrangement will only apply to 
Peter Dicks and Brian Harris. It is the Company’s policy that this 
arrangement shall not apply to new Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration Report
Information NOT subject to audit
1. Peer Group by size and activity:
 888 Holdings PLC, ASOS PLC, Autonomy Corporation PLC, AVEVA Group PLC, 
Betfair Group PLC, Betsson AB, Blinkx PLC, BWIN Interactive Entertainment AG, 
Centrebet International Limited, Fidessa Group PLC, Innovation Group (The) PLC, 
Kofax PLC, Micro Focus International PLC, Moneysupermarket.com Group PLC, 
Paddy Power PLC, Phoenix IT Group PLC, Playtech Ltd, Rank Group (The) PLC, 
RM PLC, SDL PLC, Sportingbet PLC, Unibet Group PLC.
 
 The peer group by size and activity was compiled by the Company’s external 
remuneration consultants, MM&K, as part of their review. 42 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
By way of a variation agreement dated 17 January 2007 between Sportingbet and Sean O’Connor, and by way of a side letter dated 
8 January 2007 from Sportingbet to Peter Dicks, in the event of the sale or reconstruction of Sportingbet (or any Sportingbet Group 
company), both Sean O’Connor and Peter Dicks are entitled to be paid a sum in cash equivalent to the difference between £0.44 
and the price per Ordinary Share in Sportingbet agreed at completion of such sale or reconstruction of Sportingbet, multiplied  
by 500,000.
In December 2006, and in the case of Jim Wilkinson, on 1 February 2008, and on 14 September 2011 in the case of Rory Macnamara 
and Chris Moss, Sportingbet Plc granted rolling indemnities to all of its Directors and the Company Secretary, uncapped in amount, 
in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur in the course of acting as Directors and Company Secretary of 
Sportingbet Plc or of one or more of its subsidiaries. These indemnities replace those previously granted on similar terms and 
continued to be in place as at 31 July 2011, or the date of grant if later.
Bonuses
The Company operates a bonus incentive scheme which applies, at differing rates, to the employment terms of the Executive 
Directors and members of senior management. Any payments under the scheme are subject to: (i) operating profit targets for the 
Group being achieved and; (ii) the discretion of the Board. 100% of annual salary can only be paid if stretch targets are achieved. 
The financial results for the last financial year did not reach the targeted bonus level and as a result no bonuses were paid.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the packages and varies individual elements when appropriate from year to year.  
The Remuneration Committee has policies and procedures in place to monitor the size of potential rewards.
Bonuses are included in termination payments on a case by case basis as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Pensions
The Company makes employer contributions of 20% of Andrew McIver’s salary and 17% of Jim Wilkinson’s salary to their personal 
pension schemes. There are no Company pension arrangements in place.
Share incentive schemes
Scheme name
Current
scheme
or date of 
scheme 
cessation
Outstanding
at the 
beginning
of the year
(p)
Granted
during
the year
(p)
Forfeited 
during
the year
(p)
Exercised 
during
the year
(p)
Lapsed
during
the year
(p)
Total
awards 
outstanding
at the
end of
the year
(p)
Exercisable
at the
end of
the year
(p)
Unapproved Share  
Option Scheme (the 
“Unapproved Share 
Option Scheme”)
Closed on 
1 November 
2005
1,215,000 – – – – 1,215,000 1,215,000
Sportingbet Plc Company 
Share Option Plan (the 
“IR Approved Scheme”)
Closed on 
1 February 
2010
– – – – – – –
Sportingbet Plc Executive 
Share Option Scheme 
(the “Executive Scheme”)
Closed on 
1 February 
2010
784,375 – – – – 784,375 784,375
Sportingbet Long Term 
Retention Plan 2005  
(the “2005 Share Plan”)
Closed on 
31 July 
2008
22,250 – – – – 22,250 22,250
Sportingbet 2006 
Restricted Share Plan 
(the “2006 Share Plan”)
Closed on 
31 July 
2009
1,626,802 217,391 – 891,323 50,385 902,485 –
Sportingbet Restricted 
Share Plan 2009 
(the “2009 Share Plan”)
Current 15,532,800 1,272,274 – 3,106,555 558,750 13,139,769 –
Totals 19,181,226 1,489,665 – 3,997,878 609,135 16,063,878 2,021,625
 
Remuneration Report
Information NOT subject to audit Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 43
GOVERNANCE
The 2009 Share Plan
Share options are now only granted under the 2009 Share Plan. The 2009 Share Plan was adopted on 22 July 2008 and awards 
were granted under the 2009 Share Plan to the Executive Directors and the Group’s senior management team on 20 January 2009. 
The Company’s policy to grant awards under the 2009 Share Plan is at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion as and when 
considered appropriate.
Entitlements under the 2009 Share Plan comprise a loyalty element and a performance element in equal proportions. 
Year of Plan
Proportion of 
total award to 
be released
(maximum 
award =  
1.2 x salary) Conditional upon
1 10% Loyalty
10% Performance
2 15% Loyalty
15% Performance
3 25% Loyalty
25% Performance
Shares comprised within the loyalty element of the award may only vest and be released if the participant remains employed by the 
Company as at 31 July 2010, 31 July 2011 and 31 July 2012 respectively. Shares comprised within the performance element of the 
award may only vest and be released if: (a) the participant remains employed by the Company as at 31 July 2010, 31 July 2011, and 
31 July 2012 respectively, and; (b) certain performance conditions are satisfied. 
The performance condition is based on the extent to which growth in the Company’s earnings before interest, tax and amortisation 
(“EBITA Growth”) exceeds RPI Growth over a financial year of the Company.
For the performance award to be exercisable in full, EBITA Growth must exceed RPI Growth by 15% per financial year compound. 
The proportion of the performance award exercisable increases on a straight-line sliding scale between 0 and 100% if EBITA 
Growth exceeds RPI Growth by any margin in excess of 5% over a financial year. The Remuneration Committee believes that, in 
relation to the 2009 Share Plan, EBITA Growth in excess of RPI Growth is the appropriate measure for determining the increase in 
value delivered to shareholders by the Company’s Executive Directors and other senior executives for the period 2009–2012. The 
Remuneration Committee reviews the appropriateness of the performance measure and the specific target set when considering 
each new grant of performance awards.
During the current financial year, the Company has undertaken a remuneration and benchmarking study using industry 
consultants, MM&K. The Remuneration Committee has resolved to follow the recommendation of their report, including that 
payments due under existing incentive plans introduced in good faith as part of the Company’s historical remuneration policy 
should be honoured. This means that the 2009 Share Plan under its current terms will expire in July 2012, with final awards being 
released in November 2012. 
Following its admission to the Official List, the Company intends to introduce a new share plan to replace the 2009 Share Plan 
which expires on 31 July 2012. Such share plan will be exclusively performance based.
Cash-based long-term incentive plan
In 2008, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the remuneration and benefits packages of certain key employees. As a result, 
a cash-based long-term incentive plan (“LTIP”) was established and offered to the Executive Directors and a small number of key 
employees in order to retain such individuals. The LTIP pays a cash sum in August 2012 based on the relevant employee’s gross 
salary. In line with the advice received from the specialist external consultants, MM&K, awards made prior to the Company’s move 
to the Official List in good faith will be honoured. In order for the employee to receive such payment under the LTIP, they need to 
be in employment up to and including 31 July 2012. 
Following the recommendations of the external remuneration consultants, MM&K and to ensure compliance with the Code and 
investor protection group guidelines, the Company will not adopt similar schemes in the future. 40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
Jul 11 Jun May Apr Mar Feb Jan 11 Dec Nov Oct Sep Aug Jul Jun May 10
Sportingbet FTSE 250 Index FTSE 250 Leisure and Travel Index 
Sportingbet – TSR analysis
44 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”)
The following graph charts the movement in total cumulative shareholder return (assuming reinvestment of dividends) of the 
Company for the period from 14 May 2010 to 31 July 2011, compared with: 
1. total shareholder return relating to the FTSE 250 Index; and
2. total shareholder return relating to FTSE 250 Leisure and Travel Index  
(chosen as the Company has been a constituent of both indices for a period of time since its admission to the Official List  
on 14 May 2010).
By Order of the Board
D Talisman LLB (Hons) FCIS
Company Secretary 
4 October 2011
Remuneration Report
Information NOT subject to audit Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 45
GOVERNANCE
The supply of betting and gaming services continues to be 
subject to a complex, inconsistent and often protectionist 
approach by jurisdictions worldwide. However, action to 
address this by international trade bodies (such as the World 
Trade Organisation and the European Commission) has resulted 
in the censuring of certain nations and, increasingly, the 
introduction of regulatory regimes for the activity.
The Group continues to provide its services only from 
jurisdictions where it is licensed and regulated, and therefore 
the position in its place of supply (and where its regulator and 
applicable local laws deem the gambling transaction to take 
place) is explicitly legal. 
In order to provide its worldwide gambling service, the Group 
currently maintains licences in Alderney, Antigua and Barbuda, 
Australia, Curaçao, Malta, South Africa and the UK. 
Major issues of note in the last 12 months (all of which have 
been widely reported) include:
a. the possibility that the UK will impose regulatory 
requirements (which will attract licence fees) on offshore 
operators who target the local gambling market; 
b. the continued move towards regulation of the gambling 
sector in a number of EU jurisdictions, including Denmark, 
Greece and Spain and a maturing of the licensing regimes 
in France and Italy;
c. reduced European Commission (“Commission”) pressure on 
EU and EFTA Member States (principally Norway) to justify 
their national gambling regimes (including proposed new 
regulatory regimes) despite the free trade requirements of 
the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (the 
“TFEU”) also reflected in the protectionist judgments of the 
European Court of Justice (the “ECJ”); albeit the impact of 
these judgments has been tempered to a degree by the 
Carmen Media (and others) case in Germany and by the  
fact the continued trend seems to favour local licensing 
regimes; and
d. increasing attempts to impose indirect taxes (via “product 
fees”) on gambling operators by certain States in Australia, 
and similar debates in the UK given that the horseracing  
levy (the “Levy”) is due to be replaced with another form  
of payment.
The European Union (“EU”) 
EU Member States are subject to scrutiny from the Commission 
and, as “guardian” of the TFEU, it closely monitors existing and 
developing legislation in the EU. The principal method by which 
the Commission has applied pressure on Member States is 
through the use of “infringement proceedings” against EU 
Member States in contravention of EU law. Through such 
proceedings, the Commission has asked a number of States to 
amend their laws restricting the free movement of gambling 
services. The ongoing pressure from the Commission, and in 
some cases national court decisions declaring domestic 
legislation to be incompatible with EU law, has led to a 
domestic review of prohibitive legislation in a number of 
jurisdictions, including France and Italy. 
However, the ECJ has, in the course of the last two years, 
delivered a series of judgments which ostensibly have found 
in favour of the national monopolies. In addition, where 
jurisdictions have or are in the process of implementing licensing 
regimes, the EC has been content to approve licensing systems 
which are discriminatory, both in terms of the barriers to entry, 
and in relation to the level of tax (or bond security), licensees 
are expected to pay. France and Spain are in this category. Both 
jurisdictions may yet be challenged at an EC level, but in the 
meantime, whilst the introduction of a licensing regime seems 
to be the necessary salve to ward off infringement proceedings, 
there appears to be no obvious blueprint for a licensing regime 
that will pass muster with the EC. Therefore, jurisdictions will 
clearly incline towards creating regimes which will result in as 
much economic upside for them, without paying heed to the 
fact that the reduced margins for operators will result in poorer 
consumer choice, particularly where the licensing regime in 
question has not addressed the potential scope for creating vast 
jurisdictional liquidity, which is particularly important for the 
poker market.
What is clear is that despite the EC Green Paper of last year, 
which called upon Member States to consider all the potential 
issues in relation to online gambling, including a form of 
harmonisation, such harmonisation is unlikely to occur in the 
short-term, and that the most likely trend to continue is for 
jurisdictions to introduce licensing regimes which may or may 
not be tempered by EC intervention.
Spain
As a result of the uncertainty over the legality of the provision 
of online gambling, which is not expressly prohibited by Spanish 
law, Spain has historically adopted a tolerant approach to the 
supply of foreign gambling services into the jurisdiction.
Madrid and the Basque Region have both introduced licensing 
regimes for online betting, which has led to the Spanish 
government implementing a nationwide system of regulation 
which will permit operators to obtain a Spanish gambling 
licence. The application process is due to commence in 
November 2011 with the first licences expected to be granted 
during December amidst concerns about maximum spending 
obligations of players.
United Kingdom
The Group holds a licence granted by the Alderney Gaming 
Control Commission, and is therefore permitted to advertise 
in the UK under the Gambling Act 2005, which permits UK 
advertising for Alderney licensees on the back of Alderney’s 
“whitelisted” status. 
In March 2010, the Department for Culture, Media and Sport 
(“DCMS”) initiated a consultation regarding a system for the 
regulation of remote gambling in UK. The consultation also 
looked at whether operators who advertise in the UK should 
face new regulatory requirements (attracting consequential 
licence fees) to ensure a more even financial treatment of UK 
operators and non-UK operators who target the UK market. 
Regulatory Developments 46 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
The UK government announced its intention to proceed with 
these plans in July 2011 and the Treasury is currently canvassing 
input from stakeholders on the implications of a new gambling 
tax to capture all gambling with UK customers.
France 
France has historically been a staunch opponent of the provision 
of online gambling services by operators without a French 
licence which attitude has hardened in light of the introduction 
of an online gambling regime.
The Group now blocks French-domiciled customers by 
residential address at registration and by IP address. 
Germany
Despite criticism from the Commission, the Interstate Gambling 
Treaty (the “Treaty”) remains in force in Germany. The Treaty 
effectively provides that all forms of online gambling are 
unlawful where they are targeted at German residents. 
However, in the period prior to its expiry there has been wide 
debate in Germany as to whether an online licensing regime 
was necessary or desirable.
The current state of flux was brought about as a consequence 
of the ECJ cases including Carmen Media all of which 
determined that there was an incompatibility between 
Germany’s TFEU obligations and its domestic gambling laws, 
certainly in relation to betting. This led to wide speculation 
about the enforceability of the Treaty and prompted the review 
of the licensing regime. 
Currently the EC does not accept that the proposed regime 
(which severely limits the number of licences available) is 
compatible with its TFEU obligations and whilst the German 
states (the Länder’s) have to revert to the EC with their counter-
proposals, this is not expected until late October 2011.
On 14 September 2011, parliament of the state of Schleswig-
Holstein passed the Schleswig-Holstein Gambling Act, which 
comes into force on 1 January 2012. Applications for licences 
may be made as of 1 January 2011 but will not become 
effective before March 2012. It is possible that Schleswig-
Holstein passed its Gambling Act before October in order to 
put political pressure on the other federal states to pass an 
Interstate Treaty that is identical or at least contains similar 
provisions to the Schleswig-Holstein Gambling Act. Schleswig-
Holstein have reserved the right to become signatory to the 
Interstate Treaty on Gambling in which case the Schleswig-
Holstein Gambling Act will be abolished.
Greece
Greece has been the subject of several challenges by the 
Commission and has previously been steadfast in defending the 
monopoly providers’ position (OPAP and ODIE). However, in 
July 2010 the Minister of Economy proposed a draft bill which 
would make several changes to the way in which gambling is 
regulated in Greece. In July 2011 the new law was implemented 
in Greece, which envisages the licensing of online gambling. 
Whilst all the underlying regulations have yet to be promulgated, 
operators wishing to obtain a licence must register to pay tax 
during the period prior to the licensing regime being initiated. 
Again, this proposal may be subject to challenge.
Italy
Italy has changed its monopoly-orientated stance on online 
gambling and has started to permit a number of non-Italian 
bookmakers to obtain licences to operate online enabling betting 
offerings from certain outlets such as newsagents, bars and 
cafes. The Incentivi Decree recently extended licensable offerings 
to include cash ring games for poker and other casino games. 
The EC also approved Italy’s Abruzzo Law on 5 May 2010 and 
announced that it had closed proceedings against Italy. The 
Abruzzo Law allows gambling operators offering their services 
in Italy to have web servers and a registered company outside of 
Italy, as long as they are still within the European Economic Area 
or a country that has a bilateral agreement with Italy. Also cash 
poker and casino games have now been introduced.
Norway
Norway implemented legislation (which became effective in 
2010) which established that processing of payments for 
unlicensed gambling where such gambling is unlicensed in 
Norway is an accessory offence for financial services providers. 
The Group has ceased taking business from Norwegian citizens. 
It plans to close Centrebet’s Norwegian operations unless a sale 
can be completed by late October. 
Denmark
In line with the Group’s desire to only operate in regulated 
markets, Denmark remains a territory of potential interest to 
the Group. 
The implementation of the new Danish Act on Gaming, which 
will liberalise part of the Danish gambling market by introducing 
a licensing system for certain online gambling activities, has 
been postponed due to a decision by the EU Commission 
to open a formal State Aid Investigation. The investigation 
followed a challenge made in December 2010 by the Danish 
gambling machine trade and a Danish land based casino that 
the different levels of tax to be applied to land based gaming 
activities and gambling offered online were discriminatory and 
amounted to state aid. The Danish tax ministry (Skatteminister) 
and the European Commission have confirmed that a decision 
on this State Aid Investigation will be received imminently. 
Rest of the World
Turkey
Provision of gambling services in Turkey is generally prohibited 
by Article 228 of the Turkish Criminal Code. In addition, the 
Law no. 7258 regarding Provision of Betting and Luck Games 
in Football and Other Sportive Competitions (“Law 7258”) 
explicitly bans offshore originated online gambling conducted 
without a local authorisation, whether the operator is based in 
or outside Turkey.
Regulatory Developments Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 47
GOVERNANCE
Turkish law asserts jurisdiction over any act that violates the 
laws of Turkey if the result of such act occurs within Turkey, 
irrespective of the location of the offender. Accordingly, the 
activities of the Group, in taking online gambling custom from 
Turkey, are considered illegal under Turkish law.
In addition, Article 8 of Law no. 5651 regarding Regulation  
of Broadcasts in Internet Environment and Prevention of 
Committed by Broadcasting (“Law 5651”) permits the Turkish 
authorities to block online gambling if “satisfactory suspicion 
regarding gambling services arises in such broadcasting”.
Turkey is not a member of the EU, nor has it included online 
gambling in its WTO free trade commitments.
The Group relies on the argument that a country’s domestic law 
cannot make illegal a supply remotely and lawfully made from 
another jurisdiction. It remains legal for customers to transact 
with offshore online operators, although customers may be 
subject to administrative (rather than criminal) enforcement 
under Turkish law. The Group continues to accept bets from 
Turkish residents, although it does not have employees, nor 
does it conduct advertising activity from within the territory.  
In the summer of 2011 it announced that it may consider  
exiting the Turkish market by a disposal.
Australia
The Group holds sports betting licences in Australia in the 
Northern Territory and provides services from the Northern 
Territory to other states. The Group blocks Australians from 
accessing any of the Group’s other products. It has been held, 
as a result of various court cases to which the Group and others 
have been a party, that holding a sports betting licence in one 
state entitles the licensee to advertise and supply in another. 
However, there has been a growing trend in relation to payment 
of fees for the use of “sports products” (e.g. race fields and 
sporting fixtures) which is levied against betting operators in 
Australia. Such fees are levied on operators licensed in Australia, 
in addition to taxes they pay in their licensing state. 
Race fields legislation exists in every Australian state except the 
Northern Territory. The race fields legislation, however, is subject 
to ongoing legal challenge, principally on the basis that there 
exists anti-competitive discrimination between bookmakers and 
the tote incumbent monopolies. The Productivity Committee 
(tasked with re-evaluating the gambling industry) has taken the 
view that there may be merit in such fees being dealt with on a 
national basis via some form of national statutory scheme, but 
this and other recommendations it made will not be taken up by 
the Australian Federal Government. Despite this the government 
announced in August 2011 that it would again review the 
Interactive Gambling Act to assess the adequacy of the 
prohibition on gaming. A report is expected in the early part 
of 2012. The report may highlight the importance too of 
continuing to ban in-running sports betting which is currently 
also precluded (except for horseracing). 
Unlike race fields, and with the exception of Victoria, no state  
or territory has legislation that specifically requires betting 
operators to pay fees for the use of sporting fixture information. 
Moreover in the summer of 2011 Victoria announced it was 
planning to toughen penalties for any infractions. More 
generally, however, a practice has developed under which 
corporate bookmakers enter into direct commercial agreements 
with the national administrative bodies for each sport. Such 
agreements typically provide for a fee equivalent to 5% of 
revenue to be paid to the administrative bodies.
United States
The US continues to prohibit online gambling. 
Despite the current prohibitive position, there have been 
suggestions that, in light of the economic downturn in the  
US and the resultant loss of revenue for land-based casino 
operators, liberalisation may occur in the online gambling 
market. Increasing pressure from consumers and lobby groups 
has also resulted in legislative proposals. To date these have  
not amounted to a change in the existing prohibitive regime 
although several State bills are gaining momentum, particularly 
in New Jersey, albeit that there is concern that a Federal bill if 
introduced (which on the face of it may look ideal) may only 
favour certain States such as Nevada.
On 20 September 2010, the Group entered into a Non-
Prosecution Agreement (the “Agreement”) with the Office of the 
United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York 
(“SDNY”), acting on behalf of the United States Department  
of Justice, with respect to the Group’s previous activities in the 
United States. Under the terms of the Agreement, SDNY will 
not seek to prosecute the Group for activities related to its 
internet gambling business with customers in the United States 
from 1998 to 2006. The Group ceased to offer online gambling 
to United States customers on 12 October 2006.
As part of the Agreement, the Group has agreed to pay a total 
of $33m (£21.3m) to SDNY, payable in three instalments: (i) 
$15m (£9.7m) payable no later than 30 September 2010; (ii) 
$12m (£7.7m) no later than 30 September 2011; and (iii) $6m 
(£3.9m) no later than 31 March 2012.
In addition to the above, the Group has agreed to cooperate 
with SDNY and disclose information to SDNY relating to the 
Group’s former internet gambling business in the United States 
and adhere to certain further obligations from the date of the 
Agreement with respect to its future conduct in the United 
States. The Group has also acknowledged and accepted certain 
details regarding its former business activities in the United 
States which are set out in the Statement of Facts which form 
part of the Agreement.
The Group believes that this settlement enables a line to be 
drawn under its previous activities in the United States. 
Asia
The regulatory regime in many Asian countries is currently 
prohibitive and, at present, the Group has no operations  
or activities in Asia. 48 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Independent Audit Report
For the year ended 31 July 201 1
Independent auditor’s report to the members of 
Sportingbet Plc
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Sportingbet 
Plc for the year ended 31 July 2011 which comprise the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated 
Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, 
Consolidated Cash Flow and the related Notes. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 37, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group 
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s (“APB’s”) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the APB’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as 
at 31 July 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the European Union; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Group Financial Statements and;
•	 the information given in the Corporate Governance 
Statement set out on pages 32 to 35 with respect to internal 
control and risk management systems in relation to financial 
reporting processes and about share capital structures is 
consistent with the Financial Statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
•	 a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared 
by the Company. 
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review:
•	 the Directors’ statement, set out on page 37, in relation to 
going concern; and
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
of Directors’ remuneration. 
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial 
Statements of Sportingbet Plc for the year ended 31 July 2011 
and the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that 
is described as having been audited. 
Paul Etherington BSc FCA CF
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
London
4 October 2011 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 49
financials Year ended
Continuing operations Notes
31 July 2011
£m
31 July 2010
£m
Amounts wagered 3 2,053.9 1,971.3
Net gaming revenue 2 204.0 207.5
Other operating revenue 2.3 –
Total revenue 3 206.3 207.5
Administrative expenses before exceptional items, share option charge and amortisation 
of other intangible assets (168.2) (172.1)
Group operating profit before exceptional items, share option charge and 
amortisation of other intangible assets 3 38.1 35.4
Other administrative expenses:
Exceptional items 4 (10.8) (24.5)
Share option charge 6 (1.2) (2.0)
Amortisation of other intangible assets 12 (1.7) (1.8)
Total administrative expenses: (181.9) (200.4)
Group operating profit 24.4 7.1
Finance income 8 0.5 0.4
Finance costs 8 (1.1) (0.6)
Profit before taxation 5 23.8 6.9
Taxation 9 (3.1) (3.0)
Group profit for the year 20.7 3.9
Profit attributable to the owners of the Parent 20.7 3.9
Other comprehensive income:
Amounts initially taken to equity as a result of applying hedge accounting (0.4) 0.3
Amounts recycled to the Statement of Comprehensive Income to match the hedged items (1.2) 0.3
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1.9 1.5
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to the owners of the Parent 21.0 6.0
Profit per ordinary share
Basic 10 3.9p 0.8p
Diluted 10 3.9p 0.7p
The Notes on pages 53 to 77 form part of these Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 July 201 1 50 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
As at
Notes
31 July 2011
£m
31 July 2010
£m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 11 41.8 41.5
Other intangible assets 12 33.2 21.8
Property, plant and equipment 13 26.2 27.1
Deferred tax asset 9 1.2 2.0
102.4 92.4
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 14 16.3 12.6
Cash and cash equivalents 15 180.2 58.9
Derivatives 18 – 1.3
196.5 72.8
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 (60.4) (54.4)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 16 (6.0) (5.3)
Derivatives 16 (0.2) –
(66.6) (59.7)
Net current assets 129.9 13.1
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 – (11.6)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 16 (53.8) (1.2)
(53.8) (12.8)
Net assets 178.5 92.7
Equity
Issued share capital 19 0.7 0.5
Share premium 60.0 59.9
Reserves 117.8 32.3
Total equity 178.5 92.7
The Notes on pages 53 to 77 form part of these Financial Statements. These Financial Statements were approved by the Board and 
authorised for issue on 4 October 2011.
A McIver
Director
Consolidated Balance Sheet
For the year ended 31 July 201 1 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 51
financials Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 July 201 1
Issued  
share  
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Other 
reserves 
£m
Equity  
portion of 
convertible 
bond 
£m
Profit  
and loss 
account
£m
Foreign 
exchange 
reserve
£m
Total
£m
As at 1 August 2009 0.5 59.4 – – 33.3 – 93.2
Employee share options – 0.5 – – (0.6) – (0.1)
Share option charge – – – – 1.1 – 1.1
Dividends paid – – – – (7.5) – (7.5)
Profit for the year – – – – 3.9 – 3.9
Hedge accounting – – – – 0.6 – 0.6
Foreign currency exchange – – – – – 1.5 1.5
As at 1 August 2010 0.5 59.9 – – 30.8 1.5 92.7
Employee share options – 0.1 – – (0.7) – (0.6)
Issue of shares 0.2 – 62.3 – – – 62.5
Equity portion of convertible bond – – – 10.3 – – 10.3
Share option charge – – – – 1.2 – 1.2
Dividends paid – – – – (8.6) – (8.6)
Profit for the year – – – – 20.7 – 20.7
Hedge accounting – – – – (1.6) – (1.6)
Foreign currency exchange – – – – – 1.9 1.9
As at 31 July 2011 0.7 60.0 62.3 10.3 41.8 3.4 178.5
The increase in Group equity of £85.8m (2010: decrease of £0.5m) is wholly represented by the movements shown in equity 
reserves and share capital in Note 19 and the statement above. 
Other reserves represent amounts relating to the premiums arising on the issue of shares under the provisions of section 612 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
The equity portion of the convertible bond reserve represents the equity portion of the £65m fixed rate 7% convertible bond 
(Note 16) after deduction of transaction costs of £0.5m attributable to the equity component.
All Group equity is attributable to the owners of the Parent. 52 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Year ended
Notes
31 July 2011
£m
31 July 2010
£m
Group profit after taxation 20.7 3.9
Depreciation 5.2 5.4
Software amortisation 8.1 5.7
Other amortisation 1.7 1.8
Share option charge 1.2 2.0
Finance cost 0.6 0.2
Taxation 3.1 3.0
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 40.6 22.0
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (0.9) 0.8
(Decrease)/increase in payables (8.7) 25.0
Cash generated by operations 31.0 47.8
Income tax paid (2.1) (4.0)
Net cash from operating activities 28.9 43.8
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 13 (4.1) (10.4)
Purchases of software 12 (20.9) (13.3)
Acquisition of subsidiaries (0.1) (0.6)
Interest paid (0.8) (0.2)
Cash used in investing activities (25.9) (24.5)
Exercise of share options (0.7) (1.0)
Issue of shares 61.8 0.2
Finance leases 0.7 2.5
Dividends paid (8.6) (7.5)
Issue of convertible loan notes 62.0 –
Net cash from financing activities 115.2 (5.8)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year 118.2 13.5
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 58.9 44.3
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 3.1 1.1
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 15 180.2 58.9
The Notes on pages 53 to 77 form part of these Financial Statements. 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 July 201 1 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 53
financials Notes to the Financial Statements 
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial information provided is for the Group’s financial year ending 31 July 2011.
The financial information has been prepared in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”)  
as adopted by the European Union.
The IFRS Financial Statements have been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the Financial 
Statements for the year to 31 July 2010, except for the following:
•	 IFRS 2 (amendment) – Share-based payment – Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions
•	 Improvements to IFRSs 2010
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of preparation of these Financial 
Statements. The effect of adopting the above standards and interpretations is not material to Group profit or to total equity in  
the current or prior year. Prior year information has not been restated, therefore an additional comparative Balance Sheet has not 
been presented. 
Standards in issue not yet effective
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following Standards and Interpretations, applicable to the Group, which are effective for periods 
starting after the date of these Financial Statements and are yet to be adopted by the Group:
•	 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – 1 January 2013
•	 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements – 1 January 2013
•	 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements – 1 January 2013
•	 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities – 1 January 2013
•	 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement – 1 January 2013
•	 IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures – 1 January 2011
•	 IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised June 2011) – 1 January 2013
•	 IAS 27 (Revised) Separate Financial Statements – 1 January 2013
•	 IAS 28 (Revised) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures – 1 January 2013
•	 Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets – Amendments to IFRS 7 – 1 July 2011
•	 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets – Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes – 1 January 2012
•	 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income – Amendments to IAS 1 – 1 July 2012
The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations will have a material effect on its Financial 
Statements on initial adoption.
Basis of consolidation – subsidiaries
The Group Financial Statements for the year consolidate the Financial Statements of Sportingbet Plc and the entities it controls 
(its subsidiaries).
Subsidiaries are consolidated from their date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be 
consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of 
the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights, currently 
exercisable or convertible potential voting rights or by way of contractual agreement. Accounting policies are consistently applied 
across the Group. All inter-Company balances and transactions are eliminated. 
Business combinations
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of 
acquisition. Any excess of the consideration transferred over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as 
goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on 
acquisition) is credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period of acquisition. 
Contingent and deferred consideration arising as a result of acquisitions is stated at a measure of fair value at the date of 
acquisition. Contingent consideration is based on management’s best estimate of the likely outcome. The fair value of contingent 
share consideration is measured based on the market price of shares at acquisition. Subsequent remeasurement of contingent 
consideration is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.  54 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
1. Accounting policies continued
Amounts wagered
Amounts wagered do not represent the Group’s statutory revenue. They represent amounts staked in respect of bets placed on 
sporting events in the year, net win in respect of casino and gaming, and rake in respect of poker games that have concluded in  
the year. Amounts wagered are stated net of certain promotional bonuses. 
Revenues
Net gaming revenue
Net gaming revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, and comprises the following: 
•	 Sports betting: gains and losses in respect of bets placed on sporting events in the year stated after betting taxes and certain 
promotional bonuses. 
•	 Open positions are carried at fair market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue, as well  
as gains and losses realised on positions that have closed. 
•	 Casino and gaming: net win in respect of bets placed on casino games that have concluded in the year, stated net of certain 
promotional bonuses. 
•	 Poker: net win in respect of rake for poker games that have concluded in the year, stated net of certain promotional bonuses. 
•	 Where the Group refers to gaming revenue, this represents net gaming revenue before the deduction of promotional bonuses.
Other operating revenue
Other operating revenue is comprised of transaction fees for payment processing services and is measured at the fair value of the 
consideration received.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Group‘s share of the fair value of the identifiable assets and 
liabilities acquired. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. 
Goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit is not amortised and is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Where 
impairment arises on a cash-generating unit, it is allocated initially against goodwill and thereafter pro rata amongst other assets. 
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and is not subsequently reversed. Goodwill 
arising on earlier acquisitions prior to IFRS conversion was being amortised over its estimated useful life of 20 years. In accordance 
with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS, the unamortised balance of goodwill at 31 July 2006 was 
frozen and reviewed for impairment at least annually. 
Computer software
Where, in the opinion of the Directors, the Group’s expenditure in relation to development of internet activities results in future 
economic benefits, these costs are capitalised and amortised over the useful economic life of the asset. 
Development costs are capitalised only when it is probable that future economic benefit will result from the project and the 
following criteria are met:
•	 The technical feasibility of the product has been ascertained.
•	 Adequate technical, financial and other resources are available to complete and sell or use the intangible asset. 
•	 The Group can demonstrate how the intangible asset will generate future economic benefits and the ability to use or sell the 
intangible asset can be demonstrated.
•	 It is the intention of management to complete the intangible asset and use it or sell it. 
•	 The development costs can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is provided on computer software at a rate calculated to write each asset down to its estimated residual value, using 
the straight-line method, over its expected useful life, as follows: 
Computer software 20–33% on cost
Methods of amortisation, residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each Balance Sheet date. 
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 55
financials 1. Accounting policies continued
Other intangible assets 
Identifiable intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations, that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, are 
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date and amortised over their useful economic life as follows: 
Superbahis URL 33% on cost
Belmond International Limited – marketing contract 20% on cost
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and 
equipment except for freehold land at rates calculated to write each asset down to its estimated residual value, using the straight-
line method, over its expected useful life, as follows: 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 25% on cost
Leasehold improvements 10% on cost
Motor vehicles 25% on cost
Computer equipment 20–33% on cost
Freehold land and buildings 2% on cost
Methods of depreciation, residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each Balance Sheet date. 
Leasehold improvements are included within fixtures, fittings and equipment in the property, plant and equipment note. 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
At each Balance Sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and other intangible 
assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, 
the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset 
does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying  
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an  
expense immediately. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. 
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately. 
Finance costs
Finance costs are charged to profit over the term of the debt so that the amount charged is at a constant rate on the 
carrying amount. 
Finance costs include issue costs, which are initially recognised as a reduction in the proceeds of the associated financial instrument. 
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.  56 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
1. Accounting policies continued
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence 
that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial 
difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in 
payments (more than 60 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is 
the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original 
effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the 
loss is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income within ‘Other administrative expenses’. When a trade receivable is 
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously 
written off are credited against ‘Other administrative expenses’ in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand deposits with banks. It also includes cash reserves and short-term cash in transit 
held by payment service providers. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Interest bearing loans and other borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised 
cost; and the difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the Statement  
of Comprehensive Income over the period of borrowings using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for  
at least 12 months after the Balance Sheet date. 
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated initially at their fair value and thereafter at their amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method. The fair value of trade and other payables has not been disclosed as, due to their short duration, 
management considers the carrying values recognised in the Balance Sheet to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
Convertible bonds
The net proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability element and an equity component at the 
date of issue. The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible 
debt. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, 
representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity and is not remeasured. The 
liability component is carried at amortised cost. 
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying 
amounts at the date of issue. The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity. 
The finance cost on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate, at the time of issue, for 
similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument. The difference between this amount and the interest paid 
is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange rate movements. The Group does not hold 
or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 57
financials 1. Accounting policies continued
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured  
at their fair value, calculated using either discounted cash flow techniques or by reference to market prices supplied by banks.  
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, 
if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of the variability of cash flows (cash 
flow hedge).
The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items as  
well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its 
assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions  
are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of the hedged items. 
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written 
principles on the use of financial derivatives.
Derivative financial instruments not eligible for hedge accounting are recognised in the Balance Sheet at fair value calculated using 
either discounted cash flow techniques or by reference to market prices supplied by banks. Changes in their fair value are recognised 
in the profit or loss. 
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised  
in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit or loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the periods when the 
hedged item will affect profit or loss. However, when the hedged transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or  
a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from other comprehensive income and included in the 
initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. 
Fair value measurements are based on quoted prices in active markets for the same instrument.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative 
gain or loss existing in other comprehensive income at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction  
is ultimately recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income. 
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. Interim dividends are recognised when paid. Final dividends are 
recognised when approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Functional and presentational currency
Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in 
sterling (£) which is the Parent’s functional and presentational currency.
Foreign currency translation
Foreign currency transactions of individual companies are translated at the rates ruling when they occurred. Foreign currency 
monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the closing spot rate. Any differences are taken to the Statement of  
Comprehensive Income. 
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average rates of exchange during the year and their balance sheets 
translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the Balance Sheet date. Exchange differences which arise from translation 
of the opening net assets and results of foreign subsidiary undertakings and from translating the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income at an average rate are taken to reserves. 
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. 58 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
1. Accounting policies continued
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Statement  
of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it 
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that  
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date. 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using 
the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition 
of goodwill or of other assets and liabilities in a transaction (other than in a business combination) that affects neither the tax profit 
nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the 
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse  
in the foreseeable future. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probably that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in accordance with laws which have been enacted or 
substantially enacted at the Balance Sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, 
except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also 
dealt with in other comprehensive income. 
Employee benefits
Pension costs
For defined contribution arrangements the amount charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of pension costs 
and other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable in the year 
and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
Share-based employee remuneration
Where share options are awarded to employees, the fair value of the options at the date of grant is charged to the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income over the vesting period, with the corresponding credit to the profit and loss reserve. Non-market vesting 
conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each Balance Sheet date so 
that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. 
Market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the options granted. As long as all other vesting conditions are satisfied, 
a change is made irrespective of whether the market vesting conditions are satisfied. The cumulative expense is not adjusted for 
failure to achieve a market vesting condition. 
Where the terms of the options are modified before they vest, the increase in the fair value of the options, measured immediately 
before and after the modification, is also charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the remaining vesting period. 
Where equity instruments are granted to persons other than employees, the Statement of Comprehensive Income is charged with 
the fair value of goods and services received. 
The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share 
premium when the options are exercised. 
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership  
to the lessee. All the other leases are classified as operating leases. 
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 59
financials 1. Accounting policies continued
The Group as lessee
Assets held under finance leases and other similar contracts, which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned 
assets, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful 
lives. The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital 
repayments outstanding. Hire purchase transactions are dealt with similarly, except that assets are depreciated over their useful lives. 
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such  
a basis. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are similarly spread on a straight-line basis. 
The Group as lessor
Rental income from the Group’s land and buildings, accounted for within property, plant and equipment, is recognised on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those that in management’s judgement need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence in order for 
the user to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information. 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will 
be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
obligation at the Balance Sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material. 
Critical accounting judgements
In the application of the accounting policies, which are detailed in this note, the Directors are required to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  
The critical judgements are discussed below.
Business combinations
Management apply judgement in respect of each business combination entered into in respect of their assessment of the date 
when control passes.
Classification of convertible bonds
The terms of convertible bond instruments, including all conditions under which an adjustment to the conversion price can be 
made. Where in management’s judgement such terms are all considered to be anti-dilutive to the bondholder, the instrument is 
recognised as a compound financial instrument in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 
the period in which the estimate is revised if the revisions affect only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods  
if the revision affects both current and future periods. 
The estimates and assumptions, which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below. 
Share-based payments
Management applies valuation techniques to calculate the fair value of share option charges. Note 20 provides information on the 
choice of valuation technique and the assumptions used in these Financial Statements. 
Customer liabilities
Customer liabilities represent cash held by the Group on behalf of customers. These are stated net of an allowance for uncollected 
dormant balances. Management apply judgement calculating the allowance by reference to player terms and conditions in assessing 
the likelihood of balances being reclaimed.  60 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
1. Accounting policies continued
Measurement of convertible bonds
The finance cost of convertible bonds is calculated using an effective rate of interest, which is at a premium to the coupon rate.  
This effective rate is calculated based on the estimate of the cost of a similar instrument without a conversion option.
2. Net gaming revenue
2011
£m
2010
£m
Gaming revenue 224.3 226.3
Promotional bonuses (20.3) (18.8)
Net gaming revenue 204.0 207.5
3. Operating segments 
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised into three geographical regions – Europe, Australia and Emerging 
Markets. These regions are the basis on which the Group reports its operating segments.
The following table presents revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s 
operating segments for the years ended 31 July 2011 and 31 July 2010.
Emerging Markets refer to the Group’s operations in Canada, Brazil, Chile and South Africa. 
2011
Europe
£m
Australia
£m
Emerging 
Markets
£m
Unallocated 
central costs
£m
Total
£m
Amounts wagered 1,125.5 822.0 106.4 – 2,053.9
Total revenue 158.6 37.1 10.6 – 206.3
Depreciation and amortisation of software (11.4) (1.8) – (0.1) (13.3)
Administrative expenses before exceptional items, share option 
charge and amortisation of intangible assets (108.2) (26.4) (7.1) (13.2) (154.9)
Group operating profit/(loss) before exceptional  
items, share option charge and amortisation of other 
intangible assets 39.0 8.9 3.5 (13.3) 38.1
Other administrative expenses:
Exceptional items (1.2) – – (9.6) (10.8)
Share option charge (0.5) (0.2) – (0.5) (1.2)
Amortisation of other intangible assets (1.7) – – – (1.7)
Total administrative expenses (123.0) (28.4) (7.1) (23.4) (181.9)
Operating profit/(loss) 35.6 8.7 3.5 (23.4) 24.4
Finance income/(cost) 0.8 0.5 (0.1) (1.8) (0.6)
Taxation (0.2) (2.9) – – (3.1)
Profit/(loss) for the year 36.2 6.3 3.4 (25.2) 20.7
Balance Sheet information
Total assets 268.2 30.7 – – 298.9
Total liabilities (114.8) (5.6) – – (120.4)
Expenditure incurred to acquire property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets 22.3 2.7 – – 25.0
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 61
financials 3. Operating segments continued
2011
Sports 
betting
£m
Casino 
gaming
£m
Poker  
rake
£m
Other 
operating 
revenue
£m
Total
£m
Amounts wagered 2,009.0 47.5 17.7 – 2,074.2
Promotional bonuses (12.4) (3.5) (4.4) – (20.3)
Net amounts wagered 1,996.6 44.0 13.3 – 2,053.9
Revenue 159.1 47.5 17.7 2.3 226.6
Promotional bonuses (12.4) (3.5) (4.4) – (20.3)
Total revenue 146.7 44.0 13.3 2.3 206.3
2010
Europe
£m
Australia
£m
Emerging 
Markets
£m
Unallocated 
central costs
£m
Total
£m
Amounts wagered 1,157.8 743.9 69.6 – 1,971.3
Total revenue 167.4 33.6 6.5 – 207.5
Depreciation and amortisation of software (9.7) (1.0) – (0.4) (11.1)
Administrative expenses before exceptional items, share option 
charge and amortisation of intangible assets (112.2) (24.8) (4.7) (19.3) (161.0)
Group operating profit/(loss) before exceptional  
items, share option charge and amortisation of other 
intangible assets 45.5 7.8 1.8 (19.7) 35.4
Other administrative expenses:
Exceptional items – – – (24.5) (24.5)
Share option charge (0.5) (0.1) – (1.4) (2.0)
Amortisation of other intangible assets (1.8) – – – (1.8)
Total administrative expenses (124.2) (25.9) (4.7) (45.6) (200.4)
Operating profit/(loss) 43.2 7.7 1.8 (45.6) 7.1
Finance cost – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Taxation (0.4) (2.6) – – (3.0)
Profit/(loss) for the year 42.8 5.1 1.8 (45.8) 3.9
Balance Sheet information
Total assets 138.4 26.4 – – 164.8
Total liabilities (60.2) (11.9) – – (72.1)
Expenditure incurred to acquire property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets 21.7 2.0 – – 23.7
2010
Sports  
betting
£m
Casino  
gaming
£m
Poker  
rake
£m
Other 
operating 
revenue
£m
Total
£m
Amounts wagered 1,920.2 48.2 21.7 – 1,990.1
Promotional bonuses (11.2) (3.3) (4.3) – (18.8)
Net amounts wagered 1,909.0 44.9 17.4 – 1,971.3
Revenue 156.4 48.2 21.7 – 226.3
Promotional bonuses (11.2) (3.3) (4.3) – (18.8)
Total revenue 145.2 44.9 17.4 – 207.5 62 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
4. Exceptional items
Notes
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Department of Justice settlement (a) – 22.8
Centrebet acquisition costs (b) 6.4 –
Costs associated with the possible disposal of the Turkish language website (c) 4.4 –
Move to the main market (d) – 1.7
10.8 24.5
(a) The agreed settlement payment to the United States Department of Justice in respect of the US-facing element of the Group’s 
business operating prior to the implementation of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act (“UIGEA”). In return, the  
US Federal Government will not seek to prosecute the Group with regard to its former actions in the US. 
(b) The costs related to the fees incurred in relation of the acquisition of Centrebet International Limited (“Centrebet”), which 
completed after the balance sheet date (Note 23).
(c) Legal and professional fees relating to the strategic review of the Turkish language website.
(d) The costs related to transferring the listing of the Group’s entire issued share capital from AIM to a premium listing on the 
Official List of the UK Listing Authority (“Official List”).
5. Profit before taxation
2011
£m
2010
£m
Net foreign exchange losses – (1.9)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5.2 5.4
Amortisation of software 8.1 5.7
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services 0.1 0.1
Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3
Tax services – 0.1
Transaction support services 0.8 0.4
6. Share option charge
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Share option charge 1.2 1.1
Social security costs on share options – 0.9
1.2 2.0
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 63
financials 7. Staff costs
2011 
No.
2010 
No.
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was: 
Europe 517 468
Australia 113 103
630 571
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Employee costs (including Executive Directors) were as follows: 
Wages and salaries 33.1 35.7
Social security costs 3.3 3.8
Pension costs 2.2 1.5
38.6 41.0
The following table sets out Directors’ remuneration. There are no key management personnel other than the Group’s Directors.
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Directors’ remuneration
Salary and fees 1.3 1.4
Bonuses – 1.1
Share-based payments 0.4 2.8
Total emoluments 1.7 5.3
Pension contributions 0.1 0.1
1.8 5.4
Further disclosures on the remuneration of each individual Director are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 44.
8. Net finance income/(costs)
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (0.9) (0.5)
Finance lease interest (0.2) (0.1)
(1.1) (0.6)
Interest receivable 0.5 0.4
(0.6) (0.2) 64 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
9. Taxation
The tax charge for the year is higher than the standard UK rate of corporation tax as explained below: 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Note 9(a) Analysis of charge in the period
Current tax:
UK corporation tax on losses of the period – –
Overseas taxation 2.9 3.0
Adjustments to overseas taxation in respect of previous periods (1.0) 0.6
Total current tax 1.9 3.6
Deferred tax:
Current year movement to deferred tax 1.2 (0.6)
Total deferred tax (Note 9(c)) 1.2 (0.6)
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (Note 9(b)) 3.1 3.0
Note 9(b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the period
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 23.8 6.9
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 27% (2010: 28%) 6.5 1.9
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.1 10.4
Effect of lower tax rates on overseas earnings (8.7) (10.6)
Difference between fixed assets and capital allowances 0.2 –
Tax losses arising in year 3.1 3.3
Other timing differences (0.3) (1.4)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods (1.0) (0.6)
Tax charge for the period (Note 9(a)) 1.9 3.0
Note 9(c) Provision for deferred tax (deferred tax asset)
Other timing differences – (0.6)
Provision for deferred tax at 27% (2010: 28%) – (0.6)
As at the beginning of the year (2.0) (1.4)
Current year movement 1.2 (0.6)
As at the end of the year (deferred tax asset) (0.8) (2.0)
UK deferred tax assets in respect of accelerated capital allowances of £nil, trading losses of £23.6m and non-trading loan 
relationship deficits of £2.8m have not been recognised on the basis that it is not probable that there will be sufficient taxable profit 
in future years against which the assets can be recovered.
A resolution passed by Parliament on 29 March 2011 reduced the main rate of corporation tax to 26% from 1 April 2011. On 5 July 
2011 a further cut in the main UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 25% was substantively enacted, with the reduction to take 
effect on 1 April 2012. The deferred tax balance has therefore been recognised at 25%. 
In addition to the change in rate of corporation tax disclosed above, further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the 
rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014. None of these expected rate reductions had been substantively enacted at the 
Balance Sheet date and, therefore, are not included in these Financial Statements. 
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 65
financials 10. Earnings per share
2011 
Total
2010 
Total
Profit per ordinary share
Basic 3.9p 0.8p
Diluted 3.9p 0.7p
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share (before exceptional items, share option charge 
and amortisation)
Basic 6.6p 6.5p
Diluted 6.3p 6.2p
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to shareholders  
of Sportingbet Plc and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. 
The Group has adjusted its earnings per ordinary share to exclude exceptional items, share option charge and amortisation. 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Basic earnings 20.7 3.9
Exceptional items 10.8 24.5
Share option charge 1.2 2.0
Amortisation 1.7 1.8
Adjusted earnings 34.4 32.2
After taking into account the dilutive effects of convertible bonds, the diluted earnings are £21.7m (2010: £3.9m) and the adjusted 
diluted earnings are £35.4m (2010: £32.2m).
During the year the Group had the following weighted average number of shares in issue and potentially dilutive shares: 
2011 
No.
2010 
No.
Weighted average number of shares in issue 524,559,273 496,107,615
Employee share schemes 16,360,174 19,181,226
Convertible loan notes 18,373,559 –
Fully diluted number of weighted average number of shares in issue 559,293,006 515,288,841
As at 31 July 2011 the Group had the following shares in issue and potentially dilutive shares: 
2011 
No.
2010 
No.
Number of shares in issue 660,543,128 502,038,144
Employee share schemes 16,360,174 19,181,226
Convertible loan notes 128,968,253 –
Fully diluted number of shares in issue 805,871,555 521,219,370 66 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
11. Goodwill
£m
Cost
As at 1 August 2009 242.8
Exchange movements 0.4
As at 1 August 2010 243.2
Exchange movements 0.4
As at 31 July 2011 243.6
Impairment losses
As at 1 August 2009 201.6
Exchange movements 0.1
As at 1 August 2010 201.7
Exchange movements 0.1
As at 31 July 2011 201.8
Net book value
As at 31 July 2011 41.8
As at 31 July 2010 41.5
Movements arose as a result of changes in the underlying value of the amount payable to satisfy the contingent consideration. 
Subsequent to the annual impairment test for 2011, the carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to the following cash-
generating units: 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Europe 17.8 17.8
Australia 24.0 23.7
41.8 41.5
The recoverable amounts for the cash-generating units above are determined based on internal discounted cash flow evaluation. The 
cash flow evaluation is based on actual operating results and five year forecasts at the growth rates stated in the key assumptions. 
Management consider the key assumptions to be the selection of growth and discount rates. 
Discount rates for the goodwill impairment review are based on Company specific pre-tax weighted average cost of capital 
percentages and range from 10% to 15%, based on management’s assessment of comparable companies in the sector. The future 
cash flows are modelled based on budgeted projections and cash flows beyond the budget period are extrapolated using a growth 
rate of 1%. The growth rate applied is based on past experience. Future cash flows are projected assuming no changes to the 
current regulatory environment.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of each Cash-Generating Unit based on the key 
assumptions above. A change of 2% in either of the key assumptions would not result in the impairment of goodwill.
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 67
financials 12. Other intangible assets
Software
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
As at 1 August 2009 23.4 13.9 37.3
Additions 13.3 – 13.3
Disposals (0.7) – (0.7)
Exchange movements – 0.1 0.1
As at 1 August 2010 36.0 14.0 50.0
Additions 20.9 – 20.9
Disposals – – –
Exchange movements 0.3 – 0.3
As at 31 July 2011 57.2 14.0 71.2
Amortisation and impairment losses
As at 1 August 2009 13.8 7.6 21.4
Charge for the year 5.7 1.8 7.5
Disposals (0.6) – (0.6)
Exchange movements (0.2) 0.1 (0.1)
As at 1 August 2010 18.7 9.5 28.2
Charge for the year 8.1 1.7 9.8
Disposals – – –
Exchange movements – – –
As at 31 July 2011 26.8 11.2 38.0
Net book value
As at 31 July 2011 30.4 2.8 33.2
As at 31 July 2010 17.3 4.5 21.8
The £14.0m of other intangible costs includes £5.3m capitalisation of the Superbahis URL and contract, and £8.7m relating to the 
Belmond International Limited marketing contract. 
Amortisation of software is charged to administrative expenses in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. Other amortisation and 
impairment losses are charged to other amortisation within other administrative expenses.  68 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
13. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment
£m
Motor  
vehicles
£m
Computer 
equipment
£m
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
As at 1 August 2009 6.0 0.1 15.4 12.7 34.2
Additions 1.4 0.1 7.5 1.4 10.4
Disposals (0.2) – (0.7) – (0.9)
Exchange movements 0.1 – 0.2 – 0.3
As at 1 August 2010 7.3 0.2 22.4 14.1 44.0
Additions 0.7 – 3.4 – 4.1
Disposals (1.5) – – 1.2 (0.3)
Exchange movements – – 0.5 – 0.5
As at 31 July 2011 6.5 0.2 26.3 15.3 48.3
Depreciation
As at 1 August 2009 3.0 0.1 8.5 0.7 12.3
Charge for the year 1.1 – 3.9 0.4 5.4
Disposals (0.2) – (0.6) – (0.8)
Exchange adjustments – – – – –
As at 1 August 2010 3.9 0.1 11.8 1.1 16.9
Charge for the year 0.9 – 3.9 0.4 5.2
Disposals (0.1) – – 0.1 –
Exchange adjustments – – – – –
As at 31 July 2011 4.7 0.1 15.7 1.6 22.1
Net book value
As at 31 July 2011 1.8 0.1 10.6 13.7 26.2
As at 31 July 2010 3.4 0.1 10.6 13.0 27.1
The net book value of assets held under finance leases amounts to £2.9m (2010: £1.9m).
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 69
financials 14. Trade and other receivables 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Trade receivables 12.8 9.0
Provision for impairment of trade receivables (4.2) (4.9)
Trade receivables, net 8.6 4.1
Other receivables 2.3 3.2
Prepayments and accrued income 5.4 5.3
16.3 12.6
Other receivables includes £0.8m of called up share capital net paid. All called up share capital was fully paid in August 2011.
Trade receivables that are less than 30 days past due are not considered impaired. As of 31 July 2011, trade receivables of £8.6m 
(2010: £4.1m) were past due but not impaired. These related to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent 
history of default. 
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Up to 2 months past due 4.8 3.6
2 to 6 months past due 2.4 0.1
Over 6 months past due 1.4 0.4
8.6 4.1
 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated entirely in Australian dollars. 
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
As at 1 August 4.9 2.4
Provision for receivables impairment 0.1 3.2
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (0.8) (0.7)
As at 31 July 4.2 4.9
The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been included in ‘administrative expenses’ in the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation of 
recovering additional cash. 
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. 
Trade receivables are usually due within 30 days and do not bear any effective interest rate. All trade receivables are subject to credit 
risk exposure, however the Group does not identify specific concentration of credit risk with regards to trade receivables, as the 
amount recognised consists of a large number of receivables from various customers. 
The fair value of these short-term financial assets is not individually determined as the carrying amount is a reasonable 
approximation of fair value.  70 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
15. Cash and cash equivalents
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Cash 98.8 42.3
Short-term cash deposits 15.0 16.5
Restricted cash 66.4 0.1
180.2 58.9
Restricted cash includes £62.0m (2010: £nil) of cash held in escrow in respect of the acquisition of Centrebet, which was completed 
after the Balance Sheet date and described in Note 23. The remaining £4.4m (2010: £0.1m) is held in designated accounts which 
have certain restrictions. 
Short-term cash deposits consist of balances held by payment service providers. 
16. Trade and other payables
a) Amounts falling due within one year
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Bank loans 4.0 4.0
Finance leases 2.0 1.3
Trade payables 11.0 6.8
Other payables 0.1 3.8
Customer liabilities 20.9 16.2
Tax and social security 2.0 1.5
Accruals and deferred income 24.6 24.1
Derivatives 0.2 –
Open bets 1.8 2.0
66.6 59.7
Included within accruals and deferred income is £11.6m (2010: £22.8m) outstanding in respect of the agreed Department of Justice 
settlement as referred to in Note 4. The final settlement date is 31 March 2012. 
Although repayable on demand, the Group has a bank loan of £4.0m which is available up to July 2012. The Directors do not 
anticipate early repayment. The loan is secured by a floating charge over the assets of the Group, and bears an interest rate of 1.5% 
above LIBOR. 
The open bets at the year end are within the scope of IAS 39 as derivative contracts. These bets are held at fair value with gains and 
losses recognised in revenue. Management’s assessments of the exposure to significant changes in the fair value of open bets is 
assessed as negligible due to the short-term exposures to such liabilities and the minimal movement on average betting odds 
between the date of bet placing and period end. 
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 71
financials 16. Trade and other payables continued
b) Amounts falling due after more than one year
2011 
No.
2010 
No.
Accruals and deferred income – 11.6
Finance leases 1.1 1.2
Convertible bonds due 2016 52.7 –
53.8 12.8
On 8 June 2011, the Group issued £65.0m of 7% fixed rate convertible bonds, raising cash of £62.0m net of issue costs. The equity 
portion of the convertible bond issue is included within reserves.
 
These bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company at a conversion price of £0.504 on 8 June 2016 unless 
otherwise redeemed.
Interest is payable semi annually in arrears. 
Interest on the debt proportion, after the deduction of issue costs of £2.5m, will be charged to the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income using an effective rate of 12.63%. 
17. Leases
a) Obligations under finance leases
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Minimum lease payments:
Within 1 year 2.2 1.2
Within 2-5 years 1.0 1.3
3.2 2.5
Future finance charges (0.1) –
Present value of lease obligations 3.1 2.5
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Present value of minimum lease payments:
Within 1 year 2.0 1.2
Within 2-5 years 1.1 1.3
3.1 2.5
Accounts due for settlement within 1 year 2.0 1.2
Accounts due for settlement after more than 1 year 1.1 1.3
3.1 2.5
The Group has entered into three separate lease arrangements for the purchase of computer hardware and other associated assets, 
each commencing on September 2009, August 2010 and December 2010. The lease terms for all these arrangements were three 
years. As at 31 July 2011, the average life outstanding on each lease was: one year and two months for the lease commencing in 
September 2009; two years and one month for the lease commencing in August 2010; and two years and five months for the lease 
commencing in December 2010. The average effective borrowing rate for the above leases were 5.1%, 4.8% and 2.8% respectively. 
The Group’s obligations under these finance leases are secured by the lessor’s charges over the leased assets themselves as well as 
fixed and floating charges over the current assets of Sportingbet Plc and three of the Group’s subsidiaries.  72 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
17. Leases continued
b) Commitments under operating leases
The minimum lease payments under operating leases in respect of land and buildings that have been recognised as an expense for 
the period:
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Minimum lease payments 2.0 1.8
The Group had outstanding commitments from the future minimum lease payments in respect of land and buildings: 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Within 1 year 1.9 1.3
Within 2-5 years inclusive 3.7 2.7
In more than 5 years 2.1 2.8
7.7 6.8
Operating lease payments represent payable by the Group for office property costs. 
18. Financial instruments 
The Group uses financial instruments, comprising cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings and trade receivables, which 
arise directly from its operations. 
Short-term receivables
The Group’s trade and other receivables are actively monitored to avoid significant concentrations of credit risk. 
Derivative instruments
The Group takes out forward currency contracts in euro and Australian dollars. Hedge accounting is applied to certain derivative 
instruments as set out below.
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank facilities. Interest on the convertible bond is at a 
fixed coupon rate of 7%. Bank borrowings are made using variable interest rates. The interest rate risk on the Group’s £4.0m bank 
loan is not considered to be significant. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group seeks to manage liquidity risk, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash 
assets safely and profitably. 
Sufficient cash reserves are held to maintain short-term flexibility, together with short-term borrowings. 
The following table details the contractual maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities. 
31 July 2011
1 year or less
£m
2–5 years
£m
5 years  
and over
£m
Total
£m
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 13.1 – – 13.1
Customer liabilities 20.9 – – 20.9
Bank loans 4.0 – – 4.0
Convertible bond 4.6 83.2 – 87.8
Finance leases 2.0 1.1 – 3.1
Sports betting open positions 1.8 – – 1.8
Total 46.4 84.3 – 130.7
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 73
financials 18. Financial instruments continued
Customer liabilities represent cash held by the Group on behalf of customers net of an allowance for uncollected balances. In the 
event that the level of balanced reclaimed exceeds management’s expectation, the gross cash outflow could be higher. 
The maturity analysis in respect of sports betting open positions reflects the fair value of the liability position at the Balance Sheet 
date. In the event that the outcome of bets adversely affected the business, the gross cash outflow could be higher. 
31 July 2010
1 year or less
£m
2–5 years
£m
5 years  
and over
£m
Total
£m
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 12.1 – – 12.1
Customer liabilities 16.2 – – 16.2
Bank loans 4.0 – – 4.0
Finance leases 1.2 1.3 – 2.5
Sports betting open positions 2.0 – – 2.0
Total 35.5 1.3 – 36.8
Credit risk
As explained in the Financial Review, the Group recharges its credit risk, arising from credit facilities allowed to certain customers in 
the Australian region, by making appropriate credit checks before bets are placed and setting credit limits based on this information. 
Currency risk
The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; a significant proportion of its 
income is derived from foreign currencies whilst the majority of its costs are in sterling. 
The Group maintained its proactive position and continued to hedge foreign currency sales with forward contracts for up to one 
year, purchasing currencies to cover the first 80% of its exposure on quarter ahead, 80% two quarters ahead, 70% three quarters 
ahead and 60% four quarters ahead. This policy is approved by the Board and the Board receives updates on a regular basis in 
respect of the hedging position. 
The Group’s derivative transactions comprise currency forward contracts. During the year the Group entered into a number of 
forward contracts over highly probably forecast euro sales. 
Amounts initially taken to other comprehensive income under designated cash flow hedges totalled a loss of £0.4m (2010: £0.3m 
gain) of which a £1.2m gain (2010: £0.3m loss) has been reclassified to the Statement of Comprehensive Income on the completion 
of designated hedge relationships. Remaining hedges continue to be highly effective. 
The tables below show the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than their  
local currency: 
Net foreign currency monetary assets
Euro
£m
US dollars
£m
Australian 
dollars
£m
Brazilian real
£m
Other 
currencies
£m
Total
£m
2011
Sterling 15.8 5.1 2.5 2.2 3.7 29.3
15.8 5.1 2.5 2.2 3.7 29.3
2010
Sterling 16.2 11.9 0.2 3.3 4.6 36.2
16.2 11.9 0.2 3.3 4.6 36.2 74 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
18. Financial instruments continued
Carrying values
The carrying amounts of the Group’s financial instruments are set out below. As these financial instruments are not publicly traded, 
the fair values presented are determined by calculating present values of the cash flows anticipated until maturity of these 
financial assets.
Assets at fair value through  
the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income Loans and receivables
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Financial assets as per Balance Sheet
Trade and other receivables – – 10.9 7.3
Cash and cash equivalents – – 180.2 58.9
Derivatives – 1.3 – –
– 1.3 191.1 66.2
Assets at fair value through  
the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
Financial liabilities at  
amortised cost
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Financial liabilities as per Balance Sheet
Trade and other payables 1.8 2.0 32.0 26.8
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – – 56.7 4.0
Derivatives 0.2 – – –
2.0 2.0 88.7 30.8
Foreign currency sensitivity
Sportingbet Plc is exposed to market risk through its use of financial instruments and specifically to currency risk. 
Exposures to currency exchange rates arise from the Group’s retranslation of its foreign subsidiaries as well as the Group’s overseas 
sales and purchases, which are primarily denominated in euros and Turkish lira. 
The following table illustrates the sensitivity for the net result for the year and equity with regard to the Group’s financial assets and 
financial liabilities and the euro/sterling exchange rate and Turkish lira/sterling rate. It assumes a +/– 0.5% movement in the sterling/
euro exchange rate for the year ended 31 July 2011 (2010: 0.2%) and a +/– 1.0% movement for the sterling/Turkish lira exchange 
rate (2010: 0.5%).
These percentages have been determined based on the average market volatility in exchange rates in the previous 12 months. 
If sterling has strengthened against the euro and Turkish lira by 0.5% (2010: 0.2%) and 1.0% (2010: 0.5%) respectively then this 
would have had the following impact: 
2011 2010
Euro
£m
Turkish lira
£m
Total
£m
Euro
£m
Turkish lira
£m
Total
£m
Net profit (0.1) (0.2) (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Equity (0.1) (0.2) (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 75
financials 18. Financial instruments continued
If sterling had weakened against the euro and Turkish lira by 0.5% (2010: 0.2%) and 1.0% (2010: 0.5%) respectively then this would 
have had the following impact:
2011 2010
Euro
£m
Turkish lira
£m
Total
£m
Euro
£m
Turkish lira
£m
Total
£m
Net profit 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.2
Equity 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.2
Exposures to foreign exchange rates vary during the year depending on the volume of overseas transactions. Nonetheless, the 
analysis above is considered to be representative of the Group’s exposure to currency risk. 
Capital management 
In common with many internet companies that have few physical assets, the Group has no policy as to the level of equity capital and 
reserves other than to address statutory requirements. Following the issue of £65m of convertible bonds in June 2011, the primary 
capital risk to the Group is the level of indebtedness. The convertible bond includes a financial covenant, which limits the Group’s 
indebtedness (excluding the bonds themselves) to £35m without the prior approval of an Extraordinary Resolution of Bondholders. 
As at 31 July 2011, the Group had £4.0m (2010: £4.0m) of bank loans which are secured on the Group’s land and buildings. 
Details of the Group’s dividend policy are disclosed on page 57 of this Annual Report. 
19. Share capital 
2011 
£000
2010 
£000
Authorised:
1,000m (2010: 1,000m) ordinary shares of 0.1p each 1,000 1,000
Allotted, issued and fully paid:
As at 31 July 2010: 502,038,144 shares of 0.1p each 502 484
Issues of ordinary shares: 154,761,904 shares 155 –
Other share issues in respect of exercised share options: 3,743,080 shares 4 18
As at 31 July 2011: 660,543,128 shares of 0.1p each 661 502
At 31 July 2011 the following share options were outstanding in respect of ordinary shares:
Date of grant Ordinary shares of 0.1p Period of option
Exercise price 
(p)
December 2003 1,115,000 December 2006–December 2010 39.5
January 2004 539,375 January 2007–January 2011 49
February 2004 100,000 February 2007–January 2011 39.5
May 2004 50,000 May 2007–May 2011 94
October 2004 100,000 October 2007–October 2011 97.5
November 2004 95,000 November 2007–November 2014 131
August 2005 22,250 July 2007–July 2008 –
June 2008 902,484 November 2009–November 2011 –
January 2009 11,164,161 November 2010–November 2012 –
August 2009 703,334 November 2010–November 2012 –
August 2010 455,736 July 2011–July 2013 –
November 2010 671,538 July 2011–July 2014 –
January 2011 145,000 July 2011–July 2012 –
As at 31 July 2011 there were 16,063,878 options or awards over ordinary shares outstanding, 2,429,860 of which relate to 
Directors, details of which can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 44.
Of the share options detailed above 784,375 relate to the Executive Scheme, 1,215,000 relate to the Unapproved Scheme, 22,250 
relate to the 2005 plan, 902,484 relate to the 2006 Share Plan, and 13,139,769 relate to the 2009 Restricted Share Plan.  76 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
20. Share-based payments 
The Company operates five equity-settled share-based remuneration schemes for employees across the Group, as listed in Note 19. 
All employees are eligible to participate in these schemes, the vesting conditions being that the individual still remains in 
employment at the date of the release of the option and in respect of the 2005 and 2006 share plans satisfy certain performance 
criteria. The terms of these schemes are discussed in more detail in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 44.
2011 2010
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) No.
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) No. 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2.3 19,181,226 2.5 39,630,748
Granted during the year – 1,489,665 – 703,334
Forfeited during the year – – – (250,000)
Exercised during the year – (3,997,878) 2.1 (18,158,451)
Lapsed during the year – (609,135) 6.7 (2,744,405)
Outstanding at the end of the year 2.7 16,063,878 2.3 19,181,266
Exercisable at the end of the year 50.1 2,021,625 50.1 2,021,625
The exercise price of options outstanding at the end of the year ranged between 0p and 131p (2010: 0p and 131p) and their 
weighted average contractual life was 406 days (2010: 675 days).
Of the total number of options outstanding at the end of the year, 2,021,625 had vested and were exercisable (2010: 2,021,625).
The weighted average share price (at the date of exercise) of options exercised during the year was 60.8p (2010: 74.4p).
The weighted average fair value of each option granted during the year was 58.1p (2010: 56.3p).
The following information is relevant in the determination of the fair value of options granted during the year under the equity and 
cash-settled share-based remuneration schemes operated by Sportingbet Plc. 
2011 2010
Equity-settled
Options pricing model used Black–Scholes Black–Scholes
Weighted average share price at grant date (p) 61.70p 59.75p
Exercise price (p) nil nil
Weighted average contractual life (days) 724 830
Equity-settled
Expected volatility 50% 50%
Expected dividend growth rate 2% 2%
Risk-free interest rate 5% 5%
The volatility assumption, measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns, is based on a statistical analysis of 
daily share prices over the last three years. 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
The share-based remuneration expense comprises:
Equity-settled schemes 1.2 1.1
Notes to the Financial Statements  Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 77
financials 21. Contingencies
(a) From time to time the Group is subject to legal claims and actions. The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of 
the claims and actions and no provision or disclosure is made where the Directors feel, based on that advice, that action is 
unlikely to result in a material loss.
 As part of the ongoing operational risk assessment process adopted by the Group, there is continued monitoring of the legal and 
regulatory developments and their potential impact on the business. Appropriate advice continues to be taken in respect of these 
developments. 
 There is uncertainty as to what actions, if any, may occur from the Group’s regulatory history, and any impact such action may 
have on the Group. However, the Board does not consider it likely that a material liability or a material impairment in the carrying 
value of assets will arise as a result of any potential action. 
(b) The Group has been paying taxes in the form of product fees to various states of Australia to the three racing codes. The Group’s 
management believes the legal bases of these taxes is flawed and have been making payments under protest. The Group has 
paid A$13m to the state of New South Wales this financial year, which may be recoverable if legal action is successful. 
22. Related parties
Transaction with Non-Executive Directors
Nigel Payne (Non-Executive Director) provided financial consultancy services to the Group amounting to £45,000 (2010: £20,000) 
via Merlin Financial Advisors LLP. 
Sean O’Connor (Non-Executive Director) provided marketing consultancy services to the Group amounting to £60,240 (2010: 
£19,800) via The Sean O’Connor Consultancy Limited.
Transaction with key management personnel
The Group makes contributions into an Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) as part of a cash-based long-term incentive plan for certain 
key employees. Two Directors are beneficiaries of the EBT into which contributions of £0.5m was made in 2011 (2010: £0.4m).
23. Post Balance Sheet event
On 26 May 2011, the Group announced a recommended proposal to acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital of 
Centrebet International Limited (“Centrebet”) effected by way of two schemes of arrangement under Australian law (the “Schemes”).
Following the approval of the Schemes by Centrebet Shareholders and Performance Rightholders on 17 August 2011 and by the 
Federal Court of Australia on 22 August 2011, the Schemes were implemented on 31 August 2011 and Centrebet became a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Sbet Australia Pty Limited. 
In addition, Centrebet Ordinary Shares were suspended from quotation on the Australian Securities Exchange on 23 August 2011 
and an application to remove Centrebet from the official list of the Australian Securities Exchange was made on 31 August 2011.
The total fair value of the purchase consideration was £118.0m, comprising of 154,761,904 new Sportingbet ordinary shares at 42p 
raising gross proceeds of £65.0m and an issue of £65.0m of 7% fixed rate convertible bonds due 2016, which raised a further 
£65.0m, gross of issue costs.
The initial accounting for the business combination has not been finalised hence an estimate of the financial effect of the 
transaction cannot yet be made. 78 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements  
of Sportingbet Plc for the year ended 31 July 2011 which 
comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related 
notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Parent Company Financial Statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company 
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s (“APB’s”) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial  
statements is provided on the APB’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs 
as at 31 July 2011;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the Financial Statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Parent Company  
Financial Statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements 
of Sportingbet Plc for the year ended 31 July 2011.
Paul Etherington BSc FCA CF
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
London
4 October 2011
Parent Company Independent Auditor’s Report
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Sportingbet Plc Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 79
financials Notes
31 July 2011 
£m
31 July 2010 
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 4 89.1 88.3
89.1 88.3
Current assets
Debtors 5 111.4 79.3
Cash at bank and in hand 6 62.1 –
173.5 79.3
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 7 (19.0) (16.9)
Net current assets 154.5 62.4
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (52.7) (11.6)
Net assets 190.9 139.1
Shareholders’ funds
Issued share capital 8 0.7 0.5
Share premium 9 58.9 58.8
Reserves 9 131.3 79.8
Equity shareholders’ funds 190.9 139.1
The Notes on pages 80 to 84 form part of these Financial Statements. These Financial Statements were approved by the Board and 
authorised for issue on 4 October 2011.
A McIver
Director
Parent Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 July 201 1 80 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
1. Parent Company accounting policies
The Financial Statements for the Company have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable UK GAAP 
accounting standards. 
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have been applied consistently throughout the financial year and the 
preceding year. 
The following principal accounting policies have been applied:
Exemptions
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented  
a profit and loss for the Company alone. 
Valuation of investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Leased assets
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such  
a basis. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are similarly spread on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term, except where the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing 
market rate is shorter than the full lease term, in which case the shorter period is used. 
Pension costs
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs and other post-
retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the period. Differences between contributions payable in the year and 
contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet. 
Share-based employee remuneration
Where shares options are awarded to employees, the fair value of the options at the date of grant is charged to the profit and loss 
account over the vesting period. 
Where share options are granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings, the fair value of the options is added to the cost of 
investment in these subsidiary undertakings over the vesting period. 
Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each 
Balance Sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options 
that eventually vest. Market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the options granted. As long as all other vesting 
conditions are satisfied, a charge is made irrespective of whether the market vesting conditions are satisfied. The cumulative 
expense is not adjusted for failure to achieve a market vesting condition. 
Where the terms of the options are modified before they vest, the increase in the fair value of the options, measured immediately 
before and after the modification, is also charged to the profit and loss account over the remaining vesting period. 
Where equity instruments are granted to persons other than employees, the profit and loss account is charged with the fair value  
of goods and services received. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the substance of the financial instrument’s contractual obligations, rather 
than the financial instruments legal form. 
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 81
financials 1. Parent Company accounting policies continued
Convertible bonds
The net proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability element and an equity component at the 
date of issue. The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible 
debt. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, 
representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity and is not remeasured. The 
liability component is carried at amortised cost. 
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying 
amounts at the date of issue. The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity. 
The finance cost on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate, at the time of issue, for 
similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument. The difference between this amount and the interest paid 
is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
2. Loss after tax
Company loss after tax for the year amounted to £13.0m. Audit fees for the Company were borne by other members of the Group 
and are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated Financial Statements.
3. Staff costs
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Employee costs including Directors were as follows:
Wages and salaries 2.8 3.2
Social security costs 0.4 0.4
Pension costs 0.2 0.2
3.4 3.8
During the year 14 employees were employed by the Company (2010: 14).
There were 2 (2010: 2) Directors in the Company’s defined contribution pension scheme. Further disclosures on the remuneration  
of each individual Director are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 44.
4. Investments
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m
Investment in subsidiary undertakings
As at 1 August 2010 88.3
Acquisitions –
Options issued to employees of subsidiary undertakings 0.8
As at 31 July 2011 89.1
The Company made no acquisitions in respect of subsidiary undertakings during the year (2010: £41.3m).  82 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
4. Investments continued 
The following principal subsidiaries were wholly owned at 31 July 2011: 
Activity
Country of incorporation  
or registration
Interactive Sports (CI) Limited Online betting Alderney
Interactive Sports Limited Online betting England
Sportingbet Australia Pty Limited Online and telephone betting Australia
Sbet Australia Pty Limited Australia holding company Australia
Internet Opportunity Entertainment (Sports) Limited Online betting Antigua and Barbuda
Sporting Odds Limited Online betting England
MLB Limited Contract call centre Ireland
Anfield Group Limited Investment holding company B.V.I.
Sb Properties (Guernsey) Limited Investment property holding company Guernsey
Sportingbet (Management Services) Limited Administrative services England
Sportingbet (IT Services) Limited Software development and IT related services England
Sportingbet (Product Services) Limited Market research, project management and 
web design services
England
Sportingbet Holdings Limited Group holding company England
Spread Your Wings Limited Online betting Malta
SBT Software Operations (SA) (PTY) Limited Online betting South Africa
For all undertakings listed previously, the country of incorporation is the same as the country of operation. Sportingbet Holdings 
Limited, Spread Your Wings Limited and SBT Software Operations (SA) (PTY) Limited are wholly owned subsidiaries of Sportingbet 
Plc. All other companies listed above are wholly owned subsidiaries of Sportingbet Holdings Limited.
5. Debtors
 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Other debtors 1.1 0.7
Prepayments and accrued income 0.9 1.4
Owed by subsidiary undertakings 109.4 77.2
111.4 79.3
The Company has agreed to provide its subsidiary undertakings with such financial support as is necessary to enable the subsidiaries 
to continue to trade and meet their obligations to third party creditors as and when they fall due. 
6. Cash at bank and in hand
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Cash 62.1 –
62.1 –
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 83
financials 7. Creditors
a. Amounts falling due within one year
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Bank loans 4.0 4.0
Accruals and deferred income 15.0 12.5
Due to subsidiary undertakings – 0.4
19.0 16.9
b. Amounts falling due after more than one year
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Accruals and deferred income – 11.6
Convertible bonds due 2016 52.7 –
52.7 11.6
Further description of the convertible bonds are given in Note 16 of the Group Financial Statements.
8. Share capital
2011 
£000
2010 
£000
Authorised
1,000m (2010: 1,000m) ordinary shares of 0.1p each 1,000 1,000
Allotted, issued and fully paid:
As at 31 July 2010: 502,038,144 shares of 0.1p each 502 484
Issues of ordinary shares: 154,761,904 shares 155 –
Issues in respect of exercised share options: 3,743,080 shares 4 18
As at 31 July 2011: 660,543,128 shares of 0.1p each 661 502
As at 31 July 2011 the following share options were outstanding in respect of ordinary shares:
Date of grant Ordinary shares of 0.1p Period of option
Exercise price 
(p)
December 2003 1,115,000 December 2006–December 2010 39.5
January 2004 539,375 January 2007–January 2011 49
February 2004 100,000 February 2007–January 2011 39.5
May 2004 50,000 May 2007–May 2011 94
October 2004 100,000 October 2007–October 2011 97.5
November 2004 95,000 November 2007–November 2014 131
August 2005 22,250 July 2007–July 2008 –
June 2008 902,484 November 2009–November 2011 –
January 2009 11,164,161 November 2010–November 2012 –
August 2009 703,334 November 2010–November 2012 –
August 2010 455,736 July 2011–July 2013 –
November 2010 671,538 July 2011–July 2014 –
January 2011 145,000 July 2011–July 2012 – 84 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
8. Share capital continued
As at 31 July 2011 there were 16,063,878 options or awards over ordinary shares outstanding, 2,429,860 of which relate to 
Directors, details of which can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 44.
Of the share options detailed above 784,375 relate to the Executive Scheme, 1,215,000 relate to the Unapproved Scheme, 22,250 
relate to the 2005 plan, 902,484 relate to the 2006 Share Plan, and 13,139,769 relate to the 2009 Restricted Share Plan. 
Further descriptions of the Group’s share-based payment plans are given in Note 20 of the Group Financial Statements. 
9. Reserves
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Equity  
portion of 
convertible 
bond
£m
Profit and loss 
account 
£m
As at 1 August 2010 58.8 – – 79.8
Employee share options 0.1 – – (0.7)
Convertible loan notes – 62.3 – –
Equity portion of convertible bond – – 10.3 –
Share option charge – – – 1.2
Dividends – – – (8.6)
Profit for the year – – – (13.0)
As at 31 July 2011 58.9 62.3 10.3 58.7
The movement in Company shareholders’ funds of £51.6m (2010: £72.3m) is wholly represented by the movements shown in 
reserves and share capital in Notes 8 and 9.
10. Related parties
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Financial Reporting Standard No. 8 “Related Party Disclosures” from the 
requirement to disclose transactions with Group companies on the grounds that all companies are wholly owned.
Transaction with Non-Executive Directors
Nigel Payne (Non-Executive Director) provided financial consultancy services to the Group amounting to £45,000 (2010: £20,000) 
via Merlin Financial Advisors LLP. 
Sean O’Connor (Non-Executive Director) provided marketing consultancy services to the Group amounting to £60,240  
(2010: £19,800) via The Sean O’Connor Consultancy Limited.
Transaction with key management personnel
The Company makes contributions into an Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) as part of a cash-based long-term incentive plan 
for certain key employees. Two Directors are beneficiaries of the EBT into which contributions of £0.5m was made in 2011 
(2010: £0.4m).
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 85
financials Registrars
All enquiries relating to shares or shareholdings should be 
addressed to: 
Capita Registrars 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent 
BR3 4TU
Shareholder Helpline: 0871 664 0300 – calls cost 10p per 
minute plus network extras, lines are open 8:30am–5:30pm 
Monday–Friday. If calling from overseas: +44 (0) 20 8639 3402
Facsimile: 01484 601512 
Email: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.co.uk
www.sportingbetplc.com 
The Company’s website provides, amongst other things, the 
latest news and details of the Company’s activities, share price 
information and links to the websites of our brands. The 
investor relations section of www.sportingbetplc.com contains 
up-to-date information including the Company’s latest results, 
the Company’s financial calendar and archived webcasts. 
Non-shareholders can register to receive notifications of the 
Company’s Annual Report and Accounts, and webcasts at 
www.sportingbetplc.com. 
www.sportingbet-shares.com 
Shareholders who prefer to receive communications about the 
Company by email are encouraged to register their details at the 
Company’s shareholder portal – www.sportingbet-shares.com. 
You will need your investor code (found on your share 
certificate or on correspondence from Capita Registrars) to 
complete this process at the first time of registering. Capita 
Registrars will send you a username and activation code by post 
and, upon receipt; you will then be able to access the 
Company’s shareholder portal. The shareholder portal provides 
shareholders of the Company with the ability to choose from 
the following services: 
(i) Annual Report and Accounts, AGM and EGM notices 
and webcasts 
Shareholders can choose to have these emailed to a specified 
email address rather than by post; 
(ii) Web proxy voting 
Shareholders can vote at AGMs or EGMs through  
www.sportingbet-shares.com or alternatively, via  
www.capitaregistrars.com by clicking on the “shareholder 
portal” and entering Sportingbet as the Company name.  
You will need your investor code for this service (which  
can be found on your share certificate); 
(iii) Announcements made to the London Stock Exchange
UK based shareholders can choose to receive certain RNS 
announcements by email; 
(iv) Direct dividend payments 
Dividends can be paid automatically into a shareholder’s bank 
or building society account. There are two primary benefits of 
this service: a) there is no chance of a shareholder’s dividend 
cheque going missing in the post; and b) the dividend payment 
is received more quickly because the cash sum is paid directly 
into the account on the payment date without the need to pay 
in the cheque and wait for it to clear. 
As an alternative, shareholders can download a dividend 
mandate to complete and post to Capita Registrars; 
(v) Change of address 
Shareholders can change their address directly online at www.
sportingbet-shares.com or by notifying Capita Registrars in 
writing at the above address; 
(vi) Your shareholding 
Shareholders can value their shareholding and view previous 
transactions in the Company’s shares; and
(vii) Share dealing 
A share dealing service is available to the Company’s 
shareholders to buy or sell the Company’s shares at Capita 
Share Dealing Services via www.sportingbetplc.com or  
www.sportingbet-shares.com. Telephone dealing is also 
available via Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0445 (calls cost  
10p per minute plus network extras).
Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking 
to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell the Company’s 
shares. Shareholders of the Company who are in any doubt as 
to what action to take are recommended to seek financial 
advice from an independent financial adviser authorised by the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
Lost share certificate 
If your share certificate is lost or stolen, you should immediately 
contact the Shareholder Helpline who will advise on the process 
for arranging a replacement. 
Duplicate shareholder accounts 
If, as a shareholder, you receive more than one copy of a 
communication from the Company you may have your shares 
registered in at least two accounts. This happens when the 
registration details of separate transactions differ slightly. If you 
wish to consolidate such multiple accounts, please call the 
Shareholder Helpline. 
ShareGift 
ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme. It is a free service 
for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes. It 
may be useful for those who wish to dispose of a small parcel of 
shares which would cost more to sell than they are worth. There 
are no capital gains tax implications (i.e. no gain or loss) on gifts 
of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax 
relief. Further information can be found at www.sharegift.org.
Shareholders’ Information 86 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date for 2011 final dividend 14 December 2011 
Record date for 2011 final dividend 16 December 2011 
Annual General Meeting at 4th Floor,  
45 Moorfields, London EC2Y 9AE
16 December 2011
Final dividend payment date for the 
financial year ended 31 July 2011
12 January 2012 
Consolidated dividend tax vouchers
Sportingbet Plc has a consolidated tax voucher (“CTV”) service 
for those shareholders who choose to receive dividends directly 
into their bank or building society account. Dividend funds will 
continue to be credited to your chosen account on the dividend 
payment date, but instead of receiving individual tax vouchers, 
you will receive a CTV detailing all the dividend payments in the 
tax year. These will be mailed at or shortly before the end of 
each tax year.
Choosing to have your dividends paid directly into your bank 
account and joining the CTV service helps shareholders and 
Sportingbet Plc reduce their environmental impact. If you would 
like to receive your dividends paid directly to your bank, please 
visit the shareholder portal at www.sportingbet-shares.com to 
download the form or to register your preference online.
If you wish to continue to receive individual tax vouchers  
for each dividend payment but prefer to receive the  
dividend electronically to your bank account, please contact  
our Registrars. 
Electronic tax vouchers
By registering your email address and choosing to receive 
documents electronically, you will be assisting the Company  
in reducing its environmental impact. Shareholders  
registering a valid email address will receive notification via 
email that an electronic tax voucher or electronic CTV is 
available for download from the shareholder’s website at  
www.sportingbet-shares.com/forms/login.aspx at the time  
each dividend is paid.
Shareholders’ Information
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is a convenient, easy and 
competitively priced way to build your shareholding by using 
your cash dividends to buy additional shares in Sportingbet.  
The service is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd. Capita IRG 
Trustees Ltd is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services 
Authority.
For further information about the Dividend Reinvestment Plan, 
please contact Capita, using the Shareholder Helpline.
Would you prefer to receive your next dividend in a 
currency other than sterling?
Capita Registrars can now convert your dividend into an 
alternative currency such as sterling, dollar or Australian dollar, 
and send you the funds by draft, or if you prefer pay them 
straight into your bank account. For more information about 
this service please contact our Registrars at:
Email: IPS@capitaregistrars.com
Telephone: +44 20 8639 3405 (from outside the UK)
Or 0871 664 0385 (from within the UK)
calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open 
9:00am–5:30pm Monday–Friday
or go to
www.capitaregistrars.com/international Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 87
financials Year ended 
31 July 2007 
£m
Year ended 
31 July 2008 
£m
Year ended 
31 July 2009 
£m
Year ended 
31 July 2010 
£m
Year ended 
31 July 2011 
£m
Amounts wagered 1,060.9 1,347.8 1,577.2 1,971.3 2,053.9
Net gaming revenue 117.2 144.3 163.6 207.5 204.0
Other operating revenue – – – – 2.3
Total revenue 117.2 144.3 163.6 207.5 206.3
Operating profit before exceptional items, share option 
charge and amortisation 7.8 24.7 31.1 35.4 38.1
Exceptional items (26.8) (12.0) (4.2) (24.5) (10.8)
Share option charge (9.9) (8.0) (3.1) (2.0) (1.2)
Amortisation (1.8) (3.9) (1.9) (1.8) (1.7)
Group operating profit/(loss) (30.7) (0.8) 21.9 7.1 24.4
Net finance income/(cost) 1.0 0.4 0.4 (0.2) (0.6)
Profit/(loss) before taxation (29.7) 1.2 22.3 6.9 23.8
Taxation (1.2) (3.5) (0.5) (3.0) (3.1)
Profit/(loss) for the period (30.9) (2.3) 21.8 3.9 20.7
Loss for the period from discontinued operations (281.3) (2.0) (9.4) – –
Group profit/(loss) for the period (312.2) (4.3) 12.4 3.9 20.7
Earnings per share
Basic (73.2p) (0.5p) 4.6p 0.8p 3.9p
Basic adjusted 4.4p 4.8p 6.5p 6.5p 6.6p
Diluted adjusted 4.0p 4.2p 6.0p 6.2p 6.3p
Financial Summary 88 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Secretary
D Talisman LLB (Hons) FCIS
Registered Office
4th Floor
45 Moorfields 
London EC2Y 9AE
Company Number 3534726
Registrars
Capita Registrars
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU
Auditors
Grant Thornton UK LLP
Grant Thornton House
Melton Street
London NW1 2EP
Financial Advisers
Lazard & Co., Limited
50 Stratton Street
London W1J 8LL
Stockbrokers
Oriel Securities Limited
150 Cheapside
London EC2V 6ET
Daniel Stewart & Company PLC
Becket House
36 Old Jewry
London EC2R 8DD
Solicitors
Nabarro
Lacon House
84 Theobald’s Road
London WC1X 8RW
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank Plc
Floor 27
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP
Press Office
Maitland
Orion House
5 Upper St Martin’s Lane
London WC2H 9EA
Corporate Directory Business 
fundamentals
01
Geographic 
diversity
Regulatory and gaming risk 
exposure minimised by a highly 
tailored local market offering.
See page 4
02
Best-in-class  
product suite
A sportsbook product that  
is increasingly valuable and 
difficult to replicate.
See page 8
03
Building on our  
core strengths
Providing an enhanced and 
unique customer experience 
through enterprise and 
innovation.
See page 12
04
Benefit from external  
growth drivers
Positive market trends indicate 
significant potential to expand.
See page 16 Business 
fundamentals
01
Geographic 
diversity
Regulatory and gaming risk 
exposure minimised by a highly 
tailored local market offering.
See page 4
02
Best-in-class  
product suite
A sportsbook product that  
is increasingly valuable and 
difficult to replicate.
See page 8
03
Building on our  
core strengths
Providing an enhanced and 
unique customer experience 
through enterprise and 
innovation.
See page 12
04
Benefit from external  
growth drivers
Positive market trends indicate 
significant potential to expand.
See page 16 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2011
Sportingbet Plc
4th Floor, 45 Moorfields
London EC2Y 9AE
Tel: +44 20 7184 1800
Email: investor@sportingbet.com
www.sportingbetplc.com
Sportingbet Plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
04 Geographic diversity
06 Group Chief Executive’s Q&A
08 Best-in-class products
10 Key performance indicators
12 Building on our core strengths
14 Regulation in brief
16 Building from external   
growth drivers
Business Review
18 Overview
20 Europe and Australia
22 Corporate social responsibility
25 Financial review
26 Management of principal risks
30 Board of Directors
Governance
32 Corporate Governance Statement
36 Directors’ Report
39 Remuneration Report
45 Regulatory Developments
Financials
48 Independent Audit Report 
49 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
50 Consolidated Balance Sheet
51 Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity 
52 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
53 Notes to the Financial Statements
78 Parent Company Independent 
Auditor’s Report
79 Parent Company Balance Sheet
80 Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
85 Shareholders’ Information
87 Financial Summary
88 Corporate Directory Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2011
Sportingbet Plc
4th Floor, 45 Moorfields
London EC2Y 9AE
Tel: +44 20 7184 1800
Email: investor@sportingbet.com
www.sportingbetplc.com
Sportingbet Plc  Annual Report 2011
Overview
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
04 Geographic diversity
06 Group Chief Executive’s Q&A
08 Best-in-class products
10 Key performance indicators
12 Building on our core strengths
14 Regulation in brief
16 Building from external   
growth drivers
Business Review
18 Overview
20 Europe and Australia
22 Corporate social responsibility
25 Financial review
26 Management of principal risks
30 Board of Directors
Governance
32 Corporate Governance Statement
36 Directors’ Report
39 Remuneration Report
45 Regulatory Developments
Financials
48 Independent Audit Report 
49 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
50 Consolidated Balance Sheet
51 Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity 
52 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
53 Notes to the Financial Statements
78 Parent Company Independent 
Auditor’s Report
79 Parent Company Balance Sheet
80 Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
85 Shareholders’ Information
87 Financial Summary
88 Corporate Directory
