 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
 Annual 
Report 
2012 Contents
Overview
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
Business Review 
04 Chief Executive’s review
06 Europe
08 Australia
10 Key performance indicators
12 Corporate social responsibility
17 Financial review
18 Management of principal risks
22 Board of Directors
Governance 
24 Corporate Governance Statement
28 Directors’ Report
31 Remuneration Report
39 Regulatory Developments 2012
Financials 
42 Independent Audit Report 
43 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
44 Consolidated Balance Sheet
45 Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity 
46 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
47 Notes to the Financial Statements
73 Parent Company Independent  
Audit Report
74 Parent Company Balance Sheet
75 Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
80 Shareholders’ Information
82 Financial Summary
83 Corporate Directory
was
one of the first
and remains one
of the leading
online gaming
companies
in the world.
Sportingbet 01
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Gross Gaming Revenue by Product – 2012
2012 2011
Sports 76% 71%
Casino and games 18% 21%
Poker 6% 8%
Sports Revenue Breakdown – 2012
2012 2011
Football 46.0% 59.0%
Australian horse-racing 33.0% 21.0%
Mixed sport multiples 3.5% 3.8%
Basketball 3.5% 4.2%
Tennis 4.5% 4.4%
Horse-racing 1.1% 0.9%
Other 8.4% 6.7%
Gross Gaming Revenue by Domain – 2012
2012 2011
Australia 42.8% 17.9%
Other 15.5% 14.8%
Greece 9.4% 14.2%
Spain 7.4% 13.2%
Turkey 7.1% 22.4%
Emerging Markets 4.8% 5.1%
Germany 4.7% 4.8%
UK 4.6% 4.5%
Czech Republic 3.7% 3.1%
Highlights
Overview
Group Financial Highlights for the year
2012 
£m
20011
£m
Amounts wagered 2,349.2 2,053.9
Total revenue 188.9 206.3
EBITDA
1
56.8 51.4
Adjusted operating profit
1
32.2 38.1
Operating (loss)/profit (39.1) 24.4
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 (p) 5.3 6.3
Diluted EPS (p) (6.8) 3.9
Dividend per share (p) 1.7 1.7
1. Adjusted to exclude exceptional items of £71.6m (2011: £10.8m), share option 
charge and amortisation of acquired intangible assets
Group 
 Amounts wagered up 14%
 80% of revenue derived from regulated and/or 
taxed territories
 Centrebet acquisition completed 31 August 2011
 Disposal of Turkish language website completed 
21 November 2011
 Final dividend of 1.1p making a total for the year 
of 1.7p (2011: 1.7p)
Australia
 Australia’s leading fixed odds internet and phone 
bookmaker by amounts wagered 
 Amounts wagered online up 82% (like for like 
up 11%)
 Integration of Centrebet successfully completed 
with realised synergies of £15m p.a. £5.2m higher 
than originally planned
 New mobile apps for both brands and new 
Centrebet website launched in June
 Amounts wagered on mobile up 339% now 
accounting for 28% of revenue and 40% of players 
Europe and Emerging Markets
 Amounts wagered down 30% (like for like 
down 9%)
 In:play continues to produce industry leading 
margins of 9.7%
 New in:play Console launched offering enhanced 
user experience
 Mobile penetration in UK and Spain now up 
to 30%
 Spanish, Danish, Maltese, Italian licences obtained 
 Betting taxes rose by a net £9.4m 
 European cost base reduced with £15m annualised 
costs removed 02
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Overview
Chairman’s 
statement 
This has been a year of significant change 
and progress for the Group. In particular, 
in August 2011 the acquisition of the 
Australian focused Centrebet business 
was completed, making the Company 
the largest fixed odds internet and phone 
bookmaker by amounts wagered in the 
country. This was followed in November 
by the disposal of our Turkish language 
website. These corporate transactions, 
together with the passing of online gaming 
laws in two of our largest markets, Greece 
and Spain, have seen our revenue mix 
shift decisively towards licensed and taxed 
jurisdictions. The Group’s revenue derived 
from regulated and/or taxed countries has 
risen to a current run rate of over 80%.
I am also pleased to announce a strong 
set of financial results for the year with 
amounts wagered up 14% to £2,349m 
and EBITDA increasing 11% to £56.8m 
despite some significant challenges 
encountered during the year. 
Based on our experience of the 
regulated Australian market, an initial 
reduction in profitability resulting 
from the implementation of taxes is 
more than offset in the medium term. 
New opportunities resulting from the 
increased ability to advertise, improved 
trustworthiness and better payment 
processing efficiency, combined with an 
existing strong brand presence, provide 
an enhanced platform for medium‑term 
profit growth. As a result the Group is in 
a stronger position to capitalise on stable, 
well regulated and growing markets.
The long‑term prognosis for the industry 
remains positive as the size of the online 
fixed odds sports betting market increases 
each year due to more customers being 
able to access the product through 
increased broadband penetration and 
the growth in smartphones and tablets. 
Although this growth can be disguised 
by the short‑term impact of regulation 
or economic recession, it is still evident 
in certain countries or channels. The 
mobile channel is currently demonstrating 
significant growth in our largest market, 
Australia, with the percentage of revenue 
derived from mobile increasing from 
5% last year to 28% in July 2012.
In Australia the acquisition and integration 
of Centrebet was completed on schedule 
with higher synergy benefits realised than 
originally planned. Online sports betting 
remains a very attractive growth market 
as customers turn away from retail, tote 
products. The division now accounts for 
over half of Group revenue on a proforma 
basis and is currently the key driver and 
component of the Group’s profits.
In Europe, the disposal of the Turkish 
language website, the passing of online 
regulations in our two largest markets, 
Greece and Spain and the current economic 
difficulties have warranted the investment 
of significant management time. The 
business has undertaken a restructuring 
programme resulting in a reduction in 
fixed costs of £15m p.a., which leaves 
a cost base that is expected to produce 
a profit at budgeted revenue levels. 
Peter Dicks
Chairman 03
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
The Emerging Markets division has had 
an excellent year and continues to provide 
the Group with the benefits of operating 
across a broad geographic base. The 
medium‑term possibilities presented by 
the division are significant as customers 
increasingly take up our fixed odds sports 
betting offering in Africa and South America.
Our overall strategy of providing a first 
class sports betting product and offering 
customers an unprecedented number of 
betting opportunities at all times of the day, 
remains unchanged. Sports betting remains 
our core focus as it offers the greatest scope 
to differentiate our product from competitors 
and provides significant barriers to new 
entrants. Our long‑term trading strategy 
has been consistently executed, leveraging 
our proprietary best‑in‑class trading 
technology resulting in the delivery of an 
outstanding trading performance with best 
in class margin. To provide a comprehensive 
suite of products for our customers, we 
supplement the core sports offering with 
casino, games and poker products bought 
in from the leading suppliers in the industry. 
Finally, I am pleased to announce that 
the Board has proposed a final dividend 
of 1.1p (2011: 1.1p). This brings the total 
dividend for the year to 1.7p (2011: 1.7p).
“ The Group is now 
well positioned 
to capitalise  
on stable, 
well regulated 
growing markets.” 04
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review
Chief 
Executive’ s 
review
Sportingbet is one of the world’s leading 
online gaming operators with divisions 
focused on Australia, Europe and Emerging 
Markets. The Group’s Australian division 
is based in Darwin and Sydney, operating 
under a licence provided by the Northern 
Territory Government. The European 
operation is based in the Channel Islands 
and Malta, operating under licences 
provided by the Alderney Gambling Control 
Commission, Spain, Italy, Denmark and 
Malta. This is supported by an operational 
centre in Dublin providing customer services 
and administrative support. In total the 
Group now employs over 690 people. 
 
Betting on sports is at the heart of the 
Sportingbet business, accounting for 76% 
(2011: 71%) of Group gross gaming revenue. 
Football has been our main product for 
many years accounting for 46% of gross 
gaming revenue, however the reshaping of 
the Group has resulted in a better diversified 
revenue stream with 33% coming from 
Australian horse‑ racing. The commitment 
to offering a wide range of betting markets 
remains with over 31 sports covered.
In:play, betting whilst the event is happening, 
remains a very significant component of 
revenue in our European and Emerging 
Markets business accounting for 61% of 
the amounts wagered. Our in:play margin 
of 9.7% (2011: 9.9%) continues to be 
the highest in the industry as a result of 
our experienced trading team, bespoke 
technology and wide product offering. 
While sports betting remains the focus 
of the business, we provide a complete 
range of other gaming products to our 
customers including casino, games and 
poker. Casino and games contribute 18% 
of Group gross gaming revenue whilst 
poker makes up the remaining 6%. These 
products are not offered to our Australian 
customers due to regulatory constraints. 
Andrew McIver
Group Chief Executive 05
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Outlook
The Group has had a solid start to the new 
financial year in line with our expectations.
With over 80% of our revenue coming from 
regulated countries we are confident that 
the increased advertising opportunities, 
improved payment processing and 
stable business platform provided by 
our regulated market presence will drive 
profitable growth in the medium term.
Whilst the economic outlook remains 
challenging, our robust position gives us 
confidence for the current financial year. 
“ B et t i n g o n 
sports is at 
the heart of 
the Sportingbet 
business, 
accounting 
for 76% 
of Group  
gross  
gaming  
revenue.” 06
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review
Europe
The European business (incorporating the 
financial results for the Emerging Markets 
Division) has experienced a year of change 
with the disposal of the Turkish language 
website and the implementation of new 
regulatory and tax regimes in some of 
its markets, including two of its largest, 
Spain and Greece. In addition, the difficult 
economic conditions across much of 
Europe have depressed trading. These 
factors have seen the amount wagered on 
sports decrease by 31% to £814.0m (2011: 
£1,174.6m). NGR also fell to £103.7m (2011: 
£166.8m) down 38%, although this was 
also partly due to new gambling taxes paid 
during the year of £11.3m. Underlying NGR 
at constant currency, taking into account 
the disposal of Turkey and the increases 
in taxes fell by 12%. However during the 
period our Spanish website was also closed 
for two months due to a court injunction 
which accounted for 3% of this decrease. 
Greece, which accounted for 5% of Group 
amounts wagered, had a particularly 
tough year due to economic conditions 
and the passing of the online gaming 
bill in August 2011. Amounts wagered 
fell by 21% following a decrease of a 
similar size in 2011 of 22%. NGR fell by 
a larger percentage, 37%, largely due to 
the imposition of the 30% gaming duty. 
Greek tax, net of our partner’s share, 
has been paid or accrued totalling £7.2m 
in the period. Our business remains the 
online market leader in the country.
Our Spanish business, which operates under 
the brand name Miapuesta, accounted 
for 6% of Group amounts wagered. It 
was a difficult year for the business as 
it encountered several headwinds. The 
introduction of a 25% NGR tax in the May 
2011 online gaming bill were compounded 
by difficult economic conditions and a two 
month enforced closure of the website 
due to an injunction from a Spanish land 
based casino operator. Despite the closure 
of the website and the regulatory ban 
preventing the contacting of previous 
customers, the opening of the new 
licensed website on 5 June has proved the 
resilience of our market leading brand. 
By September 2012 the business had 
recovered ahead of our expectations with 
around 50% of the sportsbook actives 
levels seen in the previous year. Casino 
and games has seen a more pronounced 
fall in the initial period of 85% in NGR, 
which we are unlikely to see significantly 
improve due to the product restrictions 
introduced by the regulatory regime. 
The continued introduction of regulation 
in many of our European markets is a 
development we welcome as it provides 
greater certainty for the continuity of future 
income streams and increased consumer 
protection. Although the initial impact is to 
reduce profits as gaming duty is absorbed 
and product restrictions are implemented, 
there is also evidence from countries such 
as Italy and Australia that the market size 
increases substantially post regulation. 
If this is the case in countries such as 
Greece and Spain, where our brands have 
enjoyed a market leading position over the 
last few years, we are well positioned to 
recover profitability in the medium term.
One of the difficult aspects of regulation 
is that it absorbs management and IT 
resources. This has been particularly the 
case over the last year as Spain, Denmark 
and Italy have all awarded licenses to the 
Group. However, as IT resources have been 
freed they have been redirected towards 
improving the product and customer 
experience. Our new and improved In:play 
Console was rolled out with enhancements 
including improved navigation, content 
and personalisation features. 
 
In January 2012 we acquired two Danish 
companies for a total of £8m which 
compliment our existing Sportingbet and 
Centrebet brands. Although the Danish 
market is relatively small, we believe 
that the regulatory regime introduced 
is fair and gives the Group a strong 
possibility of showcasing our products 
and building a strong market position. 
2012 2011 +/–
Sports actives 426,016 429,154 –1%
Sports bets 72.8m 78.9m –8%
Sports bets/active 171 184 –7%
Sports bet size £11.28 £15.01 –25%
Yield per sports active £160 £277 –42%
Casino and games bets 587.7m 581.4m +1%
Casino and games bet size £2.57 £2.43 +6% 07
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
In November 2011 our Turkish language 
website, which had accounted for 26% of 
European and Emerging markets revenue 
in the first quarter, was sold. The Group’s 
strategy has been to move towards 
increasing the proportion of regulated 
earnings and it was recognised that the 
Turkish market was unlikely to licence in a 
suitable manner for the foreseeable future. 
The European cost base has been 
restructured to reflect the significant loss of 
income from the Turkish disposal and the 
implementation of gaming duty in some 
markets as mentioned above. The fixed 
cost base has been reduced by £15m p.a., 
approximately 25% of the 2011 total, for 
a cash outflow of £5m. The restructuring 
was completed in July 2012 and the 
current cost base is suitable for the scale 
of the business and its planned revenue.
The economic recession felt in our largest 
European markets has impacted the 
number of sports actives, which fell by 1%. 
However, by providing markets to bet on 
every minute of every day we limited the fall 
in the number of sports bets placed to 8% 
at 72.8m (2011: 78.9m) and the number of 
bets per customer fell to 171 (2011: 184). 
Both the average bet size and the yield per 
sports active decreased, to £11.28 (2011: 
£15.01) and £160 (2011: £277) respectively.
Once again the European business produced 
an industry leading sports margin of 
8.3% (2011: 10.0%). In:play betting in our 
European business accounted for 66% of 
the value of bets placed during the year and 
a gross margin of 9.7%. The development 
of our in:play service continued during the 
year, with the number of events offered 
rising by 14% to 67,548. The number 
of markets per event has also risen with 
derivative programmes, which improve the 
accuracy and consistency of returns, being 
rolled across several sports in addition to 
those already used in our football product.
The Emerging Markets division saw NGR 
fall 12% (1% at constant currency) as the 
2011 Copa America comparatives were high 
and our South American businesses had 
no comparable competition in this financial 
year. Our licensed South African business 
recorded growth in amounts wagered 
of 117% which is the fourth consecutive 
year that growth has exceeded 100%. 
Looking forward to the coming financial 
year we expect to see our competitive 
position and market share further enhanced 
by the release of a licensed mobile betting 
product in South Africa in the first quarter. 
The mobile penetration rate in South 
Africa is rapidly approaching the 100% 
mark. With the recent introduction of 
significantly lower‑ cost mobile broadband 
services the expectation is for a significant 
increase in the number of high speed 
data subscribers capable of accessing our 
products and services via mobile devices. 
Mobile usage has risen to around 15% to 
30% in our more mature domains, with 
the take up varying widely from country 
to country depending on smartphone 
penetration. Those customers using 
smartphones tend to spend more across both 
online and mobile channels. We now have a 
Sportingbet or Miapuesta application in the 
Apple App Store in every regulated market.
Casino and games gross revenue fell 
by 20% to £37.8m (2011: £47.5m). Our 
industry leading product range led to 
a 1% increase in the number of bets, 
but the difficult economic conditions 
and regulatory restrictions in markets 
such as Greece and Spain caused a 6% 
decrease in the average bet size. 
Poker gross revenue decreased to £11.3m 
(2011: £17.7m) in challenging market 
conditions, exacerbated by the significantly 
larger liquidity offered by a market dominant 
competitor. Towards the end of the year 
we launched a multi‑ room solution for 
Poker to give Paradise Poker customers 
the widest available range of tables, 
tournaments, features and promotions. 
Our casino and games and competitive 
poker product remain an essential part of 
our offering, creating a “one stop shop” 
proven to increase customer loyalty.  08
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review
Australia
No. 1 for
online
gambling 09
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Australia is one of the world’s largest 
sports betting markets and one of the 
most advanced in terms of regulation and 
tax following market liberalisation in late 
2008. Since 2008 Sportingbet has been 
able to compete on a level playing field 
with the incumbent tote operators and has 
consequently experienced an internet NGR 
CAGR of 34% supported by a CAGR of 31% 
in the number of actives, as customers have 
moved online to bet on fixed odds. Due to 
the stability of the regulatory regime, the 
size of the market and its growth rates, 
the Australian market is one of the most 
attractive in the world, hence the Group 
further consolidated its position in the 
market through the acquisition of Centrebet 
on 31 August 2011. The integration of 
Centrebet and Sportingbet operations was 
completed by the end of June 2012. In the 
latest independent report on the market for 
the year ended June 2011, the internet and 
phone channels to market accounted for 
27% of the total Australian sports betting 
market. The Sportingbet and Centrebet 
brands account for 36% of this growing 
segment of the market, or 10% of the 
overall Australian sports betting market.
Amounts wagered in Australia increased by 
82% from £820m to £1,493.1m resulting 
in a pre‑ gaming duty margin of £101.1m 
(2011: £47.0m). The underlying like for 
like growth rates were impressive with 
amounts wagered up 11% and NGR up 
31%, continuing the strong growth rates 
experienced over the last few years. Market 
data suggests that the customers who use 
our products tend to be satisfied, loyal, high 
value and frequent visitors to the site which 
reflects the breadth of our product offering. 
After accounting for gambling taxes and 
product fees of £19.1m (2011: £9.9m), the 
post tax margin increased by 120% from 
£37.2m to £82.0m at a margin of 5.5% 
(2011: 4.9%). The rise in margin is driven 
by the change in business mix as customers 
continued to move towards higher margin 
mobile and internet products. Mobile 
revenue, which generates a margin of 
9.8%, rose 369% driven by an increase of 
214% in the number of actives. Revenue 
from customers betting over the internet 
continued to grow strongly with actives 
up 6% and NGR rising 18%. These two 
channels to market now account for 78% 
of total revenue and have more than offset 
the decrease experienced in the low margin 
legacy telephone business, which fell 1% 
and now accounts for just 22% of revenue.
The integration of Centrebet was completed 
in line with the original time schedule. Both 
the Sportingbet and Centrebet brands have 
been retained and are continuing to be 
aimed at different sectors of the market. The 
support functions, such as trading, customer 
service, IT and finance have been integrated 
to achieve maximum synergies, whilst at 
the same time ensuring that the product 
remains the most advanced fixed odds 
racing and sports experience in Australia. 
The original estimate of the synergies was 
£9.8m. As the integration progressed more 
synergies were identified than were originally 
envisaged, especially in areas such as IT and 
management. The final level of synergies 
obtained were £15m p.a., which equates 
to around one third of Centrebet revenue. 
The cash cost of obtaining the synergies 
was slightly higher than planned at £8m 
rather than the initial estimate of £5m.
Both brands are now operating out of the 
same office locations and the Centrebet 
brand has been transferred onto the 
Sportingbet proprietary owned IT platform 
for both the website and the mobile 
products. At acquisition the combined 
headcount of the two companies was 341 
with Centrebet having 225 staff. After 
the full integration of IT and restructuring 
of all departments, Sportingbet Group 
Australia now comprises 216 staff. 
During the year Sportingbet successfully 
recovered GST of Aus$9.1m from 
the Australian Tax office relating to 
overseas wagers. This amount has been 
included within exceptional items.
In May, a court case in New South Wales 
upheld the validity of product fees being 
based on a turnover percentage of amounts 
wagered rather than as a percentage 
of NGR. As a result Victoria changed to 
a turnover based tax and Queensland 
increased its tax rate resulting in an 
expected rise in tax payable of around 
Aus$6m in the financial year 2012–13.
There is the medium‑term possibility of 
significantly increasing profitability if the 
Australian Government regulates to allow 
betting in:play, online casino, games and 
poker. The Productivity Commission report 
in January 2010 recommended regulation of 
all products and the present Government has 
initiated a review of the Interactive Gaming 
Act. The final results of the consultation 
process and any proposed changes to the 
draft law have not yet been published.
2012 2011 +/–
Internet
Sports bets 39.2m 26.4m +49%
Sports bet/active 262 341 –23%
Sports bets size Aus$34 Aus$26 +34%
Sports margin  
(post tax) 6.8% 6.8% –
2012 2011 +/–
Telephone
Sports bets 1.5m 1.4m +8%
Sports bet/active 50 77 –35%
Sports bets size Aus$445 Aus$427 +4%
Sports margin  
(post tax) 2.6% 2.5% +5%
2012 2011 +/–
Mobile
Sports bets 7.7m 0.9m +710%
Sports bet/active 85 55 +54%
Sports bets size Aus$37 Aus$43 –14%
Sports margin  
(post tax) 8.5% 8.3% +2% 10
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review
Key performance 
indicators
Key performance indicators (“KPIs”) 
enable us to understand what is driving 
our financial performance and give us 
a better understanding of how customers 
are engaging with us.
Number of sports bets
The number of sports bets is a KPI showing 
us how many bets are placed during a given 
period. We can then break these results 
down to track number of bets per active, 
per country and per product. Such analysis 
allows us to monitor engagement, ensuring 
our customer interaction is second to none.
0 10 20 30 40 50
2011–12
2010–11
2009–10
2008–09
Australia million
Australia has seen a significant increase 
largely from the acquisition of Centrebet, 
which accounted for 27% of the sports bets 
in 2011–12. Sports bets in the core Australian 
business continued to increase at 22% as the 
benefits of mobile and marketing campaigns 
were implemented post the relaxation on 
advertising regulations in September 2008.
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
2011–12
2010–11
2009–10
2008–09
Europe and Emerging Markets 
(excl Turkey) million
Sports bets experienced a 15% decrease 
on prior year due principally to the current 
economic difficulties which is highlighted 
by the 33% and 9% decreases in Spain 
and Greece respectively. However, 
continual investment in mobile betting 
shows an increase in Sports bets on 
mobile of 159% on prior year. 11
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Sports net gaming revenue margin 
(“NGR”)
NGR is the amount retained by Sportingbet 
from bets placed by our customers net 
of promotional bonuses. Being able to 
see our NGR percentage year on year 
for each of our individual products 
allows us to make decisions on how 
best to develop these products and 
improve the customer experience. 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
2011–12
2010–11
2009–10
2008–09
Australia %
The increase in margin % over the past four 
years reflects the move from telephone to 
internet and mobile betting, which generates 
a margin of 9.8%. This move has taken away 
business from its traditional higher, but less 
frequent staking telephone customers, to 
more low but frequent staking bettors.
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
2011–12
2010–11
2009–10
2008–09
Europe and Emerging Markets %
Despite a challenging economic climate 
our world class trading team has continued 
to provide an industry leading sports 
NGR %. Their expertise, combined with 
our sole ownership of our technology 
sets us apart from the competition and 
puts us in good stead for the future.
Sports yield per active
This KPI is a good indicator of how much our 
customers bet and the amount of profit we 
make once their winnings have been paid. 
Essentially, sports yield is the net gaming 
revenue per active sports betting customer.
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
2011–12
2010–11
2009–10
2008–09
Australia £
This is a good reflection of the higher margin 
that mobile offers and the move away from 
telephone. Mobile activities rose 214% which 
drove a 369% increase in mobile revenue.
0 50 100 150 200 250
2011–12
2010–11
2009–10
2008–09
Europe and Emerging Markets 
(excl Turkey) £
Once again, the results are very much 
reflective of the climate in which we find 
ourselves in Europe over the past couple 
of years. Spain and Greece, which account 
for a combined 17% of NGR, were big 
drivers of the decrease in yield per active.
Active sports customers
This is simply the number of customers 
placing at least one real‑money 
sports bet in the period. 
0 50 100 150 200
2011–12
2010–11
2009–10
2008–09
Australia thousands 
The 109% rise in active sports customers 
includes the acquisition of Centrebet. On 
a like for like basis, there has been an 11% 
increase and this is a measure of our success 
at recruiting and retaining customers. The 
significant increases year on year reflects 
the benefits of TV advertising which began 
in the second half of the 2009–10 year, 
along with the investments to improve 
both online and mobile offerings. 
0 100 200 300 400 500
2011–12
2010–11
2009–10
2008–09
Europe and Emerging Markets
(excl Turkey) thousands
Sports actives were 1% down on 2010–11 
despite the closure of the Spanish website 
and the regulatory ban preventing the 
contacting of previous customers. 12
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review
Corporate social 
responsibility
We are dedicated to achieving a number of non‑financial 
objectives and recognise the importance of all stakeholders 
in our business. Developing responsible betting and gaming 
practices to protect vulnerable customers is a key part of this 
commitment. We strive to provide a safe and supportive working 
environment for our employees and recognise the importance 
of supporting the local communities in which we operate.
Social Responsibility Committee
The Committee is responsible for 
reviewing the Company’s policies on 
corporate responsibility and stimulating 
Group‑wide best practice on matters 
including age verification, fraud, 
anti‑money laundering, responsible 
gaming, self‑exclusion and privacy.
The Committee is chaired by Non‑Executive 
Director, Brian Harris and its other members 
are Non‑Executive Director, Chris Moss, 
and the Company’s General Counsel and 
Company Secretary, Daniel Talisman, who 
also acts as the Committee’s Secretary. 
The Board intends to review the composition 
of all committees (including the Social 
Responsibility Committee) following the 
release of the Company’s financial year 
results on 3 October 2012. The Committee 
met five times during the last financial 
year. The Head of Compliance and the 
Group Head of Human Resources attend 
its meetings and the Group Chief Executive 
is appraised of the Committee’s work at 
least twice in the course of the year.
Appropriate recommendations are made to 
the Company’s Board. Terms of Reference 
can be viewed on www.sportingbetplc.com 
and are available in writing on request.
Customers
Customers are at the very core of our 
business and we focus on building customer 
relationships centred on trust, integrity and 
loyalty. We continuously strive to enhance 
the quality of our services for the benefit 
of our customers and our policy on social 
responsibility lies very much at the heart 
of this approach. We believe that to 
serve our customers better and in order 
to behave responsibly towards them we 
need to know who they are. Accordingly 
our customer policies are founded on 
the tenet of “Know Your Customer”.
To enable us to get to know our customers 
we use URU and Aristotle as independent 
third party suppliers who provide us with 
online age and identity verification services. 
Customers’ registration details are verified 
against third party suppliers’ databases 
to ensure that they are over 18 years old. 
These databases utilise data harvested 
from a variety of global governmental 
and corporate official records containing 
known individuals aged over 18 only. 
Our efforts to know our customers extend 
beyond collecting documentary evidence of 
people’s identities. We seek to understand 
each customer’s individual requirements 
and concerns by closely researching their 
patterns of behaviour. By building profiles 
of our customers, their gaming activities 
and preferences we can target customers 
with appropriate marketing strategies. 
This lies at the heart of our Customer 
Relationship Management policies. 13
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Monitoring the different ways in which 
customers spend money and what they 
spend it on provides us with an overall 
understanding of their motivation for 
gambling. For almost all of our customers 
online gambling is an entertainment 
pastime, and our products, promotions 
and culture make their relationship with us 
an enjoyable experience. There is always 
however a small minority of potential 
customers, who may be either under‑ age 
gamblers or players who are addicted 
to gambling that result in the need for 
comprehensive systems and procedures to 
safeguard their interests as well as our own.
We also commit significant time and 
investment to identifying organisational 
and software driven solutions to identifying 
fraud. With multi‑player environments 
such as poker, we are particularly vigilant 
about the risk of collusion or irregular 
fund movements between participants. 
We have designed systems to highlight 
unusual or concerning patterns of play. 
We recognise however that nothing can 
ever be entirely secure against determined 
offenders, but we are nevertheless focused 
on mitigating such risks as much as possible.
Employees
Our Board is of the firm belief that our 
success is due to the quality and commitment 
of our workforce. The Company’s employee 
management priorities, including its 
remuneration and reward strategies, 
are based on recruiting and retaining 
the best people in the industry and on 
implementing and encouraging working 
practices that improve productivity, 
drive high performance, optimise 
costs, develop talent and enhance 
employee engagement.
The Board recognises the need for 
communication with employees at every 
level. Weekly sales notes and all quarterly 
results announcements are circulated 
to employees and copies of the Annual 
Report and Accounts are also made 
available. The Company is committed 
to developing ongoing communication 
with all of its employees. This is achieved 
through a variety of channels, including the 
Group’s intranet, to ensure that everyone 
is informed of the Group’s progress and 
recognises the key roles that they, as 
employees, play in Sportingbet’s success. 
Annually we have a mechanism in the form 
of a survey to gain feedback from employees 
and “test” the level of engagement within 
the organisation. The results of these surveys 
are used throughout the year in order to 
raise Sportingbet’s engagement with staff.
The Group is committed to a policy of 
equal opportunity in matters relating 
to employment, training and career 
development of employees and is opposed 
to any form of less favourable treatment 
afforded on the grounds of age, disability, 
sex, marital status, sexual orientation, 
nationality, race or religion. We aim to create 
a working environment in which all people 
are able to give of their best, there is no 
bullying and harassment or discrimination, 
and all decisions are based on merit.
Health and safety policy
A key component of our corporate 
responsibility policy is to provide safe 
and healthy working conditions for 
our employees. We have adopted a 
health and safety policy to implement 
this ambition which covers:
•	 identifying hazards in the workplace, 
assessing the risks associated with them, 
and implementing appropriate preventive 
and protective measures; 
•	 safeguarding the health and safety of 
visitors, contractors and of any members 
of the general public who could be 
affected by our activities; 
•	 ensuring the workplaces under our control 
are maintained in a safe condition, without 
risks to health, and with safe means of 
access; 
•	 providing and maintaining safe equipment 
with procedures in place for reporting 
faulty equipment;
•	 providing all employees with sufficient 
information, instruction and training to 
enable them to work safely and to raise 
standards of health and safety in the 
workplace for themselves and their 
colleagues;
•	 establishing and implementing safe 
methods of work;
•	 maintaining procedures to be followed 
in the event of an emergency; and
•	 ensuring adequate resources are made 
available to fulfil this policy. 
The Board is ultimately responsible for 
health and safety. Specific local managers 
have delegated responsibilities for the 
day to day operation of the health and 
safety policy in their own locations. 14
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review
Group Finance Director, Jim Wilkinson, 
is responsible for ensuring compliance with 
this policy and for health and safety in all 
the Company’s offices. He is competent 
to advise and assist the Board in the 
discharge of their duties under this policy. 
Regulators and trade bodies
We speak to the relevant industry regulators 
on a regular basis and we seek to deal 
with them in an open and transparent 
manner whenever necessary. We recognise 
that working alongside our regulators in 
a co‑operative manner helps us achieve 
our corporate responsibility objectives and 
ultimately our business objectives. We believe 
that the gaming industry must demonstrate 
its commitment to self‑regulation and 
we are supportive of the role that the 
industry’s trade associations play. 
We are an active member of the Remote 
Gambling Association (“RGA”) holding 
a seat on its Executive Committee and 
we are represented on various RGA 
sub‑committees. We have signed up to 
the RGA’s Codes on Social Responsibility 
and Age Verification, the provisions of 
which we endorse. We are members of 
the European Sports Security Association 
(“ESSA”), Europe’s leading sports integrity 
monitoring organisation. ESSA protects 
and promotes sporting integrity in three 
ways. First, by acting as an early warning 
system to alert sports governing bodies and 
regulators of any suspected illegal betting 
among its membership. Second, by working 
with partners in sports and other sporting 
Corporate social 
responsibility
stakeholders to implement educational 
campaigns and other grass‑ roots activities 
aimed at tackling the problem of match 
fixing. Third, by acting as a leading voice 
in international dialogue aimed at finding a 
lasting solution to the problem of corruption 
in sport. We are also a member of Gamcare 
and advertise the charity on our website.
We invest time and resources in meeting 
and communicating with officers and 
politicians of governments, and national 
online gaming licensing authorities. Our 
management remains committed to playing 
its part in promoting the value of legislation 
that will lead to a regulated approach to 
the industry, not least as a mechanism 
for protecting the vulnerable elements 
of society from unscrupulous operators.
Community liaison
We believe that it is important to support 
and contribute to the local communities 
around the Group’s various geographical 
locations. Accordingly, in order to 
encourage a socially integrated work 
environment, we have invested in the 
local communities in which we operate. 
In Guernsey, where the Company’s primary 
licence and operations are based, the 
Company has invested a significant amount 
of time and money into the local community, 
including sponsoring the Guernsey Football 
Club, the Rising Stars Fund that supports 
Guernsey’s elite athletes, Guernsey Table 
Tennis, the Channel Islands Athletics Club 
and local events such as the Sportingbet 
Channel Islands Sports Personality of the 
Year Awards and the Inaugural Guernsey 
Community Foundation Awards which 
celebrates individuals and companies that 
contribute to the Guernsey community.
In Antigua, where the Group held 
sports betting and gaming licences for 
many years, the Company continues 
to donate a significant sum of money 
to the Island Academy International 
School to fund bursaries for a number 
of less privileged local children.
In the United Kingdom we support the 
Home Office funded scheme, Tackling Knives 
Action Programme. In the West Midlands 
this programme has been implemented 
through “Braveheart” – a scheme which 
takes youth leaders, policemen, former gang 
members and community workers into the 
Scottish Islands for a week to improve their 
leadership skills, self reliance and confidence. 
In conjunction with the Wolverhampton 
Wanderers FC Community Trust, we have 
sponsored three of its employees to act as 
members and to join youth leaders on this 
scheme, and we are working with West 
Midlands police and community groups 
in the area to encourage other companies 
to join the “Braveheart” programme.
Recognising that some customers may 
be affected by gambling dependency, the 
Company has continued to provide funding 
in the UK to The GREaT Foundation (formerly 
known as the Responsibility in Gambling 
Trust). The Company has also made  15
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Mobile App
The fastest growth area within the 
business, our mobile Sports betting 
solution is available in 14 domains 
worldwide. It has been developed both 
as a mobile website (to support almost 
all mobile devices) and natively, where 
it’s deployed in numerous Apple App 
stores from the UK to Australia.
from2% 
to30%
Mobile 
users
donations to the following organisations and 
charities: the Island Academy International 
School in Antigua; HEROS (Homing 
Ex‑Racehorses Organisation Scheme), Friends 
of Israel Sport Centre for the Disabled and 
sponsorship of a Lords Taverners’ celebrity 
cricket event in the Channel Islands. 
Environmental management
Although, as with many online businesses, 
Sportingbet causes a relatively low 
level of environmental damage, we 
nevertheless monitor our impact on the 
environment and we take environmental 
management seriously. We believe that 
minimising the Group’s impact on the 
environment goes hand in hand with 
operating efficiently and reducing waste. 
This approach also minimises the risk of 
reputational damage to the Group. 
We are committed to bringing about 
continuous improvement in reducing our 
adverse environmental impact by reducing 
our employees’ reliance on transport 
where necessary, and in certain areas of 
consumption and waste management.
Our environmental policy includes:
•	 complying with all relevant national 
and regional legislation as a minimum 
standard;
•	 complying with codes of practice and 
other requirements such as those specified 
by regulators;
•	 promoting practical energy efficiency 
and waste minimisation measures;
•	 requiring each office to recycle its 
paper waste; 16
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review
Corporate social 
responsibility
Responsible business accreditation
Recognising the importance of having 
responsible business practices at the core 
of our operations, the Social Responsibility 
Committee engaged GoodCorporation 
Limited in February 2012 to assess our 
policies, procedures and operations. 
This is the start of a programme to gain 
GoodCorporation accreditation – a globally 
recognised kite mark for responsible 
business practice, endorsed by the Institute 
of Business Ethics. To achieve accreditation, 
GoodCorporation developed a bespoke 
framework of standards that address the 
interests of all our stakeholders including 
employees, customers and suppliers as well 
as the community and environment in which 
we operate. The framework also includes 
criteria focusing on responsible gaming 
controls. Following GoodCorporation’s 
initial assessment, we are implementing a 
comprehensive programme of operational 
enhancements to policies and practices 
in every area of the framework, to 
meet accreditation requirements.
•	 encouraging the use of public transport 
and environmentally friendly modes of 
transport where this is practicable; and
•	 providing a shared inter‑office IT network 
and communications technology that 
reduces the need for business travel. 
In order to achieve this Sportingbet:
•	 ensures employees are trained and 
motivated to conduct their activities in 
an environmentally responsible manner;
•	 reviews the policy on a regular basis to 
take into account any new developments 
in environmental management; and
•	 allocates sufficient management resources 
to ensure effective implementation of the 
environmental policies.
Facilities for recycling office waste are in 
place at our offices. During 2011–2012 our 
offices recycled waste paper, spent toner 
and ink cartridges, obsolete computer 
hardware, printers and mobile phones.
The Head of Compliance is responsible 
for the implementation and monitoring 
of the environmental policy. The 
environmental policy is reviewed by 
the Social Responsibility Committee. 17
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financial
review
As a percentage of amounts wagered, the 
European and Australian sports NGR were 
7.6% and 5.5% respectively (2011: 9.3% and 
4.5%). However, amounts wagered and NGR 
are stated after a deduction for customer 
bonuses of £18.9m (2011: £20.3m). Without 
the bonus deduction the equivalent numbers 
would have been 8.3% and 5.8% (2011: 
10.0% and 4.9%).
Costs (excluding exceptional items, share 
option charge and amortisation) in the year 
were £156.7m (2011: £168.2m), accounting 
for 83.0% of total revenue (2011: 81.5%).
Operating profit (before exceptional items, 
share option charge and amortisation) for 
the year decreased 15% to £32.2m (2011: 
£38.1m). 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (before exceptional items 
and share option charge) increased 11% 
to £56.8m (2011: £51.4m). 
Operating loss after other income from the 
Turkish language website disposal of £10.7m 
(2011: nil), exceptional costs of £71.6m (2011: 
£10.8m), share option charge of £7.6m 
(2011: £1.2m) and amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets of £1.8m (2011: £1.7m) 
was £39.1m (2011: £24.4m profit).
Net finance cost was £6.4m (2011: £0.6m). 
Corporation tax credit of £0.1m (2011: £3.1m 
payable) was receivable mainly in relation to 
the Australian business. This was mitigated 
this year by the integration costs, however 
as no losses will be carried forward a full tax 
rate is expected to be paid in future years.
 
Exceptional costs totalled £71.6m (2011: 
£10.8m). Further details are given in note 4. 
Of these costs, £53.4m has resulted in a cash 
outflow this year and a further £4.6m will be 
cash outflows in future periods. 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (before 
exceptional items, share option charge and 
amortisation) was 5.5p (2011: 6.6p). Diluted 
earnings per share (before exceptional items, 
share option charge and amortisation) was 
5.3p (2011: 6.3p). Basic Group statutory 
earnings per share was (6.8)p (2011: 3.9p).
As at 31 July 2012, the Group had £42.4m 
(2011: £180.2m) of cash and liquid resources 
on its balance sheet. After taking into 
account £29.0m (2011: £22.7m) of customer 
liabilities and £8m of bank loans, net cash 
at the period end stood at £5.4m (2011: 
£29.9m). 
Amounts wagered for the year ended 31 
July 2012 grew by 14% to £2,349.2m (2011: 
£2,053.9m), earning net gaming revenue 
(“NGR”) of £185.7m (2011: £204.0m), down 
9% on the prior year. At constant currency 
and taking into account our exit from Turkey, 
the introduction of gaming duty in some of 
our largest markets and the acquisition of 
Centrebet, NGR was down 2% on a like for 
like basis.
Amounts wagered on Australian sports 
betting grew by 82% to £1,493.1m 
(2011: £822.0m), earning post betting 
tax NGR of £82.0m (2011: £37.2m). 
On a like for like basis the underlying 
growth in amounts wagered and NGR 
was 11% and 31% respectively.
Amounts wagered on sports betting 
in Europe and Emerging Markets fell 
by 31% to £814.0m (2011: £1,174.6m), 
earning NGR of £61.6m (2011: £109.5m) 
down 44% year on year. On a like for like 
basis European sports NGR was down 
12% reflecting the difficult economic 
conditions across our main markets. 
Casino and gaming contributed a further 
£34.5m, and poker £7.6m, to both amounts 
wagered and NGR (2011: £44.0m and 
£13.3m respectively).  18
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review
Management of 
principal risks
could materially and adversely affect the 
Group’s ability to achieve strategic goals, 
financial condition and results of operations.
The Board considers the following 
impact areas in assessing risks:
•	 Legal and regulatory
•	 Marketplace
•	 Technology
•	 Customers
•	 Reputation
•	 Employees
The Board is supported by executive 
management personnel within the 
above mentioned areas of the business 
who collectively play a key role in risk 
management and regularly report to the 
Board through the Audit Committee. The 
risk management processes are reviewed 
formally by the Audit Committee annually.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The risks outlined here are those 
principal risks and uncertainties that the 
Executive Directors consider material to 
the Group. They are not presented in 
any order of priority. Additional risks and 
uncertainties, not currently known to the 
Directors, or that the Directors currently 
consider immaterial, may also adversely 
affect the Group’s business, results of 
operations or financial condition.
Risk governance and responsibilities
The Board has overall responsibility for risk 
management and considers the risk process 
as an integral part of strategic planning. 
The Executive Directors make 
recommendations on the overall approach 
to risk management and identify the 
principal risks and uncertainties.
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
assessing the scope and effectiveness 
of the process established to identify, 
assess, manage and monitor risks.
Risk management process
The Board routinely monitors risks that 
Marketplace
Risk Description Mitigation
Competition The online betting market is highly competitive. 
The Group competes with a number of companies, 
some of which have greater financial, marketing 
and other resources. As a result, these companies 
may adopt more aggressive pricing policies 
or undertake more extensive marketing and 
advertising campaigns. This may have a negative 
impact on revenues or profit margins achieved 
by the Group in the future. The Group would 
face an increase in competition if competitors 
expanded or focused more on online sports betting 
or if there were new entrants in the market.
The Group closely monitors competition within 
the online gambling industry and has a long‑term 
approach to improving its products, marketing and IT 
infrastructure. In addition the Group has a diversified 
geographical base which spreads the competitive risk.  19
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Legal and Regulatory
Risk Description Mitigation
Increasing 
regulation in 
online gambling
The regulatory position on online gambling is 
changing rapidly; many countries are reviewing 
their position, especially in Europe, and are drafting 
new legislation. These will affect the tax paid in 
many jurisdictions however it will also have the 
potential to open the market to a greater number 
of customers. There is a risk that the new regulations 
could inhibit revenues or result in having to withdraw 
from markets to avoid breaching regulations.
We are working to identify countries that are looking 
to introduce new regulations and where possible 
we become actively involved in shaping their new 
regulations and educating them in the technicalities 
of implementing gaming bills. At the same time we 
are aligning our internal processes and infrastructure 
to ensure we are well placed to meet the requirements 
of the new regulatory regimes. We are also monitoring 
our global strategy on a country by country basis to 
ensure the Group’s balanced portfolio remains so 
in the face of these changes. In addition, the Group 
limits its regulatory risk from any one country by 
accepting wagers from a large number of jurisdictions.
Risk Description Mitigation
Dependence on 
regulatory licences
There can be no assurance that any jurisdiction in 
which licences are held by or on behalf of the Group 
will not change its licensing requirements, including 
the terms and conditions to which the licences and 
approvals currently held by or on behalf of the Group 
are subject. If the regulatory scheme of any jurisdiction 
in which the Group operates were to change its 
licensing requirements, the Group may be required 
to expend significant capital or other resources in 
order to comply with the new requirements and/
or may not be able to meet the new requirements, 
either or a combination of which could have a 
material adverse effect on the Group’s business, 
financial condition and results of operations.
The Group has diversified its risk by obtaining multiple 
licences. Betting activities are licensed in Australia, 
Spain, UK, Denmark, Alderney, South Africa, Italy 
and Malta. The Board believes the Group has a good 
relationship with the relevant regulatory authorities 
but there can be no guarantee that these licences will 
be renewed or that they will not be terminated early.
Technology
Risk Description Mitigation
Dependence 
on advanced 
information 
systems 
(technology 
changes)
The Group’s operations are highly dependent on 
technology and advanced information systems 
and there is a risk that such technology or systems 
could fail. In addition to such failure, there can be 
no assurance that such technology or systems will 
not be subject to damage or interruption caused by 
human error, unauthorised access, computer viruses, 
distributed denial of service (“DDoS”) attacks, increase 
in volume in usage of online services, sabotage, 
natural hazards or disasters or other similarly disruptive 
events, including other security breaches, or will be 
able to support a significant increase in online traffic or 
increased customer numbers. Any failure or disruption 
of, or damage to, the Group’s technology or systems 
could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s 
business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
The Group has in place data recovery and systems 
recovery procedures, security measures and business 
continuity plans in the event of failure or disruption 
of, or damage to, the Group’s technology or systems. 20
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review
Technology
Risk Description Mitigation
Over‑reliance on 
third parties
The Group has relationships with a number of key 
third party suppliers who provide products and 
services to the Group. Infrastructure suppliers, 
network and telecommunication suppliers and 
application service providers are long‑term partners in 
providing an infrastructure which seeks to ensure the 
delivery of sophisticated, high performance transaction 
processing systems. However, the Group exercises 
little control over many of these third party suppliers 
and is reliant on them to perform their services in 
accordance with the terms of their contracts, which 
increases vulnerability to problems with the products 
and services they provide. Any adverse event affecting 
the Group’s relationship with key suppliers could have 
a material adverse effect on the Group’s reputation, 
business, financial condition and results of operations.
The Group is increasing the number of third party 
suppliers to reduce the dependency on the current 
suppliers and is performing a number of functions 
internally previously undertaken by third parties.
Customers
Risk Description Mitigation
Fraud As an online business, the Group experiences 
fraudulent activity on customer accounts in the 
form of deposits from stolen credit cards and debit 
cards. These amounts are written off as a loss to 
the business. Although the direct financial impact 
of these transactions is small (well under 1% of total 
deposits from cards), we are at risk of temporarily 
losing the ability to process credit & debit card 
transactions in some territories if the percentage of 
disputed transactions there exceeds the thresholds 
that are laid down by the card schemes. Losing 
the ability to process card transactions can reduce 
our ability to acquire and retain customers. 
The Group has a Risk Management department whose 
role is to monitor transactions for signs of fraudulent 
activity and to carry out Know‑Your‑Customer 
procedures. Fraud detection and prevention software 
is used by the Risk Management team. The Group 
sources multiple payment service providers to mitigate 
the risk of losing any single funding channel.
Management of 
principal risks 21
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Customers
Risk Description Mitigation
Money laundering As an online business that has no face‑to‑face 
contact with customers, the Group faces the 
possibility of reputational damage if there was a 
serious incident of a customer using our service to 
carry out money laundering or terrorist financing. 
Such an incident could have a damaging effect 
on the brand and on the attitudes of customers, 
regulators, and business partners towards the Group.
The Group’s Risk Management department monitors 
customer activity for signs of money laundering, 
and carries out Know‑Your‑Customer procedures, 
in order to minimise the risk of money laundering.
Reputation
Risk Description Mitigation
Brand reliance The Group’s success depends on a strong brand 
and if the Group is not able to maintain and 
enhance its brand its ability to expand its base 
of customers, advertisers and affiliates will be 
impaired and its business and operating results 
will be harmed. The Directors anticipate that, 
as the Group’s market becomes increasingly 
competitive, maintaining and enhancing the 
Group’s brand may become increasingly difficult.
The Directors believe that the brand identity 
that the Group has developed has significantly 
contributed to the success of its business. The 
Group spends more than 30% of net gaming 
revenue on marketing and reviews and monitors 
the success of all marketing and sponsorship 
expenditure. The Group intends to continue to acquire 
domain names as suitable opportunities arise.
Employees
Risk Description Mitigation
Loss of key 
personnel 
(retention)
Sportingbet is positioned in the very competitive 
B2C space. Many of our employees have skill 
sets which are very attractive not only to our 
competitors but in the “e” space in general. 
Being a relatively small organisation it is easier 
to identify key retention issues by employee. 
A range of solutions are in place to manage 
such risks. Interventions for specific risks 
range from Braveheart type initiatives to 
increased responsibilities, key projects as well 
as ensuring that base pay is competitive. 
Risk Description Mitigation
Failure to attract 
quality staff 
(acquisition)
Given the industry sector we operate in 
approximately 20% of potential candidates for jobs 
will decide the gaming sector is not for them. 
Our Head of Resourcing has built up excellent 
relationships with key head‑hunters and recruitment 
agencies. As a result they work hard on our 
behalf when looking for candidates. Even with 
the threat of acquisition many candidates see this 
as a career advancing opportunity, by learning 
new skills in the event of a takeover/merger. 
In the absence of equity we are being creative 
in relation to notice periods and exclusivity 
clauses to ensure offers are converted to 
acceptances in the current climate.  22
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review
Board of
Directors
1 2
3
6
5
4
7 23
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
1 Peter Dicks
Chairman and  
Non‑Executive Director
Peter Dicks, aged 70, joined the Board 
of Sportingbet as Chairman in January 
2000. He resigned in September 2006 and 
rejoined in February 2008 as a result of US 
related matters. Peter was co‑founder of 
Abingworth Plc, and is currently a Director 
of a number of quoted and unquoted 
companies including Graphite Enterprise 
Trust PLC, Polar Capital Technology Trust, 
Private Equity Investor, Mears Group and 
Standard Microsystems, a US NASDAQ 
quoted company. Peter is also a Director 
of Daniel Stewart and Company.
2 Andrew McIver
Group Chief Executive
Andrew McIver, aged 49, formerly Group 
Finance Director, took over as Group 
Chief Executive in October 2006. Andrew 
qualified as a Chartered Accountant with 
Arthur Andersen. Following two years 
in the Corporate Finance department at 
Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, he held 
senior finance positions at Signet Group Plc, 
Ladbrokes Group Plc and British Telecom’s 
internet division. He was Director of Finance 
with House of Fraser Plc for four years before 
joining Sportingbet in December 2001.
3 Jim Wilkinson
Group Finance Director
Jim Wilkinson, aged 46, joined Sportingbet 
Plc as Group Finance Director in February 
2008, prior to which he held the same 
positions at Johnson Services Group plc 
(2004–2007) and Informa Group plc 
(1998–2004). Jim qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with Touche Ross London.
4 Marie Stevens
Non‑Executive Director
Marie Stevens joined Sportingbet as 
Non‑Executive Director in September 2012. 
Marie has extensive experience in the gaming 
industry, having spent ten years within 
Ladbrokes, latterly as Head of the Group 
Legal department. Subsequent to this, Marie 
spent four years as a member of the Gaming 
Board for Great Britain and has also been a 
member of the International Association of 
Gaming Regulators. She was Non‑ Executive 
Director and then Chairman of 888 Holdings 
plc at the time of its IPO and is currently 
the chair of the Global Leaders in Law.
5 Brian Harris
Senior Independent  
Non‑Executive Director
Brian Harris, aged 66, joined Sportingbet 
as a Non‑Executive Director in 2003. The 
founder and senior partner of a London 
law firm with an international clientele, 
he has acted for foreign governments, 
multi‑national corporations, national airlines, 
high net worth individuals and privately 
owned companies. He is actively involved 
in sporting charity work for the disabled.
6 Chris Moss
Non‑Executive Director
Chris Moss, aged 58, joined Sportingbet as 
a Non‑Executive Director in September 2011. 
Chris has over 25 years’ marketing, brand 
and product management experience. He 
started his marketing career at Virgin Atlantic 
in 1985 and rose to the position of Marketing 
Director. He then joined Microtel, and was 
responsible for founding and launching the 
Orange brand name. Subsequent to this 
role he joined Lloyds Bank and TSB as Brand 
Director. More recently as CEO he launched 
118118. He also runs a brand consultancy 
called Famoss, and is Chairman of Untap.it, 
a not‑for‑profit social enterprise.
7 Rory Macnamara
Non‑Executive Director
Rory Macnamara, aged 57, joined 
Sportingbet as a Non‑Executive Director 
in June 2011. Rory qualified as an ACA with 
Price Waterhouse before joining Morgan 
Grenfell, later Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, 
in 1981 as an investment banker. Over the 
following 17 years he advised clients on a 
wide range of corporate finance issues and 
became Head of the Advisory/M&A division 
in 1995 and Deputy Chairman the following 
year. In 1999 Rory joined Lehman Brothers as 
Head of UK Coverage and led teams advising 
a number of major UK and international 
clients. In 2001 he became an independent 
consultant working with Lehman Brothers on 
M&A projects and with other companies on 
their business development and financial and 
acquisition strategies. Besides this extensive 
corporate finance experience he also brings 
to Sportingbet a significant understanding of 
public company management from the many 
boards he has joined over the last ten years. 24
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Governance
Corporate Governance Statement
Compliance
The Company recognises the importance of the principles of 
good corporate governance and the Board is pleased to report its 
continued commitment to achieving high standards throughout the 
year. The Board complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“Code”) issued by the Financial Reporting Council 
other than as set out below and in the sections headed “Audit 
Committee” and “Remuneration Committee”.
All the Non‑Executive Directors (other than Brian Harris) are 
considered by the Board to be independent of management 
and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with 
the exercise of their independent judgement. As Brian Harris has 
served on the Board for more than nine years he is not considered 
to be independent as defined by the Code. Following the Board 
refreshment process described in more detail below, Brian Harris will 
resign as a Director with effect from 31 December 2013. This process 
has been ongoing since the Company’s settlement with the US 
Department of Justice on 20 September 2010 – a watershed which 
has improved the Company’s ability to attract Non‑Executive 
Directors of suitable quality and experience. The Nomination 
Committee has been mindful of delivering a staggered refreshing 
of the composition of the Board so that all Board Directors have 
an appropriate period of time to share know‑ how and develop an 
empathy with the rhythms of the business and the industry. It is 
with this backdrop that the Board explains certain areas of Code 
non‑compliance.
First, that for part of the financial year ended 31 July 2012 at least 
half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, was not made up of 
independent Non‑Executive Directors (provision B.1.2 of the Code) 
and second, that both the Audit and Remuneration Committees do 
not currently consist of three independent Non‑Executive Directors 
(provisions C.3.1 and D.2.1 of the Code). The Board has been 
engaged in a detailed process with external consultants to appoint 
a suitably qualified independent Non‑Executive Director to the Board. 
As a result Marie Stevens was appointed to the Board with effect 
from 5 September 2012. Marie Stevens brings considerable 
experience and expertise and complements the balance of skills of 
the other members of the Board. Therefore, following the 
resignations of Nigel Payne and Sean O’Connor with effect from 
16 December 2011 and the appointment of Marie Stevens, half of 
the Board members, excluding the Chairman, are independent 
Non‑Executive Directors in line with provision B.1.2 of the Code. 
After Brian Harris leaves the Board on 31 December 2013, three of 
five Board members (excluding the Chairman) will be independent 
as defined by the Code. With a new independent Non‑Executive 
Director, the Board is now able to revisit the composition of the 
Audit and Remuneration Committees in order to comply with the 
Code and intends to do so following the release of the Company’s 
financial year results on 3 October 2012. 
The Board is accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good 
governance and the statement set out below describes how the 
principles identified in the Code are applied by the Group.
The Board constitution and procedures
The Nomination Committee has undertaken a comprehensive review 
of Board composition and performance and as a result Marie Stevens 
has been appointed a Non‑Executive Director and Rory Macnamara 
has replaced Brian Harris as Senior Independent Director as 
announced by the Company on 29 May 2012. The process is ongoing 
as the Nomination Committee will continue to look for suitably 
qualified and experienced individuals in line with provision B2 of the 
Code. Previous annual reviews have consistently found that the size, 
composition and expertise of the Company’s Non‑Executive 
Directors have been appropriate for the Company’s requirements. 
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which, 
at the end of the financial year, comprised two Executive and four 
Non‑Executive Directors.
All Non‑Executive Directors (other than Brian Harris) are considered 
by the Board to be independent of management and free of any 
relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of 
their independent judgement.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the 
Board, and ensures that all Directors receive all relevant information 
on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings. 
The Group Chief Executive’s responsibilities focus on coordinating 
the Company’s business and implementing Group strategy.
A formal schedule of matters is reserved for consideration by 
the Board, which met 12 times during the year. The Board is 
responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and investment 
policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects and 
consideration of significant financing matters. It reviews the strategic 
direction of individual trading subsidiaries, their codes of conduct, 
their annual budgets, their progress towards achievement of these 
budgets and their capital expenditure programmes. In addition, 
the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and all Directors are able to take independent professional 
advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
Information and professional development
All new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on 
joining the Board, including meetings with senior management and 
advisers and visits to the Group’s operational locations, as well as 
training and advice on their responsibilities as necessary. The Board 
calendar is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a wide 
range of topics. From time to time, the Board receives detailed 
presentations from non‑Board members on matters of significance. 
Financial plans, including budgets and forecasts, and regulatory 
updates are regularly discussed at Board meetings. Directors are 
also given the opportunity to visit different parts of the Group and 
discuss aspects of the business with employees, and regularly meet 
the heads of the Group’s main departments. As well as internal 
briefings, Directors attend appropriate external seminars 
and briefings.
Individual Directors are also expected to take responsibility 
for identifying their training needs and to take steps to ensure 
that they are adequately informed about the Company and their 
responsibilities as a Director. The Board is confident that all its 
members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform 
the functions required of a director of a listed company. 25
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring Board processes and 
procedures are appropriately followed and support effective 
governance and decision making. Directors also have access to 
independent and professional advice at the Company’s expense, 
where they judge this to be necessary to discharge their 
responsibilities as Directors.
All Directors, in accordance with the Code, submit themselves 
for re‑election and new Directors are subject to a transparent and 
rigorous appointment process (including submitting themselves 
for re‑election at the first Annual General Meeting after 
their appointment). 
Board Committees
The Board delegates clearly defined powers to its Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees whilst the Company’s 
Social Responsibility Committee, as reported on pages 12 to 16, is 
responsible for reviewing the Company’s policies on corporate social 
responsibility and making appropriate recommendations to the 
Board. The minutes of each Committee are circulated to and 
reviewed by the Board.
The Company announced a number of changes to the composition 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees with 
effect from 16 December 2011 (being the date Nigel Payne and Sean 
O’Connor resigned from the Board). As a result of these changes the 
Company fully complied with the provisions of the Code relating to 
the composition of the committees of the Board at that time. 
As of 24 January 2012 Brian Harris ceased to be independent for 
the purposes of the Code due to his length of service on the Board. 
However, following the appointment of Marie Stevens on 5 
September 2012, the Board will be able to revisit the composition of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees in order to comply with the 
Code and intends to do so following the release of the Company’s 
financial year end results on 3 October 2012.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is currently chaired by Rory Macnamara 
(who has recent and relevant financial experience for this role, as 
indicated on page 23). Its other members are Chris Moss and Brian 
Harris. The Company recognises that Brian Harris is not considered to 
be independent but believes that the Committee will benefit from his 
continued presence while Rory Macnamara and Chris Moss continue 
to familiarise themselves with their roles after being appointed to 
the Board last year.
The Company believes that an Audit Committee with a membership 
of three independent Non‑Executive Directors reflects the size and 
needs of the business (as defined by the Code) going forward. The 
Company recognises that for part of the financial year ended 31 July 
2012 it did not and does not currently comply with provision C.3.1 
in that not all the members of the Committee are independent 
Non‑Executive Directors (as defined by the Code, and as explained 
above). The appointment of Marie Stevens and the resignation of 
Brian Harris referred to above reflects the steps taken by the 
Company to comply with this provision. 
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year (and met twice 
during the last financial year) and normally invites a representative of 
both the auditors and the Executive Directors to attend its meetings, 
the latter usually being the Group Finance Director. The Committee’s 
Secretary is Daniel Talisman, the Company Secretary. At the end of 
each meeting the auditors are invited to meet with the Committee 
with no Executive or staff members present. The Terms of Reference 
of the Committee include monitoring the integrity of the Financial 
Statements, monitoring the internal and external audit function and 
reviewing accounting policies, financial controls and financial 
reporting procedures. The Audit Committee is also responsible for 
assessing the objectivity and independence of the external auditors 
where they also provide non‑audit services to the Company. The 
independence of the external auditors is safeguarded as described 
under “External Audit” below. In the current financial year, non‑audit 
fees totalling £0.1m were paid to the external auditors. This related 
to two major transactions the Company undertook during the latest 
financial year – namely, the disposal of the Company’s Turkish 
language website and the convertible bond issued by the Company 
in July 2012. The Audit Committee’s view was that the current 
auditors were the most suitable supplier of the non‑audit services 
due to their skills and experience. The Committee considers that 
there are appropriate safeguards in place to ensure the continued 
objectivity and independence of the Company’s auditors. 
The Committee also has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal control and risk management systems, 
described in more detail later in this section. During the year, 
the Committee received presentations from senior management on 
the key risks and control issues in their respective business areas and 
reviewed risk mitigation plans for critical risks. Terms of Reference for 
the Committee can be viewed on the Company’s website and are 
available in writing on request. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Rory Macnamara. 
Brian Harris, Peter Dicks and Chris Moss are its other members. 
The Committee’s Secretary is Daniel Talisman, the Company 
Secretary. The Company recognises that provision D.2.1 of the 
Code requires the Committee to be made up of three independent 
Non‑Executive Directors. Since 24 January 2012, Brian Harris has not 
been considered to be independent but the Company believes that 
the Committee will benefit from his continued presence while Rory 
Macnamara and Chris Moss continue to familiarise themselves with 
their roles after being appointed to the Board last year. 
The Remuneration Committee meets when necessary during 
the year (and met seven times during the last financial year) and 
considers the terms of employment and overall remuneration for the 
Executive Directors, including pension rights and any compensation 
payments. Further, the Committee makes decisions regarding grants 
or awards under share plans, salaries and incentive compensation. 
The Executive Directors appraise the Remuneration Committee on 
the level and structure of remuneration set for senior management. 
Terms of Reference for the Committee can be viewed on the 
Company’s website and are available in writing on request.
The remuneration of Non‑Executive Directors is determined by the 
Executive Directors. 26
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Governance
Corporate Governance Statement
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Peter Dicks and its other 
members are Rory Macnamara, Chris Moss and Brian Harris. As this 
Committee consists of a majority of independent Non‑Executive 
Directors it fully complies with provision B.2.1 of the Code.
The Committee’s Secretary is Daniel Talisman, the Company 
Secretary. The Committee meets formally at least twice a year (and 
met twice during the latest financial year). The Terms of Reference 
for the Committee (including the terms and conditions of 
appointment of Directors) can be viewed on the Company’s website 
and are available in writing on request.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and formally reviewing 
the performance, composition, balance and expertise of the Board 
as a whole and making an appraisal of the contribution of individual 
Directors, including a review of their time commitment and 
attendance records. The Committee also considers succession 
planning for the Board and Group senior management. 
Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective 
criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the 
Board, including gender diversity. When necessary the Committee 
prepares a description of the role to be filled and engages external 
consultants to administer a detailed search and the generation of a 
shortlist. Any recommendations for appointments or replacements 
are brought before the Board. 
The annual review process carried out by the Board, and 
appointments both during the financial year and afterwards, 
including the appointment of new qualified independent 
Non‑Executive Directors to the Board referred to in more detail 
above, have been in line with that policy, have reinforced the diverse 
composition of the Board and are designed to ensure the Committee 
is meeting these responsibilities. The Board endorses the aims of the 
Davies’ Report entitled “Women on Boards” and when considering 
appointments in the future will, with the support of the Nomination 
Committee, aim to build on its foundations. 
Evaluation
The Board continued its ongoing evaluation processes of itself 
and its Committees to assess their performance and identify areas in 
which their effectiveness, policies and processes might be enhanced. 
As part of this process the Board continues to comply with the 
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators’ Code of Good 
Boardroom Practice. The performance of individual Directors has 
been considered by the Chairman and Group Chief Executive in 
discussion with other Non‑Executive Directors. The Non‑Executive 
Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, considered the 
performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of 
the Executive Directors.
Communication with investors
The Group places considerable importance on communication 
with its institutional and private shareholders and responds quickly 
to all queries received. There is regular dialogue with institutional 
shareholders as well as general presentations after each quarter 
end and the issue of preliminary results.
All shareholders have at least 20 working days’ notice of the 
Annual General Meeting at which all Directors are introduced 
and available for questions. The Executive Directors endeavour to 
meet the Company’s larger institutional shareholders at the time 
of the Company’s quarterly results announcements and the Senior 
Independent Director, Brian Harris (from 24 March 2011 until 29 May 
2012) and Rory Macnamara (since 29 May 2012) have been available 
to shareholders throughout the year. Both the Chairman and 
Mr Macnamara engaged with the Company’s larger institutional 
shareholders and took into account their views in determining the 
terms of the Sportingbet Plc 2011 Long‑Term Incentive Plan which 
was adopted at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 
16 December 2011.
Accountability and audit
(a) Internal control
The Group has complied with provision C.2.1 of the Code and 
the FRC Internal Control Guidance both for the year ended 31 July 
2012 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements. The Board has ensured that there has been an 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks faced by the Group. This process has been regularly 
reviewed by the Board.
Whilst acknowledging the overall responsibility for the system 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, the Board is 
aware that the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The Group’s internal control procedures continue to be reviewed, 
progressively developed and formalised to ensure that they 
sufficiently meet the requirements of the Group. Executive members 
of the Board are involved daily in all aspects of the business and they 
attend regular management meetings at which performance against 
plan and business prospects are reviewed. Additionally, the Board 
seeks to continually strengthen the internal control system where 
this is consistent with improving the relationship between risk 
and reward.
Other key features and the processes for reviewing effectiveness 
of the internal control system that the Committee has applied during 
the current financial year are described as follows:
•	 Monthly management information, including financial accounts 
and key performance indicators, have been defined and are 
produced on a timely basis for review by the Board. 27
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
•	 A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses 
culminates in an annual budget which is reviewed and approved 
by the Board. Results for the Group and for its main constituent 
businesses are reported monthly against the budget to the Board 
and revised forecasts for the financial year are considered each 
quarter.
•	 The Board continues to review the appropriateness and adequacy 
of systems and control and risk management in relation to the 
financial reporting process on an ongoing basis. The Group uses 
standard reporting packages to compile financial information from 
subsidiaries in preparing monthly consolidated management 
information.
•	 A comprehensive financial and accounting package sets out the 
principles of the minimum standards required by the Board for 
effective financial control. This package sets out the financial and 
accounting policies and procedures to be applied throughout the 
Group. Compliance with the policies and procedures set out in this 
package is reviewed regularly. Formal reports for the Board are 
prepared by the senior management on the operation of those 
elements of the system for which they are responsible.
•	 The Company has clearly defined guidance for capital expenditure. 
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review 
procedures, levels of authority and stringent due diligence 
requirements where businesses are being acquired.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but 
has decided that this is not justified at present. However, it will keep 
the decision under review on at least an annual basis.
External audit
The Audit Committee meets periodically to review the adequacy 
of the Group’s internal control systems, accounting policies and 
compliance with applicable accounting standards and to consider 
the appointment of external auditors and audit fees. The Group’s 
auditors are invited to attend its meetings. The Audit Committee  
is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within its  
terms of reference and obtain outside legal or other independent 
professional advice as necessary. The auditors and individual Board 
members are afforded the opportunity for separate meetings with 
the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee consists wholly of 
Non‑Executive Directors.
In accordance with its duties, the Audit Committee made 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of external 
auditors, approved their remuneration and also approved their terms 
of engagement. The Audit Committee has also established a policy 
regarding the appointment of auditors to perform non‑audit services 
for the Group and will keep this under continual review. The award 
of non‑audit work to the auditors is subject to pre‑clearance by the 
Audit Committee if the fee exceeds specified thresholds. As a matter 
of best practice and in accordance with the International Standard on 
Auditing 260, the auditors have held discussions with the Audit 
Committee on the subject of auditor independence and have 
confirmed their independence in writing.
Board and Committee attendance
Possible meetings Number
Meetings 
attended
Peter Dicks Board 12 11
Remuneration 7 7
Nomination 2 2
Brian Harris Board 12 12
Remuneration 7 7
Nomination 2 2
Andrew Mclver Board 12 12
Sean O’Connor Board 5 4
Audit 1 1
Remuneration 3 2
Nigel Payne Board 5 5
Audit 1 1
Remuneration 3 3
Jim Wilkinson Board 12 12
Rory Macnamara Board 12 12
Audit 2 2
Remuneration 4 4
Nomination 2 2
Chris Moss Board 11 11
Audit 1 1
Remuneration 4 4
Nomination 2 2 28
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report
The Directors submit their Annual Report and Financial Statements 
of the Group for the year ended 31 July 2012.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the operation of interactive 
licensed betting and gaming operations over the internet. In Australia 
only, interactive betting is conducted over the internet and 
telephone.
Results and dividends
The results of the Group for the year are set out on page 43 and 
show a loss after taxation for the year of £45.4m (2011: £20.7m 
profit). The Directors recommend payment of a final dividend of 1.1p 
per ordinary share (2011: 1.1p). An interim dividend of 0.6p (2011: 
0.6p) was paid on 6 June 2012, meaning a total dividend for the 
financial year of 1.7p (2011: 1.7p).
Review of the business and future developments
A more detailed review of the business and future developments 
is given in the Business Review on pages 4 to 9.
Directors
The following Directors have held office during the year 
and subsequently: 
P Dicks Chairman and Non‑Executive
A McIver Executive
J Wilkinson Executive
N Payne Non‑Executive
1
S O’Connor Non‑Executive
1
B Harris Senior Independent Non‑Executive
2
R Macnamara Senior Independent Non‑Executive
3
C Moss Non‑Executive
M Stevens Non‑Executive
4
1. Left Board on 16 December 2011.
2. Up to 29 May 2012.
3. From 29 May 2012.
4. From 5 September 2012.
All Directors currently on the Board will retire by rotation at this 
year’s Annual General Meeting and will each seek re‑election, 
being eligible.
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company and 
options for such shares were as shown on pages 31 to 38 both 
reflecting the year end figures and any subsequent changes. No 
Director has any interest in any other Group company. Details of the 
Directors’ remuneration and service contracts appear on pages 31 
to 38.
Auditor
The auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP, is willing to continue in office 
and a resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP will be 
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Related party transactions
Transactions with related parties are disclosed in Note 23 of the 
Group Financial Statements.
Corporate governance
The Board’s statement on Corporate Governance appears on pages 
24 to 27 and policies in relation to employees appear on pages 12 
to 16.
Charitable donations
During the year, the Group donated £120,962 to a number of 
charities. This figure includes donations to the Island Academy 
International School in Antigua, HEROS (Homing Ex‑Racehorses 
Organisation Scheme), the Steve Bull Foundation, Fighting Blindness, 
Help the Hospices and John Peck.Com. Included in this total was a 
donation of £15,000 to the Friends of Israel Sport Centre for the 
Disabled, of which Brian Harris is the founder.
Directors’ indemnity
Details of the Directors’ indemnity insurance can be found in the 
Remuneration Report.
Purchase of own shares
The Company was granted authority at the Extraordinary General 
Meeting in December 2011 to purchase its own shares up to a limit 
of 10% of its issued ordinary share capital. No shares were 
purchased during the year under review.
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company is comprised of ordinary 
shares of 0.1p each. Each share carries the right to one vote per share 
on a poll. The liability of members of the Company is limited to the 
amount unpaid, if any, on the shares held by them. All issued shares 
of the Company are fully paid.
Changes to the Company’s share capital are set out in Note 19. At 
2 October 2012 the issued share capital stood at 667,095,640.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the 
transfer of shares. No person has any special rights of control over 
the Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. 
During the last year, the Company did not purchase any shares 
as treasury shares.
Use of financial instruments
Information on the use of financial instruments by the Group 
is contained in Note 18.
Policy and practice of payment of suppliers
In respect of the Group’s next financial year, it is the policy of 
the Group that each company within the Group should agree 
appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with suppliers 
by means ranging from standard written terms to individually 
negotiated contracts. Payments are to be made in accordance with 
these terms and conditions. At 31 July 2012 the Company had a 
trade creditor balance of £nil (2011: £nil). Group trade payables 
represented 35 days of purchases (2011: 28 days). 29
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Substantial shareholdings
As at the opening of dealing on 2 October 2012 the following Shareholders hold, or control, interests in 3% or more of the Company’s 
voting rights:
Number of shares
Voting rights 
%
Majedie Asset Management 61,146,840 9.17
UBS Global Asset Management 58,379,211 8.75
Marathon Asset Management 50,817,051 7.62
Fidelity Worldwide Investment 44,991,481 6.74
Bonaire Investment Holdings Ltd 44,497,096 6.67
Legal & General Investment Management 36,015,732 5.40
DBS Advisors Ltd 35,857,703 5.38
Capital Research & Management 32,600,000 4.89
BlackRock 26,662,292 4.00
Going concern
The Directors have considered the implications of the potential impact of regulatory uncertainties discussed in Note 22. The Directors have 
reviewed the cash flow projections for the Group in light of these uncertainties and have considered the financial resources available to the 
Group. Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue 
operations for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 19 December 2012. The Notice of the Meeting is set out in a separate explanatory circular. 
The Notice contains special business, including the renewal of authority to the Board to allot shares and the disapplication of statutory 
pre‑emption rights on equity issues for cash – both in accordance with ABI and NAPF Guidelines. Shareholders should complete the Proxy 
form accompanying the Notice of Meeting in accordance with the Notes contained in the Notice of Meeting.
Significant agreements
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to identify those significant arrangements to which the Company is party that take effect, 
alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover offer becoming fully unconditional, and the effects of any 
such agreements. 
IOESL and Interactive Sports (C.I.) Limited (together the “Sportingbet Party”) have entered into an agreement with SEE Sports Limited and 
Flyer International S.A. (“Flyer”) in relation to the provision of online gaming services in Greece (the “Joint Venture Agreement”). Clause 12.5 
of the Joint Venture Agreement provides that if any third party or series of connected third parties acquires the ownership or control of more 
than 50% of the beneficial and/or legal shareholding and/or legal voting rights of a Sportingbet Party and the Sportingbet brand ceases to 
exist as a separate stand‑alone brand or be supported by such third party, Flyer shall be entitled to terminate the Joint Venture Agreement 
with immediate effect.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration report and the Financial Statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have to prepare 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“IFRSs”), and the 
Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these Financial 
Statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•	 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the Financial Statements; and
•	 prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 
in business. 30
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Governance
Directors’ Report
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable 
them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Remuneration 
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of information to the auditors
So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware. Each 
of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken 
as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware 
of that information.
To the best of my knowledge:
•	 the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
•	 the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
On behalf of the Board
A McIver
Director
2 October 2012
Company registration number: 3534726 31
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Remuneration Report
Rory Macnamara 
Remuneration Committee Chairman
The report below describes in detail how we have set about meeting 
shareholder concerns. We have, for example, now produced a full 
performance schedule for the 2012 grants under the 2011 LTIP. 
This was initially delayed whilst market forecasts were reset following 
the acquisition of Centrebet in Australia and the disposal of the 
Company’s Turkish‑language business in late 2011. Where we have 
been unable to meet commonly‑voiced concerns or the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have provided our 
rationale and explained how we believe we comply with the 
underlying Code principles.
In 2011–12, the Executive Directors again received no increase 
in salary and no increase is planned for 2012–13. The Company 
exceeded the base target for operating profit for 2011–12, and the 
Committee awarded the Executive Directors an annual bonus at the 
basic level for the plan. During the year, the Executive Directors were 
both awarded performance‑related grants under the 2011 LTIP with 
a potential value of 150% of salary. Awards were also made to 
a number of senior managers whose roles were influential in 
delivering against Group strategy.
In the past year, the UK Government has been consulting on 
improvements to the disclosure and governance of Directors’ 
remuneration in listed companies. This has culminated in the drafting 
of new legislation which replaces the current Directors’ remuneration 
reporting rules entirely and introduces new shareholder voting 
powers for a forward‑looking policy report and an implementation 
report. The new rules will apply to companies reporting with year 
ends after 31 October 2013. Sportingbet will comply with these rules 
fully in our report for the year ending 31 July 2014. However, the 
Committee has decided to include in this year’s report one aspect of 
the new reporting model that we feel will be helpful to shareholders 
– we have added additional columns in the remuneration table to 
allow the “single figure of total remuneration for each director” to 
be reported. 
I am grateful for the time provided to both me and my predecessor, 
Peter Dicks, by major shareholders and shareholder institutions and 
for your continuing support. If any shareholder wishes to contact me 
in relation to the Company’s Director and senior executive 
remuneration arrangements, please contact me at the Company’s 
address via the Company Secretary.
Rory Macnamara
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
2 October 2012
Dear Shareholder
I joined the Sportingbet Remuneration Committee as its Chairman 
on 16 December 2011. This is the first time, therefore, that I have the 
pleasure of presenting to you, on behalf of the Board, the Directors’ 
remuneration report. We will be asking for approval of this report 
for year ending 31 July 2012 at our Annual General Meeting in 
December 2012.
In 2011 we radically reviewed our remuneration policies. For five 
years following Sportingbet’s exit from the US market and the 
resulting impact on profits and share price, Sportingbet remuneration 
policy has been focused on retention of key executives while we 
rebuilt the Company’s business and stabilised its finances. Having 
achieved this turnaround, we decided last year that it was time 
to refocus remuneration to support long‑term value creation.
Central to this change in policy was the decision to ensure that 
long‑term rewards were appropriately performance‑based and 
compliant with best practice codes (the previous retention plans 
were partly based on service only) and to this end we sought and 
obtained approval at last year’s AGM for a new Long‑Term Incentive 
Plan (the 2011 LTIP).
We consulted at length on the plan with major shareholders and 
voting agencies beforehand and, whilst the vote in favour of the new 
plan was 75.6% of shares participating (excluding abstentions) and 
the vote approving the remuneration report for 2011 was 86.1%, 
some of our shareholders expressed certain reservations about the 
design and communication of the new plan (particularly the absence 
of a performance schedule) and concerns about other aspects of 
remuneration policy. We also recognise that shareholders were 
making allowances for Sportingbet’s recent move from AIM to a 
Premium Listing and the time it takes to achieve the more rigorous 
corporate governance demands of the latter.  32
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Governance
Remuneration Report
Introduction
This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of 
the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
& Reports) Regulations 2008 (the Regulations) and with the 
requirements of the United Kingdom Listing Authority listing rules.
To meet the requirement of the Regulations the report is divided 
into Unaudited Information and Audited Information. The Company’s 
auditors are required to report to the Company’s members on the 
auditable part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, and state 
whether in their opinion that part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report has been properly prepared in accordance with the 2006 
Companies Act.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Compliance with Corporate Governance Code
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Company complies 
with the Main Principles of Section D (Remuneration) of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”). In four respects 
remuneration policy departs from the provisions of the Code, 
namely:
•	 Notice periods of more than 12 months in the case of a change 
of control.
•	 The absence of performance conditions for the Long‑term Cash 
Plan and part of vesting under the 2009 Share Plan.
•	 A shorter vesting period for part of the first year’s grant under 
the 2011 LTIP. 
•	 The absence of specific measures to encourage longer‑term 
share‑holding by Directors.
•	 The absence of specific clawback arrangements for annual 
bonuses.
In accordance with the Code and the requirements of the UK Listing 
Rules, this report explains in the relevant section below the details 
of the policy and the Committee’s reasons for adopting it.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises three members, 
all of whom are considered by the Board to be “independent” taking 
into account Provision B.1.1 of the Code. As promised in last year’s 
report, the Company has revisited the composition of the Committee 
in order to comply fully with the Code. On 16 December 2011, Rory 
Macnamara joined the Committee and took over its chair from Peter 
Dicks, who remains a member with Brian Harris. Chris Moss also 
joined the Committee. On the same date, Sean O’Connor and 
Nigel Payne resigned from the Board. 
Terms of reference
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee have been 
set by the Board, and include:
•	 To determine the remuneration and benefits, including incentive 
arrangements, of the Executive Directors, the Directors of 
divisional companies and other employees of similar status.
•	 To set targets for the performance‑related pay elements of the 
remuneration packages.
•	 To review recommendations from the Board on the overall 
remuneration and benefits policy of the Group, with the power 
and authority to amend it if appropriate.
•	 To have regard to the provisions of the Combined Code and 
associated guidance in its decision‑making.
The remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Board as a whole 
as is that of the Non‑Executive Directors. No Director is present 
when his own remuneration is discussed.
Committee advisers
During the year, the Remuneration Committee has taken advice 
internally from Ruth Smee, Group Head of Human Resources and 
Daniel Talisman, Company Secretary. External advice on the design 
of the 2011 LTIP was provided by MM&K, the executive remuneration 
consulting firm which conducted the remuneration market and policy 
review during the previous financial year. No other service was 
provided to the Company or Group by MM&K, which was appointed 
by the Committee.
Remuneration objectives and policy in the past and coming years
Executive Director and senior management remuneration in 
Sportingbet is designed to support the business strategy of the 
Company and its long‑term success. As reported last year, in 2011 
the Board changed the focus from retaining key executives following 
the exit from the US market (caused by the enactment of the 
Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act in 2006) to one of 
“value creation” – essentially, shareholders and Directors share in the 
added valued generated from the successful implementation of the 
Company’s strategy. This change reflected management’s success 
in turning around the Company’s fortunes. As reported last year, the 
Remuneration Committee accepted the advice of MM&K to honour 
remuneration arrangements (essentially long‑term share and cash 
plans) which pre‑dated the Company’s move to the Official List in 
2010 and which may not have been compliant with the Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance (as was then in force). 33
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
It remains an objective to pay Directors and senior management 
competitively. This is characterised, broadly, as an “upper quartile” 
position in their relevant labour markets for both fixed and total 
remuneration. Our business in global online betting and gaming 
remains subject to uncertainty whilst a number of the Company’s 
competitive markets determine whether or not to introduce 
licence‑issuing, regulated regimes and, if so, the form of such 
regulation and the corresponding tax rate. As a result, the Company 
continues to participate in a declining number of markets which are 
yet to introduce licences. The remuneration package needs to 
recognise this level of risk which is carried by the executives as well 
as the Company. Our policy is now to ensure that remuneration 
packages for executives are strongly performance‑linked, so that 
high levels of remuneration are only received if shareholders have 
benefited and the executives have achieved exceptional performance. 
The proportion of performance‑based remuneration in the total 
remuneration of the Executive Directors is shown in Chart A below. 
The Committee views projections of total remuneration in different 
performance scenarios to ensure that the total figure paid is not 
excessive and is justified by performance.
Chart A: Total remuneration of Executive Directors at 
achievement of target
Chief Executive
Not performance-based 39%
Performance-based 61%
Finance Director
Not performance-based 38%
Performance-based 62%
The previously awarded long‑term retention elements, which were 
not performance‑linked, have been paid out or vested in this 
financial year and it is not intended to repeat them.
The timescale and measures of the incentive programme have 
been chosen to provide the right emphasis on value creation and 
alignment with shareholders. In particular, the vesting of the new 
LTIP depends on cumulative EBITDA per share achievement, normally 
over three years (EBITDA per share is believed by the Committee to 
be the key driver of share value – a two or three year horizon is 
appropriate for the nature of the business) and the plan’s provision 
of performance shares through the mechanism of “nil cost” share 
options provides executives with a strong interest in the Company 
share price for up to ten years from the date of grant.
Remuneration policy: components of remuneration
Base Salary
2012–13 policy changes: no change from last year 
The Committee considers the particular labour markets in which 
the Executive Directors and members of senior management work, 
taking into account as appropriate the role, the competitive nature 
of the industry and company/division size. Decisions on base salary 
are made taking into account the individual’s performance and 
contribution and salary increases elsewhere in the Group. The 
Executive Directors received no increase in salary in the 2011–12 
financial year, compared with an average employee increase of 2%.
The Committee has also proposed no increase in salary for the 
2012–13 financial year.
Annual Bonus
2012–13 policy changes: the Company is consulting with 
shareholders on the performance measures to be used
Executive Directors and senior managers participate in a Company 
annual bonus plan at different levels of opportunity depending on 
seniority. The payment to an Executive Director for achievement of 
a basic target is 75% of salary. No payment is made for performance 
below basic target. The maximum payment, for achievement of a 
stretch target is 100% of salary. The principal performance measure 
is operating profit against target. The KPIs included in the Company’s 
Business Review are not used as targets in the annual bonus plan. 
These are leading indicators of performance and a number of 
uncertainties in the Company’s markets make them currently 
unsuitable as bonus targets. In awarding payments, the 
Remuneration Committee may apply discretion, taking into account 
industry developments and the Company’s response to them, 
including changes of policy towards business strategy and risk.
For 2011–12 the basic target was originally set as an operating profit 
of £37m, and the stretch target as an operating profit of £41m. 
These targets were revised upwards during the year to £41m and 
£45m respectively, to reflect the acquisition and the disposal which 
had been made and analysts’ forecasts. Actual performance was 
£42m. The Committee decided to award a payment at the basic 
target level of 75% of salary.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Committee has considered part deferment of bonus to 
be paid in cash or shares. It has concluded that immediate payment 
of bonus is necessary for the competitive and motivational impact 
and that an interest in the Company’s shares is provided adequately 
by the long‑term incentive plans. Moreover, it does not believe at 
present that deferment is necessary to provide an opportunity of 
clawback in the circumstances of misstatement or misconduct 
because of the low risk of these occurring in this business. 
Bonuses in termination payments are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee on a case by case basis taking into account 
the recent performance of the Company and the Director. 34
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Governance
Remuneration Report
Long‑term incentive plans
2012–13 policy changes: grants will now only be made under 
the 2011 LTIP approved at the 2011 AGM. In March 2012, the 
Remuneration Committee added a secondary measure of Earnings 
per Share to underpin the cumulative EBITDA measure, introduced 
graduated vesting (rather than cliff vesting) and published the full 
cycle performance vesting targets. This policy will continue for 
plan grants in the coming year.
In recent years, the Company has operated a number of long‑term 
cash and share plans. Their focus was primarily but not exclusively, 
aimed at retention in the special circumstances following the 
enactment of the Unlawful Internet Gaming Enforcement Act 
in the US in 2006. All of these are closed to further grants and 
all outstanding grants will have vested (or lapsed) by the end of the 
2012–13 financial year. Options granted under these closed plans 
which have vested but remain exercisable are shown in the Audited 
Information section later in this report. 
Two long‑term plans were open during the financial year 2011–12 
and are now closed:
Sportingbet Restricted Share Plan 2009 (2009 Share Plan)
The 2009 Share Plan was adopted on 22 July 2008 and awards of nil 
cost options were granted to the Executive Directors and the Group’s 
senior management team on 20 January 2009. The plan is now 
closed and final vesting will be determined following the release 
of the Company’s results for the 2011–12 financial year.
The plan was introduced at a time when retention was the 
main priority of the long‑term remuneration arrangements. In 
consequence, the vesting of awards was based only partially on 
performance, the rest being paid for loyalty (continued service).In 
addition, the options vested over three years rather than at the end 
of three years. Whilst these aspects of the plan are not in line with 
the provisions of Schedule A of the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the awards were made before the Company had obtained a Premium 
Listing and was bound by the Code. In any case, the Committee 
believed the 2009 Share Plan was strongly in the interests of 
shareholders at the time of its introduction and initial grant 
because of the retention effect.
Plan structure
Entitlements under the 2009 Plan comprised a loyalty element and 
a performance element in equal proportions.
The maximum amount vesting from a grant was 120% salary.  
This amount vested over a period of three years in a series of 
tranches (see Chart B). The participant was required to be  
employed at the relevant year‑end date to receive either  
element in the vesting tranche.
Chart B: Sportingbet Plc 2009 Share Plan vesting schedule
2009 Plan: Vesting 
Proportion  
of total award  
to be released
At end of Year 2009–10
Loyalty element 10%
Performance element 10%
At end of Year 2010–11
Loyalty element 15%
Performance element 15%
At end of Year 2011–12
Loyalty element 25%
Performance element 25%
Total 100%
The performance condition was based on the extent to which 
growth in the Company’s earnings before interest, tax and 
amortisation (“EBITA Growth”) exceeded RPI Growth over a 
financial year of the Company. At the time of the plan’s design, 
the Committee felt that EBITA was the principal driver of value 
in the Company.
For the performance tranche in a particular year to be exercisable 
in full, EBITA Growth had to exceed RPI Growth by 15% per financial 
year compound since grant. A minimum payment of 50% of the 
performance tranche would be awarded for 5% growth per annum, 
with intermediate levels calculated on a straight line basis. In 
2010–11 an EBITA of £38.1m was achieved, which represented a 
compound growth of 8.5% above RPI. As a result 66.9% of the 
performance element was paid out.
2008 Cash‑Based Long‑Term Incentive Plan (2008 Cash 
Retention Plan)
In 2008, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the remuneration 
and benefits packages of certain key employees. As a result, the 
2008 Cash Retention Plan was established and offered to the 
Executive Directors and a small number of key employees in order 
to retain such individuals. The Plan paid a cash sum in August 2012 
based on the relevant employee’s gross salary, subject to continued 
employment in the Group up to and including 31 July 2012. The 
amount paid to Andrew McIver was £500,000 and to Jim Wilkinson 
was £293,500. These figures are included in the long‑term incentive 
vested figures shown in the Audited Information section of this 
report. The absence of a performance condition was not in line with 
the provisions of Schedule A of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
but the award was made before the Company had obtained a 
Premium Listing and was bound by the Code. The Committee 
believed its use was in the interests of shareholders at the time of the 
plan’s introduction and initial grant because of its additional 
retention effect.
In line with the advice received from the specialist external 
consultants, MM&K, awards made in good faith prior to the 
Company’s move to the Official List in May 2010 have been 
honoured. Following the recommendations of MM&K and to ensure 
compliance with the Code and investor guidelines, the Company will 
not adopt similar schemes in the future. The only long‑term incentive 
plan now in operation is the 2011 LTIP described below, which is 
entirely performance based. 35
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Sportingbet Plc 2011 Long‑Term Incentive Plan (2011 LTIP)
This plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting on 16 December 2011 and the first grants under the plan 
were made on 10 April 2012.
The purpose of the 2011 LTIP is to provide an incentive for Executive 
Directors and selected key executives to out‑perform in the 
achievement of value drivers and, as a reward, to receive an interest 
in ordinary shares in the Company. This interest is structured as an 
option which is exercisable over a period of seven years from vesting 
with a discretionary award of past dividends at exercise, maintaining 
attention to total shareholder return and creating alignment with 
shareholders’ interests. 
The 2011 LTIP provides performance shares in the form of nil/nominal 
cost options which normally vest after three years depending on the 
achievement of two Company performance conditions. The normal 
maximum grant has a face value of the shares of 150% of salary, 
with 200% available for grants in exceptional circumstances such as 
recruitment. Under the 2012 grant, Andrew McIver was awarded a 
maximum of 1,986,755 shares; Jim Wilkinson was awarded 
a maximum of 1,192,053 shares. 
The principal performance measure is earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation of goodwill (EBITDA) per share – i.e. 
operating cash flow adjusted for year‑end accruals. The Committee 
believes that in a business where the major operational investment is 
in marketing, cash flow drives the value of the Company, as it creates 
the strength to grow organically and by acquisition, provides a 
cushion against risk and creates potential for cash returns to 
shareholders. In order to reduce the risk of creating higher but 
diluted earnings by increasing equity, EBITDA targets are set on a per 
share basis.
At the time of the AGM last year, the Company’s business forecasts 
contained a number of uncertainties owing to external factors, which 
made it impossible to include the performance vesting schedule with 
the scheme rules. By March 2012, the picture had clarified and the 
Committee finalised the vesting schedule for the 2012 grant. This is 
shown in Chart C below. The Committee retains the discretion to 
vary these conditions during the performance cycle to maintain the 
level of challenge and to determine the extent to which the measure 
has been achieved following the approval of audited accounts for 
the final year of the performance cycle. Forecasting in the industry 
is inexact. The alternative to applying discretion in this way is either 
to set targets on a shorter timescale such as a year or to set a 
much wider performance range in the performance schedule.  
The Committee considers that a tightly defined three‑year target 
range, with responsibly‑applied discretion, is preferable to either  
of these alternatives. 
Transitional arrangement: in order to provide continuity of reward 
and retention effect from the previous two long‑term incentive 
plans, 50% of the first year’s grant will vest after two years (subject 
to Company performance). Schedule A of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code expects vesting to occur in no less than three years 
“in normal circumstances”. However, the Committee believes that 
this transitional arrangement is justifiable in the circumstances and 
in the interests of shareholders. 
Chart C: Sportingbet Plc 2011 LTIP: grant vesting schedule 2011–12
 Two Year Vesting Three Year Vesting
 
EBITDA 
£m Vesting
1
EBITDA 
£m Vesting
1
Threshold 112.6 12.5% 177.4 12.5%
Target 121.8 37.5% 192.0 37.5%
Stretch 124.7 50.0% 199.7 50.0%
1. Percentage of total grant vesting. Pro‑rated between these levels.
A secondary measure of Earnings per Share provides an underpin to 
the use of EBITDA. For the 2012 grant, the Committee has set an EPS 
target of 4.9p for the final year of the two‑year vesting element and 
5.4p for the final year of the three‑year vesting element. If EPS is 
80% of this target or below, only half the amount earned by EBITDA 
performance will vest; at target the full amount will vest, with 
straight line vesting between these levels.
The Committee currently intends to make grants early in 2013 for 
the new three year cycle starting in 2012–13. As happened for the 
grants made in 2012, we will communicate the targets to 
shareholders when they are known.
Pensions and benefits
2012–13 policy changes: no change from last year.
The Company makes employer contributions of 20% of Andrew 
McIver’s salary and 17% of Jim Wilkinson’s salary to their personal 
pension schemes and this policy will continue for 2012–13. There are 
no Company pension arrangements in place.
Executive Directors’ benefits in kind comprise death‑in‑service 
cover of four times salary and private health insurance within the 
Group scheme.
Service contracts
All Directors have service contracts/engagement letters. These 
contracts do not have a fixed period. The Company’s policy is that 
for both Executive and Non‑Executive Directors notice periods will 
be no more than one year, served by the Company or the Director.
Andrew Mclver and Jim Wilkinson have service contracts, dated 
18 January 2006 and 21 January 2008 respectively, which provide 
for 12 months’ notice by the Company or the Director and contain 
non‑compete obligations. There are no payments or compensation 
on early termination of the contract by the Company, save that 
where a payment is made in lieu of notice and the executive 
commences new employment during such a period, they are 
required to repay the Company any prorated amounts.
In the event of termination or constructive dismissal following a 
sale or reconstruction of Sportingbet each of the Executive Directors 
is entitled to the equivalent of 24 months’ salary, bonus, pension 
contributions and other benefits payable under his respective service 
contract. This entitlement is not in accordance with provision D.1.5 of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. The contracts were drawn up 
before the Company had obtained a Premium Listing, at a time when 
it was not bound by the Code. The Board does not believe there 
would be a benefit to shareholders, on balance, in renegotiating the 
contracts at this time. 36
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Governance
Remuneration Report
Peter Dicks and Brian Harris have contracts for services dated 1 February 2008 and 28 February 2003 respectively. Both have a termination 
period of 12 months’ notice. Rory Macnamara and Chris Moss have contracts for services dated 26 June 2011 and 19 October 2011 
respectively. Both are terminable on six months notice after the initial period of three years. 
By way of a variation agreement dated 17 January 2007 between Sportingbet and Sean O’Connor, and by way of a side letter dated 8 
January 2007 from Sportingbet to Peter Dicks, in the event of the sale or reconstruction of Sportingbet (or any Sportingbet Group company), 
both Sean O’Connor and Peter Dicks are entitled to be paid a sum in cash equivalent to the difference between £0.44 and the price per 
ordinary share in Sportingbet agrees at completion of such sale or reconstruction of Sportingbet, multiplied by 500,000.
In December 2006 and in the case of Jim Wilkinson on 1 February 2008, and on 14 September 2011 in the case of Rory Macnamara and 
Chris Moss, Sportingbet Plc granted rolling indemnities to all of its Directors and the Company Secretary, uncapped in amount, in relation to 
certain losses and liabilities which they may incur in the course of acting as Directors and Company Secretary of Sportingbet Plc or of one or 
more of its subsidiaries. These indemnities replace those previously granted on similar terms and continued to be in place as at 31 July 2012.
Termination agreement
Sean O’Connor and Nigel Payne, who stood down at the 2011 AGM, each received a payment of six months fees under the terms of their 
contracts.
Performance Graph
Chart D below shows the cumulative total shareholder return (“TSR”) index of the Company for the period over the past five financial years, 
compared with: 
1. The FTSE 250 total return Index and
2. The FTSE 250 Leisure and Travel total return index 
These comparators were chosen by the Committee because the Company has been a constituent of both indices since its admission to the 
Official List on 14 May 2010.
TSR is essentially share price growth plus reinvested dividends. The TSR index shows the current value of an investment of £100 made on 
1 May 2010 with dividends reinvested.
Sportingbet FTSE 250 Index FTSE 250 Leisure and Travel Index 
Chart D. Total Shareholder Return Comparison
130
120
110
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
May 10 Aug Nov Feb 11 Jun 11 Sep 11 Dec 11 Apr 12 Jul 12
Non‑Executive Directors’ remuneration policy.
In year‑ending 31 July 2012, the Chairman, Peter Dicks received a fixed fee of £160,000 of which £40,000 was satisfied by the issue of 
Sportingbet shares (see below). This is unchanged for the coming year. Other Non‑Executive Directors receive a basic fee of £75,000 per 
annum (unchanged) with additional fees for the responsibilities of Senior Independent Director or committee chair. 
Up to 2011 it was the Company’s policy that a proportion of Non‑Executive Directors’ fees was paid in Sportingbet shares, to be retained 
until they cease to be a Director of the Company. The Committee decided that this was not an appropriate policy for a Premium‑listed 
company and, by agreement the arrangement with Mr Dicks and Mr Harris, terminated on 31 July 2012. The newer Non‑Executive Directors 
were appointed without this share‑payment arrangement.
External directorships
Executive Directors are allowed to hold external directorships but neither currently does. 37
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
AUDITED INFORMATION
The reported figures below show remuneration receivable for 2011–12 and not necessarily paid during the year. Thus the bonus figures are 
those earned for performance in 2011–12 though they were paid after the year‑end; similarly, share and cash payments under the restricted 
share and long‑term cash plans which vested on 31 July 2012 are included although they were not paid out until after the year end.
1. Directors’ emoluments
£000 Notes Salary/fees Annual bonus Benefits
Total 
emoluments 
2012 Pension
Payment from 
2008 cash 
retention 
plan
Value of 
options 
released 
under 2009 
Share Plan
Total 
remuneration 
2012
Total 
remuneration 
2011
Executive Directors
Andrew McIver 1 570 375 10 955 50 500 155 1660 938
Jim Wilkinson 315 225 1 541 54 294 85 975 492
Non‑Executive Directors        
Peter Dicks 2 160 – – 160 – – – 160 160
Brian Harris 2 120 – – 120 – – – 120 120
Sean O’Connor 3 46 – – 46 – – – 46 90
Nigel Payne 3 45 – – 45 – – – 45 88
Rory Macnamara 75 – – 75 – – – 75 6
Chris Moss 68 – – 68 – – – 68 –
1,399 600 11 2,010 104 794 240 3,148 1,894
1. Annual bonus based on agreed base salary of £500,000. 
2. Included within salary/fees is an annual share award valued at £40,000 which formed part of the Non‑Executive remuneration.
3. Nigel Payne was paid consultancy fees in addition to his emoluments, details of which are available at Note 23 to the Financial Statements. Sean O’Connor was also paid consultancy fees which 
are reflected in his emoluments and details of which are available in Note 23. Both Sean O’Connor and Nigel Payne resigned from the Board on 16 December 2011.
2. Interests of Directors in shares in the Company
Notes
As at 
31 July 2012
As at 
1 August 2011
Executive Directors
Andrew McIver 1 3,070,100 2,834,481
Jim Wilkinson 2 1,246,259 972,787
Non‑Executive Directors
Peter Dicks 3 699,622 416,878
Brian Harris 4 476,775 294,031
Rory Macnamara – –
Chris Moss – –
1. Andrew McIver received an interest in 490,871 shares on 1 December 2011, following the release of an award under the 2009 Share Plan. 255,252 shares were sold to meet the tax liability of 
this award.
2. Jim Wilkinson received an interest in 269,979 shares on 1 December 2011, following the release of an award under the 2009 Share Plan. 140,389 were sold to meet the tax liability of this 
award.
3. Peter Dicks received interests in 72,163 shares on 4 August 2011, 48,485 shares on 29 February 2012 and 62,096 shares on 31 July 2012, each tranche forming part of his Non‑Executive 
remuneration. Peter Dicks further purchased 100,000 shares on 27 October 2011.
4. Brian Harris received interests in 72,163 shares on 4 August 2011, 48,485 shares on 29 February 2012 and 62,096 shares on 31 July 2012, each tranche forming part of his Non‑Executive 
remuneration.  38
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Governance
Remuneration Report
3. Interests of Directors in share options and share plans of the Company
Scheme and  
Year of Award
No. of shares 
subject to 
award at 
1 August 
2011
Granted 
during the 
year
Exercised 
during the 
year
Lapsed 
during the 
year
No. of 
options at 
31 July 2012
Exercise 
price 
(p)
Earliest 
exercise 
date
Expiry of 
exercise 
period
Executive Directors
Andrew McIver 2009 Share Plan 1,567,653 – 490,871 – 1,076,781 Nil or par 1/11/11 1/12/12
LTIP 2011 – 1,986,755 – – 1,986,755 Nil or par
Jim Wilkinson 2009 Share Plan 862,208 – 269,979 – 592,229 Nil or par 1/11/11 1/12/12
LTIP 2011 – 1,192,053 – – 1,192,053 Nil or par 1/08/13 1/08/14
Non‑Executive Directors
No Non‑Executive Director, including the Company Chairman, had an interest in share options or share plans at the beginning of or 
throughout the year.
Further details about these plans and any performance conditions attaching to the awards are provided in the unaudited section of 
this report.
4. Details of awards exercised during the year to 31 July 2012
Scheme and 
Year of Award
Date of 
Exercise
Total number of 
shares acquired 
on exercise
Number of 
shares sold 
on exercise
Market price 
per share
 on exercise
Total value 
of shares on 
exercise 
(less exercise 
price if 
applicable)
Director
Andrew McIver 2009 Share Plan 1/12/12 490,871 255,252 0.32 £154,625
Jim Wilkinson 2009 Share Plan 1/12/12 269,979 140,389 0.32 £85,043
Note: the number of shares sold on exercise of the 2009 Share Plan by the above Directors was in each case to cover income tax and 
employee national insurance charges arising on exercise and dealing costs. 39
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Regulatory Developments 2012
General
The multi‑jurisdictional nature of the Group’s provision of betting 
and gaming services remains subject to an ever‑evolving, complex 
and unpredictable approach by nation states worldwide. However, 
the last 24 months have seen the increasing establishment of 
regulatory regimes which are prepared to license private (i.e. 
non‑state sponsored) gambling operators to provide the types  
of services supplied by the Group in their domestic markets:  
markets that were hitherto the exclusive preserve of national 
monopoly providers.
In some cases (such as Italy) such regimes can be seen as 
“permissive” in the dual sense that they offer to operators not just 
the opportunity to obtain a licence in the territory, but also a system 
of tax and regulation which is attractive to business. In other cases 
(such as France, and Germany outside of Schleswig‑Holstein) the 
regimes offer less attractive conditions for business despite their 
readiness to license private gambling operators; hence, these markets 
can be said to be “permissive” only by way of comparison with the 
exclusions that went before.
Policy
The Group continues to provide its services only from jurisdictions 
where it is licensed and regulated. Therefore, the Group’s position, in 
its place of supply (and where the local regulator and applicable local 
laws deem the gambling transaction to take place) is explicitly legal. 
In order to provide its worldwide gambling services, during the 
2011–2012 financial year the Group has maintained licences in 
Alderney, Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Denmark, Italy, Malta, 
Spain, South Africa and the UK. 
However, it is also increasingly necessary to obtain licences from 
regulatory authorities not just in the places from whence the Group’s 
services are supplied (that is, hosted and served – as mentioned 
above) but also in the markets such services are targeting. This 
reflects the general trend – in the licensing of electronic gambling – 
for regulators to assume jurisdiction based upon the “point of 
consumption” of the gambling, and not to permit unregulated 
access to their domestic markets on the basis of the lawfulness 
of the offering at its (foreign) “point of origin”.
Some recent developments
Some major issues of note in the last 12 months (all of which have 
been widely reported) include:
a. the confirmation that the UK Government intends to license and 
tax the provision of online gambling services on a “point of 
consumption” basis from late 2014;
b. the implementation of new licensing regimes in EU jurisdictions 
such as Denmark and Spain and the announcement of an increase 
in permitted activity in Italy (e.g. online slots from December 2012);
c. the continued move towards the opening of the national gambling 
market to private operators in a number of other EU jurisdictions, 
including Bulgaria, Cyprus, Germany and Greece, albeit on terms 
that vary in their attractiveness to private operators;
d. confirmation that the European Commission (the “Commission”), 
as indicated in a speech in July by the Internal EU Commissioner, 
Michel Barnier, intends to promote a degree of gambling 
regulatory harmony within the European Union. Whilst this will  
not lead to a pan‑EU licensing framework, it may lead to more  
or less commonality in technical, compliance and social 
responsibility standards; 
e. ongoing attempts to impose indirect taxes (via “product fees”) 
on gambling operators by certain States in Australia and similar 
debates in the UK given that the horse‑ racing levy (the “Levy”) 
continues to be subject to attempts to replace it with another form 
of payment; and
f. moves by some individual US states to licence certain types 
of electronic gambling, primarily poker.
The European Union (“EU”) 
EU Member States are subject to scrutiny from the European 
Commission and, as “guardian” of the Treaty on the Functioning 
of the European Union (“TFEU”), it closely monitors existing and 
developing legislation in the EU. The principal method by which the 
Commission has applied pressure on Member States is through the 
use of “infringement proceedings” against EU Member States acting 
in contravention of EU law. Through such proceedings, the 
Commission has asked a number of States to amend their laws 
restricting the free movement of gambling services. The ongoing 
pressure from the Commission, coupled with certain national court 
decisions declaring domestic legislation to be incompatible with EU 
law, has led to a domestic review of prohibitive legislation in a 
number of jurisdictions, including France, Italy and Germany. 
However, the European Court of Justice (“ECJ”) has, in the course of 
the last three years, delivered a series of judgements which ostensibly 
have supported the notion that Member States may establish 
whatever regulatory environment they choose provided they do so in 
such a way that is non‑discriminatory, consistent and proportionate 
to the aim of controlling gambling and protecting their citizens. 
Nonetheless, where jurisdictions have or are in the process of 
implementing licensing regimes, the Commission has yet to take 
any affirmative action where such licensing systems are arguably 
discriminatory, either in terms of the barriers to entry or in relation 
to the level of tax (or bond security) licensees are expected to pay. 
Germany and Greece are in this category. Both jurisdictions may yet 
be challenged by the Commission, but in the meantime, whilst the 
introduction of a licensing regime seems to be the necessary salve 
to ward off infringement proceedings, there appears to be no 
obvious blueprint for a licensing regime that will pass muster 
with the Commission. 
Despite the absence of any harmonising directive at EU‑level, 
the Commission does, however, appear to be taking steps towards 
introducing a degree of common regulatory practice, at an EU level, 
which may lead to a degree of harmonisation of online gambling 
regulation as between Member States. Following the publication of 
a Green Paper last year, Michel Barnier, the Internal EU Commissioner 
has confirmed that an action plan to instigate the “regulation and 
supervision of online betting and gambling” will be published in 
Autumn 2012. The action plan is likely to deal with protection of 
consumers, prevention of fraud and the issue of sports integrity. 
The Commission also wishes to promote regulatory co‑operation 
between Member States and wishes to establish a pan‑EU 
enforcement capability to help curb the “grey” market. However, 
the Commission recognises that such initiatives will be hampered by 
Member States continuing to preside over non‑compliant regulatory 
regimes and has stated it plans to tackle such infringements of the 
TFEU. In that regard, the industry awaits the Commission’s 
next move. 40
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Governance
Spain
The first online gambling licences were granted in Spain in early 
June 2012 and the regime became fully operational shortly 
thereafter. The new licensing regime embraces a range of betting 
and gaming activities with further licensing of online slots anticipated 
later in 2012. The Group has obtained general licences (covering 
betting, other games and contests) and seven singular licences 
(covering poker, baccarat, roulette, blackjack, supplementary games, 
sport fixed‑odds betting and other fixed‑odds betting). In the 
months preceding the liberalisation of the gambling market, licence 
applicants were required to pay retrospective taxes dating back some 
four years. For some operators the sums were not insignificant and 
ran into the tens of millions of euros. The Group voluntarily settled 
its tax claim but, along with other operators, will assess its ability 
to challenge the imposition of retrospective taxation by the Spanish 
tax authorities now that licences have been issued.
United Kingdom
The Gambling Act 2005 does not currently impose any restrictions 
on operators transacting with British citizens. It does, however, 
prevent overseas operators advertising in the UK unless they are 
regulated in certain specified (“whitelisted”) jurisdictions.
The Group holds a licence granted by the Alderney Gambling Control 
Commission and is therefore permitted to advertise in the UK under 
regulations passed pursuant to the Gambling Act, which permit UK 
advertising for Alderney licensees on the basis of Alderney’s 
“whitelisted” status. 
In March 2010, the Department for Culture, Media and Sport 
(“DCMS”) initiated a consultation regarding the regulation of remote 
gambling in UK. The consultation also looked at whether operators 
who transact with UK citizens should be required to obtain a licence 
from the UK Gambling Commission. In July 2011, the UK 
Government announced its intention to proceed with such plans.
In March 2012, the Chancellor announced the intention to tax online 
gambling operators on a “point of consumption basis”, meaning that 
any operator transacting with a UK citizen will need to pay gambling 
duties to the UK tax authorities. The industry was recently consulted 
and a number of stakeholders have threatened to challenge the 
compatibility of the proposals with the UK’s obligations under the 
TFEU. Subject to any such challenges, it is anticipated that the 
requirement for the Group to hold a UK licence and pay 
corresponding tax in the UK will have crystallised by late 2014.
Germany
Following certain ECJ cases, including Carmen Media (Case C‑46/08), 
which determined that there was incompatibility between Germany’s 
TFEU obligations and its domestic gambling laws, wide speculation 
as to the unenforceability of the Interstate Treaty on Gambling 
(“Treaty”) prompted a review of the gambling regulatory regime 
in the context of the expiry of the Treaty on 1 January 2012.
A new version of the Treaty was produced and the Commission 
expressed its concerns about the incompatibility of that draft with 
Germany’s TFEU obligations. The new Treaty received further critical 
comments from the Commission but was, nonetheless, ratified by 
15 of Germany’s 16 states and entered into force on 1 July 2012. 
It provides for the award of up to 20 online sports betting licences 
but prohibits online casino and poker. The Hesse Ministry of Interior 
Sports initiated a European‑wide tender for licences in August 2012 
with a deadline of 4 September 2012 for submissions, which was 
subsequently extended to 12 September 2012. 
At the time the draft Treaty was receiving comments from the 
Commission, the parliament of the State of Schleswig‑Holstein 
passed its own Gambling Act which came into force on 1 January 
2012. This Act licenses most gambling activities and a number of 
sports betting licences have now been granted. Parliamentary 
elections in May 2012 resulted in a change of government in 
Schleswig‑Holstein and the new administration was not as 
supportive of the State’s new licensing regime. Therefore, following 
a cabinet meeting in July 2012, Schleswig‑Holstein announced its 
intention to abolish its Gambling Act and became the 16th State 
to ratify the Treaty. A subsequent parliamentary meeting failed to 
resolve how and when the Gambling Act would be removed from 
the statute books and until such time, Schleswig‑Holstein’s Gambling 
Act will remain in force. Further sports betting licences were granted 
in late August. A federal tax on sports betting activities of 5% (levied 
on the value of bets made (i.e. stakes)) has been in place since July 
2012. The tax is uniform across Germany (and also applies in 
Schleswig‑Holstein until its licensing regime is formally withdrawn) 
and impacts any operator transacting with German citizens 
regardless of that operator’s location. Operators are taking different 
stances with respect to Germany; some are paying the tax and 
preparing for the implementation of the licensing regime; others 
are refusing to pay and have announced that they will challenge 
the requirement in the European courts. 
Greece
Greece has been the subject of several challenges by the Commission 
and, in September 2012, an opinion published by ECJ advocate 
general Ján Mazák heavily criticised the position of monopoly 
provider (OPAP). In July 2011 Greece implemented a new law which 
envisages an online gambling licensing regime. Whilst all the 
underlying regulations have yet to be promulgated, those operators 
who wanted to obtain a licence were required to register to pay tax 
during the period prior to the licensing regime being initiated, and 
in some cases, as far back as 2010. Games of chance were excluded 
from the scope of available licences as they were exclusively reserved 
for the monopoly. However, Mazák’s opinion clearly finds the 
national legislation incompatible with Articles 49 and 56 of TFEU and 
as a result opines that the proposed legislation cannot apply during 
any transitional period. Although a final ECJ judgment is expected 
later this year, Mazák’s opinion is likely to form the basis of the 
final court ruling.
Regulatory Developments 2012 41
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Italy
Italy is a fully regulated market and its licensing regime is set to 
develop further with the introduction of online slots in December 
2012. New regulations for remote bingo are also anticipated this  
year (subject to comments from the European Commission) as well  
as the proposals to regulate betting exchanges and betting on  
virtual events.
Proposals made by Italian regulator, AAMS, suggest further 
amendments may be made to the current regime in Italy which 
would see online fixed odds betting taxed on a gross profits rather 
than turnover basis. Furthermore a process is under way to enhance 
betting operators’ offerings by augmenting the official list of events 
and markets on which bets can currently be struck (the “palinsesto”).
The Group currently holds a provisional licence which does not 
entitle it to offer its services to Italian customers until such time 
as the licence agreement has been signed by AAMS, the Italian 
regulator. Once active, the licence permits fixed‑odds and totalizer 
betting, pool betting, sports and horse race betting, casino games 
(with the exclusion of slots), skill games, bingo and tournament 
and non‑tournament card games. 
Denmark
Following a positive decision from the Commission in connection 
with a formal state aid investigation in September 2011, the new 
Danish licensing regime became live on 1 January 2012 with licences 
available for land‑based and online betting and online casino and 
poker. Horse race betting, lottery, bingo, keno and scratch cards 
remain under the ambit of the monopoly provider. 
The Group has been issued with a one year temporary licence. As the 
application process was rushed in order for licences to go live in early 
2012, not all aspects of applications were considered and provisional 
licences were granted until all aspects of the applications have been 
reviewed. Assuming that the licensing authority determines that the 
Group is suitable for regulation, a full licence will be granted for 
a period of five years from 1 January 2013. 
Rest of the World
Australia
The Group holds online betting licences in the Northern Territory and 
provides betting services throughout Australia. It blocks Australians 
from accessing any of the Group’s gaming products. It has been 
held, as a result of various court cases that holding a sports betting 
licence in one Australian state entitles the licensee to advertise and 
supply into all others.
A recent consultation process resulting from a review of the 
Interactive Gambling Act 2001 by Australia’s Department of 
Broadband, Communications and the Digital Economy recommended 
certain amendments to the current legislation. If implemented, the 
amendments would materially alter the online gambling market. 
Licensing of online tournament poker, relaxation of current in‑play 
betting restrictions and additional sanctions and penalties for 
supplying gambling services without the requisite licence are some 
of the recommendations. However, it is important to note that it  
was only an interim report that proposed these amendments and 
there has been notable opposition to some of the proposals which 
could push back any developments until after the elections in 
November 2013.
Race fields legislation exists in every Australian state except the 
Northern Territory. The race fields legislation has been subject to 
ongoing legal challenge, principally on the basis that there exists 
anti‑competitive discrimination between bookmakers and the 
incumbent tote monopolies in breach of the Australian Constitution. 
The matter finally reached the High Court in March 2012 whereby 
the judge dismissed appeals by two operators and held that the race 
field regime imposed an equal burden on all operators and was 
therefore valid. 
United States
The US continues, generally, to prohibit online gambling. 
Despite the current prohibitive position, there have been suggestions 
that, in light of the economic downturn in the US and the resultant 
loss of revenue for land‑based casino operators, liberalisation may 
occur in the online gambling market and rumours and 
counter‑rumours regularly circulate. Increasing pressure from 
consumers and lobby groups has led to legislative proposals being 
put forward. 
To date, these proposals have resulted in changes to the existing 
prohibitive landscape, notably the introduction of an online poker 
regulatory environment in Nevada and the recent passage of 
permissive regulations in Delaware. Several other States’ bills are  
in process, notably in New Jersey and Illinois, although many  
recent State initiatives have failed at some stage during the  
legislative process.
The likelihood of a Federal bill (which would almost certainly 
be a poker‑only bill) being introduced continues to be the subject 
of conjecture.
Asia
The regulatory regime in many Asian countries is currently prohibitive 
and, at present, the Group has no operations or activities in Asia.
Blocked territories
In the last 12 months, the Group has taken, notably, the decision to 
block wagers from Norway and Turkey. As such, the Group currently 
blocks wagers from the following jurisdictions:
•	 Guadeloupe
•	 France
•	 French Guyana
•	 Netherlands
•	 Hong Kong
•	 India
•	 Indonesia
•	 Israel
•	 La Reunion
•	 Martinique
•	 Norway
•	 Pakistan
•	 Philippines
•	 Saudi Arabia
•	 Singapore
•	 Thailand
•	 Turkey
•	 UAE
•	 United States of America 42
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
Independent Audit Report
For the year ended 31 July 2012
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Sportingbet Plc
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Sportingbet Plc 
for the year ended 31 July 2012 which comprise the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Cash 
Flow Statements and the related Notes. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as 
adopted by the European Union. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
set out on page 29, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s (“APB’s”) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 
provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.
cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 July 2012 and of its loss for the year then ended;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted 
by the European Union; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year 
for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Group Financial Statements and;
•	 the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement 
set out on pages 24 to 27 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the 
Financial Statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
•	 a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by 
the Company. 
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review:
•	 the Directors’ Report, set out on page 29, in relation to going 
concern; and
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
of Directors’ remuneration. 
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial 
Statements of Sportingbet Plc for the year ended 31 July 2012 
and the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that 
is described as having been audited. 
Paul Etherington BSc FCA CF
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
London
2 October 2012 43
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 July 2012
Year ended
Continuing operations Notes
Core
£m
Other
£m
31 July 2012
£m
31 July 2011
£m
Amounts wagered 3 2,349.2 – 2,349.2 2,053.9
Net gaming revenue 2 185.7 – 185.7 204.0
Other operating revenue 3.2 7.0 10.2 2.3
Total revenue 3 188.9 7.0 195.9 206.3
Administrative expenses before exceptional items, share option charge 
and amortisation of acquired intangible assets (156.7) – (156.7) (168.2)
Group operating profit before exceptional items, share option 
charge and amortisation of acquired intangible assets 3 32.2 7.0 39.2 38.1
Gain on Turkey deferred contingent consideration 21 – 3.7 3.7 –
Other administrative expenses:
Exceptional items 4 (71.6) – (71.6) (10.8)
Share option charge 6 (0.9) – (0.9) (1.2)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 12 (9.5) – (9.5) (1.7)
Total administrative expenses: (238.7) – (238.7) (181.9)
Group operating (loss)/profit (49.8) 10.7 (39.1) 24.4
Finance income 8 2.2 – 2.2 0.5
Finance costs 8 (8.6) – (8.6) (1.1)
(Loss)/profit before taxation 5 (56.2) 10.7 (45.5) 23.8
Taxation 9 0.1 – 0.1 (3.1)
(Loss)/profit for the year (56.1) 10.7 (45.4) 20.7
(Loss)/profit attributable to the owners of the Parent (56.1) 10.7 (45.4) 20.7
Other comprehensive income:
Amounts initially taken to equity as a result of applying hedge 
accounting (0.8) – (0.8) (0.4)
Amounts reclassified from equity to profit or loss to match the 
hedged items (0.4) – (0.4) (1.2)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (5.7) – (5.7) 1.9
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the 
owners of the Parent (63.0) 10.7 (52.3) 21.0
(Loss)/profit per ordinary share
Basic 10 (6.8)p 3.9p
Diluted 10 (6.8)p 3.9p
The Notes on pages 47 to 72 form part of these Financial Statements. 44
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
Consolidated Balance Sheet
For the year ended 31 July 2012
As at
Notes
31 July 2012
£m
31 July 2011
£m
Non‑current assets
Goodwill 11 101.7 41.8
Other intangible assets 12 111.0 33.2
Property, plant and equipment 13 26.4 26.2
Deferred tax asset 9 1.1 1.2
240.2 102.4
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 14 19.8 16.3
Cash and cash equivalents 15 42.4 180.2
Derivatives 18 0.5 –
62.7 196.5
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 (106.8) (60.4)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 16 (7.1) (6.0)
Derivatives 16 (1.9) (0.2)
(115.8) (66.6)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (53.1) 129.9
Non‑current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 16 (69.0) (53.8)
(69.0) (53.8)
Net assets 118.1 178.5
Equity
Issued share capital 19 0.7 0.7
Share premium 60.7 60.0
Reserves 56.7 117.8
Total equity 118.1 178.5
The Notes on pages 47 to 72 form part of these Financial Statements. These Financial Statements were approved by the Board and 
authorised for issue on 2 October 2012.
J Wilkinson
Director 45
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 July 2012
Issued 
share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Other 
reserves 
£m
Equity 
portion of 
convertible 
bond 
£m
Profit 
and loss 
account
£m
Foreign 
exchange 
reserve
£m
Total
£m
As at 1 August 2010 0.5 59.9 – – 30.8 1.5 92.7
Employee share options – 0.1 – – (0.7) – (0.6)
Issue of shares 0.2 – 62.3 – – – 62.5
Equity portion of convertible bond – – – 10.3 – – 10.3
Share option charge – – – – 1.2 – 1.2
Dividends paid – – – – (8.6) – (8.6)
Transactions with owners 0.2 0.1 62.3 10.3 (8.1) – 64.8
Profit for the year – – – – 20.7 – 20.7
Hedge accounting – – – – (1.6) – (1.6)
Foreign currency exchange – – – – – 1.9 1.9
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 19.1 1.9 21.0
As at 1 August 2011 0.7 60.0 62.3 10.3 41.8 3.4 178.5
Employee share options – 0.7 – – (0.3) – 0.4
Equity portion of convertible bond – – – 1.9 – – 1.9
Share option charge – – – – 0.9 – 0.9
Dividends paid – – – – (11.3) – (11.3)
Transactions with owners – 0.7 – 1.9 (10.7) – (8.1)
Loss for the year – – – – (45.4) – (45.4)
Hedge accounting – – – – (1.2) – (1.2)
Foreign currency exchange – – – – – (5.7) (5.7)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – (46.6) (5.7) (52.3)
As at 31 July 2012 0.7 60.7 62.3 12.2 (15.5) (2.3) 118.1
The decrease in Group equity of £60.4m (2011: increase of £85.8m) is wholly represented by the movements shown in equity reserves and 
share capital in Note 19 and the statement above. 
Other reserves represent amounts relating to the premiums arising on the issue of shares under the provisions of section 612 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
On 9 June 2011, 154,761,904 ordinary shares were issued and placed at a price of 42p per share. The net proceeds after costs were £62.5m. 
The placing utilised a cash box structure, whereby the cash box entity issued redeemable preference shares in consideration for the receipt of 
the cash proceeds (net of issue costs) arising from the placing. The Company’s ordinary shares were issued as consideration for the transfer 
to it of the shares, which it did not already own, in the cash box entity. As a result, in the opinion of the Directors, the placing qualified for 
merger relief under section 612 of Companies Act 2006 so that the £62.3m excess of the value of the acquired shares in the cash box entity 
over the nominal value of the ordinary shares issued by the Company was credited to the Company’s other reserves.
The equity portion of the convertible bond reserve represents the equity portion of the £80m (2011: £65m) of fixed rate 7% convertible 
bonds (Note 16) after deduction of transaction costs of £0.7m (2011: £0.5m) attributable to the equity component.
All Group equity is attributable to the owners of the Parent. 46
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 July 2012
Year ended
Notes
31 July 2012
£m
31 July 2011
£m
Group (loss)/profit after taxation (45.4) 20.7
Depreciation 3.9 5.2
Software amortisation 9.9 8.1
Other amortisation 9.5 1.7
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and software 18.7 –
Share option charge 0.9 1.2
Finance cost 6.4 0.6
Taxation (0.1) 3.1
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 3.8 40.6
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (0.8) (0.9)
Increase/(decrease) in payables 3.1 (8.7)
Cash generated by operations 6.1 31.0
Income tax paid (1.5) (2.1)
Net cash from operating activities 4.6 28.9
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 13 (8.9) (4.1)
Purchases of software 12 (17.0) (20.9)
Acquisitions 21 (108.6) (0.1)
Interest paid (6.4) (0.8)
Cash used in investing activities (140.9) (25.9)
Loans 4.0 –
Exercise of share options (0.1) (0.7)
Issue of shares 0.5 61.8
Finance leases (1.4) 0.7
Dividends paid (11.3) (8.6)
Issue of convertible loan notes 12.9 62.0
Net cash from financing activities 4.6 115.2
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year (131.7) 118.2
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 180.2 58.9
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (6.1) 3.1
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 15 42.4 180.2
The Notes on pages 47 to 72 form part of these Financial Statements. 47
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial information provided is for the Group’s financial year ending 31 July 2012.
The financial information has been prepared in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted 
by the European Union.
The IFRS Financial Statements have been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the Financial 
Statements for the year to 31 July 2011.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of preparation of these Financial Statements. 
The effect of adopting the above standards and interpretations is not material to Group profit or to total equity in the current or prior year. 
Prior year information has not been restated, therefore an additional comparative Balance Sheet has not been presented. 
Standards in issue not yet effective
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following Standards and Interpretations, applicable to the Group, which are effective for periods starting 
after the date of these Financial Statements and are yet to be adopted by the Group:
•	 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective 1 January 2015) 
•	 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements (effective 1 January 2013) 
•	 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements (effective 1 January 2013) 
•	 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (effective 1 January 2013) 
•	 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement (effective 1 January 2013) 
•	 IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised June 2011) (effective 1 January 2013) 
•	 IAS 27 (Revised), Separate Financial Statements (effective 1 January 2013) 
•	 IAS 28 (Revised), Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (effective 1 January 2013) 
•	 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets – Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes (effective 1 January 2012) 
•	 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income – Amendments to IAS 1 (effective 1 July 2012) 
•	 Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Amendments to IFRS 7 (effective 1 January 2013) 
•	 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Amendments to IAS 32 (effective 1 January 2014) 
•	 Mandatory Effective Date and Transition Disclosures – Amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 (effective 1 January 2015) 
•	 Annual Improvements 2009–2011 Cycle (effective 1 January 2013)
The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations will have a material effect on its Financial Statements 
on initial adoption, with the exception of IFRS 9 which will impact the measurement of financial instruments and future hedges.
Basis of consolidation – subsidiaries
The Group Financial Statements for the year consolidate the Financial Statements of Sportingbet Plc and the entities it controls  
(its subsidiaries).
Subsidiaries are consolidated from their date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be 
consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the 
investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights, currently exercisable 
or convertible potential voting rights or by way of contractual agreement. Accounting policies are consistently applied across the Group. 
All inter‑company balances and transactions are eliminated. 
Business combinations
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any 
excess of the consideration transferred over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency 
of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to the profit 
or loss in the period of acquisition. 
Contingent and deferred consideration arising as a result of acquisitions is stated at fair value at the date of acquisition. Contingent 
consideration is based on management’s best estimate of the likely outcome. The fair value of contingent share consideration is measured 
based on the market price of shares at acquisition. Subsequent remeasurement of contingent consideration is recognised in the profit or loss. 
Notes to the Financial Statements 48
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
1. Accounting policies continued
Amounts wagered
Amounts wagered do not represent the Group’s statutory revenue. They represent amounts staked in respect of bets placed on sporting 
events in the year, net win in respect of casino and gaming, and rake in respect of poker games that have concluded in the year. 
Amounts wagered are stated net of certain promotional bonuses. 
Revenues
Net gaming revenue
Net gaming revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, and comprises the following: 
•	 Sports betting: gains and losses in respect of bets placed on sporting events in the year stated after betting taxes and certain 
promotional bonuses. 
•	 Open positions are carried at fair market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue, as well as gains and 
losses realised on positions that have closed. 
•	 Casino and gaming: net win in respect of bets placed on casino games that have concluded in the year, stated net of certain 
promotional bonuses. 
•	 Poker: net win in respect of rake for poker games that have concluded in the year, stated net of certain promotional bonuses. 
•	 Where the Group refers to gaming revenue, this represents net gaming revenue before the deduction of promotional bonuses.
Other operating revenue
Other operating revenue is comprised of revenues for B2B services, including payment processing, trading and IT services, which is measured 
at the fair value of the consideration received recognised as revenue in the period in which services are performed.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred in an acquisition over the Group‘s share of the fair value 
of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is allocated to cash‑generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. 
Goodwill allocated to each cash‑generating unit is not amortised and is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Where impairment arises 
on a cash‑generating unit, it is allocated initially against goodwill and thereafter pro rata amongst other assets. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately in the profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed. Goodwill arising on earlier acquisitions prior to IFRS conversion was being 
amortised over its estimated useful life of 20 years. In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS, 
the unamortised balance of goodwill at 31 July 2006 was frozen and reviewed for impairment at least annually. 
Computer software
Where, in the opinion of the Directors, the Group’s expenditure in relation to development of internet activities results in future economic 
benefits, these costs are capitalised and amortised over the useful economic life of the asset. 
Development costs are capitalised only when it is probable that future economic benefit will result from the project and the following criteria 
are met:
•	 The technical feasibility of the product has been ascertained.
•	 Adequate technical, financial and other resources are available to complete and sell or use the intangible asset. 
•	 The Group can demonstrate how the intangible asset will generate future economic benefits and the ability to use or sell the intangible 
asset can be demonstrated.
•	 It is the intention of management to complete the intangible asset and use it or sell it. 
•	 The development costs can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is provided on computer software at a rate calculated to write each asset down to its estimated residual value, using the 
straight‑line method, over its expected useful life, as follows: 
Computer software 20–33% on cost
Methods of amortisation, residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each reporting date. 
Other intangible assets 
Identifiable intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations, that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, are 
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date and amortised over their useful economic life as follows: 
Belmond International Limited – marketing contract 20% on cost
Danbook – customer list and software 25% on cost
Scandic – customer list and software 25% on cost
Centrebet – customer list and software 25% on cost
Notes to the Financial Statements 49
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
1. Accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment 
except for freehold land at rates calculated to write each asset down to its estimated residual value, using the straight‑line method, over its 
expected useful life, as follows: 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 25–33% on cost
Leasehold improvements 10% on cost
Motor vehicles 25% on cost
Computer equipment 20–33% on cost
Freehold buildings 2% on cost
Methods of depreciation, residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each reporting date. Leasehold 
improvements are included within fixtures, fittings and equipment in the property, plant and equipment note. 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets to 
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash 
flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash‑generating unit to which the 
asset belongs. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre‑tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset for (or cash‑generating unit) which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash‑generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (or cash‑generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash‑generating unit) is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash‑generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss 
is recognised as income immediately. 
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group 
will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, 
probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (more than 60 days 
overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount 
of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the profit or loss within ‘Other 
administrative expenses’. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. 
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against ‘Other administrative expenses’ in the profit or loss. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand deposits with banks. It also includes cash reserves and short‑term cash in transit held by 
payment service providers. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.  50
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
1. Accounting policies continued
Interest bearing loans and other borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost; 
and the difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the profit or loss over the 
period of borrowings using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
12 months after the reporting date. 
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest‑bearing and are stated initially at their fair value and thereafter at their amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method. The fair value of trade and other payables has not been disclosed as, due to their short duration, management 
considers the carrying values recognised in the Balance Sheet to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
Convertible bonds
The net proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability element and an equity component at the date 
of issue. The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non‑convertible debt. 
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing 
the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity and is not remeasured. The liability component 
is carried at amortised cost. 
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying amounts 
at the date of issue. The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity. 
The finance cost on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate, at the time of issue, for similar 
non‑convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument. The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added 
to the carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange rate movements. The Group does not hold or issue 
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair 
value, calculated using either discounted cash flow techniques or by reference to market prices supplied by banks. The method of recognising 
the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being 
hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of the variability of cash flows (cash flow hedge).
The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items as well as its risk 
management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge 
inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes 
in the cash flows of the hedged items. 
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles 
on the use of financial derivatives.
Derivative financial instruments not eligible for hedge accounting are recognised in the Balance Sheet at fair value calculated using either 
discounted cash flow techniques or by reference to market prices supplied by banks. Changes in their fair value are recognised in profit 
or loss. 
Hedge accounting
The Group designates certain derivatives as either a cash flow hedge, where exposures to variability in cash flows attributable to either 
a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or highly probable purchase are hedged; or hedges of net investments in 
foreign operations (net investment hedges), where exposures to changes in fair value or future cash flows of the investment are hedged. 
For those instruments designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its 
inception. This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged 
and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
Notes to the Financial Statements 51
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
1. Accounting policies continued
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit or loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified from equity to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or 
loss. However, when the hedged transaction results in the recognition of a non‑financial asset or a liability, the gains and losses previously 
deferred in equity are transferred from other comprehensive income and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset 
or liability. 
Fair value measurements are based on quoted prices in active markets for the same instrument.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or 
loss that has been recognised in other comprehensive income at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction 
is ultimately recognised in the profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was 
reported in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified from equity to profit or loss. 
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. Interim dividends are recognised when paid. Final dividends are recognised 
when approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Functional and presentational currency
Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling (£) 
which is the Parent’s functional and presentational currency.
Foreign currency translation
Foreign currency transactions of individual companies are translated at the rates ruling when they occurred. Foreign currency monetary 
assets and liabilities are translated at the closing spot rate. Any differences are taken to the profit or loss. 
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average rates of exchange during the year and their balance sheets translated into 
sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the Balance Sheet date. Exchange differences which arise from translation of the opening net 
assets and results of foreign subsidiary undertakings and from translating the profit or loss at an average rate are taken to reserves. 
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the profit or loss because 
it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or 
deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance 
Sheet date. 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of other 
assets and liabilities in a transaction (other than in a business combination) that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able 
to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in accordance with laws which have been enacted or substantially 
enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the profit or loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited 
directly to other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income. Current and 
deferred tax that relates to items recognised directly in equity is also recognised directly in equity. 52
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
1. Accounting policies continued
Employee benefits
Pension costs
For defined contribution arrangements the amount charged to the profit or loss in respect of pension costs and other post‑retirement 
benefits is the contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid 
are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
Share‑based employee remuneration
Where share options are awarded to employees, the fair value of the options at the date of grant is charged to the profit or loss over 
the vesting period, with the corresponding credit to the profit and loss reserve. Non‑market vesting conditions are taken into account by 
adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each reporting date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised 
over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. Market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value 
of the options granted. As long as all other vesting conditions are satisfied, a change is made irrespective of whether the market vesting 
conditions are satisfied. The cumulative expense is not adjusted for failure to achieve a market vesting condition. 
Where the terms of the options are modified before they vest, the increase in the fair value of the options, measured immediately before and 
after the modification, is also charged to the profit or loss over the remaining vesting period. 
Where equity instruments are granted to persons other than employees, the profit or loss is charged with the fair value of goods and services 
received. 
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium 
when the options are exercised. 
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All the other leases are classified as operating leases. 
The Group as lessee
Assets held under finance leases and other similar contracts, which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, 
are capitalised as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives. The capital 
elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the profit or loss over the period of 
the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital repayments outstanding. Hire purchase transactions are dealt with 
similarly, except that assets are depreciated over their useful lives. 
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight‑line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are similarly spread on a straight‑line basis. 
The Group as lessor
Rental income from the Group’s land and buildings, accounted for within property, plant and equipment, is recognised on a straight‑line 
basis over the lease term. 
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those that in management’s judgement need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the user 
to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information. 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be 
required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation 
at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material. 
Use of judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amount of assets 
and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income 
and expenditure during the reported period. The estimates and associated judgements are based on historical experience and various other 
factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying 
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and underlying judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the periods of revision and future periods if the revision affects 
both current and future periods.
Notes to the Financial Statements 53
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
1. Accounting policies continued
In preparing these consolidated financial statements, estimates and judgements have been made by management concerning the accrual 
of betting taxes, identification of dates of change of control for business combinations, the fair value of consideration and assets acquired, 
discount and growth rates used in impairment reviews, capitalisation, amortisation and impairment of fixed assets, the classification of 
exceptional items and the cost of comparable financing for convertible bonds.
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
Revenue recognition
Net gaming revenue is measured after the deduction of gaming taxes. Tax rates differ by product, domain and territory in which the Group 
operates. In territories where the regulatory position is uncertain, judgement is exercised over the extent to which gaming taxes accrue.
Business combinations
The Group has made a number of corporate transactions during the year. Further details are given in Note 21. Judgement is exercised over 
the date control passes, the nature of the entity acquired or disposed of and the fair value of consideration and assets acquired or disposed.
Impairment reviews
As noted in Note 11, management consider that the Group has two CGUs, Europe and Australia.
Fixed asset capitalisation, amortisation and impairment
Development expenditure is capitalised to the extent it meets the criteria described in the intangible and tangible asset Notes on pages 61 
and 62. Judgement is exercised over the useful life of assets capitalised (given technological and regulatory developments) and when assets 
previously capitalised become impaired.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those that, in management’s judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue of their nature, size and incidence in order for 
the user to obtain a proper understanding of the financial statements.
Classification of convertible bonds
The terms of convertible bond instruments, including all conditions under which an adjustment to the conversion price can be made. 
Where, in management’s judgement such terms are all considered to be anti‑dilutive to the bond holder, the instrument is recognised 
as a compound financial instrument in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32.
Customer liabilities
Customer liabilities represent cash held by the Group on behalf of customers. These are stated net of an allowance for uncollected  
dormant balances. Management calculate the allowance by reference to player terms and conditions in assessing the likelihood of  
balances being reclaimed.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimate of the value‑in‑use of the CGU to which the goodwill has been allocated. 
The value in use calculation involves an estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates 
to calculate present values. Future cash flows are estimated using the current one‑year budget forecast extrapolated for future growth rates. 
The estimated growth rates are based on past experience and knowledge of individual sector’s markets. Changes in estimates of the growth 
rate could result in variations to the carrying value of goodwill. The Directors consider that no reasonably foreseeable changes in the 
estimates of growth rates or discount rates could affect the carrying value of goodwill.
Amortisation of non‑current assets
Determining the period over which tangible and intangible assets are amortised over required an estimate of their useful lives. This includes 
non‑current assets capitalised in current and previous periods together with the intangible assets acquired through business combinations 
during the year.
Fair value of proceeds on disposal of businesses
During the year, the Group disposed of its Turkish Language website business. In arriving at a fair value for the proceeds of the business, 
this requires estimation over timing and quantum of those payments, movements in foreign exchange rates, the regulatory environment 
in Turkey and the credit status of the counterparties.
Share‑ based payments
Management applies valuation techniques to calculate the fair value of share option charges. Note 20 provides information on the choice 
and valuation technique and assumptions made.
Measurement of convertible bonds
The finance cost of convertible bonds is calculated using an effective interest rate, which is at a premium to the coupon rate. This effective 
rate is calculated based on the estimate of the cost of a similar instrument without conversion feature. 54
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
2. Net gaming revenue
2012
£m
2011
£m
Gaming revenue 204.6 224.3
Promotional bonuses (18.9) (20.3)
Net gaming revenue 185.7 204.0
3. Operating segments 
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised into three geographical regions – Europe, Australia and Emerging Markets. 
These regions are the basis on which the Group reports its operating segments.
The following table presents revenue and (loss)/profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating 
segments for the years ended 31 July 2012 and 31 July 2011.
Emerging Markets refer to the Group’s operations in Brazil, Canada and Chile. 
2012
Europe
£m
Australia
£m
Emerging 
Markets
£m
Unallocated 
central costs
£m
Core
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Amounts wagered 770.3 1,493.1 85.8 – 2,349.2 – 2,349.2
Total revenue 95.8 83.6 9.5 – 188.9 7.0 195.9
Depreciation and amortisation of software (10.8) (3.0) – – (13.8) – (13.8)
Administrative expenses before exceptional 
items, share option charge and 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets (80.8) (48.8) (5.3) (8.0) (142.9) – (142.9)
Group operating profit/(loss) before 
exceptional items, share option 
charge and amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets 4.2 31.8 4.2 (8.0) 32.2 7.0 39.2
Gain on Turkey deferred contingent consideration – – – – 3.7 3.7
Other administrative expenses:
Exceptional items (44.9) (19.5) – (7.2) (71.6) – (71.6)
Share option charge (0.2) – – (0.7) (0.9) – (0.9)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (2.0) (7.5) – – (9.6) – (9.6)
Total administrative expenses (138.7) (78.8) (5.3) (15.9) (238.7) – (238.7)
Operating (loss)/profit (42.9) 4.8 4.2 (15.9) (49.8) 10.7 (39.1)
Finance income/(cost) 7.1 1.1 – (14.6) (6.4) – (6.4)
Taxation (0.3) 0.4 – – 0.1 – 0.1
(Loss)/profit for the year (36.1) 6.3 4.2 (30.5) (56.1) 10.7 (45.4)
Balance Sheet information
Non‑current assets 625.5 394.8 – (780.1) 240.2 – 240.2
Current assets 29.6 33.2 – – 62.7 – 62.7
Total liabilities (101.4) (83.4) – – (184.9) – (184.8)
Expenditure incurred to acquire property, 
plant and equipment and intangible assets 15.2 10.7 – – 25.9 – 25.9
2012
Sports 
betting
£m
Casino 
gaming
£m
Poker 
rake
£m
Other 
operating 
revenue
£m
Core
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Amounts wagered 2,319.0 37.8 11.3 – 2,368.1 – 2,368.1
Promotional bonuses (11.9) (3.3) (3.7) – (18.9) – (18.9)
Net amounts wagered 2,307.1 34.5 7.6 – 2,349.2 – 2,349.2
Revenue 155.5 37.8 11.3 3.2 207.8 7.0 214.8
Promotional bonuses (11.9) (3.3) (3.7) – (18.9) – (18.9)
Total revenue 143.6 34.5 7.6 3.2 188.9 7.0 195.9
UK customers make up £9.4m of the £188.9m total revenue in 2012.
Notes to the Financial Statements 55
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
3. Operating segments continued
2011
Europe
£m
Australia
£m
Emerging 
Markets
£m
Unallocated 
central costs
£m
Total
£m
Amounts wagered 1,125.5 822.0 106.4 – 2,053.9
Total revenue 158.6 37.1 10.6 – 206.3
Depreciation and amortisation of software (11.4) (1.8) – (0.1) (13.3)
Administrative expenses before exceptional items, share option charge 
and amortisation of acquired intangible assets (108.2) (26.4) (7.1) (13.2) (154.9)
Group operating profit/(loss) before exceptional items, share 
option charge and amortisation of acquired intangible assets 39.0 8.9 3.5 (13.3) 38.1
Other administrative expenses:
Exceptional items (1.2) – – (9.6) (10.8)
Share option charge (0.5) (0.2) – (0.5) (1.2)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (1.7) – – – (1.7)
Total administrative expenses (123.0) (28.4) (7.1) (23.4) (181.9)
Operating profit/(loss) 35.6 8.7 3.5 (23.4) 24.4
Finance cost 0.8 0.5 (0.1) (1.8) (0.6)
Taxation (0.2) (2.9) – – (3.1)
Profit/(loss) for the year 36.2 6.3 3.4 (25.2) 20.7
Balance Sheet information
Non‑current assets 404.7 7.5 – (309.8) 102.4
Current assets 174.5 22.0 – – 196.5
Total liabilities (114.8) (5.6) – – (120.4)
Expenditure incurred to acquire property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets 22.3 2.7 – – 25.0
2011
Sports 
betting
£m
Casino 
gaming
£m
Poker 
rake
£m
Other 
operating 
revenue
£m
Total
£m
Amounts wagered 2,009.0 47.5 17.7 – 2,074.2
Promotional bonuses (12.4) (3.5) (4.4) – (20.3)
Net amounts wagered 1,996.6 44.0 13.3 – 2,053.9
Revenue 159.1 47.5 17.7 2.3 226.6
Promotional bonuses (12.4) (3.5) (4.4) – (20.3)
Total revenue 146.7 44.0 13.3 2.3 206.3
UK customers make up £10.0m of the £206.3m total revenue in 2011. 56
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
4. Exceptional items
Notes
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Property, plant, equipment and software impairment (a) 18.7 –
Spanish tax settlement (b) 14.7 –
Costs arising on exit from Turkey (c) 18.1 4.4
Costs arising on acquisition and integration of Centrebet (d) 16.8 6.4
Other 3.3 –
Total 71.6 10.8
(a) Following the disposal of the Turkish language website and acquisition of Centrebet, an impairment charge was recognised on assets 
no longer in use. This charge did not have a cash impact.
(b) The Spanish tax authority contacted all major online gaming operators and made clear that, in its opinion, any online operator that has 
ever accepted revenues from Spanish customers has an obligation to pay Spanish taxes under two laws, one dating from 1966 and the 
other from 1977. This charge represents the settlement to the tax authorities in respect of those obligations.
(c) The Group incurred various transaction, professional and bad debt costs upon exit from Turkey.
(d) During the year, the Group completed the acquisition of Centrebet. Over the course of the year, the Company incurred costs in 
integrating the business with the existing Sportingbet business.
5. (Loss)/profit before taxation
2012
£m
2011
£m
Net foreign exchange gains 7.2 –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3.9 5.2
Amortisation of software 9.9 8.1
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services 0.1 0.1
Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3
Other assurance services 0.1 –
Transaction support services – 0.8
6. Share option charge
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Share option charge 0.9 1.2
Total 0.9 1.2
Notes to the Financial Statements 57
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
7. Staff costs
2012 
No.
2011 
No.
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was: 
Europe 456 517
Australia 234 113
Total 690 630
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Employee costs (including Executive Directors) were as follows: 
Wages and salaries 37.0 33.1
Social security costs 3.5 3.3
Pension costs 2.9 2.2
43.4 38.6
The following table sets out Directors’ remuneration. There are no key management personnel other than the Group’s Directors.
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Directors’ remuneration
Short‑ term employee benefits 3.0 1.3
Post employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share‑based payments 0.2 0.4
Total 3.3 1.8
Further disclosures on the remuneration of each individual Director are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 38.
8. Net finance costs
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (1.4) (0.9)
Convertible loan interest (7.1) –
Finance lease interest (0.1) (0.2)
(8.6) (1.1)
Finance income 2.2 0.5
Total (6.4) (0.6) 58
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
9. Taxation
The tax charge for the year is higher than the standard UK rate of corporation tax as explained below: 
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Note 9(a) Analysis of charge in the period
Current tax:
UK corporation tax on losses of the period – –
Overseas taxation (0.2) 2.9
Adjustments to overseas taxation in respect of previous periods – (1.0)
Total current tax (0.2) 1.9
Deferred tax:
Current year movement to deferred tax 0.1 1.2
Total deferred tax (Note 9(c)) 0.1 1.2
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (Note 9(b)) (0.1) 3.1
Note 9(b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the period
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before tax (45.5) 23.8
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 27% (2011: 27%) (12.1) 6.5
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 8.5 2.1
Effect of lower tax rates on overseas earnings – (8.7)
Difference between fixed assets and capital allowances – 0.2
Tax losses arising in year 5.9 3.1
Other timing differences (2.4) (0.2)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods – –
Tax charge for the period (Note 9(a)) (0.1) 3.1
Note 9(c) Provision for deferred tax (deferred tax asset)
Other temporary differences – –
Provision for deferred tax at 27% (2011: 27%) – –
As at the beginning of the year (1.2) (2.0)
Arising on revaluation of intangible assets 4.2 –
Losses carried forward not utilised (2.2) –
Other temporary differences (1.9) 0.8
As at the end of the year (deferred tax asset) (1.1) (1.2)
UK deferred tax assets in respect of accelerated capital allowances of £nil, trading losses of £26.8m (2011: £23.6m) and non‑trading loan 
relationship deficits of £3.6m (2011: £2.8m) have not been recognised on the basis that it is not probable that there will be sufficient taxable 
profit in future years against which the assets can be recovered.
A resolution passed by Parliament on 29 March 2011 reduced the main rate of corporation tax to 26% from 1 April 2011. On 5 July 2011 
a further cut in the main UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 25% was substantively enacted, with the reduction to take effect on 
1 April 2012. The deferred tax balance has therefore been recognised at 25%. 
In addition to the change in rate of corporation tax disclosed above, further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 
1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014. None of these expected rate reductions had been substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date 
and, therefore, are not included in these Financial Statements. 
Notes to the Financial Statements 59
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
10. Earnings per share
2012 
Total
2011 
Total
(Loss)/profit per ordinary share
Basic (6.8)p 3.9p
Diluted (6.8)p 3.9p
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share (before exceptional items, share option charge 
and amortisation)
Basic 5.5p 6.6p
Diluted 5.3p 6.3p
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the loss on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to shareholders 
of Sportingbet Plc and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. 
The Group has adjusted its earnings per ordinary share to exclude exceptional items, share option charge and amortisation. 
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Basic earnings (45.4) 20.7
Exceptional items 71.6 10.8
Share option charge 0.9 1.2
Amortisation 9.5 1.7
Adjusted earnings 36.6 34.4
After taking into account the dilutive effects of convertible bonds, which do not impact the loss per share in 2012, the diluted earnings 
are £(45.4)m (2011: £21.7m). The adjusted diluted earnings, which take into account the dilutive effects of convertible bonds in both years, 
are £43.6m (2011: £35.4m).
During the year the Group had the following weighted average number of shares in issue and potentially dilutive shares: 
2012 
No.
2011 
No.
Weighted average number of shares in issue 664,872,028 524,559,273
Employee share schemes 23,102,765 16,360,174
Convertible loan notes 141,876,233 18,373,559
Fully diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 829,851,026 559,293,006
Due to the Group’s loss per share in 2012, the fully diluted weighted average number of shares in issue is only used in the calculation 
of adjusted diluted earnings per share.
As at 31 July 2012 the Group had the following shares in issue and potentially dilutive shares: 
2012 
No.
2011 
No.
Number of shares in issue 667,095,640 660,543,128
Employee share schemes 23,102,765 16,360,174
Convertible loan notes 167,539,266 128,968,253
Fully diluted number of shares in issue 857,737,671 805,871,555 60
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
11. Goodwill
£m
Cost
As at 1 August 2010 243.2
Exchange movements 0.4
As at 1 August 2011 243.6
Additions 58.8
Exchange movements 1.1
As at 31 July 2012 303.5
Impairment losses
As at 1 August 2010 201.7
Exchange movements 0.1
As at 1 August 2011 201.8
Exchange movements –
As at 31 July 2012 201.8
Net book value
As at 31 July 2012 101.7
As at 31 July 2011 41.8
Movements arose as a result of changes in the underlying value of the amount payable to satisfy the contingent consideration. 
Subsequent to the annual impairment test for 2012, the carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to the following cash‑generating units: 
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Europe 25.0 17.8
Australia 76.7 24.0
Total 101.7 41.8
The recoverable amounts for the cash‑generating units above are determined based on internal discounted cash flow evaluation to 
determine value in use. The cash flow evaluation is based on actual operating results and one year cash flows going into perpetuity 
stated in the key assumptions. 
In determining value in use, management prepare a detailed budget on a bottom up basis with reviews conducted for each business unit. 
Management consider the key assumption in preparing budgeted projections to be the growth in net gaming revenue, set at 1.6% for the 
coming year, calculated based on past experience and expected changes in the online gaming market. The budget only takes into account 
known factors at the time of its construction and does not take into account the impact of any changes in regulation not yet finalised or 
passed into law.
In extrapolating the budgeted projections to calculate value in use, management consider the key assumptions to be the selection of growth 
and discount rates. The discount rate is recalculated each year by taking into account prevailing risk free rates, equity risk premium, market 
risk rate and beta. The result this year was a lower discount rate, with both the Australian and European cash‑generating units calculated at 
10.6% (2011: 12.5%) due principally to a lower beta in both territories.
The future cash flows are modelled based on budgeted projections and cash flows beyond the budget period are extrapolated using a 
growth rate of 1%, which is appropriate for both cash‑generating units. The growth rate applied is based on past experience. Future cash 
flows are projected assuming no changes to the current regulatory environment.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of each cash‑generating unit based on the key 
assumptions above. Neither a 1% decrease in the long‑term growth rate nor a 5% increase in the discount rate would have led to an 
impairment of the acquired intangible assets and goodwill in the current year.
Notes to the Financial Statements 61
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
12. Other intangible assets
Software
£m
Brands
£m
Customer list
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
As at 1 August 2010 36.0 – – 14.0 50.0
Additions 20.9 – – – 20.9
Disposals – – – – –
Exchange movements 0.3 – – – 0.3
As at 1 August 2011 57.2 – – 14.0 71.2
Acquisitions 10.9 60.3 19.9 0.2 91.2
Additions 17.0 – – – 17.0
Disposals (16.1) – – (5.3) (21.4)
Exchange movements 0.2 – – – 0.2
As at 31 July 2012 69.2 60.3 19.9 8.9 158.3
Amortisation and impairment losses
As at 1 August 2010 18.7 – – 9.5 28.2
Charge for the year 8.1 – – 1.7 9.8
Disposals – – – – –
Exchange movements – – – – –
As at 1 August 2011 26.8 – – 11.2 38.0
Charge for the year 13.4 – 4.2 1.8 19.4
Impairment 11.3 – – – 11.3
Disposals (16.1) – – (5.3) (21.4)
Exchange movements – – – – –
As at 31 July 2012 35.4 – 4.2 7.7 47.3
Net book value
As at 31 July 2012 33.8 60.3 15.7 1.2 111.0
As at 31 July 2011 30.4 – – 2.8 33.2
The £8.9m (2011: £14.0m) of other intangible costs includes £nil (2011: £5.3m) capitalisation of the Superbahis URL and contract, £8.7m 
relating to the Belmond International Limited marketing contract, and £0.2m from the acquisition of Danbook Limited.
Included in software net book value is £7.9m of software development for regulated markets. The remaining amortisation period as at 
31 July 2012 ranges from between four to five years depending on the launch date of the software specific to an individual market.
Amortisation of software of £9.9m (2011: £8.1m) is charged to administrative expenses in the profit or loss. Other amortisation of £9.5m 
(2011: £1.7m) are charged to other amortisation within other administrative expenses. Impairment charges of £11.3m (2011: £nil) are included 
as exceptional items (Note 4). 62
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
13. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures, fittings 
and equipment
£m
Motor vehicles
£m
Computer 
equipment
£m
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
As at 1 August 2010 7.3 0.2 22.4 14.1 44.0
Additions 0.7 – 3.4 – 4.1
Disposals (1.5) – – 1.2 (0.3)
Exchange movements – – 0.5 – 0.5
As at 1 August 2011 6.5 0.2 26.3 15.3 48.3
Acquisitions 0.6 – 1.8 – 2.4
Additions 2.6 – 6.2 0.1 8.9
Disposals (0.6) – (9.5) (0.2) (10.3)
Exchange movements 0.2 – 0.2 (0.2) 0.1
As at 31 July 2012 9.9 0.2 25.0 15.1 49.6
Depreciation
As at 1 August 2010 3.9 0.1 11.8 1.1 16.9
Charge for the year 0.9 – 3.9 0.4 5.2
Disposals (0.1) – – 0.1 –
Exchange adjustments – – – – –
As at 1 August 2011 4.7 0.1 15.7 1.6 22.1
Charge for the year 0.9 0.1 2.6 0.3 3.9
Impairment 0.6 – 6.7 0.1 7.4
Disposals (0.6) – (9.5) (0.2) (10.3)
Exchange adjustments 0.2 – 0.1 (0.2) 0.1
As at 31 July 2012 5.8 0.2 15.6 1.6 23.2
Net book value
As at 31 July 2012 3.5 – 9.4 13.5 26.4
As at 31 July 2011 1.8 0.1 10.6 13.7 26.2
The net book value of computer equipment held under finance leases amounts to £1.5m (2011: £2.9m).
The net book value of assets held under mortgages amount to £6.8m (2011: £6.9m).
14. Trade and other receivables 
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Trade receivables 10.3 12.8
Provision for impairment of trade receivables (3.3) (4.2)
Trade receivables, net 7.0 8.6
Other receivables 7.5 2.3
Prepayments and accrued income 5.3 5.4
Total 19.8 16.3
Trade receivables that are less than 30 days past due are not considered impaired. As of 31 July 2012, trade receivables of £7.0m (2011: 
£8.6m) were past due but not impaired. These related to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. 
Notes to the Financial Statements 63
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
14. Trade and other receivables continued
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Up to two months past due 3.5 4.8
Two to six months past due 1.0 2.4
Over six months past due 2.5 1.4
Total 7.0 8.6
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated entirely in Australian dollars. 
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
As at 1 August 4.2 4.9
Provision for impaired receivables 2.0 0.1
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (3.0) (0.8)
As at 31 July 3.2 4.2
The provision for impaired receivables has been included in “administrative expenses” in the profit or loss. Amounts charged to the 
allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash. 
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. 
Trade receivables are usually due within 30 days and do not bear any effective interest rate. All trade receivables are subject to credit risk 
exposure, however the Group does not identify specific concentration of credit risk with regards to trade receivables, as the amount 
recognised consists of a large number of receivables from various customers. 
The fair value of these short‑term financial assets is not individually determined as the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of 
fair value. 
15. Cash and cash equivalents
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Cash 38.0 98.8
Short‑term cash deposits 4.4 15.0
Restricted cash – 66.4
Total 42.4 180.2
Short‑term cash deposits consist of balances held by payment service providers.  64
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
16. Liabilities
a) Current liabilities
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Bank loans 6.0 4.0
Finance leases 1.1 2.0
Trade payables 13.4 11.0
Other payables 0.2 0.1
Customer liabilities 26.9 20.9
Tax and social security 11.2 2.0
Accruals and deferred income 53.0 24.6
Derivatives 1.9 0.2
Open bets 2.1 1.8
Total 115.8 66.6
£4.0m (2011: £nil) of bank loans relate to the financing of the purchase of Danbook Limited and Scandic Bookmakers Limited. The loan bears 
an interest rate of 3% above LIBOR repayable in two instalments; £2.0m in January 2013 and £2.0m in January 2014.
The remaining bank loan of £4.0m (2011: £4.0m) is repayable in December 2012. The loan is secured by a floating charge over the assets 
of the Group, and bears an interest rate of 1.5% above LIBOR. 
The open bets at the year end are within the scope of IAS 39 as derivative contracts. These bets are held at fair value with gains and 
losses recognised in revenue. Management’s assessment of the exposure to significant changes in the fair value of open bets is assessed 
as negligible due to the short‑term exposures to such liabilities and the minimal movement on average betting odds between the date 
of bet placing and period end. 
b) Non‑current liabilities
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Bank loans 2.0 –
Finance leases 0.4 1.1
Convertible bonds due 2016 66.6 52.7
Total 69.0 53.8
On 8 June 2011, the Group issued £65.0m of 7% fixed rate convertible bonds, raising cash of £62.0m net of issue costs. On 25 May 2012, 
the Group issued a further £15.0m of 7% fixed rate convertible bonds, raising cash of £13.3m net of issue costs. The equity portion of the 
convertible bond issue is included within reserves.
 
The £80m (2011: £65m) of bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company at a conversion price of £0.504 on 8 June 2016 unless 
otherwise redeemed.
Interest is payable semi annually in arrears. 
Interest on the debt proportion, after the deduction of issue costs of £2.5m, will be charged to the profit or loss using an effective rate of 
12.63% on the June 2011 bond issue and 15.11% on the May 2012 bond issue. 
Notes to the Financial Statements 65
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
17. Leases
a) Obligations under finance leases
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Minimum lease payments:
Within one year 1.0 2.2
Within two to five years 0.5 1.0
1.5 3.2
Future finance charges – (0.1)
Present value of lease obligations 1.5 3.1
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Present value of minimum lease payments:
Within one year 1.1 2.0
Within two to five years 0.4 1.1
1.5 3.1
Accounts due for settlement within one year 1.1 2.0
Accounts due for settlement after more than one year 0.4 1.1
Total 1.5 3.1
The Group has entered into three separate lease arrangements for the purchase of computer hardware and other associated assets, each 
commencing on August 2010, December 2010 and January 2012. The lease terms for all these arrangements were three years. As at 31 July 
2012, the average life outstanding on each lease was: ten months for the lease commencing in August 2010; one year and two months for 
the lease commencing in December 2010; and two years and five months for the lease commencing January 2012. The average effective 
borrowing rate for the above leases were 4.8%, 2.8% and 3.2% respectively. The Group’s obligations under these finance leases are secured 
by the lessor’s charges over the leased assets themselves as well as fixed and floating charges over the current assets of Sportingbet Plc and 
three of the Group’s subsidiaries. 
b) Commitments under operating leases
The payments under operating leases in respect of land and buildings that have been recognised as an expense for the period:
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Payments under operating leases 1.6 2.0
The Group had outstanding commitments for the future minimum lease payments in respect of land and buildings: 
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Within one year 2.2 1.9
Within two to five years inclusive 6.6 3.7
In more than five years 6.7 2.1
Total 15.5 7.7
Operating lease payments represent payable by the Group for office property costs.  66
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
18. Financial instruments 
The Group uses financial instruments, comprising cash and cash equivalents, short‑term borrowings and trade receivables, which arise 
directly from its operations. 
Short‑term receivables
The Group’s trade and other receivables are actively monitored to avoid significant concentrations of credit risk. 
Derivative instruments
The Group takes out forward currency contracts in euro and Australian dollars. Hedge accounting is applied to certain derivative instruments 
as set out below.
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank facilities. Interest on the convertible bond is at a fixed 
coupon rate of 7%. Bank borrowings are made using variable interest rates. The interest rate risk on the Group’s £4.0m bank loan is not 
considered to be significant. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group seeks to manage liquidity risk, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely 
and profitably. 
Sufficient cash reserves are held to maintain short‑term flexibility, together with short‑term borrowings. 
The following table details the contractual maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities. 
31 July 2012
One year 
or less
£m
Two to five 
years
£m
Five years 
and over
£m
Total
£m
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 24.8 – – 24.8
Customer liabilities 26.9 – – 26.9
Bank loans 6.0 2.0 – 8.0
Convertible bond 5.6 96.8 – 102.4
Finance leases 1.1 0.4 – 1.5
Sports betting open positions 2.1 – – 2.1
Total 66.5 99.2 – 165.7
Customer liabilities represent cash held by the Group on behalf of customers net of an allowance for uncollected balances. In the event that 
the level of balances reclaimed exceeds management’s expectation, the gross cash outflow could be higher. 
The maturity analysis in respect of sports betting open positions reflects the fair value of the liability position at the Balance Sheet date. 
In the event that the outcome of bets adversely affected the business, the gross cash outflow could be higher. 
31 July 2011
One year 
or less
£m
Two to five 
 years
£m
Five years 
and over
£m
Total
£m
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 13.1 – – 13.1
Customer liabilities 20.9 – – 20.9
Bank loans 4.0 – – 4.0
Convertible bond 4.6 83.2 – 87.8
Finance leases 2.0 1.1 – 3.1
Sports betting open positions 1.8 – – 1.8
Total 46.4 84.3 – 130.7
Credit risk
As explained in the Financial Review, the Group recharges its credit risk, arising from credit facilities allowed to certain customers in the 
Australian region, by making appropriate credit checks before bets are placed and setting credit limits based on this information. 
Notes to the Financial Statements 67
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
18. Financial instruments continued
Currency risk
The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; a significant proportion of its income 
is derived from foreign currencies whilst the majority of its costs are in sterling. 
The Group maintained its proactive position and continued to hedge foreign currency sales with forward contracts for up to one year, 
purchasing currencies to cover the first 80% of its exposure one quarter ahead, 80% two quarters ahead, 70% three quarters ahead and 
60% four quarters ahead. This policy is approved by the Board and the Board receives updates on a regular basis in respect of the hedging 
position. 
The Group’s derivative transactions comprise currency forward contracts. During the year the Group entered into a number of forward 
contracts over highly probable forecast euro sales. 
Amounts initially taken to other comprehensive income under designated cash flow hedges totalled a gain of £1.1m (2011: £0.4m loss) 
of which a loss of £0.4m (2011: £1.2m gain) has been reclassified to the profit or loss on the completion of designated hedge relationships. 
Remaining hedges continue to be highly effective. 
The Group also enters into forward contracts to hedge against its net investment in Australian operations. The Group has hedged against 
currency movements between sterling and the Australian dollar for up to one year ahead. Amounts initially taken to other comprehensive 
income under designated hedges of a net investment in foreign operations totalled a loss of £1.9m (2011: nil).
The tables below show the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than their 
functional currency: 
Net foreign currency monetary assets
Euro
£m
US dollars
£m
Australian dollars
£m
Brazilian real
£m
Other currencies
£m
Total
£m
2012
Sterling 5.3 2.6 0.1 1.8 2.5 12.4
5.3 2.6 0.1 1.8 2.5 12.4
2011
Sterling 15.8 5.1 2.5 2.2 3.7 29.3
15.8 5.1 2.5 2.2 3.7 29.3
Carrying values
The carrying amounts of the Group’s financial instruments are set out below. As these financial instruments are not publicly traded, the fair 
values presented are determined by calculating present values of the cash flows anticipated until maturity of these financial assets.
Assets at fair value through 
 the profit or loss Loans and receivables
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Financial assets as per Balance Sheet
Trade and other receivables – – 14.5 10.9
Cash and cash equivalents – – 42.4 180.2
Derivatives 0.5 – – –
0.5 – 56.9 191.1
Assets at fair value through  
the profit or loss Financial liabilities at amortised cost
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Financial liabilities as per Balance Sheet
Trade and other payables 2.1 1.8 40.5 32.0
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – – 74.6 56.7
Derivatives 1.9 0.2 – –
4.0 2.0 115.1 88.7 68
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
18. Financial instruments continued
Foreign currency sensitivity
Sportingbet Plc is exposed to market risk through its use of financial instruments and specifically to currency risk. 
Exposures to currency exchange rates arise from the Group’s retranslation of its foreign subsidiaries as well as the Group’s overseas sales and 
purchases, which are primarily denominated in euros and Australian dollars. 
The following table illustrates the sensitivity for the net result for the year and equity with regard to the Group’s financial assets and financial 
liabilities and the euro/sterling exchange rate and Australian dollars/sterling rate. It assumes a +/– 0.9% movement in the sterling/euro 
exchange rate for the year ended 31 July 2012 (2011: +/– 0.5%) and a +/– 0.2% movement for the sterling/Australian dollars exchange 
rate (2011: +/– 1.0%).
These percentages have been determined based on the average market volatility in exchange rates in the previous 12 months. 
If sterling has strengthened against the euro and Australian dollar by 0.9% (2011: 0.5%) and 0.2% (2011: 1.0%) respectively then this would 
have had the following impact: 
2012 2011
Euro
£m
Australian 
dollar
£m
Total
£m
Euro
£m
Australian
dollar
£m
Total
£m
Net profit (0.2) – (0.2) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Equity (0.2) (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
If sterling had weakened against the euro and Australian dollar by 0.9% (2011: 0.5%) and 0.2% (2011: 1.0%) respectively then this would 
have had the following impact:
2012 2011
Euro
£m
Australian 
dollar
£m
Total
£m
Euro
£m
Australian
dollar
£m
Total
£m
Net profit 0.2 – 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2
Equity 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.4
Exposures to foreign exchange rates vary during the year depending on the volume of overseas transactions. Nonetheless, the analysis above 
is considered to be representative of the Group’s exposure to currency risk. 
Capital management 
In common with many internet companies that have few physical assets, the Group has no policy as to the level of equity capital and 
reserves other than to address statutory requirements. Following the issue of £65m of convertible bonds in June 2011, the primary capital 
risk to the Group is the level of indebtedness. The convertible bond includes a financial covenant, which limits the Group’s indebtedness 
(excluding the bonds themselves) to £35m without the prior approval of an Extraordinary Resolution of Bondholders. As at 31 July 2012, 
the Group had £8.0m (2011: £4.0m) of bank loans which £4.0m are secured on the Group’s land and buildings. 
Details of the Group’s dividend policy are disclosed on page 51 of this Annual Report. 
19. Share capital 
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Authorised:
1,000m (2011: 1,000m) ordinary shares of 0.1p each 1,000 1,000
Allotted, issued and fully paid:
As at 31 July 2011: 660,543,128 shares of 0.1p each 661 502
Issues of ordinary shares: nil shares – 155
Other share issues in respect of exercised share options: 6,552,512 shares 7 4
As at 31 July 2012: 667,095,640 shares of 0.1p each 667 661
On 9 June 2011 154,761,904 ordinary shares were issued by way of a Firm Placing and Placing and Open offer at a price of 42p per new 
share and the issue of £65m in nominal value of Convertible Bonds to raise £65m. Sportingbet raised, through the New Issue and the 
Convertible Bond issue, gross proceeds of £130m.
Notes to the Financial Statements 69
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
19. Share capital continued
At 31 July 2012 the following share options were outstanding in respect of ordinary shares:
Date of grant Ordinary shares of 0.1p Period of option Exercise price (p)
January 2004 539,375 January 2007–January 2011 49
May 2004 50,000 May 2007–May 2011 94
October 2004 100,000 October 2007–October 2011 97.5
November 2004 95,000 November 2007–November 2014 131
January 2009 7,119,301 November 2010–November 2012 –
August 2009 265,669 November 2010–November 2012 –
August 2010 174,700 July 2011–July 2013 –
November 2010 539,750 July 2011–July 2014 –
January 2011 114,733 July 2011–July 2012 –
April 2012 13,956,089 July 2013–July 2014 0.1
As at 31 July 2012 there were 22,954,617 options or awards over ordinary shares outstanding, 4,847,818 of which relate to Directors, 
details of which can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 38.
Of the share options detailed above 784,375 relate to the Executive Scheme, 8,214,153 relate to the 2009 Restricted Share Plan and 
13,956,089 relate to the 2011 plan. 
20. Share‑based payments 
The Company operates five equity‑settled share‑based remuneration schemes for employees across the Group, as listed in Note 19. 
All employees are eligible to participate in these schemes, the vesting conditions being that the individual still remains in employment 
at the date of the release of the option and in respect of the 2005 and 2006 share plans satisfy certain performance criteria. The terms 
of these schemes are discussed in more detail in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 38.
2012 2011
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) No.
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) No. 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2.7 16,063,878 2.3 19,181,226
Granted during the year 0.1 14,259,484 – 1,489,665
Forfeited during the year – – – –
Exercised during the year – (4,584,996) – (3,997,878)
Lapsed during the year – (2,783,749) – (609,135)
Outstanding at the end of the year 2.5 22,954,617 2.7 16,063,878
Exercisable at the end of the year 68.0 784,375 50.1 2,021,625
The exercise price of options outstanding at the end of the year ranged between 0p and 131p (2011: 0p and 131p) and their weighted 
average contractual life was 380 days (2011: 406 days).
Of the total number of options outstanding at the end of the year, 784,375 had vested and were exercisable (2011: 2,021,625).
The weighted average share price (at the date of exercise) of options exercised during the year was 36.7p (2011: 60.8p).
The weighted average fair value of each option granted during the year was 35.2p (2011: 58.1p). 70
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
20. Share‑based payments continued
The following information is relevant in the determination of the fair value of options granted during the year under the equity and 
cash‑settled share‑based remuneration schemes operated by Sportingbet Plc. 
2012 2011
Equity‑settled
Options pricing model used Black‑Scholes Black‑Scholes
Weighted average share price at grant date (p) 36.71p 61.70p
Exercise price (p) nil nil
Weighted average contractual life (days) 547 724
Equity‑settled
Expected volatility 50% 50%
Expected dividend growth rate 2% 2%
Risk‑free interest rate 5% 5%
The volatility assumption, measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns, is based on a statistical analysis of daily share 
prices over the last three years. 
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
The share‑based remuneration expense comprises:
Equity‑settled schemes 0.9 1.2
21. Acquisitions and disposals
(a) Acquisition of Centrebet International Limited
On 31 August 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the equity instruments of Australian based business, Centrebet 
International Limited, for £118.6m (Aus$183.6m) taking control of the business on this date. The fair value of consideration as at 31 July 2012 
comprised the following:
The fair value of net assets acquired and the acquired intangible assets are as follows:
£m
Fair value of consideration transferred 118.6
Recognised amounts of identifiable net assets:
Non‑current assets
Other intangible assets 82.0
Property, plant and equipment 2.4
84.4
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 7.7
Cash 18.7
26.4
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (33.2)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings (6.4)
Deferred tax liability (4.2)
(43.8)
Net current assets (17.4)
Identifiable net assets 67.0
Goodwill on acquisition 51.6
Consideration transferred
The acquisition of Centrebet was settled in cash amounting to £118.6m. Acquisition‑related costs amounting to £16.7m are not included 
as part of consideration transferred and have been recognised as an expense in the profit or loss as part of exceptional items.
Identifiable net assets
The fair value of the trade and other receivables acquired as part of the business combination amounted to £7.7m, comprised of gross 
contractual amounts of £8.4m less provision for impaired receivables. As at the acquisition date, the Group expects the total £7.7m to 
be collected.
Notes to the Financial Statements 71
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
21. Acquisitions continued
Goodwill
Goodwill of £51.6m is primarily related to growth expectations, expected future profitability, the substantial skill and expertise of Centrebet’s 
workforce and expected cost synergies.
Contingent liabilities
The fair value of trade and other payables includes £9.3m in respect of a potential regulatory challenge of previous tax charges relating 
to certain of Centrebet’s activities prior to acquisition. After taking independent advice the Group intends to defend the position taken by 
the previous owners that the most probable outcome will be that no additional tax is payable. Whilst the potential liability of £9.3m could 
become due in the next 12 months, management believe that it is likely that this contingent liability will be resolved over the next two to 
three years.
Contribution to Group results
Centrebet recorded total revenue of £34.5m and incurred a loss of £4.7m for the 11 months to 31 July 2012, primarily due to integration 
costs. Before integration costs, Centrebet contributed £13.1m of profit. If Centrebet had been acquired on 1 August 2011, Group revenue 
for the year would have increased by £3.1m and Group loss for the year would have increased by £2.3m
(b) Acquisition of Danbook Limited and Scandic Bookmakers Limited
On 31 January 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the equity instruments of Danbook Limited for £3.3m and Scandic 
Bookmakers Limited for £5.7m. The fair value of consideration as at 31 July 2012 comprised the following:
The fair value of net assets acquired and the acquired intangible assets are as follows:
Danbook
£m
Scandic
£m
Fair value of consideration transferred
Amount settled in cash 1.8 5.3
Amount settled in shares 0.2 0.3
Fair value of deferred consideration 1.3 –
3.3 5.7
Recognised amounts of identifiable net assets:
Non‑current assets
Other intangible assets 0.4 0.8
0.4 0.8
Current assets
Trade and other receivables – 0.2
Cash 0.7 1.4
0.7 1.5
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (0.1) (1.5)
(0.1) (1.5)
Net current assets 0.6 –
Identifiable net assets 1.0 0.8
Goodwill on acquisition 2.3 4.9
Consideration transferred
The acquisition of Danbook was settled in cash and shares amounting to £2.0m. The purchase agreement included an additional cash 
consideration of £1.3m, payable once the IT integration has been completed. The acquisition of Scandic was settled in cash and shares 
amounting to £5.7m. Acquisition costs relating to both acquisitions amounted to £0.8m. This was not included as part of consideration 
transferred and have been recognised as an expense in the profit or loss, as part of exceptional items.
Identifiable net assets
The fair value of the trade and other receivables acquired as part of the total business combination of Danbook and Scandic amounted 
to £0.2m, which was also the gross contractual amount. As at the acquisition date, the Group expects the total £0.2m to be collected.
Goodwill
Total Goodwill of £7.2m is primarily related to growth expectations, expected future profitability.
Contribution to Group results
Danbook and Scandic contributed profits of £0.2m each, providing a combined total profit of £0.4m for the six months to 31 July 2012. 
If Danbook and Scandic had been acquired on 1 August 2011, Group revenue for the year would have increased by £0.9m and loss before 
tax would have increased by £0.2m. 72
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
21. Acquisitions continued
(c) Disposal of Turkey
On 21 November 2011, the Group disposed of its Turkish language website business to East Pioneer Corporation BV (“East Pioneer”). 
GVC Holdings Plc entered into a service contract and guarantee with East Pioneer on the same date.
The terms of the disposal agreement are complex. At the disposal date, the Group entered into two agreements with East Pioneer. The Sale 
and Purchase agreement (“SPA”) details the business assets disposed and the terms of consideration to be received. The Transitional Services 
Agreement (“TSA”) details the terms of B2B services, such as trading and IT, that will be provided after the disposal date.
At the disposal date, the carrying value of the net assets disposed, principally internally generated intangible assets such as the customer list, 
was £nil. No Goodwill was allocated to the Turkish language website business on disposal.
No consideration was payable in cash on the date of disposal. Under the terms of the SPA, the Group has entered into a deferred contingent 
consideration arrangement which sets a cash receivable of £125m from East Pioneer, in respect of both the B2B services to be provided 
under the terms of the TSA and any deferred contingent consideration for the sale of the business under the SPA. All cash receivable is 
contingent on a percentage of the future revenues, after certain adjustments set out in the SPA, generated by East Pioneer.
At the date of disposal, the Group has assessed that the fair value of the deferred contingent consideration receivable for the sale of 
the business is £nil, principally due to uncertainty in the regulatory environment in which East Pioneer operates. The deferred contingent 
consideration asset is measured initially at fair value and thereafter at amortised cost, in line with the Group’s accounting policies for 
financial assets.
Subsequent to the disposal date, the Group has received a total of £10.7m from East Pioneer under the terms of the SPA and TSA. Of the 
amounts received, £7.0m represents other operating revenue for the provision of B2B services under the TSA and £3.7m represents profit 
on the adjustment of the carrying amount of the deferred contingent consideration asset, following revision of the Group’s assessment 
of estimated receipts for the sale of the business.
At 31 July 2012, the Group had total amounts receivable under the deferred contingent consideration agreement of £1.4m, held within 
other receivables, all of which relates to amounts receivable for B2B services provided to East Pioneer in the year. The Group has assessed 
the fair value of future cash receipts under the deferred contingent consideration arrangement, taking into account projections over the 
future duration of the arrangement, expectations of future trading performance and known regulatory and bad debt risks, concluding 
that the fair value of deferred contingent consideration in respect of the sale of the business at the reporting date continues to be £nil.
22. Contingencies
From time to time the Group is subject to legal claims and actions. The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of the  
claims and actions and no provision or disclosure is made where the Directors feel, based on that advice, that action is unlikely to result  
in a material loss.
As part of the ongoing operational risk assessment process adopted by the Group, there is continued monitoring of the legal and regulatory 
developments and their potential impact on the business. Appropriate advice continues to be taken in respect of these developments. 
There is uncertainty as to what actions, if any, may occur from the Group’s regulatory history and any impact such action may have on the 
Group. However, the Board does not consider it likely that a material liability or a material impairment in the carrying value of assets will arise 
as a result of any potential action. 
23. Related parties
Transaction with Non‑Executive Directors
Nigel Payne (Non‑Executive Director) provided financial consultancy services to the Group amounting to £61,293 (2011: £45,000) via Merlin 
Financial Advisors LLP. 
Sean O’Connor (Non‑Executive Director) provided marketing consultancy services to the Group amounting to £24,990 (2011: £60,240) 
via The Sean O’Connor Consultancy Limited.
Transaction with key management personnel
The Group makes contributions into an Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) as part of a cash‑based long‑term incentive plan for certain key 
employees. Two Directors are beneficiaries of the EBT into which contributions of £nil was made in 2012 (2011: £0.5m).
Notes to the Financial Statements 73
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Sportingbet Plc
We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of 
Sportingbet Plc for the year ended 31 July 2012 which comprise the 
Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related Notes. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the Parent Company Financial Statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the Parent Company Financial Statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s (“APB’s”) Ethical Standards for 
Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 
on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs 
as at 31 July 2012;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year 
for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with 
the Parent Company Financial Statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where 
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of 
Sportingbet Plc for the year ended 31 July 2012.
Paul Etherington BSc FCA CF
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
London
2 October 2012
Parent Company Independent Audit Report
For the year ended 31 July 2012 74
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
Parent Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 July 2012
Notes
31 July 2012 
£m
31 July 2011 
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 4 221.9 89.1
221.9 89.1
Current assets
Debtors 5 55.2 111.4
Cash at bank and in hand 6 – 62.1
55.2 173.5
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 7 (12.4) (19.0)
Net current assets 42.8 154.5
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year 7 (72.6) (52.7)
Net assets 192.1 190.9
Shareholders’ funds
Issued share capital 8 0.7 0.7
Share premium 9 59.6 58.9
Other reserves 9 62.3 62.3
Equity portion of convertible bond 9 12.2 10.3
Profit and loss account 9 57.3 58.7
Equity shareholders’ funds 192.1 190.9
The Notes on pages 75 to 79 form part of these Financial Statements. These Financial Statements were approved by the Board and 
authorised for issue on 2 October 2012.
J Wilkinson
Director 75
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Notes to the Parent Company Financial 
Statements
1. Parent Company accounting policies
The Financial Statements for the Company have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable UK GAAP accounting standards. 
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have been applied consistently throughout the financial year and the 
preceding year. 
The following principal accounting policies have been applied:
Exemptions
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a profit 
and loss account for the Company alone. 
Valuation of investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Leased assets
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight‑line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are similarly spread on a straight‑line basis over the lease term, 
except where the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate is shorter than 
the full lease term, in which case the shorter period is used. 
Pension costs
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs and other post‑retirement 
benefits is the contributions payable in the period. Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are 
shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet. 
Share‑based employee remuneration
Where shares options are awarded to employees, the fair value of the options at the date of grant is charged to the profit and loss account 
over the vesting period. 
Where share options are granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings, the fair value of the options is added to the cost of investment 
in these subsidiary undertakings over the vesting period. 
Non‑market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each Balance 
Sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually 
vest. Market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the options granted. As long as all other vesting conditions are satisfied, 
a charge is made irrespective of whether the market vesting conditions are satisfied. The cumulative expense is not adjusted for failure 
to achieve a market vesting condition. 
Where the terms of the options are modified before they vest, the increase in the fair value of the options, measured immediately before and 
after the modification, is also charged to the profit and loss account over the remaining vesting period. 
Where equity instruments are granted to persons other than employees, the profit and loss account is charged with the fair value of goods 
and services received. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the substance of the financial instrument’s contractual obligations, rather than the 
financial instruments legal form.  76
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
1. Parent Company accounting policies continued
Convertible bonds
The net proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability element and an equity component at the date 
of issue. The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non‑convertible debt. 
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing 
the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity and is not remeasured. The liability component 
is carried at amortised cost. 
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying amounts 
at the date of issue. The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity. 
The finance cost on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate, at the time of issue, for similar 
non‑convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument. The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the 
carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
2. Loss after tax
Company loss after tax for the year amounted to £21.7m. Audit fees for the Company were borne by other members of the Group and are 
disclosed in the notes to the consolidated Financial Statements.
3. Staff costs
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Employee costs including Directors were as follows:
Wages and salaries 5.0 2.8
Social security costs 0.2 0.4
Pension costs 0.2 0.2
5.4 3.4
During the year ten employees were employed by the Company (2011: 14).
There were two (2011: two) Directors in the Company’s defined contribution pension scheme. Further disclosures on the remuneration of 
each individual Director are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 38.
4. Investments
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings  
£m
Investment in subsidiary undertakings
As at 1 August 2011 89.1
Acquisitions 132.5
Options issued to employees of subsidiary undertakings 0.3
As at 31 July 2012 221.9
The Company made £132.5m acquisitions in respect of subsidiary undertakings during the year (2011: £nil). Transaction costs relating to the 
acquisitions were borne by subsidiary undertakings.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial 
Statements 77
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
4. Investments continued 
The following principal subsidiaries were wholly owned at 31 July 2012: 
Activity
Country of incorporation 
or registration
Sportingbet Australia Pty Limited Online betting Australia
Centrebet International Limited Online betting Australia
Sportingbet Australia Holdings Australia holding company Australia
Interactive Sports (CI) Limited Online betting Alderney
Danbook Limited Online betting Denmark
Scandic Bookmakers Limited Online betting Denmark
Sporting Odds Limited Online betting England
Sportingbet Holdings Limited Group holding company England
Sportingbet (Management Services) Limited Administrative services England
Sportingbet (IT Services) Limited Software development and IT related services England
Sportingbet (Product Services) Limited Project management and web design services England
Sb Properties (Guernsey) Limited Investment property holding company Guernsey
Corvee Limited Holds brand licence for disposal of Turkish business Guernsey
Longfrie Limited Sale vehicle for disposal of Turkish business Guernsey
MLB Limited Contract call centre Ireland
Spread Your Wings Limited Online betting Malta
Spread Your Wings Spain Limited Online betting Malta
Spread Your Wings Germany Limited Online betting Malta
SBT Software Operations (SA) (PTY) Limited Online betting South Africa
For all undertakings listed previously, the country of incorporation is the same as the country of operation. Sportingbet Holdings Limited, 
Spread Your Wings Limited, Spread Your Wings Spain Limited, Spread Your Wings Germany Limited, Corvee Limited and SBT Software 
Operations (SA) (PTY) Limited are wholly owned subsidiaries of Sportingbet Plc. All other companies listed above are wholly owned 
subsidiaries of Sportingbet Holdings Limited.
5. Debtors
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Other debtors 0.3 1.1
Prepayments and accrued income 0.4 0.9
Owed by subsidiary undertakings 54.5 109.4
55.2 111.4
The Company has agreed to provide its subsidiary undertakings with such financial support as is necessary to enable the subsidiaries to 
continue to trade and meet their obligations to third party creditors as and when they fall due. 
6. Cash at bank and in hand
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Cash at bank – 62.1
– 62.1 78
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
7. Creditors
a) Amounts falling due within one year
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Bank loans 2.0 4.0
Accruals and deferred income 10.4 15.0
12.4 19.0
b) Amounts falling due after more than one year
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Bank loans 6.0 –
Convertible bonds due 2016 66.6 52.7
72.6 52.7
Further description of the convertible bonds is given in Note 16 of the Group Financial Statements.
8. Share capital
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Authorised
1,000m (2011: 1,000m) ordinary shares of 0.1p each 1,000 1,000
Allotted, issued and fully paid:
As at 31 July 2011: 660,543,128 shares of 0.1p each 661 502
Issues of ordinary shares: nil shares – 155
Issues in respect of exercised share options: 6,552,512 shares 7 4
As at 31 July 2012: 667,095,640 shares of 0.1p each 667 661
As at 31 July 2012 the following share options were outstanding in respect of ordinary shares:
Date of grant Ordinary shares of 0.1p Period of option Exercise price (p)
January 2004 539,375 January 2007–January 2011 49
May 2004 50,000 May 2007–May 2011 94
October 2004 100,000 October 2007–October 2011 97.5
November 2004 95,000 November 2007–November 2014 131
January 2009 7,119,301 November 2010–November 2012 –
August 2009 265,669 November 2010–November 2012 –
August 2010 174,700 July 2011–July 2013 –
November 2010 539,750 July 2011–July 2014 –
January 2011 114,733 July 2011–July 2012 –
April 2012 13,956,089 July 2013–July 2014 0.1
As at 31 July 2012 there were 22,954,617 options or awards over ordinary shares outstanding, 4,847,818 of which relate to Directors, 
details of which can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 38.
Of the share options detailed above 784,375 relate to the Executive Scheme, 8,214,153 relate to the 2009 Restricted Share Plan and 
13,956,089 relate to the 2011 plan. 
Further description of share options is given in Note 20 of the Group financial statements.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial 
Statements 79
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
9. Reserves
Share premium 
account 
£m
Other reserves
£m
Equity portion of 
convertible bond
£m
Profit and loss 
account 
£m
As at 1 August 2011 58.9 62.3 10.3 58.7
Employee share options 0.7 – – (0.3)
Equity portion of convertible bond – – 1.9 –
Share option charge – – – 0.9
Dividends – – – 19.7
Loss for the year – – – (21.7)
As at 31 July 2012 59.6 62.3 12.2 57.3
The movement in Company shareholders’ funds of £1.2m (2011: £51.6m) is wholly represented by the movements shown in reserves and 
share capital in Notes 8 and 9.
10. Related parties
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Financial Reporting Standard No. 8 “Related Party Disclosures” from the requirement 
to disclose transactions with Group companies on the grounds that all companies are wholly owned.
Transaction with Non‑Executive Directors
Nigel Payne (Non‑Executive Director) provided financial consultancy services to the Group amounting to £61,293 (2011: £45,000) via Merlin 
Financial Advisors LLP. 
Sean O’Connor (Non‑Executive Director) provided marketing consultancy services to the Group amounting to £24,990 (2011: £60,240) 
via The Sean O’Connor Consultancy Limited.
Transaction with key management personnel
The Company makes contributions into an Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) as part of a cash‑based long‑term incentive plan for certain key 
employees. Two Directors are beneficiaries of the EBT into which contributions of £nil was made in 2012 (2011: £0.5m). 80
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
Shareholders’ Information
Registrars
All enquiries relating to shares or shareholdings should be addressed 
to: 
Capita Registrars 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent 
BR3 4TU
Shareholder Helpline: 0871 664 0300 – calls cost 10p per minute 
plus network extras, lines are open 8:30am–5:30pm Monday–Friday. 
If calling from overseas: +44 (0) 20 8639 3402
Facsimile: 01484 601512 
Email: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.co.uk
www.sportingbetplc.com 
The Company’s website provides, amongst other things, the latest 
news and details of the Company’s activities, share price information 
and links to the websites of our brands. The investor relations section 
of www.sportingbetplc.com contains up‑to‑date information 
including the Company’s latest results, the Company’s financial 
calendar and archived webcasts. Non‑shareholders can register to 
receive notifications of the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts, 
and webcasts at www.sportingbetplc.com. 
www.sportingbet‑shares.com 
Shareholders who prefer to receive communications about the 
Company by email are encouraged to register their details at the 
Company’s shareholder portal – www.sportingbet‑shares.com. 
You will need your investor code (found on your share certificate or 
on correspondence from Capita Registrars) to complete this process 
at the first time of registering. Capita Registrars will send you 
a username and activation code by post and, upon receipt; you 
will then be able to access the Company’s shareholder portal. 
The shareholder portal provides shareholders of the Company 
with the ability to choose from the following services: 
(i) Annual Report and Accounts, AGM and EGM notices and 
webcasts 
Shareholders can choose to have these emailed to a specified email 
address rather than by post; 
(ii) Web proxy voting 
Shareholders can vote at AGMs or EGMs through www.sportingbet‑ shares.com or alternatively, via www.capitaregistrars.com by clicking 
on the “shareholder portal” and entering Sportingbet as the 
Company name. You will need your investor code for this service 
(which can be found on your share certificate); 
(iii) Announcements made to the London Stock Exchange
UK based shareholders can choose to receive certain RNS 
announcements by email; 
(iv) Direct dividend payments 
Dividends can be paid automatically into a shareholder’s bank 
or building society account. There are two primary benefits of this 
service: a) there is no chance of a shareholder’s dividend cheque 
going missing in the post; and b) the dividend payment is received 
more quickly because the cash sum is paid directly into the account 
on the payment date without the need to pay in the cheque and 
wait for it to clear. 
As an alternative, shareholders can download a dividend mandate 
to complete and post to Capita Registrars; 
(v) Change of address 
Shareholders can change their address directly online at  
www.sportingbet‑ shares.com or by notifying Capita Registrars 
in writing at the above address; 
(vi) Your shareholding 
Shareholders can value their shareholding and view previous 
transactions in the Company’s shares; and
(vii) Share dealing 
A share dealing service is available to the Company’s shareholders 
to buy or sell the Company’s shares at Capita Share Dealing Services 
via www.sportingbetplc.com or www.sportingbet‑ shares.com. 
Telephone dealing is also available via Capita Registrars on 0871 664 
0445 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras).
Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking to 
encourage shareholders to either buy or sell the Company’s shares. 
Shareholders of the Company who are in any doubt as to what 
action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an 
independent financial adviser authorised by the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000. 
Lost share certificate 
If your share certificate is lost or stolen, you should immediately 
contact the Shareholder Helpline who will advise on the process 
for arranging a replacement. 
Duplicate shareholder accounts 
If, as a shareholder, you receive more than one copy of a 
communication from the Company you may have your shares 
registered in at least two accounts. This happens when the 
registration details of separate transactions differ slightly. If you  
wish to consolidate such multiple accounts, please call the 
Shareholder Helpline. 
ShareGift 
ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme. It is a free service 
for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes. It may 
be useful for those who wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares 
which would cost more to sell than they are worth. There are no 
capital gains tax implications (i.e. no gain or loss) on gifts of shares 
to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief. 
Further information can be found at www.sharegift.org. 81
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financial calendar
Ex‑dividend date for 2012 final dividend 19 December 2012 
Record date for 2012 final dividend 21 December 2012 
Annual General Meeting at 4th Floor,  
45 Moorfields, London EC2Y 9AE
19 December 2012
Final dividend payment date for the  
financial year ended 31 July 2012
17 January 2013 
Consolidated dividend tax vouchers
Sportingbet Plc has a consolidated tax voucher (“CTV”) service for 
those shareholders who choose to receive dividends directly into 
their bank or building society account. Dividend funds will continue 
to be credited to your chosen account on the dividend payment date, 
but instead of receiving individual tax vouchers, you will receive a 
CTV detailing all the dividend payments in the tax year. These will 
be mailed at or shortly before the end of each tax year.
Choosing to have your dividends paid directly into your bank account 
and joining the CTV service helps shareholders and Sportingbet Plc 
reduce their environmental impact. If you would like to receive your 
dividends paid directly to your bank, please visit the shareholder 
portal at www.sportingbet‑ shares.com to download the form 
or to register your preference online.
If you wish to continue to receive individual tax vouchers for each 
dividend payment but prefer to receive the dividend electronically 
to your bank account, please contact our Registrars. 
Electronic tax vouchers
By registering your email address and choosing to receive documents 
electronically, you will be assisting the Company in reducing its 
environmental impact. Shareholders registering a valid email address 
will receive notification via email that an electronic tax voucher or 
electronic CTV is available for download from the shareholder’s 
website at www.sportingbet‑ shares.com/forms/login.aspx at the 
time each dividend is paid.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is a convenient, easy and competitively 
priced way to build your shareholding by using your cash dividends 
to buy additional shares in Sportingbet. The service is provided by 
Capita IRG Trustees Ltd. Capita IRG Trustees Ltd is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
For further information about the Dividend Reinvestment Plan, 
please contact Capita, using the Shareholder Helpline.
Would you prefer to receive your next dividend in a currency 
other than sterling?
Capita Registrars can now convert your dividend into an alternative 
currency such as sterling, dollar or Australian dollar, and send you 
the funds by draft, or if you prefer pay them straight into your bank 
account. For more information about this service please contact our 
Registrars at:
Email: IPS@capitaregistrars.com
Telephone: +44 20 8639 3405 (from outside the UK)
Or 0871 664 0385 (from within the UK)
calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open 
9:00am–5:30pm Monday–Friday
or go to
www.capitaregistrars.com/international 82
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
Financial Summary
Year ended 
31 July 2008 
£m
Year ended 
31 July 2009 
£m
Year ended 
31 July 2010 
£m
Year ended 
31 July 2011 
£m
Year ended 
31 July 2012 
£m
Amounts wagered 1,347.8 1,577.2 1,971.3 2,053.9 2,349.2
Net gaming revenue 144.3 163.6 207.5 204.0 185.7
Other operating revenue – – – 2.3 3.2
Total revenue 144.3 163.6 207.5 206.3 188.9
Operating profit before exceptional items, share option charge 
and amortisation 24.7 31.1 35.4 38.1 32.2
Other administrative expenses:
Exceptional items (12.0) (4.2) (24.5) (10.8) (71.6)
Share option charge (8.0) (3.1) (2.0) (1.2) (0.9)
Amortisation (3.9) (1.9) (1.8) (1.7) (9.5)
Group operating (loss)/profit (0.8) 21.9 7.1 24.4 (49.8)
Net finance income/(cost) 0.4 0.4 (0.2) (0.6) (6.4)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 1.2 22.3 6.9 23.8 (56.2)
Taxation (3.5) (0.5) (3.0) (3.1) 0.1
(Loss)/profit for the period (2.3) 21.8 3.9 20.7 (56.1)
Loss for the period from discontinued operations (2.0) (9.4) – – –
Group (loss)/profit for the period (4.3) 12.4 3.9 20.7 (56.1)
Earnings per share
Basic (0.5)p 4.6p 0.8p 3.9p (6.8)p
Basic adjusted 4.8p 6.5p 6.5p 6.6p 5.5p
Diluted adjusted 4.2p 6.0p 6.2p 6.3p 5.3p 83
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Corporate Directory
Secretary
D Talisman LLB (Hons) FCIS
Registered Office
4th Floor
45 Moorfields 
London EC2Y 9AE
Company Number 3534726
Registrars
Capita Registrars
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU
Auditors
Grant Thornton UK LLP
Grant Thornton House
Melton Street
London NW1 2EP
Financial Advisers
Lazard & Co. Limited
50 Stratton Street
London W1J 8LL
Stockbrokers
Canaccord Genuity Limited
88 Wood Street
London EC2V 7QR
Daniel Stewart & Company PLC
Becket House
36 Old Jewry
London EC2R 8DD
Solicitors
Nabarro
Lacon House
84 Theobald’s Road
London WC1X 8RW
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank Plc
Floor 27
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP
Press Office
Maitland
Orion House
5 Upper St Martin’s Lane
London WC2H 9EA 84
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012
Financials
Notes  Sportingbet Plc
4th Floor, 45 Moorfields
London EC2Y 9AE
Tel: +44 20 7184 1800
Email: investor@sportingbet.com
www.sportingbetplc.com
Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 2012 1
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION. If you are in any doubt as to the 
action you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, 
solicitor, accountant, or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares, please send this document, together with the 
accompanying documents, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent 
through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
(incorporated and registered in England and Wales under
company registration number 03534726)
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice of the Annual General Meeting of Sportingbet Plc to be held at 10.30 a.m. on 19 December 2012 at 4th Floor, 
45 Moorfields, London EC2Y 9AE is set out at the end of this document.
A Form of Proxy for use at the annual general meeting is enclosed. To be valid, the Form of Proxy should be completed, signed 
and returned in accordance with the instructions printed on it to Capita Registrars at The Registry, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU as soon as possible but in any event so as to arrive no later than 10.30 a.m. on 17 December 2012. 2
(incorporated and registered in England and Wales under company registration number 03534726)
Registered Office
4th Floor, 
45 Moorfields, 
London 
EC2Y 9AE
16 November 2012
To the Shareholders of Sportingbet Plc
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to be writing to you with details of our annual general meeting which we are holding at 4th Floor, 
45 Moorfields, London EC2Y 9AE on 19 December 2012 at 10.30 a.m. The formal notice of annual general meeting  
is set out on page 5 of this document.
If you would like to vote on the resolutions but cannot come to the annual general meeting, you can appoint a proxy to 
exercise all or any of your rights to attend, vote and speak at the annual general meeting by using one of the methods set 
out in the notes to the notice of annual general meeting. Appointing a proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting 
in person at the annual general meeting.
The purpose of this letter is to explain certain elements of the business to be considered at the meeting.
RESOLUTION 1 – TO RECEIVE THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
The directors must lay the annual accounts and the respective reports of the directors and auditors before shareholders at an 
annual general meeting.
RESOLUTION 2 – REMUNERATION REPORT
This resolution is to approve the directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 31 July 2012. You can find the 
remuneration report in the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 July 2012.
RESOLUTION 3 – FINAL DIVIDEND
A final dividend of 1.1 pence (£0.011) per ordinary share for the year ended 31 July 2012 is recommended for payment by 
the directors. If you approve the recommended final dividend this will be paid on 17 January 2013 to all ordinary 
shareholders who are on the register of members at the close of business on 21 December 2012.
RESOLUTIONS 4 AND 5 – REAPPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS
At each general meeting at which accounts are laid before the members, the Company is required to appoint auditors to 
stand until the next such meeting and Resolution 5 authorises the directors to set their remuneration.
Grant Thornton (UK) LLP have indicated their wish to continue as the Company’s auditor.
RESOLUTIONS 6 TO 12
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code all directors are required to be subject to annual election by shareholders. You 
are therefore asked to re-elect Brian Harris, Jim Wilkinson, Andrew McIver, Peter Dicks, Rory Macnamara and Chris Moss as 
directors of the Company. In addition, as Marie Stevens was appointed as a director of the Company since the last annual 
general meeting of the Company, she is standing for election pursuant to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Biographies of each of the directors seeking reappointment can be found on page 23 of the Company’s Annual Report for 
the year ended 31 July 2012. The Board has confirmed, following a performance review that all directors standing for 
reappointment continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their role.
RESOLUTION 13 – ALLOTMENT OF SHARE CAPITAL
Your board considers it appropriate that authority be granted to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company up to  
a maximum nominal amount of two hundred and twenty two thousand, three hundred and sixty five pounds (£222,365) 
representing approximately one third of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as at  
15 November 2012 (the latest practicable date before publication of this letter) during the period up to the conclusion of  
the next annual general meeting in 2013. 3
In addition, the Association of British Insurers (ABI) has said that it will now consider as routine a resolution to authorise the 
allotment of a further one-third of share capital for use in connection with a rights issue. Your board considers it appropriate 
to seek this additional allotment authority at this year’s annual general meeting in order to take advantage of the flexibility it 
offers. The directors confirm that, if this further authority were utilised during the year, they intend to follow the guidance of 
the Association of British Insurers. However, the board has no present intention of exercising either authority.
As at the date of this letter the Company does not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
RESOLUTION 14 – DISAPPLICATION OF STATUTORY PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS
Resolution 14 will empower the directors to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company for cash on a non-pre-
emptive basis:
•	 in connection with a rights issue or other pro-rata offer to existing shareholders.
•	 (otherwise than in connection with a rights issue) up to a maximum nominal value of thirty three thousand, three 
hundred and fifty five pounds (£33,355), representing approximately 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company as at 15 November 2012 (the latest practicable date before publication of this letter).
RESOLUTION 15 – AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES
Resolution 15 gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Companies 
Act 2006 (the “2006 Act”). The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 66,709,564 
(representing approximately 10 per cent of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as at  
15 November 2012 (the latest practicable date before publication of this letter) and sets minimum and maximum prices. This 
authority will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting in 2013.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares but will keep 
the matter under review, taking into account the financial resources of the Company, the Company’s share price and future 
funding opportunities. The authority will be exercised only if the directors believe that to do so would result in an increase in 
earnings per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally. Any purchases of ordinary shares would be by 
means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
Listed companies purchasing their own shares are allowed to hold them in treasury as an alternative to cancelling them. No 
dividends are paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights attach to treasury shares.
If Resolution 15 is passed at the annual general meeting the Company will cancel or hold in treasury the shares which it 
purchases pursuant to the authority granted to it. In order to respond properly to the Company’s capital requirements and 
prevailing market conditions, the directors will need to reassess at the time of any and each actual purchase whether to hold 
the shares in treasury or cancel them, provided it is permitted to do so. The Company may hold a maximum of up to 10 per 
cent of its issued share capital in treasury in accordance with guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers.
As at 15 November 2012 (the latest practicable date before publication of this letter), there were warrants and options over 
22,554,263 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company representing 3.38 per cent of the Company’s issued ordinary share 
capital (excluding treasury shares). If the authority to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares was exercised in full, these 
warrants and options would represent 3.76 per cent of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury 
shares).
RESOLUTION 16 – POLITICAL DONATIONS
Resolution 16 is designed to deal with the rules on political donations contained in the 2006 Act. Political donations to any 
political parties, independent election candidates or political organisations or the incurring of political expenditure are 
prohibited unless authorised by shareholders in advance. What constitutes a political donation, a political party, a political 
organisation, or political expenditure is not easy to decide, as the legislation is capable of wide interpretation. Sponsorship, 
subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling public duties, and support for bodies representing the 
business community in policy review or reform, may fall within this.
Therefore, notwithstanding that the Company has not made a political donation in the past, and has no intention either now 
or in the future of making any political donation or incurring any political expenditure in respect of any political party, 
political organisation or independent election candidate, the board has decided to put forward Resolution 16 to renew the 
authority granted by shareholders at the last annual general meeting of the Company. This resolution is often proposed as a 
precautionary measure by companies so that they do not inadvertently breach the 2006 Act, rather than because they 
intend to make donations of a high amount. This resolution will allow the Company to continue to support the community 
and put forward its views to wider business and Government interests without running the risk of being in breach of the 
law. As permitted under the 2006 Act, Resolution 16 has also been extended to cover any political donations made, or 
political expenditure incurred, by any subsidiaries of the Company. 4
RESOLUTION 17 – NOTICE PERIOD FOR GENERAL MEETINGS
It is proposed in Resolution 17 that shareholders should approve the continued ability of the Company to hold general 
meetings, other than the annual general meeting, on 14 clear days’ notice.
The flexibility offered by this resolution will be used where, taking into account all the circumstances, the directors consider 
this appropriate in relation to the business to be considered at the meeting.
This resolution is required under section 307A of the 2006 Act. Under that section, a traded company which wishes to be 
able to call general meetings (other than an annual general meeting) on 14 clear days’ notice must obtain shareholders’ 
approval. Resolution 17 seeks such approval.
The resolution is valid up to the next annual general meeting and so will need to be renewed annually. The Company will 
also need to meet the requirements for voting by electronic means under section 307A before it can call a general meeting 
on 14 days’ notice.
 
RECOMMENDATION
The board considers the resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole. The directors 
unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions. The directors intend to vote in favour of the resolutions 
in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 5,492,756 shares representing approximately 0.82 
per cent of the existing issued ordinary share capital of the Company (excluding treasury shares).
Yours sincerely
Chairman 5
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of Sportingbet Plc (the “Company”) will be held at 4th Floor, 45 
Moorfields, London EC2Y 9AE on 19 December 2012 at 10.30 a.m. to transact the following business. Resolutions 1 to 13 
inclusive, and 16 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions. Resolutions 14, 15 and 17 will be proposed as special resolutions:
1. To receive and adopt the accounts, the directors’ report, and the auditor’s report on the financial statements for the 
year ended 31 July 2012.
2. To receive and approve the directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 31 July 2012.
3. To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 July 2012 of 1.1 pence (£0.011) per ordinary share.
4. To reappoint Grant Thornton (UK) LLP as auditors to the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next 
general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
5. To authorise the directors to set the auditor’s remuneration.
6. To re-elect Brian Harris as a director of the Company.
7. To re-elect Jim Wilkinson as a director of the Company.
8. To re-elect Andrew McIver as a director of the Company.
9. To re-elect Peter Dicks as a director of the Company.
10. To re-elect Rory Macnamara as a director of the Company.
11. To re-elect Chris Moss as a director of the Company.
12. To elect Marie Stevens as a director of the Company.
13. That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of 
the 2006 Act in substitution for all existing authorities:
13.1. to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares and to make offers or agreements to allot shares in 
the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company (together 
“Relevant Securities”) up to an aggregate nominal amount of two hundred and twenty two thousand, three 
hundred and sixty five pounds (£222,365); and
13.2. to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section 560 of the 
2006 Act) up to an additional aggregate nominal amount of two hundred and twenty two thousand, three 
hundred and sixty five pounds (£222,365) provided that this authority may only be used in connection with a 
rights issue in favour of holders of ordinary shares and other persons entitled to participate therein where the 
equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those persons at such record dates as the 
directors may determine are proportionate (as nearly as may be) to the respective numbers of equity securities 
held or deemed to be held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such 
equity securities subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary or 
expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal difficulties under the laws of any territory or the 
requirements of a regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary 
receipts or any other matter whatsoever,
 provided that the authorities in 13.1 and 13.2 shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the 
Company after the passing of this resolution or if earlier on the date which is 15 months after the date of the annual 
general meeting, except that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might 
require Relevant Securities or equity securities as the case may be to be allotted after such expiry and the directors 
may allot Relevant Securities or equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority in 
question had not expired 6
14. That the directors be and are empowered, in accordance with section 570 of the 2006 Act, to allot equity securities 
(as defined in section 560(1) of the 2006 Act) for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution number 13 or 
by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 561(1) of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided 
that this power shall be limited to:
14.1. the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue or other pro rata offer (but, in the case of 
the authority conferred by paragraph 13.2, by way of a rights issue only) in favour of holders of ordinary shares 
and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity securities respectively attributable to the 
interests of all those persons at such record date as the directors may determine are proportionate (as nearly as 
may be) to the respective numbers of equity securities held or deemed to be held by them or are otherwise 
allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in each case to such exclusions 
or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements 
or legal difficulties under the laws of any territory or the requirements of a regulatory body or stock exchange 
or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter whatsoever; and
14.2. the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 14.1 above) of equity securities up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of thirty three thousand, three hundred and fifty five pounds (£33,355),
 and shall expire upon the expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution 13 above, except that the Company may 
make an offer or agreement before this power expires which would or might require equity securities to be allotted 
and/or shares held by the Company in treasury to be sold or transferred after such expiry and the directors may allot 
equity securities and/or sell or transfer shares held by the Company in treasury in pursuance of such offer or 
agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
15. That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section 701 of the 
2006 Act, to make market purchases (within the meaning of section 693(4) of the 2006 Act) of ordinary shares of 0.1 
pence each in the capital of the Company (“Ordinary Shares”) on such terms and in such manner as the directors may 
from time to time determine provided that:
15.1. the maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is of 66,709,564 (representing 
approximately 10 per cent of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital at the date of this notice of meeting);
15.2. the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses payable by the 
Company);
15.3. the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share (exclusive of expenses payable by the Company) 
cannot be more than the higher of:
15.3.1. 105 per cent of the average market value of an Ordinary Share for the five business days prior to 
the day on which the Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased; and
15.3.2. the value of an Ordinary Share calculated on the basis of the higher of:
(a) the last independent trade of; or
(b) the highest current independent bid for,
 any number of Ordinary Shares on the trading venue where the market purchase by the 
Company will be carried out; and
 the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company except that 
the Company may before such expiry make a contract to purchase its own shares which will or may be completed or 
executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
16. That in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the 2006 Act the Company and all companies which are subsidiaries 
of the Company during the period when this Resolution 16 has effect are authorised to:
16.1. make political donations to political parties or independent election candidates, as defined in the 2006 Act, not 
exceeding fifty thousand pounds (£50,000) in total;
16.2. make political donations to political organisations other than political parties, as defined in the 2006 Act, not 
exceeding fifty thousand pounds (£50,000) in total; and
16.3. incur political expenditure, as defined in the 2006 Act, not exceeding fifty thousand pounds (£50,000) in total,
 during that period beginning with the date of the passing of this resolution and ending on the conclusion of the next 
annual general meeting of the Company provided that: 7
16.4. the authorised sums referred to in paragraphs 16.1, 16.2 and 16.3 above may be comprised of one or more 
amounts in different currencies which, for the purposes of calculating the said sums, shall be converted into 
pounds sterling at the exchange rate published in the London edition of the Financial Times on the date on 
which the relevant donation is made or expenditure incurred (or the first business day thereafter), or, if earlier, 
on the day on which the Company enters into any contract or undertaking in relating to the same; and
16.5. the aggregate amount of the authorised sums referred to in paragraphs 16.1, 16.2 and 16.3 above do shall not 
exceed fifty thousand pounds (£50,000) in total.
17. That the Company is authorised to call any general meeting of the Company other than the annual general meeting 
by notice of at least 14 clear days during the period beginning on the date of the passing of this resolution and ending 
on the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company.
16 November 2012 By order of the board
 
Registered office:  
4th Floor D Talisman LLB (Hons) FCIS
45 Moorfields SECRETARY
London
EC2Y 9AE 8
NOTES
1 ENTITLEMENT TO ATTEND AND VOTE
1.1 Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00 p.m. on 17 December 2012 
(or, if the meeting is adjourned, on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting) shall be 
entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their 
respective names at that time. Changes to the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining 
the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
1.2 Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its 
behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
1.3 As at 15 November 2012 (being the last business day before the publication of this notice), the Company’s issued 
share capital consisted of 667,095,640 ordinary shares carrying one vote each. Therefore the total voting rights in the 
Company are 667,095,640.
1.4 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions. The Company must cause to be answered any 
such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if:
1.4.1 to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential 
information;
1.4.2 the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question; or
1.4.3  it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be 
answered.
1.5 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the 2006 Act can require the Company to publish a statement on 
its website setting out any matter relating to:
1.5.1 the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be 
laid before the meeting; or
1.5.2 any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last annual 
general meeting, that the members propose to raise at the meeting.
1.6 The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses. Any statement placed on 
the website must also be sent to the Company’s auditors no later than the time the Company makes the statement 
available on the website. The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the 
Company has been required to publish on its website.
2 PROXIES
2.1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint another person(s) (who need not be a 
member of the Company) to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting. A member can 
appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 
attaching to different shares held by him.
2.2 Your proxy could be the Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to 
represent you. Your proxy will vote as you instruct and must attend the meeting for your vote to be counted. Details 
of how to appoint the Chairman or another person as your proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the 
proxy form. Appointing a proxy does not preclude you from attending the meeting and voting in person. If you attend 
the meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
2.3 An appointment of proxy is provided with this notice and instructions for use are shown on the form. In order to be 
valid, a completed appointment of proxy must be returned to the Company by one of the following methods:
2.3.1 in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Company’s registrar at the address shown on the form 
of proxy; or
2.3.2 by completing it online at www.capitashareportal.com by following the instructions on screen to submit it; or
2.3.3 in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with 
the procedures set out below,
 and in each case must be received by the Company’s registrar’s, Capita Registrars, not less than 48 hours before the 
time fixed for the meeting.
2.4 Please note that any electronic communication sent to our registrars in respect of the appointment of a proxy that is 
found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted. 9
2.5 To change your proxy instructions you may return a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above. Where 
you have appointed a proxy using the hard copy proxy form and would like to change the instructions using another 
hard copy proxy form, please contact Capita Registrars The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 
4TU. The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments (see above) also applies in relation to amended instructions. Any 
attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded. Where 
two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share and the same meeting, 
the one which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
2.6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service 
may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST Personal Members or other CREST 
sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their 
CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
2.7 In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST 
Proxy Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland’s specifications and 
must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message, 
regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a 
previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Company’s agent (ID 
RA10) by the latest time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting. For this purpose, the 
time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST 
Applications Host) from which the Company’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the 
manner prescribed by CREST.
2.8 The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
2.9 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear 
UK & Ireland does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings 
and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the 
CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has 
appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such 
action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular 
time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are 
referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system 
and timings.
3 NOMINATED PERSONS
3.1 A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy 
information rights under section 146 of the 2006 Act (“Nominated Persons”). The rights to appoint a proxy cannot be 
exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member. However, a Nominated Person may have 
a right under an agreement between him and the member who has nominated him to be appointed as a proxy for 
the meeting or to have someone else so appointed. If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not 
wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise 
of voting rights.
4 DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY
4.1 A register of directors’ interests in the share capital and debentures of the Company and copies of service agreements 
under which directors of the Company are employed are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office 
during normal business hours from the date of this meeting notice and will also be available for inspection at the 
annual general meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
4.2 A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the 2006 Act, can be found at  
www.sportingbetplc.com
5 ELECTRONIC ADDRESSES
5.1 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of annual general meeting or any related 
documents (including the form of proxy) to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those 
expressly stated. 10 11 4th Floor, 45 Moorfields 
London EC2Y 9AE
Company number 03534726
