 SSL International plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
International plc
Friday
10.40pm Day and night, all around the world, people 
trust, rely on and take delight in our products.
Our desire to anticipate and satisfy our
consumers’ needs — to become an essential 
part of daily life — is what defines SSL and 
drives our success.
In brief
01 Financial highlights
02 A world of brands
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief Executive’s review 
09 Our strategy 
Business review
11 Performance 
11 Products
15 Platform
18 People
19 Purchases
21 Corporate responsibility 
28 Performance review
Governance
33 Board of Directors
34 Corporate governance
36 Risks and uncertainties 
38 Directors’ report
39 Remuneration report
46 Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
Financial statements
47 Independent auditors’ report
48 Consolidated income statement
49 Consolidated balance sheet
50 Consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense
51 Consolidated statement 
of cash flows 
52 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
95 Principal Group undertakings 
96 Company balance sheet
97 Company accounting policies 
99 Notes relating to the Company
accounts
Shareholder information
104 SSL directory
106 Company information
Financial calendar 01 In brief • Annual Report and Accounts 2008
exceeding
targets
7% 
sales growth
(1)
driven by Durex 
and Scholl 
£57 .4m
profit before tax
(3)
increase of 22%
£99m
net debt
(4)
after £38m acquisition
and one-off cash costs
11% 
operating 
profit growth
(2)
exceeding our double-
digit percentage 
growth target
20.6p
earnings per share
(3)
increase of 20%
5.3p 
final dividend
increase of 13% 
Sales 2007
/
08 Adjusted
(1)
£m growth %
Durex 217.7 9.4
Scholl footcare 113.6 10.1
Scholl footwear 76.1 10.0
Locally owned brands 71.4 (2.3)
T otal branded consumer 478.8 7.7
Other 55.1 0.5
T otal sales 533.9 6.9
(1)
Adjusted sales growth is calculated after adjusting for currency movements and including 100 per cent of the China Durex business in both years.
(2)
Adjusted operating profit growth is calculated after adjusting for currency movements, including 100 per cent of the China Durex business in both years
and  before one-off restructuring charges of £41.3 million.
(3)
Adjusted figures are shown before one-off restructuring and finance charges of £41.3 million and £5.2 million respectively.
(4)
Net debt is defined as financial liabilities less cash and cash equivalents. See note 21 of the financial statements.
Financial
highlights 02
Durex
Durex has been making condoms of the highest quality
for nearly 80 years and continues to strengthen its position 
as the global market leader. With an increasing emphasis on
sexual wellbeing, the strategic development of Durex has led
to an expansion of the product range to include Durex Play
lubricants and vibrators.
— Durex condoms: with over 30 per cent of the global branded
condom market, making it the number one condom brand 
in the world, Durex condoms continue to go from strength 
to strength with new product introductions such as Durex
Tingle and Durex Pleasuremax Warming.
— Durex Play lubricants: designed to enhance people’s sex
lives, the range is widened to include lubricants with warming
and tingling sensations, fruity flavours and Durex Play Massage
2 in 1 — a massage gel which doubles as a lubricant.
— Durex Play vibrators: a range of personal vibrators, including
the new, improved Durex Play Ultra, the latest vibrating ring
and Durex Play T ouch vibrator, which are designed to help
people have happier, healthier and more fulfilling sex lives.
Scholl footcare 
Through in-depth consumer insight combined with an
innovative approach to foot health and wellbeing, grounded
in science and knowledge of the mechanics of the foot, the
Scholl footcare product range addresses five key areas of 
foot conditions to help people improve their overall comfort
and wellbeing: 
— Foot skin conditions: e.g. dry, hard and cracked skin, 
corn, callus and blister. The product range includes Scholl
Cracked Heel Repair Cream, Scholl Deep Moisturising
Cream and Scholl Clear Gel Blister and Corn Plasters.
— Musculoskeletal conditions: are those caused by inherent
malfunctions in feet and the body , e.g. bunions, arch problems,
heel pain and ball of foot pain. The product range includes
Scholl Party Feet, Scholl Spring Action Insoles and Scholl Gel
Arch Support.
— Foot environment conditions: are those caused by body
functions or activities, e.g. odour, hot/cold feet and tired
aching feet. The product range includes Scholl Odour Control
Foot Spray, Scholl Fresh Step Anti-perspirant Foot Spray and
Scholl Flight Socks.
— Virus and fungus conditions: e.g. warts/verrucas and athletes
foot. The product range includes Scholl Freeze Verruca and
Wart Remover and Scholl Athletes Foot Cream.
— Nail conditions: e.g. discoloured toenails, a problem which 
is now addressed by the newly launched Scholl Nail Brightening
System/Perfect Nail T reatment — a revolutionary new product
with a simple three-step approach to reducing discolouration,
smoothing and conditioning toenails.
a world 
of brands
In brief • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Sales by geography
 1.  Europe 76%
2.  Asia Pacific 18%
3.  Americas 6%
2
1
3
Sales by brand
 1.  Durex   41%
2.  Scholl footcare 21%
3.  Scholl footwear 14%
4.  Locally owned 
 brands 14%
5.  Other 10%
2
1
4
3
5
03
Scholl footwear
Scholl footwear continues with its strategy to expand
distribution beyond its traditional heartland of pharmacy into
high street shoe retail outlets. Three core technologies are
used within all Scholl footwear which defines the individual
collections for each distribution channel:
— Gelactiv: all shoes in the Gelactiv range have a pliable,
soothing, supportive gel insole inside the heel to cushion
every step.
— Bioprint: a new, improved bio-mechanically designed 
and proven cork foot-bed which is flexible and comfortable
offering the wearer better comfort, improved posture and
easier walking.
— Exercise: the exercise sandal is the original and renowned
Scholl shoe. Its classic styling and contoured wooden foot-
bed exercises and tones foot and leg muscles while you walk.
Locally owned brands
Locally owned brands are those brands which are 
sold only in specific countries, predominantly in Italy 
and the UK. They play an important part in achieving 
operating profit objectives by improving overall sales 
and distribution efficiencies. 
— UK: Over-the-counter (OTC) products are sold in the 
UK to both pharmacies and grocery stores. The range
includes oral analgesics such as Paramol and Cuprofen,
headlice treatments such as Full Marks and paediatric
medicines such as Medised.
— Italy: Mister Baby offers a complete range of products
designed to meet all the most important needs of infancy
including products for feeding, hygiene and play for babies
and children from 0 to 3 years. 
Also available in Italy is Sauber, a range of wellbeing and
healthcare products which includes deodorants, hosiery,
anti-cellulite treatments and other body care products. 04 In brief 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
“We are growing sales, increasing
earnings and generating cash”
Gerald Corbett
Chairman 05
It has been another year of steady progress and good results from SSL. W e have total clarity in what
we are trying to do and our executive team led by Chief Executive Garry W atts is successfully doing it.
This year has been strong as our global brands Durex and Scholl have benefited from innovative
new products and further investment. W e have made solid progress on our European supply chain
restructuring projects and our cash flow generation has been good. Since March 2007 we have made
two important acquisitions, firstly to further strengthen our Scholl brand with Orthaheel and secondly 
to expand our geographical footprint to Eastern Europe and the CIS.
Underlying sales grew 6.9 per cent, driven by growth in each of the three major categories, 
Durex, Scholl footcare and Scholl footwear. Durex growth was underpinned by an 8.4 per cent growth
in branded condom sales, while sales of the Durex Play range grew 15.4 per cent to £32.2 million. Scholl
footcare sales were up 10. 1 per cent to £113.6 million thanks in large part to strong performances 
from Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream and our Scholl pharmacy ranges in France and Germany. 
Scholl footwear sales increased by 10.0 per cent to £76. 1 million driven by excellent Autumn/Winter ’07
range sales and a solid sell-in of the Spring/Summer ’08 range.
Operating profit for the year, before one-off costs, was £68. 1 million, an underlying increase of
11.5 per cent, meeting the target of double-digit operating profit growth in the year. Our operating
profit margin has increased to 12.8 per cent (2007: 12.2 per cent). Earnings per share, before one-off
costs, increased by 20 per cent to 20.6 pence from 17 . 1 pence.
Dividends
The Board is recommending an increased final dividend of 5.3 pence, 13 per cent ahead of last
year. The total dividend for the year is 7 .6 pence. The final dividend will be paid on 4 September 2008
to shareholders on the register on 1 August 2008.
Board of Directors
Susan Murray, one of our Non-Executive Directors, will step down from our Board following the
Annual General Meeting in July this year. I would like to thank her for the contribution she has made
and wish her success with her future endeavours.
Outlook 
The new year has begun satisfactorily. By increasing our investment in innovation to drive new
product development, by expanding distribution into new and developing territories and with our focus
on cost control, we will continue to deliver strong sales and profit growth. W e remain confident of once
again achieving our double-digit operating profit growth target.
I would like to take this opportunity , on behalf of the Board, to thank our employees throughout all
our operations for their individual contributions in helping us achieve such success. 
Chairman’s 
statement
a clear 
focus on 
growth 06 In brief 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
innovation,
expansion
and control  07
Why are you placing high emphasis on the importance of innovation? 
Innovation is the life-blood of our business and is critical to driving organic sales growth. It is
important that we understand what our consumers want through in-depth research; by combining the
expertise of our own innovation teams and working in partnership with third parties such as academic
institutions, we believe we are strengthening our new product pipeline across all our brands.
The Durex brand has continued to perform well over the past few years. How can you
continue this expansion?
The launch of the Durex Play range in 2003 has been a key factor in developing the brand as we
move its positioning from ‘safe sex’ to sexual wellbeing. This year we introduced the Durex Play T ouch
vibrator and Durex Play Ultra, a vibrating stimulation ring. W e are also introducing a range of massage
products, building on the success of Durex Play 2 in 1 Gel, with Durex Play 2 in 1 Massage Melts 
and Mousse and are launching Durex Play O, a clitoral stimulating gel to help women have more
satisfying orgasms.
What new products have you developed to drive the growth of Scholl footcare?
Scholl footcare has continued to perform well as a result of a steady flow of new, innovative
products which meet people’s needs, are efficacious and are well communicated to both the trade
and consumers. Our most recent successes include Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream — a clinically
proven solution for repairing dry, cracked skin on heels and, most recently, Perfect Nail T reatment 
(or Nail Brightening System as it is known in the UK) which treats brittle, discoloured toenails. Perfect
Nail has just been launched in a number of our markets and is supported by strong media and 
point-of-sale advertising campaigns.
With a growth rate of 10 per cent you appear to have turned around the Scholl footwear
business. How are you doing it?
The steps we have taken in defining our distribution-led strategy for Scholl footwear in Europe
have reaped rewards. This has given greater clarity and focus as we expand into new high street shoe
trade channels whilst maintaining our excellent market share position in the traditional pharmacy
sector. We have improved upon our existing foot-bed technology with Bioprint and ensured we have
clear range differentiation for each of our distribution channels.
What benefits do you expect from the manufacturing restructuring you have undertaken 
this year?
Closure of any operation is always a difficult decision. However, by closing the Durex condom
factory in Spain and transferring production to our other facilities in the Asia Pacific region we expect
to improve margins from 2008/09 onwards as the result of lower labour costs. By consolidating
Chief 
Executive’s
review
Sales
07/08
06/07
05/06
At constant exchange rates and including 100% of the China 
business in all three years
£533.9m
£499.3m
£461.6m
Operating profit
07/08
06/07
05/06
At constant exchange rates , including 100% of the China business 
in all three years and before one-off restructuring charges
£68. 1m
£61. 1m
£52.3m 08 In brief 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
pharmaceutical manufacture into a single in-house supply point we can eliminate duplicated
activities and reduce transport costs.
Since you acquired the remaining share of the business in China last year you appear 
to be investing further . How does this support your growth plans?
As we all know, the expanding economy in China represents a huge opportunity, particularly as
consumers in the major towns and cities become wealthier and desire premium global brands. We
already have a solid base for Durex in China and this year we have seen sales there grow by 35 per cent.
Establishing and widening our distribution platform to build upon our successes with Durex and
developing our Scholl business is key for growth. In addition, we are investing around £20 million in the
construction of a state-of-the-art condom facility which will be an important point of supply for 
the domestic and global markets.
Y ou have started your acquisition trail. What will this bring and what is next?
We now have the resources to make acquisitions to grow our business — a strong balance 
sheet and a talented management team who are well capable of integrating new businesses into 
our existing infrastructure. The key is to make acquisitions that complement our current distribution
channels and sales and marketing structure and also create a diversity to develop our business —
whether this is through new geographies or new products and technologies. In November 2007 
we acquired Orthaheel, a range of orthotic insoles which alter foot alignment to provide greater
cushioning and support for feet — a great fit with our existing Scholl footcare range and which brings
new technologies into our business. More recently we have made a small, but important investment 
in Eastern Europe and the CIS. In May we completed the acquisition of 15.5 per cent of a company
which owns and distributes the Contex condom brand and we have options to buy the remaining
shares over the next two years. Meanwhile, we continue to review other acquisition opportunities and
evaluate these against our stringent criteria to ensure we are making the right investment decisions.
How are you looking to provide development opportunities for your employees?
Without the enthusiasm, commitment and hard work of our employees across all our operations
we would not be seeing the success that we have achieved over the past few years. I would like to take
this opportunity to thank them for their contribution to delivering our business growth. It is important
that we invest in their continuing professional and personal development by offering a wide range of
training courses covering technical and lifestyle skills and enhancing business awareness. Also we seek
to provide new experiences such as through our partnership with Students Partnership Worldwide. 
“W e have the resources to make
acquisitions to grow our business 
— a strong balance sheet and a
talented management team”
Garry Watts
Chief Executive  09
SSL ’s strategy and values underpin business performance. We aim to exploit the economic 
potential of both our brand portfolio and our global operating assets by focusing on:
— Consumer insight-led innovation: the desire and drive for innovation is central to SSL ’s growth
strategy and we recognise that the ability to innovate successfully on a long-term basis will drive
growth in the future.
— Cutting edge advertising: supporting the launch of new products by investing in effective and
targeted marketing and advertising is a key part of the success of our brands by raising consumer
awareness and helping drive retail distribution.
— Efficient business practices: improving business processes throughout all areas of the business 
will help ensure we are meeting the needs of our customers whilst controlling costs.
— T raining and development of our people: SSL ’s employees are one of our greatest assets 
and through continued development programmes we aim to strengthen the expertise across 
our business.
Our values
We are committed to our vision that SSL should become and remain Successful, Socially
responsible and Lively through the application of our ABC operating principles (Attitude — Behaviour 
— Culture). Our ABC operating principles outline ways of working, adopted throughout our whole
organisation, which will help us achieve our business objectives and our vision for SSL.
Our financial objective
T o achieve double-digit operating profit growth by continuing to drive brand contribution* 
in each of the three years to March 2009 whilst controlling overhead expenditure. We have exceeded
this target in the first two years and are confident that we can do so again in 2008/09.
Our
strategy
* Brand contribution is 
defined as sales less cost of
sales, market development
expenditure and variable
selling costs. 10 Business review 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Saturday
1.23pm
The gel technology in every Scholl Gelactiv
sandal improves comfort whilst walking. 
Every taste is catered for as the collection
offers a wide variety of styles and colours. 11
— Performance: superior performance is an outcome of the four key pillars that contribute to 
building our business.
— Products: emphasising the need for innovation — well-managed launches of new products,
supported by consumer communication through media and point of sale. 
—Platform: ensuring that our systems and processes are operating efficiently.
— People: investing in our employees to maximise their potential and the contribution they 
make to the business.
— Purchases: acquiring new brands and businesses which are accretive to shareholder value.
The performance review on page 28 sets out more information on the key growth drivers 
of SSL in 2007/08.
Innovation is synonymous with global market leadership and strong growth. Our links with
external development houses, academic experts and medical partners combined with a strong
internal capability allows our innovation teams to develop superior quality products, which in 
turn lead to sales and operating profit growth and stronger brand loyalty from our customers and
consumers. Increasingly, SSL sources innovation from third-party developers and this gives us the
advantage of being flexible and agile, enabling rapid delivery of new products to the marketplace. 
Let’s see what we have achieved this year across our global brands, Durex and Scholl and our 
portfolio of locally owned brands…
Durex
The past year has seen Durex build on its position as the world’s leading expert in sexual wellbeing
and deliver on its promise to help consumers have more satisfying sex lives. The brand continues 
to offer a wide product portfolio, including a range of pleasure-enhancing condoms, lubricants and
vibrators. The emphasis is on helping consumers to enjoy fulfilling sex lives irrespective of their age,
gender or sexual orientation. Durex is spreading these key messages far and wide, and today the brand
is known as much for its expertise on sexual wellbeing as it is for being the world’s leading condom
manufacturer. One way it continues to do this is through the Durex Sexual Wellbeing Global Survey,
the second wave of which, called ‘In the Bedroom’, was released to the world’s media in September
2007 , achieving extensive coverage across print, TV , radio and the web.
Business
review
Performance
Products
superior
performance 12 Business review 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Global TV 
advertising campaigns.
T op: Communicating the
range of Durex condoms,
lubricants and vibrators.
Bottom: Scholl Nail
Brightening System.
The ‘In the Bedroom’ wave found that, while most of us wished we were having more sex, and
that our sex lives lacked excitement and variety, people were still having a lot of fun in the bedroom.
Sensual massage was highly rated by the majority of consumers, while one in five said they use
vibrators. The third wave of information ‘The Big O’ was released in April this year and found that 
both men and women wanted to achieve more orgasms but recognised that emotions and physical
wellbeing both play a part in this. It is findings such as these that help the brand develop products to
satisfy key demand areas. This year has seen the introduction of the Durex Play T ouch vibrator, Durex
Play Ultra, a vibrating stimulation ring, and the Very Cherry lubricant, designed to enhance and add a
dash of fruitiness to lovemaking!
This year Durex also started to roll out a new generation of significantly thinner latex condoms
meeting international quality standards. Fetherlite Ultima, launched in Hong Kong in June last year,
and T aiwan and Australia in September, forms part of a new generation of ‘barely there’ condoms, and
is 25 per cent thinner than standard Durex condoms. It was developed following market research that
showed consumers wanted as sensitive an experience as possible.
Scholl footcare
The vision of making Scholl footcare the world’s leading foot and wellbeing brand is well on track.
Thanks to the brand’s philosophy of identifying and delivering on consumer needs, Scholl footcare
continues to enjoy strong and sustained business growth.
Innovation has played a major part in this success. What does this involve? The brand has set
about really getting to know and understand its consumers — who they are, what they think, and 
what they want from Scholl footcare products. Armed with this knowledge, new products have been
researched and developed to satisfy consumer demand. We have then communicated all of this 
to our customers to ensure they know we lead the way in identifying and satisfying their needs. As a
result, business across the five brand categories — foot skin, musculoskeletal, foot environment, virus
and fungus, and toenail — has been strong. In particular, Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream, which 
is clinically proven to soothe and rehydrate cracked heels within seven days — continues to perform
strongly , while Scholl Party F eet Starlight gel cushions proved popular when they were launched in
September last year.
A new jewel in the footcare category crown though, is the recently launched Scholl Nail
Brightening System/Perfect Nail T reatment, a revolutionary three-in-one product that covers and
treats unsightly and discoloured toenails. Based on consumer insight, this is a genuine first for the
market. It has been researched and developed using all of the scientific know-how consumers have
come to expect from Scholl. Put simply, it’s a perfect example of how Scholl continues to benefit
consumers and help them improve their wellbeing. 13
We are collaborating with The School of Health Care Professions at the University of Salford 
to enhance the brand reputation of Scholl, build greater understanding, knowledge and expertise with
internal and external stakeholder groups and drive development of innovative new products founded
on credible science and research.
Scholl footwear
Over the past two years our Scholl footwear business in Europe (which represents 83 per cent of
total footwear sales) has undergone radical change as it looks to develop its distribution-led strategy 
by increasing retail distribution beyond its traditional pharmacy channel into new growth opportunities
in the mainstream shoe trade. The pharmacy channel is traditionally the heartland for Scholl footwear
in Europe, where consumers are typically looking to buy a ‘problem-solving’ product to provide them
with relief from discomfort. In this instance, the technology combined with a pleasing style is more
important than alignment with the latest fashion trends. In developing new distribution channels, 
it is essential to ensure that whatever steps are taken do not compromise the growth of the pharmacy
channel — the key to achieving this is clear range differentiation. 
Diversification of distribution outside of the pharmacy channel began last year with the launch 
of the Scholl by Dolcini range. In partnership with leading designer Diego Dolcini, Scholl presented 
a premium collection, primarily based around the classic Scholl ‘exercise’ style, available in selected
department stores and high street retail outlets worldwide. F or the first time, Scholl has been positioned
as a luxury footwear brand with a high image and style. This year we have extended our range to
include an Autumn/Winter collection and plan to incorporate the Bioprint and Gelactiv technologies
in future collections.
We are currently in the process of developing a new collection specifically targeted at medium-
priced high street shoe retailers. The collection for the shoe trade will be based around the core Scholl
foot-bed technology — cork, wood and gel — but there will be a clear differentiation of style, look and 
feel. Although focused at a younger consumer than the pharmacy range, the shoe trade collection 
will remain true to the Scholl heritage combining comfort with style. This collection will be available 
in Autumn/Winter 2009 and will feature in footwear exhibitions in August 2008. 
Locally owned brands
Locally owned brands are important in supplementing the business’s offering in specific countries.
Whether Full Marks and Medised in the UK or Mister Baby and Sauber in Italy, these products are
important in ensuring SSL ’s portfolio has a diverse base and extensive consumer reach. There have
been notable achievements by some of these brands over the past 12 months. In Italy, sales of Mister
Baby have been transformed with a 30 per cent growth over the period, justifying the move into specialist
mother and baby stores and mass market chains as well as sales in Italian pharmacies. In the UK, SSL ’s
range of over-the-counter products, including oral analgesics such as Paramol, headlice treatments
including Full Marks and paediatric medicines such as Medised have all made a significant contribution
to sales and profitability.
Poster advertising for 
Bioprint ‘Giacosta’ — improved
foot-bed technology in the
Scholl footwear range. 14 Business review 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Sunday
10.34am
Durex Play range of lubricants are designed 
to enhance pleasure, giving a more sensual
experience for both partners. Available in a 
range of sensations and flavours — original, 
tingle, heat and, the latest addition, Very Cherry
which tastes sweet and deliciously fruity! 15
Platform
An artist’s impression of the
new state-of-the-art condom
factory in Qingdao, China —
currently under construction.
Factory locations
Europe
Peterlee, UK, OTC products
Guernsey,
(1)
UK, OTC products 
Redruth, UK, Compression hosiery products
Asia Pacific
Bangpakong, Thailand, Condoms
Qingdao, China, Condoms
Pallavaram,
(2)
India, Condoms
Puducheri,
(2)
India, Condoms
Virudhunagar,
(2)
India, Condoms
Irungattukottai, India, Footcare
(1)
expected to close by December 2008
(2)
joint venture
By ensuring that we have an infrastructure which supports our business strategy and objectives, 
we can be confident that we have a robust platform for driving future growth. Over the past year we
have undertaken significant changes in our global manufacturing footprint, information systems 
and in restructuring of Group-wide functions.
Manufacturing
High levels of customer service driven by efficient supply of high quality product are an essential
part of SSL ’s success. During 2007/08, we restructured our global manufacturing footprint for Durex
and pharmaceutical products thereby allowing further improvements to our supply chain and
customer service in these areas.
Durex
In March of this year we closed the Durex condom factory near Barcelona, Spain to transfer
production to SSL ’s facilities in the lower cost countries of Thailand and India. The one-off cost
associated with this closure was £27 .1 million and we expect operating margins to benefit from 
this transfer from 2008/09 onwards. SSL currently has a Durex condom manufacturing facility in
Qingdao, China, which manufactures condoms for the domestic China market — however, reflecting
the increasing importance of China in driving both overall global economic growth and Durex sales
growth, we have commenced the construction of a new state-of-the-art factory which will be located
near to our current factory. 
The new factory , expected to cost in the region of £20 million, will increase condom manufacturing
capacity in China five-fold, enabling the supply of Durex condoms to both the domestic and global
markets. As such, it will become the largest single condom factory in the Group and Durex lubricants
will also be manufactured there. We expect that the new factory, which will replace our current facility,
will become operational by June 2009.
Pharmaceutical 
In February of this year we announced the closure of our factory on Guernsey, Channel Islands,
which is expected to close by December 2008. The cost of closure is anticipated to be £9.5 million.
Production will transfer to SSL ’s pharmaceutical facility in Peterlee, England and to third-party suppliers.
This consolidation will allow the elimination of duplicated activities between the two sites and allow a
focused and co-ordinated approach to pharmaceutical manufacture at a single in-house supply point. 16 Business review 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Information technology
Implementing SAP
Further to our report last year, we have continued with the implementation of SAP across the
business. The benefits derived from creating a single, stable platf orm across all commercial, manuf acturing
and warehousing units are greater efficiency, shorter delivery lead times, increased responsiveness
and more accurate information. These benefits will result in faster decision-making, better customer
service and improved working capital management — enhancing the platform for growth for SSL.
During 2007/08, having implemented SAP in the UK (our largest commercial unit and group
functions), Ireland and Spain, we are now live in 11 European countries, in line with our published
objectives. In our manufacturing units, SAP is now fully implemented at all four factories in India and
implementation is currently under way in China which is a key element of the project for the construction
of the new factory. In addition, a SAP procurement module is live at SSL ’s Footwear Development
Group near Milan, Italy which enables more effective management of the Scholl footwear supply chain.
Our aim is to complete the implementation in China and to implement in our remaining European
commercial markets by mid-2009. We expect SAP implementation in the Asia Pacific and Americas
regions will be completed by the end of 2010.
W eb strategy
With an increasing percentage of the world’s population now connected and billions spent on-
line each year, the approach to web strategy and e-commerce is becoming increasingly important 
for all businesses and SSL is no different. This year we have relaunched SSL ’s corporate website
www.ssl-international.com and developed for the first time www.durexnetwork.org which provides
information on all the activities of the Durex Network in the sexual and reproductive healthcare arena.
Most recently we have launched the new Durex website www.durex.com in the UK and a number of 
other countries. F ull roll-out to over 60 countries will be completed during 2008/09. The emphasis is to
strengthen brand communication and further develop e-commerce as an additional route to market. 
A similar development is now planned for Scholl.
Functional restructuring 
Restructuring our Group-wide functions, i.e. those roles which provide support to our operating
units worldwide, to ensure that they are aligned to achieving our business objectives is another key
factor for building the platform for growth.
Innovation driving growth
SSL is becoming increasingly focused on innovation to drive sales growth. During the year we
restructured our Group Marketing & Innovation function into two separate streams so that we can
ensure that not only the design, development and implementation of new products works efficiently,
“SSL is becoming increasingly
focused on innovation to 
drive sales growth”
Home page of the newly-
launched www.durex.com
website — strengthening
brand communication. 17
Monday
8.47pm
Hard, brittle and thick toenails can be
unpleasant and uncomfortable. Scholl Nail
Brightening System/Perfect Nail T reatment is
a fast-acting easy to apply remedy for healthy,
conditioned, comfortable nails — and helps
them look good too. 18 Business review 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
but also that we can speed up our innovation in marketing as well. Further emphasising the importance
of innovation, we have strengthened and consolidated our existing research and development centres,
located at our manufacturing facilities in India and Peterlee (meanwhile closing down a small site in
Cambridge) and created a new technical centre at the Thailand factory.
Global compliance
Compliance with global product regulations is a vital element for business growth. T o ensure 
that we are fully supporting our global business we have restructured our Group Regulatory function
so that it can become truly customer-focused and proactive in providing support, not only to our
current product portfolio but also to our stream of new products.
Scholl footwear in Europe
As part of developing the European Scholl footwear business, we have devised a new
organisational structure to ensure our strategy can be implemented effectively. We aim to deliver 
our operational objectives through supply chain management, quality control, sales and marketing
expertise — focused on the needs of each of the heartland pharmacy sector and the developing
mainstream shoe trade channel.
People
T o drive business growth, we must have the right people with the right skills, competencies and
potential doing the right jobs. We manage our pool of talent to achieve this. By providing development
opportunities, through different work experiences and training programmes, we can help our employees
to achieve their maximum potential and contribution to the business. 
As a brand-led company, developing our marketing talent pool is crucial, for example following an
initial European marketing course held in Paris in 2006, a second workshop on ‘Consumer Drive and
Innovation’ was held in November 2007 . Marketeers from across Europe worked in teams to identify
breakthrough solutions to life’s problems with products that are not currently available. The objective
was to foster a culture of innovation, to enhance teamworking and to develop core marketing skills
across our European team. The programme provided the opportunity for people from different
countries and cultures to work together. A similar programme is being rolled out for our marketeers 
in Asia Pacific commencing in June 2008.
Our approach, wherever possible, is to promote employees from within and, to facilitate this, we
are in the process of implementing a systematic, Group-wide standard approach to succession planning
which not only recognises individual development profiles but also ensures that we have provision in
place to maintain business continuity . Standardising the approach on a global basis means that we can
gain better understanding of our employees and our current business needs. More information about
our training and development programmes, communication and resourcing, is on page 22.
SSL European marketeers
during the ‘Consumer Drive
and Innovation’ workshop. 19
16
SSL ’s strategy is now focusing on organic sales growth supplemented by executing well chosen
acquisitions. We have very clear criteria against which we measure opportunities to ensure that any
acquisition complements our existing business, enables us to use our existing infrastructure more
effectively and drives shareholder value in both the short and medium term. Since March 2007 we
have made two acquisitions which have wholly met these criteria. 
Orthaheel
In November 2007 , we acquired Orthaheel, a range of orthotic insoles which are inserted into
shoes to alter foot alignment and provide cushioning and support for the feet. Designed by leading
podiatrist, Philip Vasyli, they are proven to reduce heel and knee pain as well as improve posture. 
Following the acquisition, Scholl has an ongoing relationship with Philip Vasyli which enhances our
research and development capabilities and strengthens the foundation for the ongoing brand
development for Scholl.
Currently, Orthaheel has geographic distribution in Australia, New Zealand, the UK, and Germany 
and its state-of-the-art orthotic product range provides SSL with immediate turnover and a market
leadership position in the orthotics market in Australia and the UK. Combining this with the Scholl brand
and our extensive distribution network in Europe and Asia Pacific provides an exciting opportunity 
for future growth in new geographies. We are planning an initial roll-out of a new co-branded range
from the second half of 2008 onwards. Global sales of Orthaheel to the year ended 30 June 2007
were £5.7 million; the acquisition was valued at £14.9 million, a multiple of 2.6 times sales. If sales targets
are achieved, consideration could rise to a maximum of £34.3 million payable in cash by June 2010.
Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States (‘CIS’)
Recognising the importance of emerging markets in driving future sales growth we continue to
identify opportunities where we are able to strengthen our position in markets in which we already
operate, as with the increased investment in China early in 2007 , or to enter into markets where we
have no or limited presence. In February this year, we entered into contracts to initially acquire up 
to 18 per cent of businesses which own and distribute condoms, primarily the Contex brand, and
disposable medical products through Eastern Europe and the CIS (consisting of 11 former Soviet
Republics). These contracts also give SSL the option to acquire, in two further stages, the remaining
shares in the businesses. Consideration for each stage is calculated on an earn-out basis calculated 
at 9x EBITDA. Stage one of the acquisition was completed on 19 May 2008. The initial investment was
£24.8 million for a 15.5 per cent share of the businesses. The remaining two stages are expected to take
place before 31 May 2010.
“We have very clear criteria
against which to measure
acquisition opportunities 
to drive shareholder value”
Purchases 20 Business review 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Tuesday
2.04am
When children are ill you want to help make
them better, quickly. Medised for Children 
is specially formulated to ease away pain in
children from two years old and it also helps
clear blocked noses and eases breathing to
help a restful night’s sleep. 21
SSL aims to operate in a way which reflects our values, while understanding and responding to
stakeholder views and connecting business decisions to environmental, ethical and social concerns.
We have developed a new framework for our approach to corporate responsibility which is tailored to
the needs and development of SSL. This will enhance awareness of our commitment in this area and
maximise the benefits being achieved by developing a coherent and co-ordinated approach. The new
framework has four core elements: ‘In the Marketplace’, ‘In the Workplace’, ‘In the Environment’ and
‘In the Community’:
— In the Marketplace: covers the whole supply chain from selection of raw materials, third-party
supplier assessments, in-house manufacture, packaging, delivery to customers and responsible
and effective communication with consumers.
— In the Workplace: reflects the core areas of the Global HR strategy — resourcing, reward,
communication and development — and health and safety for all employees.
— In the Environment: refers to SSL ’s commitment to continual improvement in its practices in
environmental care, review of its environmental performance and use of sustainable resources.
— In the Community: relates to work carried out by SSL in the global, national and local communities. 
It includes areas such as the activities of the Durex Network, relationships with national health
authorities, local social responsibility programmes as well as SSL ’s responsibilities to shareholders
and investors.
We have set five objectives for 2008/09 and are in the process of developing a five-year plan to
ensure a sustainable approach is achieved in each of these areas. Our objectives for 2008/09 are:
— T raining and development: continuing the expansion of the three-tier training and development
programme into new countries providing more opportunities for our employees to improve their
business awareness as well as technical and personal skills.
— Health and safety: to build upon a positive, behaviour-led, safety culture with an initial focus on
developing new health and safety procedures at manufacturing sites.
— Durex Network: to continue to lead and participate in activities to raise awareness of HIV/AIDS,
safer sex and consistent condom use.
— Environment: increasing awareness of environmental issues by establishing expertise across 
SSL ’s operations and assessment of the full impact of ‘green consumerism’ and how it affects 
SSL ’s commercial operations.
— Supply chain: to develop and commence implementation of a standard supplier assessment
process and code of conduct across all business categories.
Corporate
responsibility
expanding 
our focus 22 Business review 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
In the marketplace
We aim to ensure that we take care of our consumers by providing products for their use that 
are safe and effective, are sourced from a supply chain that is ethical and delivered through business
practices that are legal, ethical and socially responsible. We have robust quality and compliance
procedures and management systems across our business which help safeguard our consumers.
Due to the complexity and scope of this area we are still in the process of developing and refining 
the holistic approach. As stated in the objectives above, our aim for 2008/09 is to build a platform 
to standardise the assessment process for selecting suppliers across all product categories to
encompass quality, environment, health and safety, ethics and human rights issues. 
Protecting our consumers and our brands
Counterfeit products erode the prestige, profitability and reputation of premium brands and
protection of consumers is at the heart of our approach to dealing with this. Whilst stamping out
counterfeit products at source is not easy, we have developed robust procedures and controls which
help identify genuine Durex from counterfeits. 
One such measure is the provision of specially produced information leaflets to customs officers
in the European Commission to assist them in identifying the fake products. However, if counterfeit
products have entered a country, we work closely with the regulatory agencies to take all the steps
necessary to act in the best interests of consumers. In addition, during 2008/09 we will implement 
a new, advanced anti-counterfeit labelling system for all Scholl footwear sold in Europe.
REACH
During 2007/08, we began the registration process to comply with REACH (Registration,
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) as adopted by the European Union. Under 
the terms of REACH, industry is required to register certain substances that are manufactured, 
imported or used in Europe. 
In the workplace
By creating a positive and safe working environment for our employees, which supports their
professional and personal development; encourages open and honest communication; provides
reward packages to drive behaviours that are aligned with business objectives; looks to attract and
retain talent; and by encouraging behaviour-led safety, SSL supports motivated, successful people
who are passionate about our future.
Professional and personal development
T raining and development is an important part of attracting and motivating talented people. 
We are continuing the expansion of our three-tier training and development programme which 
Employees by geography
 1. Asia Pacific   3, 460
(1)
2. Europe 1,840
3. Americas  50
Total 5,350
(2) 2
1
3
Employees by function
 1.  Manufacturing 2,950
(1)
2.  Commercial 2,400
Total 5,350
(2)
2
1
(1)
Includes 2,000 employees at our joint ventures in India
(2) 
Headcount as at 31 March 2008 23
Wednesday
9.32pm
Durex Play Ultra provides 40 minutes 
of quivering pleasure, and, as it is 
now waterproof , part of the fun will be
experimenting with where and which 
way to wear it for maximum stimulation. 24 Business review 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
“We recognise and value the
importance of our employees 
and training and development 
is an important part of attracting
and motivating talented people”
covers three core areas — personal skills development, business awareness and lifestyle — into new
geographical areas. A specific initiative aims to foster a culture of innovation for our marketing teams
(refer to page 18 for further information).
We recognise and value the importance of our employees and how we treat each other in our
working environment. Reflecting this, we launched a new programme ‘Dignity at Work’ to build upon
awareness of the issues affecting and resulting from our behaviour at work. 
This approach to ‘Dignity at Work’ is fundamental in defining and developing our organisational
culture and is entirely aligned with SSL ’s vision to become and remain Successful — Socially responsible
— Lively and our ABC operating principles. The objectives of the ‘Dignity at Work’ training programme
are to understand clearly what we mean by ‘Dignity at Work’, the impact of behaviours at work, the
responsibilities of every employee and to provide practical guidelines in dealing with related issues 
in the workplace. This programme was initially launched in the UK, but the principles it espouses will
form the basis for a global employee code of conduct to be developed during 2008/09. 
Open and honest communication 
A culture of open and honest communication is key to a successful business. We have 
designed our internal strategy to focus on three areas: people, brands and business performance. 
We recognise that two-way communication is very important and welcome feedback from all our
employees. We hold global employee surveys on a biannual basis. Our second will be held in October
2008 which will cover areas such as leadership, communication, satisfaction and motivation. As a
brand-led company, we aim to ensure that all employees, whatever their role or wherever they are
located, have the opportunity to learn about our brands and latest products through distribution 
of posters, knowledge-based factfiles, briefing notes and samples.
W e continue to support all our communication programmes through our toolbox — employee
magazine ‘Be Inspired’, intranet ‘Insight’ and poster campaigns supporting SSL ’s vision and values.
Attracting talent
W e aim to attract highly talented people with the appropriate balance of competencies, potential
and cultural fit with our organisation to help take SSL to the next level of development. W e are committed
to recognising and encouraging diversity across the organisation and espouse the principle of equality
of opportunity for all employees regardless of gender , race, age, religion or sexual orientation. W e aim to
give people with a disability or who become disabled whilst in our employment the same opportunities
for career progression and training as other employees.
Creating a safer workplace
Providing a safe working environment for our employees has always been a high priority for SSL, 
and it continues to be so. A new five-year programme has been launched with the objective of ensuring  25
a positive saf ety culture throughout all SSL sites with an initial f ocus on manuf acturing and logistics, then 
roll-out in subsequent years to commercial offices. With the focus on educating people to behave in
the right way to prevent accidents, our target is to achieve a zero accident rate over the longer term.
This programme follows recent successes achieved at a number of sites, for example our
manufacturing facility at Redruth has recently been accredited with OHSAS 18001 certificate for 
its occupational health and safety management systems; and our commercial office in Budapest
received ‘The Healthy Workplace’ Award presented by The American Chamber of Commerce for
creating a working environment which is ergonomically designed and where various initiatives have
been introduced to encourage a healthier lifestyle.
In the environment
In response to the rise in the level of awareness of environmental issues and the importance 
of these in relation to manufacturing processes, product development and material sourcing, we
have redefined our environmental programme. Further information on this new programme and our
performance against our environmental targets can be found in the Environment Report on SSL ’s
website www.ssl-international.com
A sustainable future
For the first time, SSL participated in World Environment Day in June 2007 . Led by the United
Nations Environment Programme (‘UNEP’), the theme was climate change. A range of activities was
organised at SSL sites across the world to heighten awareness of how we can contribute to minimising
our effects on climate change. Using materials sourced from UNEP together with hints and tips on
being more aware of how we use energy, employees at SSL sites developed a wide range of initiatives.
These ranged from installing a device to turn off lights automatically at times when the offices are
empty in Thailand, to planting trees in India, to competitions with environmental and recycling themes
run for employees’ children at Redruth. 
In the community
SSL continues to support global, national and local communities through the ongoing
development of the Durex Network, working in partnership with third-party organisations and
supporting employees in their own endeavours.
Durex Network 
The Durex Network is a key player in the global sexual health arena. Over the past year , the Network’s
social marketing, advocacy and research work have succeeded in firmly positioning it as an expert in the
field, and with it, reaffirming that SSL is committed to helping improve sexual health worldwide. The
success of Y aari Dosti, a comprehensive behaviour-change initiative based in Mumbai and Gorakhpur
SSL employees at Redruth
who took part in World
Environment Day activities. 26 Business review 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Experiences of SSL ’s
employees during their 
SPW placements.
in India, has been a major social marketing milestone. The project, designed to improve young men’s
attitudes towards gender roles, was led by a partnership between the Durex Network and several non-
governmental organisations. 
The Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria, of which SSL is a founding member,
showcased Program H, one of the Durex Network’s joint initiatives, as global best practice in a report 
on the feminisation of HIV/AIDS. Research has brought several successes too: the 2007 Face of Global
Sex report was presented at several high-profile, global sexual health conferences, and two scientific
papers were published in the European Journal of Contraception and Foreign Policy Magazine.
Some new tools have also been developed to help further raise the Durex Network profile. Challenges,
the new , quarterly , Durex Network e-newsletter , was created to explore key issues in the global sexual health
arena. The newsletter, now in its 4th issue, is increasingly being referenced on sexual health websites,
proof of its growing success. And the Durex Network is now online at www.durexnetwork.org. This new
platform will be crucial in continuing to raise awareness of the work we are doing via the Durex Network.
Looking ahead, the Durex Network is set to carry onward and upward with further invitations to
present at conferences — including the 2008 Global Health Council Conference — and the publication 
of the 2008 Face of Global Sex report which will look at sexual confidence.
Helping to change lives
During 2007 , in partnership with youth-led international development agency Students Partnership
Worldwide (‘SPW’), five SSL employees each spent two weeks using their professional skills to assist in
the development of SPW organisations in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. SPW’s methodology is 
to place young people at the forefront of change and development to address HIV/AIDS, sexual and
reproductive health, environmental and educational issues. 
Through implementing a new accounting and reporting system; developing communication
strategies to help attract additional funding and recruit volunteers; and building techniques and processes
to support appraisals, motivation and delegation, SSL employees from the UK, Poland, the Netherlands,
Hungary and Germany contributed greatly to the ongoing development of the local SPW organisations
in countries as wide-ranging as Zambia, Nepal and Zimbabwe. Through this partnership, our employees
benefited from gaining different life experiences and also from the opportunity to provide value-added
benefits for communities in remote parts of the world. We plan to continue this partnership with 
SPW in 2008 by expanding the programme to offer a further 10 placement opportunities to SSL
employees globally. 
Local country initiatives 
Our commercial and manufacturing units take their responsibility towards aiding their local
communities very seriously. During 2007/08, activities have included construction of tsunami/cyclone
shelters in India, promoting the importance of mathematics in the workplace for school children in
Peterlee, UK and environmental improvement at the public Bangsaen Beach in Thailand. 27
Thursday
7.13am
Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream is a
clinically proven fast-acting solution for
repairing rough, dry and cracked skin which 
is specially concentrated for the skin on the
heel — with visible results in just three days. 28 Business review 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
“We are maximising the efficiency 
of our capital base through 
margin growth and operating 
cash generation”
Mark Moran
Group Finance Director 29
continued
double-digit
operating
profit growth
SSL ’s results for the year ended 31 March 2008 are set out on page 48. T otal sales were 
£533.9 million compared with £480.2 million last year generating an operating profit before 
financing and one-off restructuring charges but after associates of £68. 1 million (2007: £56. 1 million).
The operating margin was up more than one percentage point to 12.8 per cent (2007: 11.7 per cent).
Pre-tax profit, before one-off restructuring charges, was £57 .4 million compared to £46.9 million
last year and on the same basis, earnings per share increased by 20 per cent to 20.6 pence 
(2007: 17 . 1 pence).
Operating cash flow before one-off restructuring costs was £7 4.6 million compared to 
£60.9 million last year. Net debt at the year end was £99.0 million (2007: £88.7 million). 
Analysis of results
In the commentary on performance below comparatives have been adjusted to constant
foreign currency exchange rates and include a full year of the China Durex business, acquired 
in January 2007 .
Sales
Sales for the year were £533.9 million up 6.9 per cent compared with £499.3 million last year.
Sales are analysed in T able 1 on page 30. 
Durex
Durex sales rose 9.4 per cent to £217 .7 million, with continued strong growth in the UK, Italy,
Eastern Europe and China.
Sales of Durex condoms increased by 8.4 per cent to £185.5 million as the premium ranges, 
such as Pleasuremax and Pleasuremax Warming, performed well. The extensions to our distribution
network in China and Eastern Europe are enabling Durex to target an ever wider consumer base.
Sales of the Durex Play range, which includes personal lubricants and vibrators, grew 15.4 per
cent, or £4.3 million, to £32.2 million. This category benefited from a strong performance of Durex
Play 2 in 1 massage gel, in markets such as Italy, Spain and Eastern Europe. Our lubricants range is 
now a well-established segment within the Durex portfolio with growing consumer demand and
enhanced product offerings.
The brand development focus is on enhancing people’s sexual wellbeing, with product range
extensions in each of the three core areas of condoms, personal lubricants and vibrators, where we
have recently launched Ultra, T ouch and new Allure. We have also recently launched Durex Play O — 
a first to market clitoral stimulating gel — in France, with roll-out planned over the current financial year .
Performance
review 30 Business review 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Scholl footcare
Sales of Scholl footcare were £113.6 million, up by 10. 1 per cent. This performance has been
driven principally by the success of new products, such as Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream,
together with strong performance of new Scholl pharmacy ranges in Germany and France.
Additional marketing investment and new product developments, such as the revolutionary
Perfect Nail T reatment, continue to bring the Scholl brand name to a new generation of consumers
and we expect to see continued strong performance within this category.
Scholl footwear
Scholl footwear sales were £76. 1 million, an increase of £6.9 million, or 10.0 per cent. This
performance has been achieved thanks to the solid sell-in of the Spring/Summer ’08 range, coupled
with the positive consumer response to our revamped Autumn/Winter ’07 range. 
Footwear enjoyed solid growth in Italy, Greece, France and Iberia and we also benefited from 
a positive footwear performance in South East Asia. 
After several difficult years it is encouraging to achieve a turnaround in Scholl footwear sales. 
We believe that we are now establishing a strong platform to ensure sustained growth in this category. 
Orthaheel
In November 2007 we completed the acquisition of the Orthaheel, Orthastyle, Vas and Vasyli
brands and related assets in Europe and Asia Pacific. These ranges of orthotic insoles and shoes are
an excellent strategic fit with our existing Scholl business. 
In the five months to year end these brands have generated sales of £1.8 million (£1 million in
Scholl footcare and £0.8 million in Scholl footwear). We expect this performance to improve as we
roll-out this brand to our established European markets during the current financial year.
Locally owned brands
Sales of locally owned brands decreased by 2.3 per cent to £71.4 million. The decline in the UK OTC
brand portfolio outweighed the positive performance of Mister Baby and Sauber in Italy.
Other sales
Other sales, which includes distribution of third-party products and unbranded condoms, increased
by 0.5 per cent to £55. 1 million. 
Brand contribution, fixed costs and operating profit 
(1)
Brand contribution, defined as gross margin less market development and variable selling
expenditure, increased by £14.2 million, or 7 .3 per cent. The growth in brand contribution was driven
by higher sales and an improvement in gross margin (60.0 per cent compared with 59.4 per cent for
T able 1 Adjusted 
(2)
Adjusted
31 Mar 2008 31 Mar 2007 growth
£m £m %
Durex 217.7 199.0 9.4
Scholl footcare 113.6 103.2 10.1
Scholl footwear 76.1 69.2 10.0
Locally owned brands 71.4 73.1 (2.3)
T otal branded consumer 478.8 444.5 7.7
Other 55.1 54.8 0.5
T otal sales 533.9 499.3 6.9
(2)
Adjusted to constant foreign currency exchange rates and including 100 per cent of the
China Durex business
(1)
Before one-off restructuring charges 31
last year), and was achieved despite the planned £7 .3 million increase in advertising expenditure 
in the year. 
The gross margin improvement reflects the continued effort by the Group to lower the cost 
of manufacturing, despite increases in raw material and labour costs. Further benefits of the supply
chain restructuring will be seen in the next financial year. The gross margin also benefits from near
double-digit growth in higher margin Durex and Scholl footcare sales.
Operating expenses of £139.5 million continued to reduce as a percentage of sales from 26.5 per
cent to 26. 1 per cent. The increase in absolute terms (of £7 .2 million) reflects a strategic investment in
additional research and development to support our innovation pipeline and investment in our sales
and marketing teams in China, Germany and France. We expect both of these investments to make
continuing contributions to organic growth in the next 12 to 18 months.
Operating profit increased by £7 .0 million (11.5 per cent), representing a 12.8 per cent operating
margin (2007: 12.2 per cent).
One-off charges
We have provided for one-off charges of £46.5 million in the full year. Of this, £41.3 million relates
to the restructuring of our European supply chain, notably the closures of our Rubi condom factory
near Barcelona, our Cambridge technical facility and our Guernsey pharmaceutical manufacturing
facility. Additionally we have incurred one-off finance charges of £5.2 million relating to the early
repayment of the private placement bonds. The expected cash payback from these one-off costs 
is approximately two and a half years.
Cash flow and net borrowings
Operating cash flow in the period, before one-off restructuring costs, was £7 4.6 million 
(2007: £60.9 million) with improvements in working capital generating £4.4 million. Operating 
cash flow is defined as cash generated from operations of £52.9 million (2007: £49.4 million) before
cash paid in respect of restructuring provisions of £21.7 million (2007: £11.5 million).
Closing net borrowings were £99.0 million compared to £88.7 million at 31 March 2007 . The
higher net borrowings reflects the one-off cash costs . These one-off cash costs are made up of 
£14.4 million relating to European supply chain restructuring, £2.9 million relating mainly to historic
restructuring provisions and £4.4 million of one-off finance costs. An additional £16.3 million cash
outflow relates to acquisitions during the year.
We retain a strong balance sheet and our existing bank facilities (£220 million revolving credit
facility expiring in January 2012) were all refinanced in the early part of 2007 .
Operating expenses as a percentage of sales
07/08
06/07
05/06
At constant exchange rates and before one-off restructuring charges
26. 1%
26.5%
28.6%
Earnings per share
07/08
06/07
05/06
Before one-off restructuring and finance charges
20.6 pence
17 . 1 pence
12.8 pence 32 Business review 
• Governance • Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Interest and taxation
Net interest and financing costs for the period were £15.9 million (2007: £9.2 million). Of this, 
£5.2 million related to the one-off early repayment charge on the private placement bonds. Underlying
net interest, before one-off finance charges, was £8.8 million (2007: £8. 0 million). The IAS 19 net pension
finance charge for the period was £1.9 million (2007: £3.0 million). The prior period interest cost
benefited from an IAS 39 credit of £1.8 million.
The tax charge of £11.8 million (2007: £13. 1 million) includes a credit of £4.3 million relating to 
the one-off charges. The effective tax rate (excluding the one-off charges and associated tax credit) 
is 28 per cent.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share (before one-off charges) increased by 20 per cent to 20.6 pence 
(2007: 17 . 1 pence). After the one-off charges the net loss per share was 1.5 pence. Shareholders’ 
funds at 31 March 2008 were £113.8 million (2007: £97 .6 million).
Litigation
This is detailed in note 26.
Capital structure and treasury policy
IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 7
IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 require that certain disclosures relating to financial instruments are
given in the financial statements, in order to provide information on the impact of such instruments on
the Group’s risk profile, how this may affect the Group’s performance and financial position, and how
those risks are managed. The impact of those financial instruments is considered in notes 22 and 23.
Foreign exchange risk objective
The nature of the Group’s trading activities generates transactional foreign exchange rate risks. These
arise from the sourcing of raw materials from different countries, the location of Group production
facilities throughout the world and the sale and distribution of finished goods in many locations. The
objective of the Group’s foreign exchange policy is to minimise the trade exposure to foreign exchange
rate fluctuations for the overseas entities and manage the risk from the centre. This requires that 
all trading-related exposures should be centralised in accordance with prescribed procedures and
timetables under the direction of the Group T reasury Function, which hedges the major exposures
using forward contracts and options, usually up to a period of 12 months.
Interest rate exposure objective
The interest rate risk management policy aims to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations
on the Group’s net interest expense to acceptable levels. This is achieved through balancing the 
ratio of fixed or hedged debt to those financial liabilities with floating interest rates. Board approved
instruments available to hedge this exposure include interest rate swaps, interest rate options and
forward rate agreements. Details of the interest rate analysis are given in note 23.
Liquidity risk
The primary objective of the Group T reasury Policy is to ensure that the Group is able at all times
to meet its financial commitments as they fall due. T o facilitate this, the Group T reasury department 
is responsible for the management of cash and liquid resources for the whole Group, and ensures that
the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet any reasonable change in funding requirements. The Group’s
liquidity is defined as the aggregate of the Group’s cash, liquid resources and central undrawn
committed facilities as at 31 March 2008, amounted to £141.7 million (2007: £256.4 million).
Mark Moran
Group Finance Director
19 May 2008 33
12 3 4 5
67 8 9
5. Peter Read, Senior Independent Director (69)
Appointed in March 2002, Peter is Chairman of the
Nomination and Remuneration Committees. He is a 
Non-Executive Director of Vernalis plc and an independent
Director of Innogenetics NV . Previously, Peter was a senior
executive of Hoechst and President of ABPI, a Non-Executive
Director of Celltech Group plc and a member of the Board of
the South East Development Agency.
6. Richard Adam (50)
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of
the Audit Committee in November 2003, Richard is currently
Group Finance Director of Carillion plc. Prior to this he was
Group Finance Director of Associated British Ports Holdings
PLC. Richard is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of England and Wales.
7 . Susan Murray (51)
Appointed in January 2005, Susan is currently Chairman of
FB Raphael 1 Limited (the holding company of Farrow and Ball
paint and wallpaper business) and a Non-Executive Director
of Enterprise Inns PLC, Imperial T obacco PLC, WM Morrisons
Supermarkets plc, Compass Group PLC and The Advertising
Standards Authority. Previously, Susan was Chief Executive of
Littlewoods Stores Limited. Susan will stand down as a Director
after this year’s Annual General Meeting.
8. Anna Catalano (48)
Appointed in November 2004, Anna has held senior global
marketing and sales positions in Amoco including President,
Amoco Orient Oil Company and was Group Vice President,
Marketing at BP plc. She is a Non-Executive Director of Willis
Group Limited and the US company, Hercules Incorporated.
Company Secretary
9. Maria Buxton-Smith (43)
Appointed Company Secretary in January 2008 after
joining  as Assistant Secretary in 2002. Maria has previously
held company secretarial positions at Whitbread PLC and
Heron Corporation PLC.
Executive Directors
1. Garry Watts, Chief Executive (51)
Appointed as Chief Executive on 1 April 2004 after joining
as Group Finance Director in February 2001. He was previously
an Executive Director of Celltech Group plc and Finance Director
of Medeva plc. Garry is a Non-Executive Director of Protherics
plc and of Stagecoach Group plc. He was, until May 2008, a
Non-Executive Director of the Medicines and Healthcare
Products Regulatory Agency.
2. Mark Moran, Group Finance Director (48)
Appointed as Group Finance Director in June 2004, Mark is
a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee
of Brixton plc. He was previously Finance Director of Porvair plc.
3. Ian Adamson, 
Managing Director Europe and Americas (49)
Appointed as Executive Director in April 2004. In addition
to his role as Managing Director for Europe and the Americas,
Ian also has responsibility for Group Marketing. He joined
Seton Healthcare in 1991 as Director of Marketing and has
subsequently held a number of senior sales, marketing and
general management positions within the Group. He previously
held sales and marketing positions at Johnson and Johnson
and W. L. Gore & Associates. 
Non-Executive Directors
4. Gerald Corbett, Chairman (56)
Chairman since August 2005, Gerald is also Chairman 
of Britvic plc, Moneysupermarket.com Group plc, the Royal
National Institute for the Deaf and a Non-Executive Director 
of Greencore Group PLC. Previous executive positions include
Chief Executive of Railtrack PLC and Group Finance Director
of both Grand Metropolitan plc and Redland plc, whilst past
non-executive directorships include Chairman of Woolworths
Group plc and Non-Executive Director of MEPC PLC and
Burmah Castrol PLC.
Board of 
Directors 34 Governance 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
are four Non-Executive Directors (one of whom is the Senior Independent
Director (‘SID’)) and two Executive Directors.
Details of the Chairman’s professional commitments are included in his
biography . The Board is satisfied that the other commitments of the Chairman
do not interfere with the performance of his duties as Chairman. The Board
considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent in character
and judgement and by reference to the Combined Code and that controls are
in place to ensure that no single Director has unfettered powers of decision.
The management of operational matters within the Group is delegated 
to the Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors and
certain other senior executives. The Executive Committee meets monthly.
Board evaluation
During the year, the Board reviewed the process for the evaluation of the
performance of the Board, its committees and the individual Directors. Previous
evaluations have been conducted internally and led by the Chairman, whilst
the SID conducted the evaluation of the Chairman. The Board concluded that
this process remained appropriate. 
All Directors were required to complete a detailed questionnaire, which
each Director then discussed with the Chairman and with the SID, in relation 
to responses about the Chairman. 
The Board considers the annual evaluation to be a valuable process, which
has contributed to fostering an environment within the Board that is challenging
but supportive and encourages focus on the main issues facing the Group. 
In 2006/07 , the recommendations included a more detailed half-year review
on strategy and greater focus on succession planning. These matters are now
incorporated into the Board’s annual schedule.
Dialogue with shareholders
The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme
involving existing and potential investors within the UK and overseas. 
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and certain senior executives meet
with institutional investors on a regular basis. The Chairman and SID make
themselves available to meet with institutional investors. The SID attends 
the preliminary and interim results presentations with investors and analysts.
An investor relations report is presented and considered at each Board meeting.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting, which all Directors attend, to
communicate with investors and encourage their participation. The Directors
are available to speak informally with shareholders after the meeting.
Board Committees
The Board has established three committees. Each committee operates
in accordance with formal terms of reference, which are reviewed annually
and can be viewed on the Company’s website, www.ssl-international.com.
Committee chairmen report at the next meeting on the proceedings of the
committee which they chair. 
The membership and a summary of the principal activities of each
committee is shown in the table on the opposite page.
Policy on auditors’ independence
Safeguarding the independence of the external auditors is paramount
and controls are in place to ensure their continued independence. However,
there are occasions when services can be more efficiently undertaken by the
external auditor and at no risk of impairment of their independence. The Audit
Committee has put in place a detailed policy on the provision of services by
the external auditors, that sets out the services which the external auditors are
allowed to carry out on behalf of the Group and those which are prohibited to
them. Under this policy, external auditors cannot be engaged to provide any 
of the following services:
—Design or implementation of IT systems;
—Valuation;
—Internal audit; and
—Litigation support, legal or corporate finance advice, tax advice (if on a wholly
or partly contingent fee basis), recruitment, executive compensation
advice, accounting and actuarial valuation. 
Secondment of senior audit staff to the Company is also prohibited.
Introduction
The Board is responsible for delivering value to shareholders and 
other stakeholders, by developing strategy and by leading the Group, 
ensuring that the appropriate resources, processes and controls are 
in place to execute that strategy. Developing and maintaining high 
standards of corporate governance is integral to the delivery of value. 
This report explains SSL ’s corporate governance arrangements 
and how the Group has applied the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance (the ‘Code’).
The Board
There is a written schedule of matters reserved to the Board. 
This schedule includes:
—Approval/development of the Group’s long-term objectives and
commercial strategy;
—Approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any
material changes to them;
—Review of performance in the light of the Group’s strategy, objectives,
business plans and budgets and ensuring that any necessary corrective
action is taken;
—Approval of major capital projects, including acquisitions;
—Approval of contracts which are material strategically , or by reason of size; and
—Monitoring the system of internal control and corporate governance.
T o ensure proper consideration at the appropriate time, the Board 
has a schedule of matters for each meeting. These matters include:
—Reports from the Chief Executive and Finance Director;
—Health and safety;
—Presentations from the heads of the business units;
—Investor relations; and
—Regulatory reviews.
The Board also receives regular updates on relevant legal and
environmental matters.
The table below sets out the number of scheduled Board and 
Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance by 
Directors at those meetings.
During the year under review, the Board continued to be led by the
Chairman, Gerald Corbett. Garry Watts, the Chief Executive, is primarily
responsible for the effective running of the Group’s business. There is a clear,
written schedule on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and
the Chief Executive. In addition to the Chairman and Chief Executive, there
Corporate
governance
Scheduled AuditNominationRemuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee
meetings meetings meetings meetings
I. Adamson 7(7)
R. Adam 7(7) 4(4) 3(3) 4(4)
G. Corbett 7(7) 3(3) 4(4)
A. Catalano 7(7) 4(4) 4(4)
M. Moran 7(7)
S. Murray 7(7) 4(4) 4(4)
P. Read 7(7) 4(4) 3(3) 4(4)
G. Watts 7(7) 3(3)
The figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which
the individual was a Board member. When Directors are unable to attend meetings, they
receive the relevant papers and are invited to comment in advance of the meeting. One
of the Board meetings was devoted solely to strategy. Under this policy, it has been agreed that due to their understanding 
of the Group’s business and therefore ensuring cost efficiency, the external
auditors may be engaged for the following non-audit services, for which there
is a pre-agreed limit for fees (not including VA T) which do not require prior
approval from the Audit Committee:
—Audit-related regulatory reporting including interim review, covenant
reporting and other audit certificates (£100,000);
—Further assurance including advice on accounting matters, non-regulatory
reporting on internal controls or corporate governance, due diligence work
and environmental audits (£100,000); and
—T ax compliance and tax advisory services (£300,000).
The Chairman of the Audit Committee may approve urgent engagements
not covered by these categories, subsequently notifying the Audit Committee
at its next meeting. A breakdown of fees paid to the external auditors during
the year is set out on page 56.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and
for reviewing its effectiveness, and this is monitored by the Audit Committee.
Key elements of this system include:
—Regular Board meetings with a formal schedule of matters reserved for
Board discussion;
—Clearly defined organisational structures and appropriate delegation 
of authority (adherence to which is kept under review);
—Centralised treasury operations operating within defined limits;
—Review of the Group’s accounting manuals and procedures; 
35
—Receipt of annual compliance statements from all statutory units within 
the Group, stating compliance with Group accounting manuals; and
—An effective Internal Audit function providing independent scrutiny of
internal control systems and risk management procedures.
Risk management is embedded within the day-to-day activities of 
all executives. Management of this area is the responsibility of the Group
Operating Committee. A significant element of this process is the maintenance
of a Group Risk Matrix (the ‘Matrix’). The Matrix contains both financial and
non-financial risks, identified through regular top-down and bottom-up reviews.
The Board believes that the Company operates an effective embedded
system of internal control and is confident that it complies with Internal Control
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code (the ‘T urnbull Report’).
Further information about the risk management processes is given on
pages 36 to 37 .
Combined Code compliance
During the year the Company complied with the Code except in the
following respect:
A4. 1 The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive,
the SID and a Non-Executive Director . Whilst the Board considers the Chairman
to be independent, membership of this Committee does not consist of a
majority of independent Non-Executive Directors, as defined by the Code.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group and the
Company have adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the financial statements.
Audit
Richard Adam
Anna Catalano
Susan Murray
Peter Read
Chairman
Chief Executive
Finance Director
External auditor
Head of Business Assurance
Financial Controller
Company Secretary
Review of financial statements,
including half-year and annual reports,
interim management statements and
considering the comments of the
external auditor thereon
Review of risk management and
internal control systems
Review of the Group’s internal audit
processes, including approval of the
annual internal audit plan
Monitoring the provision of services 
by the external auditors and an annual
appraisal of their effectiveness as
auditors (see the policy on auditors’
independence on the previous page)
Committee Chairman
Members
Attending by invitation
Summary of the principal
activities of the Committees
during the year
Nomination
Peter Read
Richard Adam
Gerald Corbett
Garry Watts
Group HR Director
Company Secretary
Reviewing the size and composition 
of the Board including the mix of skills
and experience
Consideration of succession issues
Recommending the re-election 
of Directors at the Annual General
Meeting
Remuneration
Peter Read
Richard Adam
Anna Catalano
Gerald Corbett
Susan Murray
Chief Executive
Group HR Director
Company Secretary
Reviewing the remuneration policy
for the Executive Directors and the
Executive Committee
Developing proposals for an
enhancement to the Performance
Share Plan
(Further information on the work 
of this committee can be found in
the Remuneration Report on 
pages 39 to 45)
Board Committees membership and principal activities 36 Governance 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
There are risks and uncertainties connected to the Group’s businesses.
The factors listed opposite are among those that the Group thinks could cause
the actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
Risk management is an important element of the system of internal
control. This system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and
not absolute assurance against material loss. 
The risk management process involves making all managers within the
Group responsible for risk management and for ensuring that a full assessment
of risks, both financial and non-financial has been completed. This is achieved
by a bottom-up and top-down review of risks throughout the Group, from
which, a Group Risk Matrix has been developed. This process has embedded
risk management within the operational and executive management
throughout the Group. 
The Group Risk Matrix is reviewed twice a year. Overall responsibility for
the risk management process lies with the Global Operating Committee (‘GOC’)
which comprises the Executive Directors, the Executive Committee and certain
other senior managers.
An overview of the process is presented below:
Risks and 
uncertainties
Board of Directors
Audit Committee Business Assurance
Group Risk Matrix owned by GOC External Audit
Unit risk register managed 
by Unit Management
Divisional risk register managed 
by Divisional Management
GOC
Divisional Management T eam
Operating Unit 37
Mitigating action and management
—Dual sourcing and ability to switch production
—Follow up on recommendations from the
annual Business Interruption Review
—Development and continuous review of
business continuity plans
—Defined methodology for controlling 
NPD projects
—Steering Committees (chaired by the Chief
Executive) to monitor NPD activities
—Continuous market surveillance to gather
information on competitor activity
—NPD process focused on delivering ‘value added’
products to customers
—Group-wide management of key accounts
—Robust financial and risk analysis of geographic
expansion including the use of external advisers
—Strong management reporting structures
ensure that emerging risks are identified quickly
—Continuous effort to spread revenue generation
across global operations
—Group HR continually reviews the talent pool in
the organisation and identifies succession risks
—Remuneration and HR policies to ensure that
the Group employs highly-motivated, well-
remunerated, success-orientated people
—Wide-ranging training opportunities to provide
continuous development opportunities
—Continuous testing of back-up procedures and
disaster recovery plans
—Group IT provides system support in key markets
—Product liability insurance
—Strong technical and quality assurance team 
—Key principle within the Group to use regulation
as a competitive advantage
—Dedicated teams conducting environmental
and H&S audits in operating facilities
Description
Failure, e.g. at a factory, by a third-party supplier,
or a failure at a warehouse
Failure in NPD pipeline resulting in loss of sales
and profits
—Unforeseen competitor activity
—Increased margin pressure from large 
retail groups
—Geographic expansion into emerging markets
—Effects on financial performance of economic
downturn in a major market
Recruiting and retaining key members of staff
—Failure of IT system to support key business
processes/functions resulting in loss of sales
and profits
—Major product liability claims
—Inability to supply products resulting from
failure to comply with regulatory demands
leading to financial loss and damaged brand
reputation
—Impact on reputation resulting from negative
environmental or health and safety reports
Risk
Disruption to the Group Supply chain
Failure of New Product Development (‘NPD’)
Commercial risks
Inadequate succession planning
IT system failure
Failure to comply with regulatory matters,
including environmental and health and
safety matters 38 Governance 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Major shareholders
As at 19 May 2008, the Company had been notified of the following
material interests in accordance with the Disclosure and T ransparency Rules:
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association (‘Articles’) give power to the 
Board to appoint Directors, but require Directors to submit themselves for
election at the first AGM following their appointment and to retire by rotation
every three years. The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the
shareholders.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the
business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company
subject to the provision of the relevant statutes and the Company’s
Memorandum and Articles of Association. The Articles contain specific
provision and restrictions regarding the Company’s power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in
the Articles. The authority to issue shares and to disapply pre-emption rights 
is renewed by the shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that
occurs because of a takeover bid.
The bank facilities agreement includes a change of control clause,
whereby negotiations would be entered into with a view to agreeing ongoing
terms of the facility if a change in ownership occurs.
Employment policies
The Group’s employment policies reflect its commitment to equality 
and diversity in all aspects of employment. Profit related bonus schemes were
in operation during the year for certain employees. Further details of policies
and initiatives are given in the Business and Corporate responsibility reviews
on pages 11 to 26.
Creditor payment policy
The Group does not follow any specific external code or standard on
payments practice. Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with
agreed terms. The Company itself had no trade creditors at 31 March 2008 
or 31 March 2007 .
Charitable and political donations
The Group made charitable donations of £0.2million (2007: £0. 1 million).
No political donations were made in this or the previous year.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’
report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware: and each Director
has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
KPMG Audit plc has expressed its willingness to remain in office as auditor
at the 2008 AGM. After proper consideration, the Audit Committee is satisfied
that KPMG Audit plc continues to be objective and independent of the Group.
By order of the Board
Maria Buxton-Smith
Company Secretary
19 May 2008
The Directors present their report and financial statements for the year
ended 31 March 2008.
Principal activities and Business Review
The Company is required under the requirements of the Business Review
to set out in the Annual Report the principal activities of the Group during the
course of the financial year ended 31 March 2008, the position of the Group at
the end of the financial year and of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The information required for the Business Review can be found in the
Chairman’s statement on pages 4 to 5, the Chief Executive’s review on pages 
6 to 9 and in the Performance review on pages 28 to 33.
Results and dividend
The Group’s profit before tax was £10.9m. An interim dividend of 2.3 pence
per ordinary share was paid on 5 March 2008. The Directors recommend a final
dividend of 5.3 pence per share, which, subject to shareholder approval at the
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) on 24 July 2008, will be paid on 4 September
2008 to shareholders on the register on 1 August 2008. This will make a total
dividend of 7 .6 pence per share (2007: 6.8 pence).
Board of Directors
The Group Board section on page 33 gives the biographical details of the
current Directors and the Company Secretary. All of the Directors served
throughout the year.
The Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company and share
options in the Company as at 31 March 2008 are set out in the Remuneration
report on pages 39 to 45.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Richard Adam, Peter Read
and Garry W atts will retire by rotation at the AGM. F ollowing a recommendation
by the Nomination Committee and in line with the results of the Board
Evaluation, the process for which is described in the Corporate governance
report, the Board recommends to shareholders that these Directors be
reappointed at the AGM. Susan Murray will stand down as a Director after 
the AGM.
The Company has the authority under its Memorandum and Articles 
of Association to agree individual contracts of indemnity with its Directors 
and others (also known as qualifying third-party indemnity provisions ‘QTPIP’).
T o date, no QTPIP has been entered into.
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’)
The AGM will be held at the CII Insurance Hall, 20 Aldermanbury, 
London EC2V 7HY beginning at 10.30 a.m. on 24 July 2008.
The notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and
appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at
the AGM. All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld
in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM.
Share capital
The details of shares issued during the year and outstanding options are
given in notes 18 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
Authority to purchase shares
The Directors were authorised at the 2007 AGM to purchase the
Company’s own shares, within certain limits. Although no such purchases
were made during the financial year, the Directors will seek approval to renew
this authority at the 2008 AGM.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders
which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or voting rights.
Directors’ 
report
Number of Percentage of
shares/voting issued share
Shareholder rights capital
Blackrock Inc 28,523,862 14.94
Liontrust Investment Services Ltd 10,519,998 5.51
FMR Corp 9,591,060 5.03
Amvescap PLC 9,511,193 4.99
FMR LLC 9,481,017 4.96
F&C Asset Management PLC 9,437,628 4.95
J P Morgan Chase & Co 9,200,001 4.83
L & G Group PLC 7,826,166 4.10 Dear Shareholder
I submit the Directors’ Remuneration report for the year ended 
31 March 2008. 
The Remuneration Committee’s aim is to establish a remuneration
framework which incentivises the senior team to outperform against
challenging targets, selected to provide a clear link between the achievement
of the Group’s goals and their reward. This approach, established in 2005,
continues to contribute to the success of the SSL Group. The performance
graph on page 45 showing the Company’s T otal Shareholder Return
performance as compared to the FTSE 350 index illustrates this. 
T o build on this success, this year the Group is setting accelerated growth
targets, which are designed to build on the outstanding performance to date
and be even more challenging than the targets set in the previous three years.
Therefore, to incentivise the Executive Directors to outperform against these
particularly stretching targets, it is proposed that annual and long-term
incentives be enhanced. The maximum annual bonus has been increased
slightly and it is proposed that an exceptional grant be made under the
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’). This is subject to a change to the rules of the
PSP , which will require the approval of shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting (‘AGM’). Further detail is contained in this report and in the Notice 
of Annual General Meeting. A full explanation of the remuneration policy is
given below.
Peter Read
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985 (as amended by the Directors’ Report Regulations 2002). The report 
also explains how the Company has applied the Combined Code in relation 
to Directors’ remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’)
Composition of the Committee:
Peter Read
Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director
Gerald Corbett
Group Chairman and Non-Executive Director
Richard Adam
Non-Executive Director
Anna Catalano
Non-Executive Director
Susan Murray
Non-Executive Director
All members of the Committee served throughout the year. Susan Murray
will stand down as a Non-Executive Director and from the Committee after
the AGM. The Board considers that all members of the Committee are
independent of the Group. 
Advisers to the Committee
The Chief Executive, Company Secretary and Group Human Resources
Director, who are generally invited to attend Committee meetings, provide
advice and/or services to the Committee. No Executive participates in any
discussion concerning his or her own remuneration.
39
The Committee receives advice from independent consultants. During
the year, the Committee received advice from the following consultants:
With the exception of Hewitt New Bridge Street, these consultants also
provide advice to the Company on the following matters. Ernst & Y oung LLP
advises the Company on taxation matters relating to expatriate employees.
Watson Wyatt also provides insurance broking and benefits advisory and
administrative services in the UK. The Committee is satisfied that the
provision of advice to the Company does not result in a conflict of interests.
Activities of the Committee
The Committee, which meets at least four times a year, has a schedule 
of the principal items to be discussed each meeting. The purpose of the
schedule is to ensure that all material matters are fully considered at the
appropriate time. Such matters include:
—A review of remuneration policy and framework;
—Consideration of benchmarking data in relation to Executives’ remuneration
packages; and
—A review of performance measures for the Group’s incentive schemes.
The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the principal matters
discussed at the Committee. Copies of all Committee minutes are available 
to the Directors.
The Committee’s terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, can 
be viewed on the Company’s website, www.ssl-international.com.
Remuneration policy
The main objective of the policy is to attract, retain and motivate those
people of the highest calibre who have the skills needed to lead the Group to
achieve its objectives year on year.
The principles of the policy are:
—Providing a truly motivational incentive scheme which drives individuals to
work to outperform against challenging targets;
—Establishing that variable pay provides the material element to Executives’
total reward;
—Ensuring that there is an appropriate and increasing balance between 
short-term and long-term targets, with a significant proportion of the
remuneration subject to carefully considered long-term performance
conditions;
—Aligning the interests of Executives with those of shareholders;
—Effectively using the Company’s equity for the purposes of reward 
and retention; and
—Encouraging Executives to build and maintain a meaningful shareholding 
in the Company.
Remuneration
report
Consultant Advice provided to the Committee
Hewitt New Bridge Street On the Group’s medium- and long-term
incentive arrangements
Ernst & Young LLP On the operation of the Group’s share
schemes and the calculation of the Group’s
T otal Shareholder Return
Watson Wyatt Limited Benchmarking data in relation to the total
reward packages of the Executive Directors
and the Executive Committee 40 Governance 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
The potential payment of the annual bonus for both the EVA and EPS
parts of the bonus will be as shown in the following table:
The threshold of 97 .5 per cent of target represents an increase over the
actual 2007/08 EPS (before one-off losses) and an improvement in EVA over
the prior year. No bonus would be payable on the achievement of results below
97 .5 per cent of target. A straight-line sliding scale of payment will operate
between the points in the target range. The threshold is raised to 97 .5 per cent
from 95 per cent in the previous year. Maximum bonus would be paid upon
achievement of 105 per cent of target (200 7 : 115 per cent).
The Committee has changed the scale of performance versus target to
reflect the tougher level of performance required to achieve target performance.
Achieving target (100 per cent) will be a significant achievement for the Group
and in this regard the degree of stretch above budget is considered by the
Committee to be suitably stretching.
The annual bonus scheme is designed to drive complementary
behaviours across the senior executive population as well as aligning with 
the Group’s goals and with shareholders’ interests. The table illustrates the
cascade of targets for the year ended 31 March 2009 for the ‘Business Driver
Group’ (currently approximately 35 employees). T ypically, individuals will be
bonused on two to three of these targets: 
Overall, the Committee is satisfied that the annual bonus plan has
created an excellent link between reward and company performance.
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’)
Executive Directors and certain other Executives are entitled to
participate in the PSP , which is the Group’s only long-term incentive plan.
Under the PSP , conditional awards of shares are granted each year.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, the value of awards as at the
date of grant does not normally exceed 100 per cent of an Executive’s base
salary. Subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, determined
annually by the Committee, awards vest on the third anniversary of grant.
Performance conditions are determined annually by the Committee. 
Details of awards granted since 2005 are given on page 45. 
The Committee has considered carefully the award levels and
performance conditions attached to the 2008/09 awards. As set out in recent
results presentations, Company performance has been outstanding and, 
with a number of strategic initiatives ongoing and being contemplated, the
Committee considers that it is critical that this highly talented management
The structure of remuneration for Executives is illustrated in the chart
below. This shows the proportionate breakdown of the package at target and
maximum remuneration (showing the target levels of the annual bonus and
Performance Share Plan) as a proportion of the maximum:
Base salary: salaries are reviewed annually and are determined by
individual performance and by reference to market salary levels obtained
from independent sources. This is the only element of remuneration which is
pensionable. Base salary increases during the year ended 31 March 2008 for
Executive Directors were between 5.7 per cent and 21.0 per cent. The increase
in Ian Adamson’s salary reflects an extension of his responsibilities as he took
direct responsibility for the SSL Americas business and for Group Marketing. 
In determining base salary levels for Executive Directors, pay and conditions 
in the workforce generally are taken into account.
Annual bonus plan: This is a cash plan designed to drive complementary
behaviours within the wider executive population.
The maximum potential bonus payable to the Executive Directors for 
the 2008/09 financial year has increased to 125 per cent of base salary for the
Chief Executive and to 115 per cent of base salary for the Executive Directors
(previously 115 per cent and 100 per cent respectively). The Committee is
satisfied that the restructured bonus will provide an appropriate incentive 
to reward the Executives for continued outstanding annual operational
performance and execution of Group strategy. Each year the target setting
approach will ensure that any bonus payable above market levels must be
subject to extremely challenging performance criteria. No specific targets 
are set for the Executive Directors relating to environmental, social and
governance (‘ESG’) performance. The Company’s performance in regard 
to ESG matters is robustly monitored and the Committee would consider 
any failure in these areas when determining any payment of a bonus.
The performance measures are unchanged from the previous year. 
One-third of the annual bonus will be based on Economic Value Added (‘EVA’)
targets, and two-thirds will be based on a range of challenging earnings per
share (‘EPS’) targets. 
EVA (which is calculated as normalised operating profit after tax less the
cost of all capital employed to produce those earnings) captures the three
basic generic strategies for creating value:
—T o increase economic return for capital employed;
—T o grow by investing in new products whose return more than compensates
for the risk taken; and
—T o curtail investment and divert capital from uneconomic activities.
EVA was introduced as a performance measure in the previous financial
year. The Committee is satisfied that EVA continues to be an effective link
between improved underlying business performance and appropriate reward
to the Executive Directors.
Performance vs target 97 .5% 100 105%
% of salary for Chief Executive 12.5 50 125
% of salary for Executive Directors 11.5 46 115
Performance measure Employee level
12 3
Earnings Per Share Executive Directors 
(‘EPS’) (including the Chief 
Executive)
EVA Executive Directors Executive 
(including the Committee 
Chief Executive)
Strategic personal Executive Certain Group 
performance objectives Committee Management team roles
Group Brand Executive Group Management
Contribution Committee team
Group: Operating Group Management
cash flow/ Management team
Operating Profit
Regional Operating Regional Commercial
cash flow team
Regional Brand Regional Commercial
Contribution team
Regional sales Regional Commercial 
team
Customer service Manufacturing and 
Logistics team
Category Brand Manufacturing and
Contribution Logistics team
Personal Executive Certain Group, 
Performance Committee commercial and 
manufacturing roles
Remuneration
report continued
Proportion of fixed vs performance-related remuneration (%)
Chief Executive 
T arget
Maximum
Other Directors
T arget
Maximum
0 20 40 60 80 100
Salary Pension Annual bonus Performance share plan 41
Shares to satisfy awards may be purchased in the market (via the
Company’s Employee Benefit T rust) or using newly issued shares (within 
ABI guideline-compliant dilution limits). 
Shareholding guidelines
Executive Directors will be expected to retain at least 50 per cent of 
the shares (net of tax) which vest to them under the PSP until a shareholding
equivalent to 100 per cent of base salary is achieved.
Pension
The Company operates a number of retirement benefit programmes
throughout the world. Such benefits reflect local competitive conditions 
and legal requirements.
In the UK the Company operates three defined benefit schemes and 
a contracted-in defined contribution scheme, the SSL UK Pension Scheme
(the ‘SSL Scheme’) for UK employees. All UK defined benefit schemes are
closed to new entrants and future pension accrual.
Executive Directors who participate in the SSL Scheme contribute 
5 per cent of their base salary. Executive Directors receive 25 per cent of 
base salary in respect of retirement provision. Any contributions that are not
made in respect of retirement provision are paid as a salary supplement.
Ian Adamson is also a member of one of the defined benefit schemes.
Garry Watts is not a member of the SSL Scheme but operates a personal
pension plan. Garry Watts receives 25 per cent of base salary in respect of
retirement provision. Any contributions that are not made in respect of
retirement provision are paid as a salary supplement and are excluded from
the calculation of bonus entitlements and PSP awards.
Other benefits
The Company provides other benefits to the Executive Directors and
certain other executives, namely a company car or car allowance, life
assurance, permanent health insurance and private medical insurance.
Service contracts
It is Company policy that the notice period in Executive Directors’
contracts should not exceed one year. However, the Committee retains the
discretion to offer a service contract to a new Executive Director that contains
an initial notice period in excess of one year, in exceptional circumstances
where this is considered necessary.
The Executive Directors’ contracts have no fixed term but provide that
either the Director or the Company may terminate the employment by giving
one year’s notice.
There are no express provisions for compensation payable in the event 
of termination except that Garry W atts’ contract provides that, if the Company
terminates Mr Watts’ appointment with immediate effect, in addition to his
contractual notice period Mr Watts shall be entitled to a payment equivalent
to the average of any bonus paid within the three-year period prior to the date
of termination. The Committee is satisfied that the inclusion of an award in
respect of average annual bonus paid is appropriate, as this incorporates a
performance-related element to any compensation payment.
If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, the Committee’s
policy is to apply mitigation to compensation payments at a level determined by
reference to the individual circumstances of the Executive Director . Appropriate
external and human resource advice would be obtained in each case.
Non-Executive Directors
Save as disclosed below, none of the Non-Executive Directors has a
service contract.
Gerald Corbett was appointed a Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Company on 1 August 2005 for a term of three years, terminable by 
12 months’ notice by either party. Mr Corbett receives a fee of £180,000 p.a.
and is entitled to a company car.
The basic fee for Non-Executive Directors is £40,000 p.a. (increased
from £36,000 p.a. with effect from 1 April 2008). An additional fee of 
£10,000 p.a. (increased from £5,000 p.a. with effect from 1 April 2008) is 
paid to committee chairmen. In addition, the Senior Independent Director,
Peter Read, receives a further £5,000 p.a.
team is retained and provided with a significant incentive opportunity at the
present time. Accordingly, it is proposed that in addition to the normal award,
an exceptional award of 200 per cent of base salary be made to the Executive
Directors and to certain other key senior executives (at lower multiples of
base salary). The granting of the exceptional award is dependent upon a
change to the rules of the PSP , which will require the approval of shareholders
at the AGM.
In order for the exceptional award to vest, the Group must achieve very
stretching EPS and EVA growth targets. Accordingly, the expected value of 
the exceptional award is considered to be significantly lower than for the
normal award.
The vesting of these awards will be subject to the achievement of a
combination of EPS (one-third) and EVA (two-thirds) targets. The Committee
has concluded that the current policy of basing performance conditions on
the Company’s financial performance has created a very effective incentive.
The Committee will continue to monitor performance targets to ensure 
that such targets remain sufficiently stretching and aligned to the interests 
of shareholders.
The vesting schedule for the normal and the proposed exceptional
awards granted to Executive Directors is set out in the table below:
A sliding scale of payment will operate between the points in the 
target range.
Despite EPS and EVA also being used for the annual bonus plan, the
Committee is also satisfied that there is, in reality, relatively little overlap
between these two plans. Under the PSP , performance is measured over 
three years, compared to a single financial year for the bonus. 
EPS and EVA will be calculated by the Company and achievement of
targets will be independently verified before the awards vest. The Committee
is satisfied that the target range for both measures is sufficiently stretching
and their achievement would result in significant shareholder value creation.
In particular, it is recognised that a relatively low (by market standards)
proportion of the award vests at the initial vesting threshold.
The normal award will be granted in late May or early June 2008. The
exceptional award will, subject to shareholder approval, be granted after the
AGM, which is being held on 24 July 2008.
Payment of the total PSP award that vests i.e. the normal plus exceptional
elements will be phased: normal awards (maximum 100 per cent of salary) will
vest after three years in 2011, while the exceptional award will vest in two equal
parts after four years in 2012 and after five years in 2013. Stretching the vesting
period for the exceptional award to four and five years will provide a stronger
retention element and alignment with shareholders.
Awards will not confer shareholder rights until the awards have vested 
and participants have received their shares.
Participants will be entitled to receive a payment (in cash and/or shares)
on, or shortly following, the vesting of their awards, of an amount equivalent 
to the dividends that would have been paid on those shares between the time
when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
The Committee considers that this exceptional incentive will provide a
focus for executives to deliver outstanding performance and improvement 
in shareholder value over the next three-year period and beyond. The PSP
rules (as amended) will allow a similar, more tactical, use of equity in the future,
provided that exceptionally stretching targets are set for awards in excess 
of normal market levels. Provision to make grants above market levels will, 
of course, be used sparingly.
EPS (1/3rd) EV A (2/3rds) 
Compound annual growth rate Aggregate generated over 
(CAGR) over the three financial the three financial years
years ending March 2011 ending March 2011 
Normal Award Percentage of Performance Percentage of Performance
(100% of salary) salary vesting scale salary vesting scale
Below Threshold Nil <17% Nil <£130m
Threshold 5% = 17% 10% =£130m
Maximum 33.3% >/= 20% 66.7% >/=£140m
Exceptional Award Percentage of Performance Percentage of Performance
( 200% of salary) salary vesting scale salary vesting scale
Below Threshold Nil <20% Nil <£140m
Threshold 10% = 20% 20% =£140m
Maximum 66.7% >/= 23% 133.3% >/=£150m
Director Date of contract
Garry Watts 5 February 2001
Ian Adamson 17 June 1996
Mark Moran 28 May 2004 External appointments
The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to
become Non-Executive Directors of other companies. These appointments
can be beneficial to both the individual and the Company in providing further
experience and knowledge, but the Company’s consent is required before 
an Executive Director can accept such an appointment. Fees are normally
retained by the individual Director. Garry Watts and Mark Moran each hold
such appointments. The details are given in the table opposite.
Notes:
1. Remuneration shown above relates to the period for which each Director
served during the year. All Directors served throughout the year.
2. For the 2007/08 financial year, the performance targets for the annual
bonus were:
Target Threshold Stretch Actual
EPS 19.1p 18.08p 21.85p 20.6p
EVA £28.9m £27 .5m £33.2m £32.7m
Therefore, the cash bonus payments will be: 
G. Watts — £598,489; I. Adamson — £259,365; and M. Moran — £233,429.
These cash bonuses will be paid in June 2008.
3. Benefits include all taxable benefits arising from employment with 
the Company.
4. During the year any contributions in respect of retirement provision that
were not made were paid as a salary supplement. The amounts paid in the
year which are included in the above table under benefits were as follows:
G. Watts — £140,000
I. Adamson — £51,400
M. Moran — £nil
Payment to former Director: 
M. Pilkington resigned as an Executive Director on 22 March 2007 and left 
the Company on 30 June 2007 . In addition to the terms of his settlement
agreement disclosed last year, M. Pilkington earned £81,250 as an employee
for the period 1 April 2007 to 30 June 2007 .
Directors’ emoluments
(audited information)
Director Non-executive directorship Fee £’000
Garry Watts Stagecoach Group plc 44
Protherics plc 38
MHRA (until May 2008) 7
Mark Moran Brixton plc 46
42 Governance • Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Details of the appointments of the other Non-Executive Directors are shown below:
Remuneration
report continued
Non-Executive Director Appointment letter Date of appointment Initial term Comments
Peter Read 28 February 2002 21 March 2002 One year Renewed annually. Currently expires on 21 March 2009
Richard Adam 21 October 2003 13 November 2003 Three years Renewed for a further three years on 27 March 2006
Anna Catalano 29 October 2004 11 November 2004 Three years Renewed for a further year. Expires 11 November 2008
Susan Murray 10 November 2004 1 January 2005 Three years Susan will stand down as a Non-Executive Director after
the AGM on 24 July 2008
Salaries and fees Bonus Benefits 2008 total 2007 total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-Executive Chairman
G. Corbett 180 — 6 186 180
Executive
G. Watts 560 598 174 1,332 1,302
I. Adamson 300 259 7 4 633 558
M. Moran 270 233 19 522 514
Non-Executive
R. Adam 41 — — 41 35
A. Catalano 36 —— 36 30
S. Murray 36 — — 36 30
P. Read 46 — — 46 40
T otal 1,469 1,090 273 2,832 2,689 43
Directors’ pensions
(audited information)
The following Directors received contributions as detailed below:
Notes:
Pension contributions were paid as follows:
1. I. Adamson — into the SSL UK Pension Scheme and a personal 
pension plan.
2. M. Moran — into the SSL UK Pension Scheme.
Directors’ interests in shares 
(audited information)
Shareholdings
The following table shows the beneficial interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year in the ordinary shares of the Company:
2008 2007
Company Company
contribution contribution
£’000 £’000
G. Watts 20 20
I. Adamson 32 29
M. Moran 67 62
I. Adamson 
As noted, Mr Adamson is a member of a defined benefit scheme. Details are given below:
I Adamson £
Accrued benefit at 1 April 2007 6,335
Accrued benefit at 31 March 2008 6,580
Increase in accrued benefits excluding inflation Nil
Increase in accrued benefits including inflation 245
T ransfer value of increase in accrued benefits excluding inflation Nil
T ransfer value of accrued benefits at 31 March 2007 61,822
T ransfer value of accrued benefits at 31 March 2008 87,943
Increase in transfer value 26,121
Shareholdings Shareholdings
as at as at
31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Directors as at 31 March 2008
R. Adam 1,506 1,500
I. Adamson 15,626 15,626
A. Catalano 1,500 1,500
G. Corbett 32,500 32,500
M. Moran 1,797 1,797
S. Murray — —
P. Read 5,023 5,000
G. Watts 50,000 50,000
3. During the year the Company contributed 10 per cent of any bonus
sacrificed into the Executive Directors’ pension plan. The amounts 
paid in the year included in the above table were as follows:
G. Watts — £20,455
I. Adamson — £9, 100
Notes: 
1. No director held a non-beneficial interest in any shares.
2. With the exception of the exercise of options under the SSL Sharesave
Scheme described in note 7 on page 44, there have been no changes 
in the interests of serving Directors between 31 March 2008 and 
19 May 2008. 44 Governance 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Remuneration
report continued
Option schemes
Full details of the options over ordinary shares in the Company held by Executive Directors who served during the year and any movements in those options are
shown below:
As at Lapsed in As at Exercise Exercisable Exercisable
Note 31.03.07 the period 31.03.08 price (p) from to
G. Watts
1996 Scheme 1.1, 2 75,698 75,698 — 483.5 19.03.04 19.03.08
1.1, 2 72,260 — 72,260 506.5 17.07.04 17.07.11
1.3, 2 98,305 — 98,305 295.0 18.07.05 18.07.12
1.5, 2 116,232 116,232 — 249.5 28.11.05 28.11.09
SAYE Scheme 3,997 — 3,997 237.0 01.04.08 01.10.08
Total 366,492 191,930 174,562
I. Adamson
1996 Scheme 1.2, 2 20,996 20,996 — 742.5 14.06.03 14.06.07
1.1, 2 30,000 — 30,000 500.0 02.07.04 02.07.08
1.3, 2 54,915 — 54,915 295.0 18.07.05 18.07.12
1.5, 2 48,697 48,697 — 249.5 28.11.05 28.11.09
SAYE Scheme 5,527 — 5,527 208.0 01.04.08 01.10.08
2,091 — 2,091 237.0 01.04.10 01.10.10
Total 162,226 69,693 92,533
M. Moran
1996 Scheme 1.4, 2 72,815 — 72,815 309.0 11.06.07 11.06.14
1.5, 2 72,815 — 72,815 309.0 11.06.07 11.06.11
SAYE Scheme 6,972 — 6,972 237.0 01.04.10 01.10.10
Total 152,602 — 152,602
Notes:
1 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share during the
performance period exceeding the retail price index (RPI). The targets for
each grant are as follows:
1. 1 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for not less
than three years commencing on 1 April 2001 exceeding the growth in the
retail price index by at least an average 2 per cent p.a. This condition has
been met.
1.2 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for not less
than three years commencing on 1 April 2000 exceeding the growth in the
retail price index by at least an average 5 per cent p.a. This condition has
not been met.
1.3 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for three
years commencing on 1 April 2002 exceeding the growth in the retail price
index by no less than 2 per cent p.a. This condition has been met.
1.4 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for three
years commencing on 1 April 2004 exceeding the growth in the retail price
index by no less than 3 per cent p.a. This conditon has been met.
1.5 Exercise is subject to performance conditions that must be satisfied 
over initially a three-year period although this may be extended up to five
years. The exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share
exceeding the growth in the retail price index by at least an average of 
3 per cent p.a. and TSR of the Company when compared to TSR of
companies of the FTSE 250 reaching sixth decile for 50 per cent of the
option to become exercisable, between sixth and eighth for a pro rata
between 50 per cent and 100 per cent of the option to become
exercisable and eighth decile and above for 100 per cent of the option 
to become exercisable. The TSR condition has not been met.
2. Following the disposal of the Group's medical business (and the resultant
reduction in earnings), the Committee reviewed the performance
conditions attaching to options granted under the SSL 1996 Executive
Share Option Scheme. It was agreed that the performance criteria should
be rebased to fairly compare historical earnings with those in the ongoing
business, but the rebased figures should be no less stretching than the
previous targets. Given the share price at the times of grants (which was 
in excess of 480 pence), the Committee determined that only earnings
since the financial year ended 31 March 2002 would be reviewed.
Consequently the earnings per share figures for the financial years ended
2002, 2003 and 2004 were rebased. In light of the rise in the share price
during the year, the Committee agreed that the earnings per share figures
for the financial year 2001 be rebased. The calculations to determine the
new figures have been independently checked by Ernst & Y oung LLP ,
although Ernst & Y oung LLP express no opinion on the accuracy of the
base data and the appropriateness of the underlying assumptions.
3. No options were exercised in the period or the previous period.
4. There are no performance criteria for exercise of options under the 
SAYE scheme.
5. The market price of the Company’s shares was 453.5 pence on 31 March
2008 and ranged from 395.0 pence to 569.5 pence during the year. 
6. No options were granted in the period.
7 . On 2 April 2008, Ian Adamson exercised options over 5,527 ordinary shares
of 10 pence in the Company , granted at 208. 0 pence per share. On 17 April
2008, Garry W atts exercised options over 3,99 7 ordinary shares of 10 pence
in the Company, granted at 237 .0 pence per share. Both exercises were in
respect of the SSL Sharesave Scheme (an SAYE scheme). 45
Performance Share Plan
As at Awarded in Lapsed in As at Vesting
Note 31.03.07 the period the period 31.03.08 date
G. Watts
1 171,880 — — 171,880 11.08.08
2 187,876 — — 187,876 09.06.09
3 — 130,627 — 130,627 25.06.10
Total 359,756 130,627 — 490,383
I. Adamson
1 79,279 — — 79,279
2 87,734 — — 87,734 09.06.09
3 — 69,979 — 69,979 25.06.10
Total 167,013 69,979 — 236,992
M. Moran
1 79,279 — — 79,279 11.08.08
2 87,734 — — 87,734 09.06.09
3 — 62,981 — 62,981 25.06.10
Total 167,013 62,981 — 229,994
Notes:
1. The vesting of this award is subject to the following earnings per share
growth over a period of three years commencing on 1 April 2005: 
Average annual EPS growth: percentage of performance share award 
that vests
< RPI + 15 per cent: None
RPI + 15 per cent (i.e. 45 per cent over three years): 15
RPI + 30 per cent or more (i.e. 90 per cent over three years): 100
Between the above points: Pro rata between 15 and 100
This condition has been met in full.
The market price on date of award was 291.5 pence. The award price 
was 290.90 pence being the average of the middle market quotations 
for an SSL share derived from the Official List of the UKLA for the five
consecutive dealing days immediately preceding the date of award.
2. The vesting of this award is subject to the following earnings per share
growth over a period of three years commencing on 1 April 2006: 
Average annual EPS growth: percentage of performance share award 
that vests
< RPI + 10 per cent: None
RPI + 10 per cent (i.e. 30 per cent over three years): 15
RPI + 20 per cent or more (i.e. 60 per cent over three years): 100
Between the above points: Pro rata between 15 and 100
The market price on date of award was 279.5 pence. The award price was
282. 1 pence being the average of the middle market quotations for an SSL
share derived from the Official List of the UKLA for the five consecutive
dealing days immediately preceding the date of award.
3. The vesting of this award is subject to the following combination of
earnings per share growth and economic value added over a period 
of three years commencing on 1 April 2007 . 
Earnings per share growth for one-third of the number of shares subject
to the award: 
Average annual EPS growth: percentage of performance share award 
that vests
Below RPI + 7 per cent: None
RPI + 7 per cent (i.e. 21 per cent over three years): 5
RPI + 12 per cent (i.e. 36 per cent over three years: 16.7
RPI + 17 per cent (i.e. 51 per cent over three years): 33.3
Between the above points: Pro rata between 5 and 33.3
Economic Value Added (‘EVA’) for two-thirds of the number of shares
subject to the award:
Aggregate EVA: percentage of performance share award that vests
Below £90 million: None
£90 million: 10
£100 million: 33.3
£110 million: 66.7
Between the above points: Pro rata between 10 and 66.7
The market price on date of award was 427 .25 pence. The award price was
428.7 pence being the average of the middle market quotations for an SSL
share derived from the Official List of the UKLA for the five consecutive
dealing days immediately preceding the date of award.
Performance graph
The graph shows the Company’s T otal Shareholder Return performance
compared with that of the FTSE 350 Index. This index was selected as an
appropriate comparator index because it is a broad equity market index, of
which SSL is a constituent.
Peter Read
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
19 May 2008
350
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
T otal shareholder return (£) FTSE 350 Index
SSL International
Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08
This graph looks at the value, by 31 March 2008, of £100 invested in SSL International 
on 31 March 2003 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 350 Index. 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Source: Thompson Financial 46 Governance 
• Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the
Group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are
required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs
as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the
parent company financial statements in accordance with UK accounting
standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) . 
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted
by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group;
the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that
references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true
and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation. 
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements,
the Directors are required to: 
—select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
—make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
—for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
—for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial
statements; and 
—prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will
continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of
the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have general responsibility for
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets 
of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible
for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ Remuneration report and Corporate
governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual
financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
—the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set 
of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
—the Directors’ report, Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review 
and Performance review includes a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
M. Moran
Director 
G. Watts
Director
19 May 2008
Statement of Directors’
responsibilities in respect 
of the Annual Report and 
the Financial statements  47
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements
and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity 
or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. 
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
—the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 March 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended; 
—the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; 
—the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state 
of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2008;
—the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited, have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
—the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial
statements.
KPMG Audit Plc 
Chartered Accountants 
Registered Auditor 
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
19 May 2008
Independent auditors’ 
report to the members 
of SSL International plc 
We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements
(the ‘financial statements’) of SSL International plc for the year ended 
31 March 2008 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the
Consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the Consolidated
statement of cash flows, the Consolidated statement of recognised income
and expense and the related notes. These financial statements have been
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited
the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as
having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has
been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those
matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no 
other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, 
and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors’
remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting
Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 46. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant 
legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give 
a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in
our opinion, the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with
the financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ report includes
that information presented in the Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s
review and performance review that is cross referenced from the Business
review section of the Directors’ report. 
In addition,we report to you if , in our opinion, the Company has not kept
proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether
the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or 
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements. We
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. 
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.  ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
2008 2008 2008 2007
One-off charges Before
T otal Note 2 one-off charges Total
Note £m £m £m £m
Revenue 6 533.9 — 533.9 480 .2
Cost of sales (250.9) (37.2) (213.7) (195.7)
Gross profit/(loss) 283.0 (37.2) 320.2 284.5
Distribution expenses (164.7) (1.4) (163.3) (144.9)
Administrative expenses (91.5) (2.7) (88.8) (85.3)
Operating profit/(loss) 6,2 26.8 (41.3) 68.1 54.3
Financial income 3 11.4 — 11.4 12.0
Financial expenses 3 (27.3) (5.2) (22.1) (21.2)
Net financing costs 3 (15.9) (5.2) (10.7) (9.2)
Share of profit of associates, net of tax 9 — — — 1.8
Profit/(loss) before taxation 10.9 (46.5) 57.4 46.9
Income tax (expense)/income 4 (11.8) 4.3 (16.1) (13.1)
(Loss)/profit for the financial year 6 (0.9) (42.2) 41.3 33.8
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (2.9) 32.5
Minority interest 19 2.0 1.3
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (0.9) 33.8
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (pence) 5 (1.5) 17.1
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (pence) 5 (1.5) 17.0
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 48
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2008 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
49
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 7 66.4 62.8 
Goodwill and intangible assets 8 117.9 99.2 
Deferred tax assets 4 30.3 31.7 
Investments 9 1.0 — 
Other receivables 11 2.6 2.7 
T otal non-current assets 218.2 196.4 
Inventories 10 91.5 84.5 
T rade and other receivables 11 175.9 147.1 
Current tax asset 1.1 1.0 
Cash and cash equivalents 12 44.6 40.3 
T otal current assets 313.1 272.9 
T otal assets 531.3 469.3 
Liabilities
T rade and other payables 13 (138.0) (117.4) 
Financial liabilities 15 (142.8) (55.4) 
Provisions 16 (26.0) (3.0) 
Current tax payable 14 (5.0) (5.6) 
T otal current liabilities (311.8) (181.4) 
Financial liabilities 15 (0.8) (73.9) 
Deferred tax liabilities 4 (9.9) (8.6) 
Employee benefits 17 (53.7) (69.4) 
Provisions 16 (10.2) (10.1) 
T ax payable 14 (18.8) (18.7) 
Other payables 13 (0.8) (0.8) 
T otal non-current liabilities (94.2) (181.5) 
T otal liabilities (406.0) (362.9) 
Net assets 125.3 106.4 
Equity
Issued capital 19 19.1 19.0 
Share premium and merger reserve 19 180.8 180.0 
Cumulative foreign exchange reserve 19 20.8 (1.0) 
Cash flow hedge reserve 19 (0.7) — 
Retained earnings 19 (106.2) (100.4) 
T otal equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 113.8 97.6 
Minority interest 19 11.5 8.8 
T otal equity 125.3 106.4 
The financial statements on pages 48 to 95 were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
M. Moran 
Director
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 March 2008 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 50
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Actuarial gains on defined benefit plans 17 11.2 17.4
Restriction of defined benefit plan surplus 17 (2.7) —
Effective portion of cash flow hedges transferred to cash flow hedge reserve (0.7) —
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 3 21.8 (5.5)
T axation on gains and losses recognised directly in equity 4 (1.8) (5.9)
Income and expense recognised directly in equity 27.8 6.0
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (0.9) 33.8
T otal recognised income and expense for the year 19 26.9 39.8
Attributable to:
—Equity holders of the parent 19 24.9 38.5
—Minority interest 19 2.0 1.3
26.9 39.8
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31 March 2008 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities:
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (0.9) 33.8 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 7 6.5 10.2 
Amortisation of intangibles 8 2.3 0.9 
Impairment of goodwill 8 — 2.0 
Share-based payment charge 18 3.4 2.3 
Interest income 3 (11.4) (12.0) 
Interest expense (before one-off charges) 3 22.1 21.2 
Share of profit of associate 9 — (1.8) 
One-off charges 46.5 — 
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 1.4 
T otal income tax expense 4 11.8 13.1 
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions 80.5 71.1 
Increase in trade and other receivables (8.8) (8.5) 
Decrease in inventories 1.0 0.5 
Increase in trade and other payables 12.2 5.2 
Decrease in provisions and employee benefits (32.0) (18.9) 
Cash generated from the operations 52.9 49.4 
Interest paid (11.8) (8.9) 
Income taxes paid (10.9) (6.0) 
Dividend paid to minority interests 19 — (0.2) 
Net cash from operating activities 30.2 34.3 
Cash flows from investing activities:
Proceeds from sale of plant and equipment 0.2 0.1 
Interest received 0.9 0.8 
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (7.6) (5.5) 
Acquisition of investment 9 (1.0) —
Acquisition of intangible assets (1.6) (2.9) 
Acquisition of business/subsidiary 8,9 (15.3) (13.6) 
Payment of deferred consideration — (0.8) 
Net cash from investing activities (24.4) (21.9) 
Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from issue of share capital 19 0.9 1.7 
New drawdowns on bank loans 80.4 15.0 
Repayments of loan notes (67.4) (8.3) 
Payment of finance lease liabilities 21 (0.3) (0.7) 
Dividends 20 (13.3) (12.4) 
Net cash from financing activities 0.3 (4.7) 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 6.1 7.7 
Cash and cash equivalents, and bank overdraft at start of year 27.1 20.8 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 21 0.5 (1.4) 
Cash and cash equivalents, and bank overdraft at end of year 12 33.7 27.1
51
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2008 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 52
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1. Group accounting policies
In the financial statements and related notes, the term ‘Company’ 
refers to SSL International plc, a company incorporated in the UK; the Group
financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries
(together referred to as the ‘Group’ or ‘SSL’) and equity account the Group’s
interest in associates.
(a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern
basis, in pounds Sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand and 
are prepared on a historical cost basis, modified to include revaluation to 
fair value of certain financial instruments as described below. The Group
financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted
by the EU (‘Adopted IFRS’). The Company has elected to prepare its parent
company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP, these are
presented on pages 88 to 94. The accounting policies set out below have
been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered
material in relation to the financial statements, except as noted below.
In these financial statements the following new standards have been
adopted for the first time.
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’: the disclosure requirements
detailed in this standard have been included in the notes to the consolidated
financial statements; adoption of this standard has not necessitated any
changes to accounting policy nor had any impact upon the results or net
assets of the Group. Further information on financial instruments is provided
in notes 15, 22 and 23.
IFRIC 8 ‘Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment’: the interpretation
provides guidance on accounting for share-based payment transactions
when the fair value of the identifiable goods or services received is less than
the fair value of the share-based payment. Adoption of this standard had no
impact on the results or net assets of the Group.
IFRIC 9 ‘Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: the interpretation
states that reassessment of whether an embedded derivative should be
separated from the underlying host contract should be made only when
there are changes to the contract. Adoption of this standard had no impact
on the results or net assets of the Group.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: ‘Group and T reasury Share T ransactions’: the instrument
provides guidance on whether specific transactions should be accounted 
for as equity-settled or as cash-settled and accounting for share-based
payment arrangements involving two or more entities in the same group.
Adoption of this standard had no impact upon the results or net assets of 
the Group.
SSL’s management considers the following to be the most important
accounting policies in the context of the Group’s operations.
(b) Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of
the Company, entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) and the
Group’s share of interests in associates.
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when 
the Group has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the financial
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated
financial information from the date control commences until the date that
control ceases.
Where the reporting date of the subsidiary undertaking differs from 
that of the Group, the Group’s share of results included in the consolidated
income statement is based on rolled forward information which coincides
with the Group’s reporting date.
Associates
An associate is an undertaking in which the Group has a long-term interest,
usually from 20 per cent to 50 per cent of the equity voting rights, over 
which it has the power to exert significant influence, but not control over the
financial and operating policy decisions. The Group’s share of results of its
associates is included in the consolidated income statement on the equity
accounting basis from the date that significant influence commences until
the date that significant influence ceases. The holding value of associates in
the Group’s balance sheet is calculated by reference to the Group’s cost of
investment plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net
assets of the entity less any impairment in value. The carrying value of
investments in associates includes any acquired goodwill.
Where the reporting date of the associated undertaking differs from 
that of the Group, the Group’s share of results included in the consolidated
income statement is based on rolled forward information which coincides
with the Group’s reporting date.
T ransactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income 
and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in
preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising
from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the entity. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same
way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence 
of impairment.
(c) Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application 
of the accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing
basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in
which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation
uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that 
have the most significant effect on the amount recognised in the financial
statements are described in the following notes:
Note 4 — Income tax expense
Note 8 — Intangible assets
Note 15 — Financial liabilities
Note 16 — Provisions for liabilities
Note 17 — Post-retirement benefits
Note 18 — Employee costs and share option plans for employees
(d) Revenue
Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable, being 
the value of goods provided during the year net of trade discounts, cash
discounts, retrospective and other rebates, value added and sales taxes.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised upon transfer to the customer
of significant risks and rewards of ownership. Generally this will be when
goods are dispatched to the customer. Credit note reserves are provided at
each period end to account for management estimates of customer returns
and are deducted from revenue. Any returns in excess of the amount
provided would also be deducted from revenue.
(e) Business combinations and goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and
businesses, representing any excess of the fair value of the consideration given
over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities
acquired, is capitalised and is subject to impairment review annually, and when
there is any indication that the carrying value may not be recoverable. ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
53
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired since
1 March 1998, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after
charging the carrying value of any related goodwill. 
Prior to transition to IFRS, goodwill was amortised in line with UK GAAP.
On transition to IFRS, the goodwill balance was frozen.
The Group’s policy up to and including the year ended 28 February 1998
was to write off goodwill arising upon acquisition against reserves. Under IFRS 1
and IFRS 3 such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves and will not
form part of any subsequent profit/loss on disposal.
(f) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets that are acquired, which can be separately identified
and the cost of which can be measured reliably, are capitalised and
amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives
subject to any recognised impairment in value, usually between 3—20 years.
In determining the useful economic life each asset is reviewed separately
and consideration given to the period over which the Group expects to derive
economic benefit from the asset. The useful economic life for significant
assets is reviewed annually.
Where an asset is deemed to have an indefinite useful economic life it is
not amortised but is, instead, subject to annual impairment review to ensure
the carrying value of the asset is supportable.
(g) Impairment
Financial assets
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine
whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset 
is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more
events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that
asset. All impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-financial assets
The carrying value of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than
inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date 
to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such
indication exists then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For
goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite lives, the recoverable
amount is estimated at each reporting date.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or 
its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. A cash-generating
unit is the smallest identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that
largely are independent from other assets and groups. Impairment losses 
are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of
cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying value of any
goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of 
the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro rata basis.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the
greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value
in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of
other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at
each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no
longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in
estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is
reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed
the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation
or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(h) Property, plant and equipment
Property , plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated
depreciation and any recognised impairment in value. Depreciation is
provided to write property, plant and equipment down to a residual value
over their estimated useful economic lives on a straight-line basis at the
following annual rates:
Freehold land — No depreciation is charged on freehold land
Freehold and leasehold buildings — 2 per cent of cost or over the life of the
lease if less than 50 years
Motor vehicles — 25 per cent of cost
Plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings — 7 per cent to 25 per cent of cost
Assets under the course of construction — No depreciation is charged on
assets under the course of construction
The residual value and estimated useful economic life for significant
property, plant and equipment is reassessed annually.
(i) Leases
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks
and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. All other leases 
are accounted for as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included within
property, plant and equipment at the lower of fair value and the present value
of minimum lease payments. Each asset is depreciated over the shorter of
the lease term or the asset’s useful life.
The obligations related to finance leases, net of finance lease charges in
respect of future periods, are included within financial liabilities. The interest
element of the rental agreement is charged to the income statement over
the term of the lease to reflect a constant rate of interest on the outstanding
capital amount payable.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the income
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives
are spread over the term of the lease.
( j) Foreign currency transactions
T ransactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective
functional currencies of Group entities using the rate of exchange ruling at
the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the
balance sheet date and the foreign exchange arising is taken to the income
statement.
Financial statements of foreign operations
Income statements of foreign operations are translated into Sterling 
at the average rate applicable to the respective accounting period as an
approximation of the rate at the date the transactions took place. 
Assets and liabilities, including goodwill, of foreign operations are
translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Gains
or losses on translations of foreign operations are included as a movement
on the cumulative foreign exchange reserve. On a subsequent disposal such
gains or losses will form part of the profit/loss on disposal within the income
statement. Gains and losses prior to adoption of IFRS are deemed to be nil.
Net investment in foreign operations
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net
investment in a foreign operation, that is determined to be an effective
hedge, is included as a movement in the cumulative foreign exchange
reserve. On a subsequent disposal such gains or losses will form part of 
the profit/loss on disposal within the income statement. Any ineffective
portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 54
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
1. Group accounting policies continued
(k) Post-retirement benefits
Defined contribution plans
Obligations for defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense
in the income statement when they are due.
Defined benefit plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans 
is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future
benefits that employees have earned in return for their service in the current
and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value,
and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets
are deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA
credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of 
the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary
using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a
benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any
unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds
from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased
benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised in the income
statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits
become vested. T o the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the
expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
(l) Employee benefits
Share-based payment transactions
The Group operates a number of employee share schemes. The fair
value of employee share options granted is recognised as an employee
expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured
at grant date, using an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the
terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted. These 
will include both performance and service conditions. The resulting cost 
is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the options. 
At each balance sheet date the cumulative charge in respect of each option
plan is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share
appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is recognised as an expense,
with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period in which the
employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The liability is
remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. Any changes in
the fair value are recognised within the income statement as a personnel
expense.
For options granted before 7 November 2002 the recognition and
measurement principles of IFRS 2 have not been applied in accordance with
the transitional provisions in IFRS 1. Any cost in relation to these options is
expensed to the income statement as incurred.
Overseas termination benefits
The Group’s net obligation in respect of termination benefits other than
pension plans is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in
return for their service in current and prior periods, that benefit is discounted
to determine the present value, and the fair value of any related asset is
deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit-
rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s
obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the
projected unit credit method. Any actuarial gains or losses are recognised
directly in equity immediately.
(m) Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it is
incurred. Development expenditure is capitalised only if development 
costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially
feasible, future economic benefits are probable, and the Group intends to
and has sufficient resources to complete development and to sell the asset.
Other development expenditure is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
(n) Cash equivalents
Cash equivalents are current asset investments, which are disposable
without curtailing or disrupting the business, and are either readily convertible
into known amounts of cash, at, or close to their carrying values or traded in
an active market. Cash equivalents comprise short-term bank deposits of
less than three months (other than cash).
(o) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In
determining the cost of raw materials, consumables and goods for resale, 
the FIFO method is used, and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring 
the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition. 
For work in progress and finished goods, cost is taken as production cost
which includes an appropriate proportion of overheads based upon normal
operating capacity.
Net realisable value is determined as estimated selling price less all
estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling
and distribution.
(p) Grant income
Revenue grants are recognised in the income statement as a reduction
in the related expense.
Capital grants are shown in deferred income within the balance sheet
and released to match the depreciation charge on the associated asset.
(q) Income tax
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is
recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to
items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the
year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method,
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for
taxation purposes. The amount of deferred tax provided is based upon the
expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying values of the
assets or liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences:
the intitial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a
business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit,
and differences relating to investments and subsidiaries to the extent that it
is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. In addition,
deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on
the initial recognition of goodwill.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be
utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part 
of the asset to be realised. ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
55
(r) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a
present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, which can
be measured reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits
will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the
risks specific to the liability.
(s) Financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments (derivatives) to hedge
its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational,
financing and investment activities. The Group does not hold or issue
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated
at fair value. The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined
by reference to discounted cash flows or option valuation models. Where
derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on
remeasurement are immediately recognised in the Income Statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant
gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item
being hedged. The effectiveness of hedges is tested at each period end to
ensure that the hedge remains effective.
Interest-bearing borrowings are initially stated at fair value less
attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-
bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between
cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over
the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Fair value hedging
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when
they hedge the Group’s exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised
asset or liability. Any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument 
is recognised immediately in the Income Statement within financing costs.
Any change in the fair value of the hedged item, attributable to the hedged
risk, is adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged item and recognised
immediately in the Income Statement within financing costs.
Cash flow hedging
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges 
when they hedge the Group’s exposure to variability in cash flows that is
attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability. 
Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument designated
as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in equity to the extent that the
hedge is effective. T o the extent the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value
are recognised in profit or loss.
Discontinuance of hedge accounting
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge
accounting, expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised, then hedge accounting
is discontinued prospectively . The cumulative gain or loss previously
recognised in equity remains there until the forecast transaction occurs. When
the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is
transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when it is recognised. In other
cases the amount recognised in equity is transferred to profit or loss in the
same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
(t) T reasury shares
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of
the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as
a change in equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and
presented as a deduction from total equity.
(u) Investments 
Investments in equity securities held by the Group are classified as
available for sale financial assets and are stated at fair value. Where there is
no active market for unlisted shares held, the investment is held at cost and
subject to annual impairment testing.
Accounting standards issued but not adopted
IFRS 8: ‘Operating segments’ is effective for accounting periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2009. The standard specifies how an entity
should report information about its operating segments in annual financial
statements, and sets out requirements for related disclosures about products
and services, geographical areas and major customers. Adoption of this
standard will have no impact upon the results or net assets of the Group. ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
2. Operating profit
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Operating profit (before one-off charges) 68.1 54.3 
One-off charges — European Supply Chain restructuring (see below) (41.3) — 
Operating profit 26.8 54.3 
Charges included above
—for depreciation on owned assets 7 6.4 10.1
—for depreciation on leased assets 7 0.1 0.1
—for amortisation of intangibles 8 2.3 0.9
—for impairment of goodwill 8 — 2.0
Research costs 10.2 8.8
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 1.4
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses in profit or loss (excluding financial instruments) (5.4) (0.7)
Fees payable to KPMG and its associates
—audit of these financial statements 0.2 0.2 
—audit of financial statements of subsidiaries 0.5 0.5 
—other services relating to taxation 0.2 0.3 
—all other services 0.1 — 
T otal fees payable to KPMG and its associates 1.0 1.0 
Fees payable to other audit firms 0.2 0.1 
Amounts paid to the Company’s auditor in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Company’s financial statements, have not been
disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
One-off charges — European Supply Chain restructuring
On 27 September 2007 , the Group publicly announced its decision to close the Spain manufacturing plant, and transfer production to India and Thailand,
and to close the T echnical Services Centre in Cambridge, with its activities transferred to the technical centres at Peterlee, Thailand and India. The Group also
committed to restructuring the Footwear Development Group. Operations in Spain and Cambridge had ceased by 31 March 2008; the key uncertainties in
relation to these sites is the timing and final cost of addressing the surplus freehold and leasehold properties on these sites, for which provisions remain at 
31 March 2008 (transferred to the surplus property provision), and the potential transfer of plant at the Rubi site to other manufacturing facilities in China, 
for which Chinese Government approval is required. The restructuring of the Footwear Development Group has been completed.
On 28 February 2008, the Group announced its decision to close the Guernsey manufacturing facility, with production to be transferred to the Peterlee
facility or to third-party suppliers; production at Guernsey is anticipated to cease during the calendar year 2008. Again, the key uncertainty relating to this
closure is the timing and final cost of disposing of the surplus freehold and leasehold property on the site.
A total provision of £41.3 million was made with regards to these restructuring projects, relating to redundancies, fixed asset write-offs and other closure 
and restructuring costs; the remaining provision at the balance sheet date, after transfer of surplus property amounts to the surplus property provision, is
£22.4 million. Cash outflows of £14.4 million have occurred as at 31 March 2008, and of the £22.4 million provision remaining, £14.9 million of cash outflows
are anticipated. It is expected that the majority of cash outflows will occur in the forthcoming 12 months, although, as noted above, there is some uncertainty
regarding the period of time in which the Group’s obligations in relation to surplus property can be discharged.
In addition to the £41.3 million operational restructuring costs, there were one-off financial expenses of £5.2 million as detailed in note 3.
Financial statements 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008 56
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
3. Financial income and expense
Recognised in profit or loss
2008 2007
Note £m £m 
Financial income
Bank and deposit interest 0.9 0.8 
Expected return on pension scheme assets 17 10.5 9.4 
Change in fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss — 1.8 
11.4 12.0 
Financial expense
Bank loans and overdraft (6.3) (2.7) 
Loan notes (3.4) (6.0) 
Finance leases — (0.1) 
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 17 (12.4) (12.4) 
(22.1) (21.2) 
One-off financial expense * (5.2) — 
(27.3) (21.2) 
Net financing costs recognised in profit or loss (15.9) (9.2) 
* Finance charges of £5.2 million relate to penalties and charges arising on the early repayment of loan notes and early settlement of related derivative balances in October 2007 following the
announcement of the European Supply Chain restructuring programme.
Recognised directly in equity
2008 2007
£m £m 
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations 21.8 (5.5) 
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (0.7) — 
Net finance income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 21.1 (5.5)
4. Income tax expense
T axation recognised in the income statement is as follows:
Before 2008 2007
one-off One-off
charges charges Total Total
£m £m £m £m
Current tax expense
Current year corporation tax (6.1) 2.1 (4.0) (3.9) 
Overseas taxation (7.8) 1.4 (6.4) (5.5) 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.2) — (0.2) 1.8 
(14.1) 3.5 (10.6) (7.6) 
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (1.6) 0.8 (0.8) (6.7) 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.4) — (0.4) 1.2 
(2.0) 0.8 (1.2) (5.5) 
T otal income tax expense in the income statement (16.1) 4.3 (11.8) (13.1) 
The effective tax rate for the period is 28 per cent on the profit before one-off charges and tax and income from associates (2007: 29 per cent). The total
charge of £11.8 million (2007: £13.1 million) includes a credit of £4.3 million relating to the one-off charges (2007: £nil). Included within the overseas taxation 
is a benefit of £1.2 million arising from previously unrecognised deferred tax assets (2007: £0.5 million).
Deferred tax charged to the income statement in the year arises principally in respect of the origination and reversal of temporary differences. No deferred
tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates as the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group and no tax is
expected to be payable on earnings in the forseeable future.
The UK standard rate of corporation tax is 28 per cent from 1 April 2008. The effect of this is a reduction in the UK deferred tax asset of £0.8 million (the total
effect on the Group of changes in tax rates is £0.6 million).
The phased abolition of Industrial Building Allowances in the UK is anticipated to be enacted in the 2008 Finance Act. The expected effect of this will be to
increase the deferred tax liability provided on accelerated capital allowances as at 31 March 2008 by approximately £1 million.
57 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
4. Income tax expense continued
Amounts taken to the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense are analysed as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m 
Current tax
T ax on foreign exchange gains and losses 0.7 — 
Deferred tax
T ax movements in respect of defined benefit pension liability (2.5) (5.9) 
(1.8) (5.9) 
Amounts recognised directly in equity are analysed as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m 
T ax movements in respect of employee costs and share option plans for employees 0.3 0.6 
Factors affecting future tax charges
The Group’s future tax charge depends on the levels and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions, and the tax rates applied to those profits. The table
below reconciles the current tax charge that would result from applying the UK rate of corporation tax to the Group’s total profit before tax and associates 
to the total income tax charge.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2008 2007
£m £m 
Profit before tax 10.9 46.9 
Share of profits of associates net of taxation — (1.8) 
T otal profit before tax 10.9 45.1 
Notional taxation charge at UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2007: 30%) 3.3 13.5 
Non-deductible expenses and income not taxable 4.7 0.5 
Overseas losses not deductible 7.3 1.7 
Elimination of intra-Group profit (2.3) 1.0 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 (3.0) 
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (0.8) (0.2) 
Overseas losses not previously recognised (1.2) (0.5) 
Current year overseas tax losses utilised in prior periods (0.5) — 
T ax effect of change in tax rates 0.6 — 
Other — 0.1 
11.8 13.1 
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 58
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
Balance sheet 
Deferred taxation asset/(liability) movement 
The amounts of deferred taxation accounted for in the Group balance sheet and the movements therein comprised the following deferred tax liabilities 
and assets:
Balance at Recognised Recognised Exchange Balance at
1 April 2007 in income in equity differences 31 March 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated capital allowances 4.8 1.3 — — 6.1 
Deferred capital gains 3.8 — — — 3.8 
8.6 1.3 — — 9.9 
Deferred tax assets
Defined benefit pension schemes 19.6 (3.2) (2.5) — 13.9 
Capital losses carried forward 3.8 — — — 3.8 
Share-based payments 2.1 0.6 0.3 — 3.0 
Intra-group profits in stock 2.8 2.4 — — 5.2 
Other short-term timing differences 3.4 0.4 — 0.6 4.4 
31.7 0.2 (2.2) 0.6 30.3 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unused income tax losses of £176.6 million (2007: £173.6 million), and unused capital losses of
£142.0 million (2007: £149.4 million).The increase in income tax losses in the year of £3.0 million is explained by a foreign currency retranslation difference 
of £4.8 million on losses carried forward at 2007 , net of a decrease in losses carried forward of £1.8 million.
It is probable that future taxable profit will not be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits therefrom. Included in the losses are US income
tax losses of USD 120 million (2007: USD 103 million) which are unlikely to be available for use due to the change of ownership restrictions.
£44.9 million (2007: £43.6 million) of the income tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely. The remaining losses held in overseas entities may expire
over periods of up to 20 years.
5. (Loss)/earnings per £0. 10 ordinary share
(Loss)/earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the (loss)/profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary
shares in issue during the year.
The (loss)/profit attributable to ordinary shareholders is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m 
(Loss)/profit for the year: (2.9) 32.5 
For basic (loss)/earnings per share (2.9) 32.5 
The profit before one-off charges for adjusted EPS (disclosed in the Chairman’s statement and the Performance review of the annual report), is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the year as reported (2.9) 32.5 
Add back net impact of one-off charges 42.2 — 
Profit before one-off charges for adjusted EPS 39.3 32.5 
The calculation of diluted earnings per share uses basic earnings as defined above, and the basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during
the period, adjusted as follows:
2008 2007
W eighted average number of shares (millions) :
Number of ordinary shares at start of year 190.2 189.9 
Effect of shares issued in the year — share options exercised 0.4 0.3 
For basic and adjusted earnings per share 190.6 190.2 
Dilutive effect of share options 1.8 0.7 
For diluted earnings per share 192.4 190.9 
The dilutive effect of share options is only considered when a loss is made to the extent that the dilutive effect increases the loss per share. The diluted loss
per share for the year ended 31 March 2008 is therefore equal to the basic loss per share.
59 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
6. Segment information
Segment information is presented in the consolidated financial statements in respect of the Group’s geographical segments, which, by location of assets, 
are the primary basis for reporting. The geographical segment reporting format reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting structure.
Intra-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s-length basis.
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Geographical segments
The Group is comprised of the following main geographical segments:
—United Kingdom and Continental Europe
—Americas
—Asia Pacific and Rest of the World
Continental Europe includes sales offices and manufacturing units within any countries within the European continent.
Americas includes sales offices within any countries within the North and South American continents.
Asia Pacific and the Rest of the World includes sales offices and manufacturing units within any countries that are not within the European, North American
and South American continents.
Geographical segments  
2008 2008 2007 2007
By location By location By location By location
of assets of customers of assets of customers
£m £m £m £m
Segment revenue
External
—United Kingdom and Continental Europe 407.2 398.2 371.6 357.8 
—Americas 32.6 29.9 29.9 30.5 
—Asia Pacific and Rest of the World 94.1 105.8 78.7 91.9 
533.9 533.9 480.2 480.2 
Intra-segment 
—United Kingdom and Continental Europe 168.0 170.9 
—Americas — —
—Asia Pacific and Rest of the World 30.2 37.3 
— Eliminations (198.2) (208.2)
T otal revenue 533.9 533.9 480.2 480.2 
Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2008 includes £1.8 million from the Vasyli business acquired in November 2007 (see note 8), £0.5 million in the United
Kingdom and Continental Europe and £1.3 million in Asia Pacific (2007: £2.5 million relating to the acquisition of the former associate in China). The revenue
of the Vasyli business for the period from 1 April 2007 until the date of acquisition is not available as financial information was not regularly compiled by the
vendors on a consolidated basis pre-acquisition.
Financial statements 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008 60
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
2008 2007
£m £m
Segment result
— United Kingdom and Continental Europe 46.5 43.9 
— Americas 1.1 (1.9) 
— Asia Pacific and Rest of the World 20.5 12.3 
Consolidated segment result (before one-off charges) 68.1 54.3 
One-off charges 
# 
— charged to operating profit (41.3) — 
Consolidated operating profit 26.8 54.3 
Consolidated segment result
Share of profit of associates* — 1.8 
Net financing costs — before one-off charges (10.7) (9.2) 
Net financing costs — one-off charges (5.2) — 
Income tax — before one-off charges (16.1) (13.1) 
Income tax — one-off charges 4.3 — 
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (0.9) 33.8 
#
One-off charges relate to the United Kingdom and Continental Europe geographical segment.
* Share of profit of associates relates wholly to operations based in the Asia Pacific and Rest of the World geographical segment.
Operating profit for the year ended 31 March 2008 includes £0.6 million from the Vasyli business acquired in November 2007 , £0.2 million in the United
Kingdom and Continental Europe and £0.4 million in Asia Pacific (2007: £1.4 million relating to the acquisition of the former associate in China). The operating
profit of the Vasyli business for the period from 1 April 2007 until the date of acquisition is not available as financial information was not regularly compiled by
the vendors on a consolidated basis pre-acquisition.
2008 2008 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m
Property, plant Intangible Property, plant Intangible
and equipment amortisation and and equipment amortisation and
depreciation impairment depreciation impairment
Segment non-cash expenditure
— United Kingdom and Continental Europe 4.6 2.3 8.9 2.9 
— Americas 0.1 — 0.1 — 
— Asia Pacific and Rest of the World 1.8 — 1.2 — 
6.5 2.3 10.2 2.9 
There was no other significant non-cash expenditure of the Group.
61 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
6. Segment information continued
Geographical segments  
2008 2008 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m
Property, plant Property, plant
and equipment Intangible and equipment Intangible
additions additions additions additions
Segment additions
— United Kingdom and Continental Europe 2.7 18.5 3.4 3.3 
— Americas —— —— 
— Asia Pacific and Rest of the World 4.9 — 2.6 17.2 
7.6 18.5 6.0 20.5 
2008 2007
£m £m
Segment assets
— United Kingdom and Continental Europe 403.7 355.8 
— Americas 11.0 10.8 
— Asia Pacific and Rest of the World 85.2 70.0 
— Unallocated assets 31.4 32.7 
531.3 469.3 
Segment liabilities
— United Kingdom and Continental Europe (343.6) (308.1) 
— Americas (6.2) (6.6) 
— Asia Pacific and Rest of the World (22.5) (15.3) 
— Unallocated liabilities (33.7) (32.9) 
(406.0) (362.9)  
Consolidated net assets 125.3 106.4 
Business segments
Business segments are the Group’s secondary basis of reporting. The business segments reported reflect the Group’s internal management reporting format.
2008 2007
£m £m
Segment revenue
External
— Branded condoms, lubricants and devices 217.7 187.1 
— Footwear 76.1 66.8 
— Footcare 113.6 100.0 
— Locally owned brands 71.4 72.3 
— Other consumer 43.5 41.8 
— Third-party supply 11.6 12.2 
T otal continuing revenue 533.9 480.2 
2008 2008 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m
Segment Capital Segment Capital
assets expenditure assets expenditure
External
— Branded condoms, lubricants and devices 185.3 3.1 131.7 2.7 
— Footwear 46.0 1.1 45.2 0.3 
— Footcare 88.3 1.6 80.4 1.4 
— Locally owned brands 80.7 1.0 71.9 1.2 
— Other consumer 21.0 0.6 17.9 0.3 
— Third-party supply 12.3 0.2 14.9 0.1 
433.6 7.6 362.0 6.0 
— Unallocated, including taxation assets 97.7 — 107.3 — 
T otal 531.3 7.6 469.3 6.0
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 62
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
7 . Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment and
buildings motor vehicles Total
£m £m £m 
Cost 
At 1 April 2006 36.7 136.3 173.0 
Additions 0.6 5.4 6.0 
Acquisition of former associate — 1.1 1.1 
Disposals (0.4) (9.7) (10.1) 
Exchange adjustments (0.6) (2.3) (2.9) 
At 31 March 2007 and 1 April 2007 36.3 130.8 167.1 
Additions 1.4 6.2 7.6 
Disposals (0.1) (34.8) (34.9) 
Exchange adjustments 1.2 7.6 8.8 
At 31 March 2008 38.8 109.8 148.6 
Depreciation and impairment 
At 1 April 2006 5.6 97.5 103.1 
Charge for the year 0.9 9.3 10.2 
Disposals (0.2) (6.9) (7.1) 
Exchange adjustments (0.2) (1.7) (1.9) 
At 31 March 2007 and 1 April 2007 6.1 98.2 104.3 
Charge for the year 0.9 5.6 6.5 
Disposals — (34.6) (34.6) 
Exchange adjustments 0.3 5.7 6.0
At 31 March 2008 7.3 74.9 82.2 
Carrying amounts 
At 1 April 2006 31.1 38.8 69.9 
At 31 March 2007 and 1 April 2007 30.2 32.6 62.8 
At 31 March 2008 31.5 34.9 66.4 
Capital expenditure on plant, equipment and motor vehicles in the year of £6.2 million comprised £0. 1 million of capitalised finance leases (2007: £0.2 million).
Included within plant, equipment and motor vehicles are assets held under finance lease with a net book value of £0.2 million (2007: £0.2 million). 
The carrying value of temporarily idle plant at the year end is £nil (2007: £nil). 
Group assets held under course of construction total £1.6 million (2007: £1.4 million) of which £1.6 million (2007: £1.1 million) is included in plant, equipment
and motor vehicles.
As units are transferred onto SAP, fully written down assets are removed from the system. This is the main driver of the high level of disposals during the year.
The remainder of assets held under construction is £nil (2007: £0.3 million). The net book value of land and buildings is analysed as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m 
Freeholds 14.8 13.8 
Leasehold improvements 16.5 16.2 
Long leasehold 0.2 0.2 
31.5 30.2 
The charge for depreciation for the year is recognised as follows in the income statement: 
2008 2007
£m £m 
Cost of sales 3.2 4.7 
Distribution expenses 0.1 0.1 
Administrative expenses 3.2 5.4 
6.5 10.2
63 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
8. Intangible assets
Goodwill Scholl brand Other Total
£m £m £m £m 
Cost 
At 1 April 2006 22.1 60.3 33.4 115.8 
Additions — — 3.3 3.3 
Goodwill arising on acquisition of former associate 17.2 — — 17.2 
Exchange adjustments 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) 
At 31 March 2007 and 1 April 2007 39.4 60.2 36.6 136.2 
Additions 12.8 — 5.7 18.5 
Exchange adjustments 2.3 0.6 1.2 4.1 
At 31 March 2008 54.5 60.8 43.5 158.8 
Amortisation and impairment losses 
At 1 April 2006 9.2 — 24.9 34.1 
Charge for the year — — 0.9 0.9 
Impairment charge 2.0 — — 2.0 
At 31 March 2007 and 1 April 2007 11.2 — 25.8 37.0 
Charge for the year — — 2.3 2.3 
Exchange adjustments 0.8 — 0.8 1.6 
At 31 March 2008 12.0 — 28.9 40.9 
Carrying amounts 
At 1 April 2006 12.9 60.3 8.5 81.7 
At 31 March 2007 28.2 60.2 10.8 99.2 
At 31 March 2008 42.5 60.8 14.6 117.9 
Amortisation and impairment charges are recognised within administrative expenses within the income statement. The impairment charge in the prior year
related to the impairment of goodwill relating to the Remegel locally owned brand, following a review of the recoverable amount, based on discounted future
cash flows expected to be generated from continued use of the brand. The key assumptions used in the review were that future revenue would decline by 
8.8 per cent per annum, and operating margins by 2 per cent per annum. Results were projected forwards for 12 years and discounted to present value using
risk adjusted discount factor of 6.8 per cent.
For the purposes of impairment testing of goodwill, the Group is regarded as several cash-generating units, one for each component of goodwill recognised
at the balance sheet date, and one for all other consumer products. The cash-generating units’ recoverable amounts are based on value in use using
projections of the Group’s performance over 10—15 years, periods reflecting the Directors’ best estimates of the cash flows. Risk adjusted discount factors 
of 6.8 per cent—7 .8 per cent have been applied to the projections.
Material assets 
Scholl brand 
The Scholl brand, with a carrying value of £60.8 million at 31 March 2008, is not amortised. The brand has been tested for impairment using the method
described below. No charge for impairment was required in the year.
For the purposes of impairment testing of the Scholl brand, the Group is regarded as two cash-generating units, that part relating to Scholl branded products
and that relating to all other consumer products. The Scholl brand’s recoverable amount was determined by discounting future cash flows expected to be
generated from continuing use of the brand using the following key assumptions:
— cash flows for year one were based upon budgeted operating results
— revenue growth was anticipated at 2 per cent per annum and operating results held at a constant percentage of revenue for a further period of nine years.
This is in line with experience in prior years
— operating results were then held at the year ten figures into perpetuity reflecting the Directors’ assertion that the brand has an indefinite useful economic
life based upon its proven value over long periods and its position in the market which is considered sustainable for the foreseeable future
— a risk adjusted discount factor of 6.8 per cent was applied to the projections
For the Scholl brand to be be impaired, with all other assumptions held constant, the risk adjusted discount factor would need to increase to 22 per cent
before the brand’s value in use calculation showed any impairment. Removing the revenue growth from the expected cash flows would decrease the
valuation by £25 million, however the brand would still show no impairment. A decrease in the operating margin percentage by one percentage point would
reduce the valuation by £34 million, however the brand would still show no impairment. 
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 64
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
Goodwill arising on acquisition of Qingdao London Durex Company Limited ‘China Goodwill’ 
Goodwill of £17 .2 million arose on the acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent of the ordinary share capital of Qingdao London Durex Company Limited in
January 2007 as detailed in note 9.
For the purposes of impairment testing of the China Goodwill, Qingdao London Durex Company Limited was identified as a single cash-generating unit. 
The recoverable amount was determined by discounting future cash flows expected to be generated from continuing use of the goodwill using the following
key assumptions:
— cash flows for year one were based upon budgeted operating results
— revenue growth was anticipated at 3 per cent per annum and operating results held at a constant percentage of revenue for a further period of nine years 
— operating results were then held at the year ten figures into perpetuity reflecting the expected maintenance of the position in the market
— a risk adjusted discount factor of 7 .8 per cent was applied to the projections
For the China Goodwill to be be impaired, with all other assumptions held constant, the risk adjusted discount factor would need to increase to 60 per cent
before the value in use calculation showed any impairment. Removing the revenue growth from the expected cash flows would decrease the valuation by
£26 million, however the goodwill would still show no impairment. A decrease in the operating margin percentage by one percentage point would reduce the
valuation by £1.7 million, however the goodwill would still show no impairment. 
Vasyli goodwill 
An impairment review has been performed at 31 March 2008 in relation to the goodwill of £12.8 million arising on the acquisition of the Vasyli business in
November 2007 (see below). The Vasyli business, encompassing consumer sales of the Orthaheel, Orthastyle, Vasyli and VAS brands across the Group 
was identified as a single cash-generating unit. The recoverable amount was determined by discounting future cash flows expected to be generated from
continuing use of the goodwill using the following key assumptions:
— cash flows for year one were based upon budgeted operating results
— revenue growth was anticipated at 3 per cent per annum for the first 10 years, nil thereafter, and operating results held at a constant percentage of revenue
— operating results were then held at the year 10 figures for a further 10 years reflecting the current expected useful life of the goodwill and related brands
— a risk adjusted discount factor of 7 .8 per cent was applied to the projections
For the Vasyli goodwill to be be impaired, with all other assumptions held constant, the risk adjusted discount factor would need to increase to 27 per cent
before the value in use calculation showed any impairment. Removing the revenue growth from the expected cash flows would decrease the valuation by
£7 .4 million, however the goodwill would still show no impairment. A decrease in the operating margin percentage by one percentage point would reduce the
valuation by £0.8 million, however the goodwill would still show no impairment. 
The remaining goodwill is made up of a number of balances, none of which are significant, with a total net book value of £12.5 million. Impairment reviews have
been performed in respect of all balances held.
Other intangible assets comprise a number of non-material cash-generating units.
Business combination
On 7 November 2007 , the Group acquired the business and certain business assets of Vasyli Australia Pty Ltd, Vasyli (NZ) Limited, and Vasyli UK Limited
(together ‘Vasyli’), in Europe and Asia, the main assets being the Orthaheel, Orthastyle, Vasyli and VAS brands. The initial cash consideration was 
AUS$32.9 million; the total consideration could increase to AUS$74.9 million if certain sales growth targets are attained, with the balance payable in 
June 2010. Further detail of the contingent consideration recognised is provided in note 16. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase 
method of accounting.
Book value Fair value
£m £m
Net assets acquired
Brands and related Intellectual Property rights — 2.8
Customer relationships — 0.8
Inventories 0.3 0.3
Goodwill — 12.8
T otal consideration 0.3 16.7
Satisfied by:
Cash 14.9
Contingent consideration 1.4
Directly attributable costs 0.4
16.7
65 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
8. Intangible assets continued
Recognition of intangible assets
Intangible assets were not separately identified or recorded in the underlying records of the acquired business. On acquisition, the Group identified several
intangible assets, including the brand names acquired and their related Intellectual Property rights, and customer relationships. T wo patents were also acquired
as part of the business assets, although they relate to only two countries, have relatively short expiry periods and relate to relatively old technology; their fair
value is therefore calculated as £nil. The brand and intellectual property rights are being amortised over 20 years and the customer relationships over a
period of between three and five years.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Vasyli business is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the distribution of the Vasyli products in new
markets using the Group’s existing distribution channels, for example, across the rest of Europe and Asia, and the expected future operating synergies arising
from the integration of the Vasyli business with that of Scholl footcare. The goodwill will be subject to annual impairment reviews.
The Vasyli businesses contributed £1.8 million revenue and £0.6 million to the Group’s profit before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and the
balance sheet date. It is not practicable to disclose what the contribution to Group revenue and profits would have been had the acquisition been completed
on 1 April 2007 , as the vendors did not prepare consolidated financial information for the aspects of the business acquired by the Group.
9 . Investments
Investment in former associate
Equity accounted shares
£m 
Cost 
At 1 April 2006 2.0 
Acquisition of former associate * (2.0) 
At 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2008 — 
Share of post-acquisition reserves less losses 
At 1 April 2006 0.5 
Retained profits less losses 1.8 
Dividends (2.0) 
Exchange adjustments (0.2) 
Acquisition of former associate* (0.1) 
At 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2008 — 
Balance sheet value at 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2008 — 
Balance sheet value at 1 April 2006 2.5 
* In January 2007 , the Group acquired the remaining 50 per cent of the ordinary share capital of Qingdao London Durex Company Limited, incorporated in The Peoples’ Republic of China, 
bringing the Group’s total interest in that company to 100 per cent. There are no investments in associates at 31 March 2008.
The acquisition had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities at the acquisition date: 
Recognised
Pre acquisition Fair value value on
carrying amounts adjustments acquisition
£m £m £m 
Property, plant and equipment 1.1 — 1.1 
Inventories 0.9 — 0.9 
Cash and cash equivalents 5.6 — 5.6 
T rade and other payables (3.5) — (3.5) 
Current tax payable — — 
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 4.1 — 4.1 
Less amounts recognised as share of asssociate prior to acquisition (2.1) 
Goodwill on acquisition (note 8) 17.2 
Consideration paid, satisfied in cash* 19.2 
Less cash acquired (5.6) 
Net cash outflow 13.6 
* Includes legal fees of £0.1 million 
The excess of fair value of consideration over the fair value of the assets acquired was attributed wholly to goodwill as the Group supplies the brand and
know-how to the business and existing customer relationships were terminated as part of the sale and purchase agreement. 
Financial statements 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008 66
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
The goodwill acquired represents the benefits of securing control of the financial and operating policies of the business. This is expected to lead to increased
profits as a result of the establishment of new distributor relationships at higher margins to those achieved previously and the opportunity to establish the
Scholl brand alongside Durex in this key market. In time the acquisition will also provide synergies to the Group’s manufacturing cost base by providing
additional condom manufacturing capacity to support the Group supply chain. The Group has not recognised as part of the acquisition an asset in relation 
to the Durex brand as the Group already owned the brand worldwide prior to the acquisition. 
Other investments 
Non-current investments
2008 2007
£m £m 
Available-for-sale financial assets 1.0 — 
The Group holds a strategic non-controlling interest of 11 per cent in Sirius Global Solutions Limited, which is classified as a financial asset available for sale.
Sirius Global Solutions Limited is an unquoted entity, therefore fair value of the shareholding cannot be readily ascertained; the investment is therefore held
at initial cost and subject to annual impairment review.
10. Inventories
2008 2007
£m £m 
Raw materials and consumables 9.6 10.7 
Stocks and work in progress 6.7 5.5 
Finished goods and goods for resale 75.2 68.3 
At end of year 91.5 84.5 
T otal gross inventories 101.6 93.5 
Inventory provision (10.1) (9.0) 
91.5 84.5 
Analysis of inventory provision movements in the year: 
At beginning of year (9.0) (8.1) 
Income statement charge (4.5) (5.4) 
Amounts utilised 4.2 4.1 
Exchange movements (0.8) 0.4 
At end of year (10.1) (9.0) 
The amount of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales amounted to £195.6 million (2007: £177 .7 million).
67 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
11 . T rade and other receivables
2008 2007
£m £m 
Current 
Gross trade receivables 160.7 137.8 
Less: allowance for impairment (5.8) (3.9) 
154.9 133.9 
Amount owed by associated undertakings — 0.1 
Other prepayments and accrued income 9.0 6.2 
Other receivables 11.5 6.6 
Derivative financial assets 0.5 0.3 
175.9 147.1 
Non-current
Other receivables 2.6 2.7 
178.5 149.8 
Allowance for impairment 
At beginning of year (3.9) (6.6) 
Income statement charge (2.4) (2.1) 
Amounts released in the year 0.1 0.7 
Amounts utilised and other movements 0.9 3.6 
Exchange movements (0.5) 0.5 
At end of year (5.8) (3.9) 
Current trade and other receivables include amounts due to be settled in Sterling , Euros, US Dollars, Chinese Renminbi and other currencies. Non-current
receivables relate to Sterling amounts due. 
The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks are disclosed in note 22. 
12 . Cash and cash equivalents 
2008 2007
Note £m £m 
Cash at bank 42.5 37.5 
Short-term deposits 2.1 2.8 
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet 44.6 40.3 
Overdrafts 15 (10.9) (13.2) 
Cash and cash equivalents per cash flow statement 33.7 27.1
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. The carrying
amount of these assets approximates their fair value. 
Financial statements 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008 68
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
13 . T rade and other payables
2008 2007
£m £m 
Current
T rade payables 71.1 52.5 
Value added taxes, payroll taxes and social security 5.8 3.7 
Other payables and accruals 61.1 61.2 
138.0 117.4 
Non-current  
Other payables 0.8 0.8 
Current trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for
trade purchases is 121 days (2007: 98 days). For the majority of suppliers, no interest is charged on the trade payables; the Group has financial risk management
policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame. Current payables include amounts due to be settled in Sterling , Euros, US Dollars,
Thai Baht, Malaysian Ringgit, Chinese Renminbi and other currencies. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to
their fair value.
The Group’s exposure to currency risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 22.
14. Tax payable
T ax payable represents the amount of income tax payable in respect of current and prior periods. £5.0 million (2007: £ 5.6 million) is expected to be paid
within the next 12 months. £18.8 million (2007: £18.7 million) is expected to be payable after more than 12 months. 
15. Financial liabilities
2008 2007
£m £m 
Current liabilities 
Overdrafts and unsecured facilities 10.9 13.2 
Bank loans 131.8 37.3 
Loan notes — 3.1 
Obligations under finance leases 0.1 0.2 
Forward contract derivatives — 0.3 
Interest rate and currency swaps — 1.3 
142.8 55.4 
Non-current liabilities  
Bank loans — 0.2 
Loan notes — 64.1 
Obligations under finance leases — 0.1 
Interest rate and currency swaps 0.8 9.5 
0.8 73.9 
T otal financial liabilities 143.6 129.3 
69 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
15 . Financial liabilities continued
T erms and debt repayment schedule 
31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Nominal Face Carrying Face Carrying
interest Year of value amount value amount
Currency rate maturity £m £m £m £m  
Overdrafts EUR 0% 2008 0.3 0.3 — — 
Overdrafts EUR 4.50% On demand 9.5 9.5 10.7 10.7 
Overdrafts GBP 5.92—6.0% On demand 1.1 1.1 2.1 2.1 
Overdrafts JPY 2.65% On demand — — 0.4 0.4 
Current liabilities: overdrafts and unsecured facilities 10.9 10.9 13.2 13.2 
Group facility: Sterling drawdown GBP 6.08% 2007 — — 30.0 30.0 
Group facility: Japanese Y en drawdown JPY 1.22% 2007 — — 3.9 3.9 
Group facility: Sterling drawdown GBP 6.21—6.29% 2008 99.0 99.0 — — 
Group facility: Sterling drawdown GBP 6.32% 2009 10.0 10.0 — — 
Group facility: Euro drawdown EUR 4.89% 2008 9.4 9.4 — — 
Group facility: Japanese Y en drawdown JPY 1.53% 2008 4.6 4.6 — — 
Italy loan (unsecured) EUR 4.77% 2008 8.8 8.8 3.4 3.4 
Current liabilities: bank loans 131.8 131.8 37.3 37.3 
Unsecured non-current loan EUR 0% 2008 — — 0.2 0.2 
Loan notes (unsecured) USD 8.02%—8.19% 2009 — — 61.3 61.3 
Loan notes (unsecured) GBP 7.87% 2014 — — 5.9 5.9 
T otal loan notes — — 67.2 67.2 
Finance lease liabilities THB 2.61—8.75% 2008—2010 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 
T otal interest-bearing liabilities 142.8 142.8 118.2 118.2 
The financial instruments disclosures in note 23 detail the fair value hedge relationships between the Group’s fixed rate loans and interest rate swaps, and
cash flow hedge relationships between the Group’s variable rate loans and interest rate swaps.
The principal features of the Group’s borrowings are as follows:
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. Overdrafts and facilities of £10.9 million (2007: £13.2 millon) are unsecured. The average effective interest rate 
on bank overdraft approximates 4.7 per cent (2007: 6 per cent) per annum.
The Group has the following bank facilities:
— A syndicated Group facility of £220 million available until January 2012, of which £123 million (2007: £33.9 million) had been drawn down at 31 March 2008.
Drawdowns can be made for periods of one, two, three or six months, or any other mutually-agreed term; interest rates are set at the corresponding LIBOR
plus 50 basis points at the time of the drawdown.
— SSL Healthcare Italia SpA has fixed rate unsecured loans of £8.8 million which are rolled forward every three months .
— Various overdraft facilities across the Group, including a UK facility of £7 .5 million (net).
Undrawn borrowing facilities 
At 31 March 2008, the Group had available £97 million (2007: £216.1 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions
precedent had been met.
Loan notes, interest rate and currency swaps held as a fair value hedge 
The following table shows the carrying values of loan notes, interest rate and currency swaps forming part of a fair value hedge relationship under IFRS.
2008 2007
£m £m 
Loan notes: US$ 8.02 per cent guaranteed — 8.1 
Currency swap: US$ 8.02 per cent loan notes to Euro 6.09 per cent fixed rate borrowing — 1.8 
Interest rate swap: Euro 6.09 per cent fixed rate to Euro variable rate borrowing — (0.2) 
— 9.7 
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 70
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
The loan notes, interest rate and currency swaps held as a fair value hedge are carried at fair value under IFRS. The hedge was in place to reduce exposure to
exchange rate fluctuations.
The notional amount of the US$ 8.02 per cent guaranteed loan notes at 31 March 2007 was US$15.2 million. The US$ 8.02 per cent loan notes were issued in
November 1999, were repayable in six further equal instalments maturing in November 2009, and were not secured on any assets of the Group. The loan notes
were repaid early in October 2007 , and the related swaps cancelled. Finance charges of £5.2 million relating to the change in the carrying amount of all loan
notes and related derivative balances on notification of the early repayment of the loan notes have been recognised in the year.
The notional amount and payment terms of loan notes and swaps were equal. The hedge effectiveness, tested semi-annually, was effective during the 
period up until repayment in providing a hedge against fair value adjustments relating to interest rate changes. The fair value charge in the year arising from
movements in interest rates was £nil (2007: £1.8 million credit).
Other loan notes, interest rate and currency swaps 
2008 2007
£m £m 
Loan notes: Sterling 7 .87 per cent guaranteed — 5.9 
Loan notes: US$ 8. 19 per cent guaranteed — 53.2 
Currency swap: US$ 8. 19 per cent loan notes to Sterling 7 .69 per cent fixed rate borrowing — 9.2 
— 68.3 
The Sterling 7 .87 per cent and US$ 8.19 per cent guaranteed loan notes were held at amortised cost retranslated at spot rates. The currency swap was held at
fair value at 31 March 2007 .
The notional amount of the Sterling 7 .87 per cent loan notes at 31 March 2007 was £5.9 million; the notional amount of the US$ 8.19 per cent loan notes at 
31 March 2007 was US$104.2 million. The Sterling loan notes were issued in November 1999, and were repayable in full, in November 2014. The US$ loan notes
were issued in November 1999, and were repayable in full, in November 2009. The loan notes were not secured on any assets of the Group. As noted above,
all loan notes were repaid in October 2007 .
The fair value of the 7 .87 per cent guaranteed loan notes, held at amortised cost, at 31 March 2007 was £6.2 million. The fair value of the 8.19 per cent loan
notes also held at cost at 31 March 2007 was £56.1 million.
The notional amount and payment terms of loan notes and swaps were equal. The loans and swaps do not constitute a fair value hedge, consequently the
Group was exposed to fair value changes from interest rate movements in the US$ and Sterling. These fair value changes resulted in a credit of £1.8 million 
in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2007 . The Group’s exposure to fair value changes is considered further in note 23. As noted above, 
the loan notes and related swaps were cancelled in October 2007 .
Bank loans and interest rate swaps held as a cash flow hedge 
2008 2007
£m £m 
£60 million Sterling drawdown on Group facility at 1 month LIBOR (6.26—6.29 per cent) 60.0 — 
Interest rate swaps: three month LIBOR to fixed 5.46 per cent 0.8 — 
Interest rate basis swaps: three month LIBOR to 1 month LIBOR (0.1) — 
60.7 — 
The £60 million drawdowns on the Group facility designated as part of the cash flow hedge relationship are for periods of one month, repayable in April 2008,
and therefore are held at notional value which is deemed equivalent to fair value. The interest rate swaps are held at fair value. Changes in fair value totalling
£0.7 million have been charged directly to equity in relation to fair value movements in the interest rate swaps during the year ended 31 March 2008.
Bank loans held as a net investment hedge
The Japanese Yen drawdown on the Group facility of £4.6 million (2007: £3.9 million) is designated as a net investment hedge of the Group’s investment 
in subsidiaries denominated in Japanese Yen.
Obligations under finance leases 
Finance lease liabilities are secured on the assets to which they relate. The average lease term outstanding is one year. For the year ended 31 March 2008, the
average effective borrowing rate was 7 .12 per cent (2007: 7 .70 per cent). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. The lease obligations are denominated in
Thai Baht and Sterling, and the fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying value.
71 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
15. Financial liabilities continued
Loan maturities
2008 2007
£m £m 
Bank loans and overdraft
Bank loans or instalments thereof are repayable: 
From 1—2 years — 0.2 
T otal due after more than one year — 0.2 
T otal due within one year 142.7 50.5 
142.7 50.7 
Loan notes
Loan note or instalments thereof are repayable: 
After 5 years from the balance sheet date — 5.9 
From 3—4 years — — 
From 2—3 years — 55.5 
From 1—2 years — 2.7 
T otal due after more than one year — 64.1 
T otal due within one year — 3.1 
— 67.2 
Obligations under finance lease (see also note 24) 
Obligations under finance lease or instalments thereof are repayable: 
From 1—2 years — 0.1 
T otal due after more than one year — 0.1 
T otal due within one year 0.1 0.2 
0.1 0.3 
Forward contract derivatives
Forward contract derivatives are repayable: 
T otal due within one year — 0.3 
— 0.3 
Interest rate and currency swaps
Interest rate and currency swaps or instalments thereof are repayable: 
From 2—3 years 0.8 8.4 
From 1—2 years — 1.1 
T otal due after more than one year 0.8 9.5 
T otal due within one year — 1.3 
0.8 10.8 
T otal financial liabilities
Balances or instalments thereof are repayable: 
After 5 years from the balance sheet date — 5.9 
From 2—3 years 0.8 63.9 
From 1—2 years — 4.1 
T otal due after more than one year 0.8 73.9 
T otal due within one year 142.8 55.4
T otal financial liabilities 143.6 129.3 
The aggregate amount of debt any instalment of which falls due after 5 years is £nil (2007: £5.9 million). 
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 72
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
16. Provisions for liabilities
Overseas Group and European
termination Manufacturing commercial Supply Chain Contingent
benefits Disposals restructuring restructuring restructuring Other consideration Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2006 2.6 7.6 8.5 2.4 — 4.8 — 25.9 
T ransferred from creditors due after more than one year* 1.3 — — — — — — 1.3 
Provisions made during the year 0.4 — — — — — — 0.4 
Provisions used during the year (0.3) (6.1) (4.7) (2.0) — (1.2) — (14.3) 
Provisions transferred during the year — — (3.4) — — 3.4 — — 
Exchange and other movements (0.1) — — (0.1) — — — (0.2) 
At 31 March 2007 3.9 1.5 0.4 0.3 — 7.0 — 13.1 
Provisions made during the year — — — — 46.5 — 1.4 47.9 
Provisions used during the year (0.1) (1.1) (0.3) (0.1) (19.8) (1.4) — (22.8) 
Provisions transferred during the year — (0.4) (0.1) (0.2) (2.6) 3.3 — — 
Exchange and other movements 0.1 — — — (1.7) (0.5) 0.1 (2.0) 
At 31 March 2008 3.9 — — — 22.4 8.4 1.5 36.2 
Current — — — — 22.4 3.6 — 26.0 
Non-current 3.9 — — — — 4.8 1.5 10.2 
3.9 — — — 22.4 8.4 1.5 36.2 
* Amounts payable to third-party sales agents upon termination of their contract were reclassified during the prior year from payables due after more than one year to provisions to reflect the
nature of the liability. 
Overseas termination benefits 
Included with overseas termination benefits is an amount of £3.0 million (2007: £2.8 million) for termination benefits payable to employees in a number 
of overseas subsidiaries. Benefits accrue with service and are payable to employees upon departure from the Group regardless of the reason for such
departure. Benefits may be calculated with reference to an average salary over the service life of the employee or the final salary of the employee.
Differences arising due to changes in assumptions in calculating the liability for employees are taken through reserves and are included above within
exchange and other movements. The main assumptions underlying the calculation (on a weighted average basis across the various schemes) are salary
increases of 2.0 per cent, an inflation rate of 2.0 per cent and a discount rate of 3.0 per cent. The calculation of the provision is determined by contractual
obligation and therefore can be estimated reliably. No terminations are expected in the forthcoming year.
Provision is also made for termination payments which may be required for sales agents. At the year end an amount of £1.0 million was provided 
(2007: £1.1 million). The amount provided is based upon payments which would be required under collective agreements to sales agents upon termination 
of their contracts by the Group. Increase and decreases in the provision, aside from utilisation, are reflected within the income statement.
Disposals 
Following the Group’s disposal of the medical business, in 2004 and 2005, a number of disposal provisions were created for the ongoing commitments of 
the Group in respect of the disposals. The Group has utilised the majority of these provisions during the current year, with the residual balance transferred
into environmental provisions included within the ‘other’ category.
Manufacturing restructuring 
During 2005 the Group announced its decision to close the Derby manufacturing plant and transfer production to India. This process has been completed
during the current financial year. £3.4 million, which relates to a provision for a non-cancellable lease for the Derby site, was reclassified into surplus property
within ‘other’ during the prior year. 
Group and commercial restructuring 
The Group has completed its previous rationalisation and restructuring of commercial operations during the current financial year.
73 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
16. Provisions for liabilities continued
European Supply Chain restructuring 
During the current financial year, as part of the European Supply Chain restructuring detailed in note 2, provisions of £41.3 million were made in relation to the
closure of the manufacturing facilities at Rubi (Spain) and Guernsey, the closure of the T echnical Services Centre in Cambridge, and the restructuring of the
Footwear Development Group. Following the announcement of phase 1 of this restructuring programme in September 2007 , a provision of £5.2 million was
recorded in relation to the early repayment of loan notes and settlement of related derivatives, giving a total provision created in the year of £46.5 million.
Surplus property provisions in relation to the closure of these sites of £2.6 million have been transferred to the surplus property provision within the ‘other’
provision. It is anticipated that all of the remaining European Supply Chain restructuring provision will be utilised within the financial year 2008/09. The key
uncertainties regarding the provision are in relation to the potential transfer of plant at the Rubi site to other manufacturing facilities in China, for which
Chinese Government approval is required.
Other 
Other provisions relate to a number of pre-merger environmental provisions of £1.2 million and surplus property provisions of £7 .2 million.
Environmental provisions are provided for to the extent that a present obligation exists, it is probable such costs will be incurred and they can be estimated
reliably. No provision is made for possible additional costs that are not currently probable. 
The surplus property provision relates to Group commitments under non-cancellable leases which, following historical restructuring exercises, are no longer
used by the Group. The obligation, net of expected rental income, has been provided for.
Surplus property and environmental costs of £4.8 million have been included as non-current. It is expected that all other provisions will be utilised during the
next financial year. 
Contingent consideration 
Contingent consideration of £1.5 million releates to the acquisition of the Vasyli business as detailed in note 8, which is payable in June 2010. The
consideration is contingent upon the level of Orthaheel-branded sales achieved across the Group in the year ended 31 March 2010, and is capped at 
£19.4 million. The amount recognised within provisions at 31 March 2008 is the amount which is considered probable to be paid, based on detailed budgets
for 2008/09 and forecast growth for 2009/10. There are inherent uncertainties in deriving sales forecasts, as the Group has limited data and experience 
on which to estimate growth in existing Orthaheel markets, and Orthaheel products are to be launched in new markets in 2008/09. The level of contingent
consideration will be reassessed at each reporting date to reflect revisions to forecasts or differences betweeen budget and actual sales performance.
17. Post-retirement benefits
The Group continues to operate both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans in the UK and overseas. All UK defined benefit schemes are
closed to new entrants.
UK Pensions
(a) Defined contribution schemes
Since 1995, the Group has operated a contracted-in defined contribution scheme which is open to UK employees. It also operates defined contribution
executive pension plans for senior executives. Employer contributions are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The total pension cost for the Group in respect of UK defined contribution schemes was £1.3 million (2007: £1.4 million).
(b) Defined benefit schemes
The Group continues to operate a number of defined benefit schemes following the mergers of Seton Healthcare Group plc and Scholl PLC to form Seton
Scholl in 1998, and the subsequent merger of Seton Scholl and London International Group Limited (LIG) in 1999. All UK schemes have been closed to new
entrants. The finances of all schemes are assessed regularly by independent actuaries and all assets of the schemes are held in separate trustee administered
funds. The schemes have provided benefits for employees as outlined below:
(i) Seton
Prior to 1995, the Group operated a defined benefit scheme for employees. Accrual of further service-related benefits under this scheme ceased in 
August 1995, but existing benefits at that date are being maintained. The latest valuation of the scheme was at 5 April 2006. The Group expects to make
contributions of £0.5 million into the scheme during the next financial year.
Financial statements 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008 74
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
(ii) Scholl
Accrual of further service related benefits under this defined benefit scheme ceased in August 2000, but benefits accrued to 31 August 2000 continue 
to be provided from the scheme. The most recent valuation by independent actuaries was at 5 April 2006. The Group expects to make contributions 
of £0.6 million into the scheme during the next financial year.
(iii) LIG
Accrual of further service-related benefits under this defined benefit scheme ceased in January 2001, but benefits accrued to 31 January 2001 continue to
be provided from the scheme. The latest actuarial valuation of the scheme was at 31 March 2006. The Group expects to make contributions of £8.2 million
into the scheme during the next financial year.
Overseas pensions and similar obligations
The Group has a number of pension schemes in different countries, both defined benefit and defined contribution. Defined benefit schemes are set up
under separate trust funds and liabilities are generally assessed annually in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries. The total pension cost 
for the Group in respect of overseas defined contribution schemes was £2.2 million (2007: £1.9 million). Details of the material overseas defined benefit
schemes are given below. The most recent valuation for each scheme, as at the dates disclosed above, were updated for IAS 19 purposes to 31 March 2008
by independent qualified actuaries.
The principal assumptions used by the actuaries in determining the present value of the liabilities were:
2008 
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas
Rate of increase in salaries 4.50% 4.50% 4.50% 3.60%
Pensions increases per annum 3.40% — — 2.00%
— Pensions accrued to 6 April 1997 Closed section — 3.00% — —
Open section — 2.60% — —
— Pensions accrued from 6 April 1997 Closed section — 3.70% — —
Open section — 3.40% — —
— Pre April 1997 — — 2.40% —
— Post April 1997 — — 3.40% —
Discount rate applied to scheme liabilities 6.50% 6.50% 6.50% 6.00%
Inflation assumption 3.50% 3.50% 3.50% 2.90%
2007
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas
Rate of increase in salaries 4.00% 4.00% 4.00% 4.00%
Pensions increases per annum 3.00% — — 3.00%
— Pensions accrued to 6 April 1997 Closed section — 3.00% — —
Open section — 2.25% — —
— Pensions accrued from 6 April 1997 Closed section — 3.25% — —
Open section — 3.00% — —
— Pre April 1997 — — 2.10% —
— Post April 1997 — — 3.00% —
Discount rate applied to scheme liabilities 5.40% 5.40% 5.40% 4.75%
Inflation assumption 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% 3.00%
For the UK schemes, the mortality assumption was updated in 2007 to reflect the experience analysis conducted as part of the most recent UK scheme
valuations as at 5 April 2006. The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in mortality. The assumed life expectancy for 
a 65-year-old male retiring in the current period is 20.1 years (2007: 20.0 years) and for a male retiring in 20 years at age 65 life expectancy is 21.2 years 
(2007: 21.1 years). The rate of return on government and corporate bonds is the yield rate at each year end date for long-dated bonds. The rate for cash 
is the same as that for government bonds. The equity rate of return is derived by adding a risk adjustment factor to the government bond rate. 
The rate for insurance contracts reflects the yield rate at the balance sheet date.
75 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
17. Post-retirement benefits continued
The assets in the schemes as at 31 March 2008, 2007 , 2006 and 2005 were:
2008
Long-term
rate of return Seton Scholl LIG Overseas T otal
for forthcoming year £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 7.70% 7.8 11.8 62.9 0.4 82.9 
Corporate bonds 5.50% 1.5 1.1 15.5 0.3 18.4 
Insurance contracts 5.60% — — — 8.2 8.2 
Government bonds 4.50% 6.1 12.1 36.6 — 54.8 
Cash and other 4.50% — 1.0 0.8 — 1.8 
T otal market value 15.4 26.0 115.8 8.9 166.1 
Present value of scheme liabilities (16.6) (23.3) (164.5) (12.7) (217.1)
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme (1.2) 2.7 (48.7) (3.8) (51.0)
Write down of surplus to recoverable amount — (2.7) — — (2.7)
Deficit recognised in the balance sheet (1.2) — (48.7) (3.8) (53.7)
2007
Long-term
rate of return Seton Scholl LIG Overseas T otal
for forthcoming year £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 7.80% 8.1 16.1 62.8 0.4 87.4 
Corporate bonds 5.00% 1.5 1.0 11.2 0.2 13.9 
Insurance contracts 4.75% — — — 6.8 6.8 
Government bonds 4.50% 5.9 8.0 43.1 — 57.0 
Cash and other 4.50% — 1.0 1.2 — 2.2 
T otal market value 15.5 26.1 118.3 7.4 167.3 
Present value of scheme liabilities (18.4) (26.2) (181.0) (11.1) (236.7)
Deficit in the scheme (2.9) (0.1) (62.7) (3.7) (69.4)
2006
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
T otal market value of scheme assets 15.4 25.4 114.4 6.8 162.0 
Present value of scheme liabilities (19.7) (29.5) (194.8) (9.5) (253.5)
Deficit in the scheme (4.3) (4.1) (80.4) (2.7) (91.5)
2005
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
T otal market value of scheme assets 14.1 21.8 95.8 6.2 137.9 
Present value of scheme liabilities (17.7) (25.8) (167.8) (9.0) (220.3)
Deficit in the scheme (3.6) (4.0) (72.0) (2.8) (82.4)
Of the closing deficit in 2008, £2.5 million (2007: £2.2 million) is in relation to unfunded schemes. The remaining deficit is in relation to funded schemes.
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 76
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
Movement in post-retirement scheme obligations
2008 2007
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas Seton Scholl LIG Overseas 
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Present value of obligation at beginning of year (18.4) (26.2) (181.0) (11.1) (19.7) (29.5) (194.8) (9.5) 
Current service cost — — — (0.4) — — — (0.1) 
Benefits paid 0.8 1.5 7.7 0.2 0.8 1.2 7.8 0.4 
Other finance income/(expense) (1.0) (1.4) (9.6) (0.4) (1.0) (1.4) (9.5) (0.5) 
Actuarial gain/(loss) 2.0 2.8 18.4 0.5 1.5 3.5 15.5 (1.7) 
Foreign exchange — — — (1.5) — — — 0.3 
Present value of obligation at end of year (16.6) (23.3) (164.5) (12.7) (18.4) (26.2) (181.0) (11.1)
Current service costs are recognised within the income statement within administrative expenses.
Fair value of scheme assets
2008 2007
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas Seton Scholl LIG Overseas 
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At beginning of year 15.5 26.1 118.3 7.4 15.4 25.4 114.4 6.8 
Contributions paid by the employer 0.5 0.6 8.2 0.5 0.2 0.5 6.6 0.3 
Expected return on scheme assets 1.0 1.7 7.4 0.4 0.9 1.5 6.7 0.3 
Benefits paid (0.8) (1.5) (7.7) (0.2) (0.8) (1.2) (7.8) (0.2) 
Actuarial (loss)/gain (0.8) (0.9) (10.4) (0.4) (0.2) (0.1) (1.6) 0.5 
Foreign exchange — — — 1.2 — — — (0.3) 
At end of year 15.4 26.0 115.8 8.9 15.5 26.1 118.3 7.4 
Analysis of amounts included in financing costs
2008 2007
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas Seton Scholl LIG Overseas 
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Expected return on pension scheme assets 1.0 1.7 7.4 0.4 0.9 1.5 6.7 0.3 
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (1.0) (1.4) (9.6) (0.4) (1.0) (1.4) (9.5) (0.5)
— 0.3 (2.2) — (0.1) 0.1 (2.8) (0.2)
Analysis of amount recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense
2008 2007
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas Seton Scholl LIG Overseas 
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets (0.8) (0.9) (10.4) (0.4) (0.2) (0.1) (1.6) 0.5 
Experience gain/(loss) arising on scheme liabilities — — (1.8) — (0.3) (0.2) 1.1 — 
Changes in assumptions underlying the present 
value of scheme liabilities 2.0 2.8 20.2 0.5 1.8 3.7 14.4 (1.7) 
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the SORIE 1.2 1.9 8.0 0.1 1.3 3.4 13.9 (1.2)
Restriction of defined benefit plan surplus — (2.7) — — — — — — 
T otal amounts recognised in the SORIE 1.2 (0.8) 8.0 0.1 1.3 3.4 13.9 (1.2)
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity are as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
As at 1 April (17.7) (35.1)
Net actuarial gains recognised in the year 11.2 17.4
(6.5) (17.7) As at 31 March
The actual return on scheme assets is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
(2.0) 8.0 Actual return on scheme assets
77 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
17. Post-retirement benefits continued
History of experience gains and losses
2008
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas 
£m £m £m £m
Difference between expected return and actual return on scheme assets
— Amount (£m) (0.8) (0.9) (10.4) (0.4 )
— Percentage of year end scheme assets (5)% (3)% (9)% (4 ) %
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities
— Amount (£m) — — (1.8) — 
— Percentage of year end scheme present value of scheme liabilities 0% 0% 1% 0%
2007
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas 
£m £m £m £m
Difference between expected return and actual return on scheme assets
— Amount (£m) (0.2) (0.1) (1.6) 0.5 
— Percentage of year end scheme assets (1)% 0% (1)% 7%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities
— Amount (£m) 1.8 3.7 15.5 (1.7) 
— Percentage of year end scheme present value of scheme liabilities (10)% (14)% (9)% 15%
2006
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas 
£m £m £m £m
Difference between expected return and actual return on scheme assets
— Amount (£m) 1.8 2.7 12.4 — 
— Percentage of year end scheme assets 13% 12% 13% 0%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities
— Amount (£m) (2.6) (3.3) (24.2) (0.5) 
— Percentage of year end scheme present value of scheme liabilities 15% 13% 14% 6%
2005
Seton Scholl LIG Overseas 
£m £m £m £m
Difference between expected return and actual return on scheme assets
— Amount (£m) 0.6 1.0 1.9 0.1 
— Percentage of year end scheme assets 4% 5% 2% 2%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities
— Amount (£m) (1.7) (1.7) (15.8) (1.0) 
— Percentage of year end scheme present value of scheme liabilities 10% 7% 9% 11%
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 78
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
18. Employee costs and share option plans for employees
Employee costs
The average number of people employed by the Group is set out in the table below. In accordance with Companies Act 1985, this includes 
part-time employees. 
2008 2007
no. no.
Employees
Average number of people employed by the Group in:
— United Kingdom and Continental Europe 1,948 1,963 
— Americas 50 48 
— Asia Pacific and Rest of the World 3,352 3,087
5,350 5,098 
The total number of people employed by the Group at the end of the year was 5,350 (2007: 5,286).
The costs incurred during the year in respect of the continuing business employees were:
2008 2007
£m £m
Wages and salaries 80.4 75.3 
Social security costs 11.9 10.7 
Other pension and health insurance costs 5.7 5.2 
98.0 91.2 
Severance costs of £17 .3 million (2007: £1 million) are not included in the above.
Full details of Directors’ remuneration, shares and options are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 39 to 45.
The Directors believe that, together with the basic salary system, the Group’s employee incentive schemes provide competitive market-related packages to
motivate employees. They should also align the interests of employees with those of shareholders, as a whole, through long-term share ownership of the Company .
Group annual bonus scheme
This scheme is a performance bonus scheme for Directors and senior employees within the UK and overseas. Annual bonuses are paid in cash and reflect
both corporate and individual performance measures. Maximum bonuses are paid upon achievement of 105.0 per cent of the target for Directors and senior
employees. This reduces on a straight-line basis to 40 per cent of the maximum for the achievement of the target for senior employees. The bonus further
reduces in a straight-line to 10 per cent of the maximum for reaching 97 .5 per cent of the target. No bonus is payable for achieving less than 97 .5 per cent 
of the target.
Local bonus schemes
Individual countries run local bonus schemes for senior employees who fall outside the Group annual bonus scheme. Performance targets are set locally and
payment of bonuses is at the discretion of local management.
Executive share option schemes
The Group has a number of executive share option schemes:
London International Group 1991 scheme
This scheme was open to senior executives of London International Group prior to the merger with Seton Scholl Healthcare plc in 1999. No further grants may
be made under this scheme. All outstanding options have performance targets attached to them which have been met. The outstanding options expired on
3 December 2007 .
SSL 1990 share option scheme
This was a senior executive scheme approved in June 1990 for a period of 10 years. As the scheme has now expired, no further grants may be made. All outstanding
options in the scheme will expire in June 2010 . Exercise of any grants made since June 1999 is subject to performance targets being met. 
SSL 1996 share option scheme
This is a senior executive scheme approved in July 1996 for a period of 10 years. No further grants may be made after July 2006. Prior to March 2005, annual
grants were made under this scheme following announcement of final results. Since the development of the new Performance Share Plan, as detailed below,
no grants have been made during the current or prior year. Exercise of all grants is subject to performance targets being met.
79 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
18. Employee costs and share option plans for employees continued
Long T erm Incentive Plan
This is a scheme approved in July 1999 for senior executives. No further awards may be made under the plan after awards in respect of the financial year
commencing in 2009. Awards may be made of deferred shares, funded by the sacrifice of up to 50 per cent of the executive’s annual bonus. These deferred
shares are matched by performance shares, the transfer of which is conditional upon certain performance targets being met. Dividends are payable to the
executives on the deferred shares. Awards were made under this scheme in July 2000, 2001 and 2002. No subsequent awards have been made. The
performance targets were not met for the 2000 and 2001 awards, but were met for the 2002 award.
SSL International Stock Purchase Plan
This is a scheme operating within the US business which was approved by the Board in August 2001 and launched in September 2001. No further offering may
be made after August 2011. Employees may choose to save each month during a one-year offering period. At the end of the offering period, employees may
purchase shares at a discount of 15 per cent on the lower of the first day or last day market price. No offers have been made since January 2005.
SSL Sharesave Scheme
This is an HM Revenue & Customs approved savings-related scheme approved by shareholders at the Company’s AGM in July 1996. No further grants may be
made under the scheme after July 2006. The last grants made under the scheme were in January 2005. 
Options were only granted to employees who entered into HM Revenue & Customs approved savings contracts, with the savings body nominated by the
Company. Savings of a fixed amount (not less than £5 nor more than £250) are made over a period of three or five years. The number of ordinary shares 
over which an option is granted will be such that the total amount payable on its exercise will be the proceeds on maturity of the related savings contract. 
No payment was required for the grant of an option. Options are not transferable. Employees may choose to withdraw from the scheme, at which point they
will receive their cash savings plus interest. 
Acquisition price
The price per ordinary share payable upon the exercise of an option was 80 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share 
on the London Stock Exchange on the dealing date prior to the date on which invitations to apply for options were issued.
Exercise of options
An option will normally be exercisable for six months commencing on the third or fifth anniversary of the start of the related savings contract. Options may 
be satisfied by the issue of new shares or through the Seton Healthcare Group Qualifying Employee Share Ownership T rust either by newly issued shares 
or market purchases by the T rust. Options will normally lapse upon cessation of employment.
SSL International plc Global Share Savings Plan
This scheme was approved at the Company’s AGM in July 2001 and launched in September 2001. No grants may be made under the plan after July 2011.
Eligibility
The scheme has been launched to date in Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, Malaysia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, T aiwan, Thailand and T urkey.
Grant of options
The scheme operates in a similar way to the SSL UK sharesave scheme, however, savings are made with local banks in local currencies.
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 80
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
Acquisition price
The price per ordinary share payable upon the exercise of an option will be 80 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share
on the London Stock Exchange on the dealing date prior to the date on which invitations to apply for options are issued.
Exercise of options
An option will normally be exercisable for six months commencing on the third anniversary of the start of the related savings contract. Options are satisfied
by the issue of new shares.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan
This plan was in operation for the 2005/06 financial year only, and was intended to provide a focused incentive upon achievement of short-term financial
objectives. Under the scheme, executives were awarded a bonus upon achievement of EPS targets, capped at 100 per cent of salary for the Chief Executive
and 75 per cent of salary for Executive Directors. The bonus earned was converted into an equivalent notional number of shares at a price of 321.75 pence
and deferred until 30 March 2007 . Payment was subject to the employee remaining in service at that point in time. The amount paid, in cash, in April 2007 
was the value of the notional number of shares awarded multiplied by the average share price during March 2007 . 
Performance Share Plan
This plan, approved at the Company’s AGM in July 2005, is intended to be the Company’s only active long-term incentive plan. Eligibility is restricted to the
Chief Executive and senior executives (currently the top 35 employees). Annual grants do not exceed 100 per cent of base salary. Shares are awarded and 
will vest after three years subject to performance conditions being met. 
Executive share option plans and share savings plans
The executive share option plans include executive options that have a TSR performance condition attached. These options have been valued using the
Monte-Carlo simulation model. All other options have been valued using the Black Scholes formula. There have been no share options granted in the current
or preceeding financial year. The fair value of the services received for share options granted in earlier years was calculated at the date of grant and disclosure
of the assumptions applied in valuing those options was provided in the annual report in the applicable year.
Global share savings plan
Executive share option plans and UK sharesave scheme 
Options WAEP* Options WAEP* 
000 pence 000 pence 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2006 2,961 407 1,125 232 
Options exercised (295) 290 (335) 208 
Options lapsed (663) 554 (117) 262 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2007 2,003 361 673 233 
Options exercised (159) 296 (204) 236 
Options lapsed (434) 428 (37) 289 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2008 1,410 361 432 233
Range of exercise prices 250p to 784p 208p to 444p 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (days) 1,649 247 
Options exercisable 1,410 348 18 237 
* Weighted average exercise price.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 467p (2007: 332p). The charge for share-based
payments in respect of share options is £0.2 million (2007: £0.4 million) which is comprised entirely of equity-settled transactions.
81 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
18. Employee costs and share option plans for employees continued
Long T erm Incentive Plan
At the start of the year no performance shares were still to be awarded subject to performance criteria being met. 
Performance share plan
No. shares WAFV* 
000 pence 
At 1 April 2006 1,044 291 
Shares awarded in August 2006 1,095 282 
At 31 March 2007 2,139 286 
Shares awarded 764 429 
Share award lapses (168) 467
As at 31 March 2008 2,735 286 
* Weighted Average Fair Value
The fair value is based upon the share price at the date of grant of the notional share award. The charge for the performance share plan during the current
year is £3.2 million (2007: £1.9 million).
19. Reserves
Cumulative Cash flow Equity
Share Share Merger foreign hedge Retained holders of Minority Total
Capital premium reserve exchange reserve earnings the parent interests equity
Note £m£m£m£m£m£m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2006 19.0 41.5 136.8 4.5 — (134.8) 67.0 8.5 75.5 
T otal recognised income and expense — — — (5.5) — 44.0 38.5 1.3 39.8 
Shares issued in the period — 1.7 — — — (0.3) 1.4 — 1.4 
Own shares held issued for cash consideration — — — — — 0.2 0.2 — 0.2 
Equity dividends 20 — — — — — (12.4) (12.4) — (12.4) 
Exchange adjustments — — — — — — — (0.8) (0.8) 
Share-based payments — — — — — 2.3 2.3 — 2.3 
T axation taken to reserves in respect of share-based payments — — — — — 0.6 0.6 — 0.6 
Dividends paid to minority interests — — — — — — — (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 March 2007 and 1 April 2007 19.0 43.2 136.8 (1.0) — (100.4) 97.6 8.8 106.4 
T otal recognised income and expense — — — 21.8 (0.7) 3.8 24.9 2.0 26.9 
Shares issued in the period 0.1 0.8 — — — — 0.9 — 0.9 
Equity dividends 20 — — — — — (13.3) (13.3) — (13.3) 
Exchange adjustments — — — — — — — 0.7 0.7 
Share-based payments — — — — — 3.4 3.4 — 3.4 
T axation taken to reserves in respect of share-based payments — — — — — 0.3 0.3 — 0.3 
At 31 March 2008 19.1 44.0 136.8 20.8 (0.7) (106.2) 113.8 11.5 125.3
T ranslation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations as well as from the translation of liabilities
that hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign subsidiaries. During the year, foreign exchange losses of £0.5 million (2007: gains of £0.5 million) on foreign
currency borrowings were offset by gains of £0.5 million (2007: losses of £0.5 million) arising from retranslation of foreign assets, designated as the hedging
instrument. The net investment hedge was 100 per cent effective in the current and prior year.
Cash flow hedge reserve
The cash flow hedge reserve comprises the effective portion of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges of variable rate borrowings transferred 
to the reserve during the current financial year.
Financial statements 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008 82
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
Equity holders of the parent
The Group previously had an investment in own shares which represented shares acquired by the Seton Healthcare Group Qualifying Employee Share
Ownership T rust (QUEST) and Seton Healthcare Group Employee Ownership Plan (ESOP). The shares were purchased on the open market and were held for
employees participating in various share schemes. The shares held at the start of the prior year were issued to employees for cash consideration of £0.2 million
following option exercises under the sharesave and executive option schemes. During the year ended 31 March 2007 further shares were issued into the
trusts and issued to employees to satisfy option exercises under the sharesave and executive option schemes. This resulted in a reduction in retained
earnings of £0.3 million at 31 March 2007 . The Group had no investment in its own shares at 31 March 2008 or 31 March 2007 .
Called up £0. 10 Ordinary share capital of the parent company
Allotted, Allotted,
called-up and called-up and
Authorised fully paid Authorised fully paid 
no. no. £m £m 
At 1 April 2006 250,000,000189,918,233 25.0 19.0 
Employee share options schemes — options exercised — 546,691 — — 
At 31 March 2007 250,000,000190,464,924 25.0 19.0 
Employee share options schemes — options exercised — 362,571 — 0.1 
At 31 March 2008 250,000,000190,827,495 25.0 19.1
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the
Company. Details of the share option schemes in place are included in note 18.
Capital management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns whilst maximising the return to stakeholders
through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in 
note 15, cash and cash equivalents, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as
disclosed above.
The Group has the authority to purchase its own shares on the market for the purpose of issuing shares under the Group’s share option and performance
share plans. No such purchases were made during the current or previous financial year. Decisions to purchase shares are made on a specific transaction
basis by the Board; there is no defined share buy-back plan.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to
externally imposed capital requirements.
20. Dividends
2008 2007 2008 2007
Pence per £0. 10 Pence per £0.10
ordinary share ordinary share £m £m
2007 final paid 6 September 2007 (2006: final paid 7 September 2006) 4.7 4.4 8.9 8.4 
2008 interim paid 5 March 2008 (2007 interim paid 1 March 2007) 2.3 2.1 4.4 4.0
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year 7.0 6.5 13.3 12.4 
The proposed final dividend for 2008 is 5.3 pence per ordinary share and £10.1 million in total. The proposed 2008 final dividend will be submitted to the
shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting and has not been recognised as a distribution to equity holders in these financial statements. 
This will be payable, subject to approval, on 4 September 2008 to shareholders on the register on 1 August 2008.
83 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
21. Analysis of net debt
Cash and cash 
Bank loans and loan notes Interest rate swap derivatives T otal equivalents
Due after Due within Due after Due within Finance financial per balance
one year one year one year one year leases Overdrafts liabilities sheet Net debt
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2006 (74.8) (31.2) (5.0) (0.4) (0.9) (14.7) (127.0) 35.5 (91.5) 
Cash flow — (7.3) — 0.6 0.7 1.0 (5.0) 6.7 1.7 
Other non-cash changes 2.7 (2.7) 1.3 (1.3) (0.1) — (0.1) — (0.1) 
Exchange adjustments 8.0 0.8 (7.8) (0.2) — 0.5 1.3 (1.9) (0.6) 
Fair value changes arising from interest 
rates movements (0.2) — 2.0 — — — 1.8 — 1.8 
At 31 March 2007 (64.3) (40.4) (9.5) (1.3) (0.3) (13.2) (129.0) 40.3 (88.7) 
Cash flow 64.6 (88.4) 9.5 1.3 0.3 4.2 (8.5) 1.9 (6.6) 
Other non-cash changes — — (0.8) — (0.1) — (0.9) — (0.9) 
Exchange adjustments (0.3) (3.0) — — — (1.9) (5.2) 2.4 (2.8) 
Fair value changes arising from interest 
rates movements — — — — — — — — — 
At 31 March 2008 — (131.8) (0.8) — (0.1) (10.9) (143.6) 44.6 (99.0) 
Net debt is defined as financial liabilities less cash and cash equivalents. 
22. Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit; liquidity; interest rate; and currency. Further information on the
Group’s exposure to these risks is presented below, with an explanation of the Group’s policies and processes for measuring and managing these risks.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and review of the Group’s risk management policies and procedures; these guidelines
are designed to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, including setting and monitoring compliance with appropriate limits and controls. The policies
are reviewed regularly and amended where appropriate to reflect changes in the Group’s operations, risk exposure and market conditions. The Board is
assisted by the Group’s Business Assurance function, which undertakes regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results
of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Group’s T reasury function provides services to the business, co-ordinates acess to domestic and international financial markets and monitors and
manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group.
Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises
principally from the the Group’s trade receivables and investment securities.
T rade and other receivables 
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced by the individual characteristics of each customer; the default risk of the industry and country in which
customers operate has less of an influence on credit risk. Geographically, approximately 75—80 per cent of the Group’s debtors are in Europe.
Group exposure to credit risk is controlled by setting a policy, which is reviewed annually, for limiting credit exposure to counterparties, reviewing credit
ratings, and limiting individual aggregate credit exposures accordingly. The Group considers the possibility of material loss in the event of non-performance
by a financial counterparty to be unlikely. Customer credit risk is monitored at a subsidiary level by divisional management, and is reviewed at Group level 
by country.
Goods are sold subject to retention of title clauses, so that in the event of non-payment the Group may have a secured claim. The Group does not require
collateral in respect of trade and other receivables.
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 84
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and investments.
The main components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component
established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. The collective loss allowance is determined based
on historical data of payments statistics for similar financial assets.
Investment securities 
Surplus funds are invested in high quality liquid marketable investments. Investments are of a plain vanilla nature with no embedded derivatives. 
The Group deposits central funds, when available, with highly rated banks, in line with Group policy. The central funds on deposit at the balance sheet 
date were £15 million (2007: £9.5 million). 
Guarantees 
The Group’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only to wholly-owned subsidiaries. At 31 March 2008, no guarantees were outstanding (2007: none).
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure,
as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking
damage to the Group’s reputation.
The Group manages liquidity risks by ensuring that any anticipated funding requirements, based on detailed cash flow forecasts at subsidiary and Group
level, will be met by access to different sources of funding. T ypically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational
expenses for a period of 30—60 days, including the servicing of financial obligations. In addition, the Group maintains the credit facilities detailed in note 15.
Committed undrawn facilities available to the Group in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at the balance sheet date were as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m 
Expiring in one year or less — 70.0 
Expiring in more than one year and less than two years — — 
Expiring in more than two years 97.0 146.1 
Total 97.0 216.1 
Market risk 
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices, would affect the Group’s income, the
value of its holdings of financial instruments, or its obligations in respect of retirement benefits.
Foreign currency risk 
The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the
Group’s entities. Where practicable, the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge major transactional exposures on working capital balances.
At the start of each financial year, the Group hedges approximately 50 to 70 per cent of its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect of forecast sales
and purchases over the forthcoming financial year.
Interest on borrowings is primarily denominated in Sterling, such that no related foreign currency derivatives are required. 
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that its net exposure is kept to an acceptable level
by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary to address short-term imbalances.
The Group’s investment in its Japanese subsidiary is hedged by a Japanese Yen-denominated secured bank loan which mitiages the currency risk arising
from the subsidiary’s net assets.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s fixed rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in their fair value due to changes in interest rates. 
The Group’s variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates; the Group has reduced its exposure to 
this by entering into interest rate swaps. 
85 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
22. Financial risk management continued
Other market price risk
The Group does not speculate in equity securities, nor does the Group enter into commodity contracts other than to meet the Group’s expected usage
requirements. The Group holds a strategic investment of £1 million in the equity securities of an unlisted company as detailed in note 9, this is not deemed 
to expose the Group to market price risk, although the investment is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:
Carrying amount Carrying amount
2008 2007
£m £m 
T rade and other receivables (excluding prepayments and derivative financial assets) 169.0 143.2
Available for sale financial assets 1.0 —
Cash and cash equivalents 44.6 40.3
Interest rate swaps used for hedging 0.1 — 
Other forward exchange contracts 0.4 0.3
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
Carrying amount Carrying amount
2008 2007
£m £m 
United Kingdon 23.9 22.7
Europe 104.9 89.3
Asia Pacific 4.0 3.9
United States 22.1 18.0
154.9 133.9
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Allowance Allowance
Gross for impairment Gross for impairment
2008 2008 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m 
T rade receivables due within terms 155.2 — 126.8 — 
Past due by less than 30 days 7.7 — 4.8 — 
Past due 31—120 days 8.4 — 8.7 — 
Past due 120—365 days 3.8 (2.0) 3.3 (0.6)
More than one year 3.8 (3.8) 3.3 (3.3)
178.9 (5.8) 146.9 (3.9)
Provision for rebates (18.2) (9.1)
Gross trade receivables (note 11) 160.7 137.8 
Allowance for impairment (5.8) (3.9)
Net credit exposure 154.9 133.9 
There are no customers representing more than 2 per cent of the total balance of trade receivables. In determining the recoverability of a trade 
receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. 
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further 
credit provision required in excess of the allowance for impairment. Movement on the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables is disclosed 
in note 11. Based on previous experience, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due. 
All receivables classified as non-current are within the respective payment/contractual terms.
Financial statements 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008 86
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
Liquidity risk
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting arrangements: 0
2008
Carrying Contractual 6 months More than
amount cash flows or less 6—12 months 1—2 years 2—5 years 5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Secured bank loans (123.0) (124.5) (113.9) (10.6) — — — 
Finance lease liabilities (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) — — — — 
Unsecured bank facility (8.8) (8.9) (8.9) — — — — 
T rade and other payables (138.8) (138.8) (138.0) — (0.8) — — 
Bank overdrafts (10.9) (10.9) (10.9) — — — — 
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for hedging* (0.8) (0.8) (0.8) ———— 
2007
Carrying Contractual 6 months More than
amount cash flows or less 6—12 months 1—2 years 2—5 years 5 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Secured bank loans (33.9) (34.3) (34.3) — — — — 
Loan notes (67.2) (85.8) (2.7) (5.8) (8.1) (61.9) (7.3)
Finance lease liabilities (0.3) (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) — — 
Unsecured bank facility (3.6) (3.6) (3.4) — (0.2) — — 
T rade and other payables (118.2) (118.2) (118.2) — — — — 
Bank overdrafts (13.2) (13.2) (12.4) — (0.8) — — 
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for hedging* (10.8) (10.8) (10.8) — — — — 
Forward exchange conracts used for hedging (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) — — — — 
* Derivative financial liabilities are accounted for at fair value and it is not deemed appropriate to allocate the cash flows across the maturity categories.
The loan notes at 31 March 2007 were repaid in full in October 2007 following the announcement of the European Supply Chain restructuring programme;
the related interest rate swaps used for hedging were also settled at that time. The early repayment of the loan notes and related swaps led to a one-off
finance charge of £5.2 million as disclosed in note 3.
The interest rate swaps used for hedging at 31 March 2008 are designated in a cash flow hedge relationship against £60 million of the secured bank loans, and
therefore the related cash flows will not impact upon profit or loss until the hedge relationship ceases.
Currency risk
Exposure to currency risk
The Group’s main exposure to foreign currency risk was in respect of the Euro, based on notional amounts:
2008 2007
Exposure to Exposure to 
Euro risk Euro risk
£m £m
T rade receivables 95.3 77.8
T rade payables (31.7) (22.1)
Other payables (23.8) (19.3)
Gross balance sheet exposure 39.8 36.4
87 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
22. Financial risk management continued
Net exposure to currency risk with regards to other foreign currencies was not significant at 31 March 2008 or 31 March 2007 .
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
Average rate for the year Balance sheet date
2008 2007 2008 2007
Euro 1.4187 1.4756 1.2543 1.4735
Sensitivity analysis
A 10 per cent strengthening of Sterling against the Euro at 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 would have increased/decreased equity and profit or loss by the
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant. 
2008 2007
Profit Profit
Equity or loss Equity or loss
Euro 1.6 (1.1) (1.5) (3.5)
A 10 per cent weakening of Sterling against the Euro at 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007 would have had the equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown
above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Interest rate risk
At the reporting date, the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
2008 2007
£m £m
Fixed rate instruments
Financial assets 2.1 2.8
Financial liabilities (9.2) (68.6)
Variable rate instruments
Financial assets 42.5 37.5
Financial liabilities (133.6) (60.4)
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
At 31 March 2008, the Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and the Group has not designated
interest rate swaps under a fair value hedge accounting model. Therefore a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
Due to the short maturity dates of the drawdowns on the Group facility at 31 March 2008 (average maturity 51 days) and 31 March 2007 (average maturity 
83 days), a change of 100 basis points in interest rates at either reporting date would have negligible impact on the carrying value of variable rate financial
instruments, and similarly upon profit or loss. The interest rate swap at 31 March 2008 is included as part of a cash flow hedge relationship, therefore any change
in interest rates at the reporting date would have no impact upon profit or loss for the year, only upon the amount recognised in equity within the cash flow
hedge reserve. There were no variable rate interest rate swaps at 31 March 2007 .
Financial statements 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008 88
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
Fair values
Fair values versus carrying amounts
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value
Available for sale financial assets 1.0 1.0 — — 
T rade and other receivables (excluding prepayments and derivative financial assets) 169.0 169.0 143.2 143.2 
Cash and cash equivalents 44.6 44.6 40.3 40.3
Interest rate swaps used for hedging liabilities (net) (0.7) (0.7) (10.8) (10.8)
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 0.4 0.4 (0.3) (0.3)
Secured bank loans (123.0) (123.0) (33.9) (33.9)
Finance lease liabilities (0.1) (0.1) (0.3) (0.3)
Unsecured bank facilities (8.8) (8.8) (3.6) (3.6)
T rade and other payables (138.8) (138.8) (118.2) (118.2)
Bank overdrafts (10.9) (10.9) (13.2) (13.2)
(67.3) (67.3) 3.2 3.2
Unrecognised gain (loss) — — 
Basis for determining fair values
The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial insrtuments reflected in the table above.
Available for sale financial assets
The available for sale financial assets at 31 March 2008 is an unquoted entity, therefore fair value of the shareholding cannot be readily ascertained; the
investment is therefore held at initial cost which is deemed to be comparable to fair value, although the investment is subject to annual impairment review.
Derivatives
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on their listed market price, if available. If a listed market price is not available, then fair value is estimated
by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for ther residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free
interest rate (based on government bonds).
The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on broker quotes. Those quotes are tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated future cash flows
based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market interest rates for a similar instrument at the reporting date.
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date. 
In respect of finance leases, the market rate of interest is determined by reference to similar lease agreements.
T rade and other receivables
The fair value of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
89 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 90
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
22. Financial risk management continued
Interest rates used for determining fair value
The interest rates used to discount estimated cash flows, where applicable, are based on the government yield curve at the reporting date plus an adequate
constant credit spread, and were as follows:
2008 2007
Derivatives N /a 7.08%
Loans and borrowing N /a 7.58%
23. Financial instruments
(a) Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and liabilities 
Financial assets 
2008 2007
At floating At fixed At floating At fixed
interest rates interest rates T otal interest rates interest rates T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m 
Cash and cash equivalents
Sterling 16.2 — 16.2 14.7 — 14.7 
US Dollar 1.6 — 1.6 2.0 — 2.0 
Euro 2.6 1.9 4.5 5.3 1.5 6.8 
Other 22.1 0.2 22.3 15.5 1.3 16.8 
T otal 42.5 2.1 44.6 37.5 2.8 40.3 
Cash and cash equivalents at floating interest rates comprise cash at bank and short-term deposits. These are held at call and accrue interest at effective
interest rates of less than 4.7 per cent. Cash and cash equivalents at fixed interest rates comprise short-term bank deposits. These are placed on terms not
exceeding three months. The deposits accrue effective rates of interest of between 2.0 per cent and 3.6 per cent. 
Financial liabilities 
The Group’s fixed rate financial derivatives and fixed rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in their fair value due to changes in interest rates. 
The Group’s variable rate financial derivatives and variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates.
Hedging 
Interest rate and currency swaps, denominated in US Dollars, Euros and Sterling, were in place at 31 March 2007 to hedge the Group’s exposure to risks in
accordance with its interest rate policy. These swaps were matched in maturity to the underlying debt. At 31 March 2008, the Group had interest rate and
currency swaps with a notional amount of £133.0 million (2007: £11.9 million). Interest rate swaps (including those in effective fair value hedging relationships)
are measured at fair value under IAS 39. 
The fair value of interest and currency swaps recognised as hedges at 31 March 2008 is a net liability of £0.7 million comprising assets of £0.1 million and
liabilities of £0.8 million (2007: net liabilty of £1.6 million comprising assets of £17 .8 million and liabilities of £19.4 million).
Up to the repayment of the loan notes and settlement of related swaps in November 2007 , interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges were fair
valued through the income statement as part of net finance costs. Underlying loans that form part of fair value hedge relationships were adjusted for fair
value attributable to hedged risk through the income statement to offset any mark-to-market arising on the interest rate swaps. Hedge documentation was
prepared for all fair value hedges at inception and effectiveness testing was carried out semi-annually. All designated hedges remained effective throughout
the current financial year to the point of settlement.
The maturity dates of all financial liabilities, together with details of their fair values and carrying values are disclosed in note 15. ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
91
Effects of interest rate and currency swaps 
The following reflects the effects of financial derivatives on the Group’s borrowings: At 31 March 2008 At 31 March 2007 
Before After Before After
financial financial financial financial
derivatives derivatives derivatives derivatives
£m £m £m £m 
Sterling 110.1 110.1 42.1 106.9 
US dollar — — 60.9 (2.5) 
Euro 28.0 28.0 14.3 23.9 
Japanese Y en 4.6 4.6 0.5 0.5 
Other currencies 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 
142.8 142.8 118.0 129.0 
Floating rate borrowings 133.6 133.6 50.7 60.4 
Fixed rate borrowings 9.2 9.2 67.3 68.6 
142.8 142.8 118.0 129.0 
The analysis above does not include the marking-to-market liabilities arising on forward contract derivatives.
The following tables show the profile of the Group’s fixed and floating rate borrowings after the effect of swaps for both the current and prior year:
2008 2007
At floating At fixed At floating At fixed
interest rates interest rates T otal interest rates interest rates T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m 
Interest bearing loans and overdrafts
Sterling 110.1 — 110.1 36.0 70.9 106.9 
US Dollar — — — — (2.5) (2.5) 
Euro 18.9 9.1 28.0 23.9 — 23.9 
Other 4.6 0.1 4.7 0.5 0.2 0.7 
Total 133.6 9.2 142.8 60.4 68.6 129.0 
Interest rates of the Group’s borrowings 
Floating rate financial liabilities in material currencies are based upon LIBOR.
The following table shows the notional and effective rates of interest of the Group’s fixed rate borrowings after the effect of swaps:
T otal 2008 T otal 2007
fixed rate Effective Notional fixed rate Effective Notional
borrowing interest interest borrowing interest interest
£m rates rates £m rates rates 
Sterling guaranteed loans notes — — — 5.9 8.02% 7.87%
Currency swap: US$ loan notes to Sterling fixed rate borrowing — — — 62.4 7.83% 7.69%
Euro bank loans 9.1 4.77% 4.77% — — — 
Obligations under finance leases 0.1 7.12% 7.12% 0.3 7.70% 7.70%
T otal/weighted average rate 9.2 4.80% 4.80% 68.6 7.85% 7.71% ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
23. Financial instruments continued
The following table shows the average effective rates of interest of the Group’s variable rate borrowings after the effect of swaps: 
2008 2007
T otal Average T otal Average
variable rate effective variable rate effective
borrowing interest borrowing interest
£m rates £m rates 
Sterling bank loans and overdrafts 110.1 6.26% 36.0 5.53%
Currency swap: Euro fixed rate receivable to Euro floating rate payable — — 9.6 5.12%
Euro bank loans and overdrafts 18.9 4.69% 14.3 4.39%
Japanese Y en bank loans and overdrafts 4.6 1.53% 0.5 2.63%
T otal/ Weighted average rate 133.6 5.12% 60.4 5.17%
(b) Foreign currency risk 
The table below shows the Group’s transactional currency exposures that give rise to the net currency gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the relevant local operating
company involved, other than the non-Sterling borrowings treated as hedges of net assets in overseas operations.
Net foreign currency financial assets/(liabilities) in £m 
Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total
At 31 March 2008
Functional currency of Group operations: 
Sterling — 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.6
Other 0.4 — 0.1 — 0.5
T otal 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.1 1.1 
At 31 March 2007 
Functional currency of Group operations: 
Sterling — — 0.1 — 0. 1 
Other 0.7 — 0.7 — 1.4 
T otal 0.7 — 0.8 — 1.5 
The amounts shown in the table above take into account the effect of any forward contracts and other derivatives entered into to manage these 
currency exposures. 
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 92
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
24. Leases
2008 2007
£m £m 
T otal commitments to pay rentals under operating leases
Minimum lease payments made during the year 
— Land and buildings 4.1 4.2 
— Plant, equipment and motor vehicles 1.5 1.5 
5.6 5.7 
Utilisation of surplus property provision (2.6) (1.3)
Lease payments charged to income statement 3.0 4.4
The future minimum lease commitments under leases are as follows: Operating leases Finance leases 
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m 
Rentals due within one year 3.2 2.2 0.1 0.2 
From 1—2 years 2.8 2.1 — 0.1 
From 2—3 years 1.9 2.9 — — 
From 3—4 years 1.3 1.2 — — 
From 4—5 years 1.0 0.9 — — 
After 5 years from balance sheet date 1.0 0.8 — — 
11.2 10.1 0.1 0.3 
Less amounts representing interest — — 
Present value of net minimum lease payments 0.1 0.3 
Less current lease obligations (0.1) (0.2) 
Non-current lease obligations — 0.1
93 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
25. Statutory and other information
Related party transactions 
SSL- TTK and TTK-LIG minority interest 
In accordance with IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ are reported only with parties outside the consolidated Group.
During the year the Group has transacted with the minority interest holding Groups of SSL- TTK Limited and TTK-LIG Limited. Specific transactions which 
are considered material are as follows:
The Group has made sales of £5.7 million to the minority group (2007: £18.5 million), and has paid packing charges of £0.8 million (2007: £0.5 million) and
logo charges of £0.5 million (2007: £0.4 million) to the minority group.
At the year end the Group was owed £1.1 million (2007: £3.3 million) from the minority interest holding Group of SSL- TTK Limited and TTK-LIG Limited.
Qingdao London Durex Company Limited
Prior to the acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent of Qingdao London Durex Company Limited in January 2007 , the Group received royalties from this
company of £0.9 million during the prior financial year. Dividends of £2.0 million were also due to the Group at 31 March 2007 in relation to profits earned 
by this company prior to the Group acquiring the remaining 50 per cent of this company.
Key management personnel compensation 
Key management personnel, being the Executive Directors and those persons discharging managerial responsibilities, received the following compensation
during the period:
31 March 2008
£m
Short-term employee benefits 4.7
Share-based payments 2.2
Post employment benefits 0.2
Total 7.1
Subsequent events 
Proposed dividends are disclosed in note 20 . 
On 19 May 2008 the Group completed the first stage of its investment in Beleggingsmaatschappij Lemore BV, acquiring a 15.5 per cent stake for £24.8 million,
with further options to purchase the remainder exercisable over the next two years.
There are no other events after the balance sheet date disclosable under IAS 10 ‘Events after the balance sheet date’.
26. Commitments and contingent liabilities
2008 2007
£m £m 
Commitments for capital expenditure not provided for in these accounts
Contracts placed for future expenditure — 1.1 
Contingent liabilities 
Litigation 
The Group is a defendant in a small number of lawsuits incidental to its operations which, in aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect 
on the Group.
Financial statements 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008 94
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
Trading subsidiary undertakings Country of registration, incorporation and operation
SSL Australia Pty. Limited Australia
SSL Healthcare Oesterreich GmbH Austria
NV SSL Healthcare Belgium S.A. Belgium
SSL Canada Inc Canada
SSL Czeska Republika s.r.o. Czech Republic
SSL Healthcare Danmark A/S Denmark
SSL Products Limited England
London International Group Limited England
LRC Products Limited England
Scholl Limited England
Scholl Consumer Products Limited England
Scholl (Investments) Limited England
Scholl (UK) Limited England
Sonet Scholl Overseas Investments Limited England
Sonet Scholl UK Limited England
Sonet Prebbles Limited * England
Sonet Investments Limited * England
T ubifoam Limited England
SSL Healthcare France SA France
SSL Healthcare Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG Germany
SSL Healthcare GmbH Germany
London International GmbH Germany
SSL Hellas SA Greece
Simco Limited Guernsey
SSL Healthcare (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong
SSL Magyarorszag Kereskedelmi Kft Hungary
SSL- TTK Limited India
TTK-LIG Limited India
Seton Scholl Ireland Holdings Limited Ireland
Seton Scholl International Ireland Ireland
SSL Healthcare Ireland Limited Ireland
SSL Healthcare Italia SpA Italy
SSL Healthcare Japan Limited Japan
LIG China BV Netherlands
SSL Healthcare Nederland BV Netherlands
New Bridge Holdings BV Netherlands
Seton Scholl European Holdings BV Netherlands
SSL New Zealand Limited New Zealand
SSL Healthcare (Norge)A/S Norway
London International Norway A/S Norway
Qingdao London Durex Company Limited People’s Republic of China
SSL Healthcare (Polska) Sp zoo Poland
SSL Romania SRL Romania
SSL Healthcare Singapore Pte Limited Singapore
SSL Slovensko spol sro Slovakia
SSL Healthcare Brands S.A. Spain
SSL Sverige AB Sweden
SSL Healthcare Suisse SA Switzerland
SSL Manufacturing (Thailand) Limited Thailand
SSL Healthcare (Thailand) Limited Thailand
LRC Products Ticaret ve Pazarlama Limited Sirketi T urkey
SSL Americas, Inc USA
SSL Holdings, Inc USA
LRC North America, Inc USA
The Group holds 100 per cent of the equity capital of the above companies with the exception of: SSL- TTK Limited, in which the Group effectively holds 
75. 4 per cent; and TTK-LIG Limited, in which the Group holds 49.87 per cent. TTK-LIG Limited is consolidated as the Group exerts a dominant influence over 
the company .
In January 2007 , the Group completed the purchase of the remaining 50 per cent of the shares it did not already own in its joint venture, Qingdao London
Durex Company Limited, for the purchase price of US$37 .5 million. Prior to this date, the entity was accounted for as an associated undertaking of the Group.
Qingdao London Durex Company Limited has a year end of 31 December, as required by local law. Figures included in the consolidation are based upon
audited results for the 12-month period ended 31 March 2008.
* Shares are held directly by SSL International plc.
Principal Group undertakings
95 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
2008 2007
Note £m £m 
Fixed assets
Intangible assets (i) 6.3 5.9 
T angible assets (ii) 0.1 0.2 
Investments (iii) 591.8 590.8 
598.2 596.9 
Current assets
Debtors (iv) 159.1 73.4 
Cash 15.7 13.0 
174.8 86.4 
Creditors due within one year: 
Financial liabilities (v) (123.1) (40.5) 
Other creditors (vi) (527.8) (415.2) 
(650.9) (455.7)
Net current liabilities (476.1) (369.3) 
T otal assets less current liabilities 122.1 227.6 
Creditors due after more than one year
Financial liabilities (v) (0.8) (73.6) 
Provisions for liabilities (vii) (0.1) (0.2) 
Net assets 121.2 153.8 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital (ix) 19.1 19.0 
Share premium account (x) 44.0 43.2 
Other reserves (x) 46.5 45.5 
Cash flow hedge reserve (x) (0.7) — 
Profit and loss account (x) 12.3 46.1 
Equity shareholders’ funds (x) 121.2 153.8 
See accompanying notes to the Company financial statements. 
The financial statements on pages 96 to 103 were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
M. Moran 
Director 
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 96
Company balance sheet 
at 31 March 2008  tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
97
Company accounting policies
As used in the financial statements and related notes, the term
‘Company’ refers to SSL International plc. The separate financial statements
of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985 and
under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices.
A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is presented on page 87 .
Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as
required by the Companies Act 1985. As permitted by the Act, the separate
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practices (‘UK GAAP’). The accounting policies under
UK GAAP are presented below.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost
basis, with the exception of financial instruments as described below. The
principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. In accordance with
Section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to
present its own profit and loss account. The profit for the financial year dealt
with in the financial statements of the parent company, SSL International plc,
is disclosed in note (x). The Company has taken the exemption from the
requirement to prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1
(revised 1996) ‘Cash flow statements’.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
(a) T angible fixed assets
T angible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write tangible fixed assets down to a residual value
over their estimated useful economic lives at the following annual rates:
Plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over a period
of between 4—15 years.
(b) Intangible assets
Software developments and licences capitalised are stated at cost less
accumulated amortisation and are amortised on a straight-line basis over
their estimated useful economic lives as follows:
—software development: 5—10 years
—software licences: over the length of the licence
(c) Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for 
any impairment.
(d) T axation
The charge for taxation is based on the loss/profit for the year and takes
into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Credit is taken for advance corporation tax written off in previous years
when it is recovered against corporation tax liabilities. 
In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax is provided where a taxation
liability will arise as a result of transactions or events which have occurred by
the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that
it is regarded that they will be recovered. Provision is made at rates expected
to be applicable when the liabilities or assets are likely to crystallise.
(e) Foreign currencies
T ransactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of
exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange
ruling at the balance sheet date. Gains or losses on transactions are included
in the profit and loss account.
(f) Derivative financial instruments
In accordance with exemptions under FRS 29: ‘Financial Instruments:
Disclosures’, the Company has not presented the financial instruments
disclosures required by the standard, as disclosures which comply with the
standard are included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure
to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements. The Company does
not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
With the exception of derivative financial instruments, and those hedged
items forming part of a fair value hedge, financial instruments are held at
amortised cost.
Hedge accounting
The accounting for the Company’s various hedging activities is 
detailed below:
(i) T ransaction exposure hedging
Forward currency contracts hedging transaction exposures are fair
valued through the profit and loss account. ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
(f) Derivative financial instruments continued
(ii) Fair value hedges
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges 
when they hedge the Company’s exposure to changes in the fair value of a
recognised asset or liability. Any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging
instrument is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. Any
change in the fair value of the hedged item, attributable to the hedged risk, 
is adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged item and recognised
immediately in the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge
accounting are principally foreign currency and interest rate swaps.
(iii) Cash flow hedges
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges 
when they hedge the Company’s exposure to variability in cash flows that is
attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability. 
Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument designated
as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in equity to the extent that the
hedge is effective. T o the extent the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value
are recognised in profit or loss.
Discontinuance of hedge accounting
Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the hedging
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies
for hedge accounting. 
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 98
Company accounting policies
continued
(g) Share-based payments
The Company operates a number of employee share schemes. The cost
to the Company of making awards in the form of shares or rights to shares
under these schemes is charged to the profit and loss account as an
employee expense over the period to which the employees’ performance
relates. The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to
certain employees of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings. Equity
settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the grant date
using an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the terms and
conditions precedent at the time of grant. The impact of any non-market
vesting conditions is excluded.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined
by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted and the
number of equity instruments which eventually vest. At each balance sheet
date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of instruments that
are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of original
estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, and a corresponding
adjustment to equity over the remaining period. When awards are made to
employees of subsidiary undertakings and the fair value of the award is not
recharged to the subsidiary, the award is treated as a capital contribution 
to the subsidiary, with a corresponding increase in the cost of investment. 
(h) Dividend income
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised within
other income at the point the dividend has been declared. Dividends
declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised in the profit and
loss account.
(i) Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available in FRS 8:
‘Related Party Disclosures’ and has not disclosed transactions or balances
with entities which form part of the Group. tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
(i) Intangible assets
Software
development
and licences
£m 
Cost
At 1 April  2007 6.0 
Additions 1.9 
At 31 March 2008 7.9 
Amortisation and impairment amounts 
At 1 April 2007 0.1 
Charge for the year 1.5 
At 31 March 2008 1.6 
Carrying amounts 
At 31 March 2007 5.9 
At 31 March 2008 6.3
(ii) T angible assets
Plant,
equipment and
motor vehicles
£m 
Cost
At 1 April 2007 26.8 
Disposals (25.8) 
At 31 March 2008 1.0 
Depreciation and impairment 
At 1 April 2007 26.6 
Charge for the year 0.1 
Disposals (25.8) 
At 31 March 2008 0.9 
Net book value 
At 31 March 2007 0.2 
At 31 March 2008  0.1
99
Notes relating to the Company accounts ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
(iii) Investments in subsidiary undertakings
The Company’s investments are as follows: 
Cost of shares
in subsidiary
undertakings
£m 
Cost at 31 March 2007 590.8 
Additions 1.0
Cost at 31 March 2008 591.8 
Net book value 
At 31 March 2007 590.8 
At 31 March 2008 591.8 
The Company’s investments are listed on page 95. The addition of £1 million during the year represents an increased investment in the subsidiary company
LRC Products Limited, in relation to the fair value of share-based payments awarded to employees of the subsidiary undertaking. A corresponding credit is
recorded in non-distributable reserves.
(iv) Debtors
2008 2007
Note £m £m 
Amounts due within one year 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 153.0 68.7 
Other debtors 0.5 — 
Prepayments and accrued income 1.3 0.5 
154.8 69.2 
Amounts due after more than one year 
Deferred tax (viii) 4.3 4.2 
159.1 73.4 
Financial statements • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 100
Notes relating to the Company accounts
continued tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
(v) Financial liabilities 
2008 2007
£m £m
Amounts due within one year 
Bank loans and overdrafts 123.1 35.6 
Loan notes — 3.1 
Obligations under finance leases — 0.2 
Forward contract derivatives — 0.3 
Interest rate and currency swaps — 1.3 
123.1 40.5 
Amounts due after more than one year   
Loan notes — 64.1 
Interest rate and currency swaps 0.8 9.5 
0.8 73.6 
T otal financial liabilities 123.9 114.1 
Details of banking facilities available are provided in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.
Loan maturities 
2008 2007
£m £m 
Loan notes
Loan note or instalments thereof are repayable: 
After 5 years from the balance sheet date — 5.9 
From 3—4 years — — 
From 2—3 years — 55.5 
From 1—2 years — 2.7 
T otal due after more than one year — 64.1 
T otal due within one year — 3.1 
— 67.2 
Obligations under finance lease 
Obligations under finance lease or instalments thereof are repayable: 
T otal due within one year — 0.2 
— 0.2 
Interest rate and currency swaps 
Interest rate and currency swaps or instalments thereof are repayable: 
From 2—3 years 0.8 8.4 
From 1—2 years — 1.1 
T otal due after more than one year 0.8 9.5 
T otal due within one year — 1.3 
0.8 10.8 
The aggregate amount of loans, any instalment of which falls due after 5 years, is £nil (2007: £5.9 million). 
The loan notes were repaid in November 2007 , and the related swaps settled at that time, following the announcement of the European Supply Chain
restructuring programme, as explained in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
101 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
(vi) Creditors
2008 2007
£m £m 
Amounts due within one year 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 519.5 405.1 
Corporate taxation 2.1 2.2 
Accruals 6.2 7.9 
527.8 415.2 
(vii) Provisions for liabilities
Surplus property
£m 
At 1 April 2007 0.2 
Provisions used during the year (0.1) 
At 31 March 2008 0.1 
Current 0.1 
Non-current — 
0.1 
The provisions are expected to be utilised within seven years from the balance sheet date.
(viii) Deferred tax
Deferred
taxation
£m 
At 1 April 2007 4.2 
Charged to the profit and loss account (0.2) 
Credited to reserves in respect of share-based payments 0.3 
At 31 March 2008 4.3 
2008 2007
The net deferred tax asset is analysed as follows: £m £m 
Accelerated capital allowances 1.6 2.4 
Short-term timing differences (0.2) (0.3) 
Share-based payments 2.9 2.1 
4.3 4.2
(ix) Called-up share capital
Called up £0.10 ordinary share capital of the parent company
Allotted, Allotted,
called-up called-up
Authorised and fully paid Authorised and fully paid
no no £m £m 
At 1 April  2007 250,000,000190,464,924 25.0 19.0 
Employee share options schemes — options exercised — 362,571 — 0.1 
At 31 March 2008 250,000,000190,827,495 25.0 19.1 
Details of share options exercised in the year and contingently issuable shares awarded in the year are given in the Group financial statements in note 18.
Details of rights attached to shares are included in the Group financial statements in note 19.
Financial statements 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008 102
Notes relating to the Company accounts
continued tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
(x) Share capital and reserves
Share Non- Cash flow
Share premium distributable hedge Profit and loss Total
capital account reserve reserve account equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2007 19.0 43.2 45.5 — 46.1 153.8 
Loss for the year — — — — (24.2) (24.2) 
Dividends — — — — (13.3) (13.3) 
Share-based payments — — 1.0 — 3.4 4.4 
T axation taken to reserves in respect of share-based payments — — — — 0.3 0.3 
Fair values arising from cash flow hedge taken to reserves — — — (0.7) — (0.7) 
Shares issued in the year 0.1 0.8 — — — 0.9 
At 31 March 2008 19.1 44.0 46.5 (0.7) 12.3 121.2 
Of the reserves of the Company, £ 12.3 million (2007: 46.1 million) is regarded as distributable. 
The £1.0 million increase in the non-distributable reserve during the year relates to the share-based payments awarded to employees of the subsidiary
undertaking LRC Products Limited, which has been treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary undertaking.
By virtue of section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company is exempt from presenting a profit and loss account.
The shares issued during the year were issued to satisfy exercise of options under the various share schemes outlined in note 18 to the Group accounts.
(xi) Commitments and contingent liabilities
The Company has no contracts for future expenditure that have not been provided for (2007: none).
Guarantee contracts 
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers
these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until
such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. At the balance sheet date, there were no
contingent liabilities arising as a result of these guarantees (2007: none).
(xii) Directors’ remuneration and share-based payments
The Company has no employees other than the Directors; information covering Directors’ remuneration, interests in shares, share options and pension
benefits is included in the Remuneration report on pages 39 to 45.
The information as disclosed in the Group accounts under IFRS 2: ‘Share-based payment’ is comparable with the UK GAAP information under FRS 20: 
‘Share-based payment’.
The following Directors were remunerated by the parent company:
— G. Watts
— A. Catalano
— G. Corbett
— R. Adam
— P. Read
— S. Murray
— M. Moran
— I. Adamson
103 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
Shareholder information • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 104
SSL directory
Commercial
UK and Eire
Head Office 
SSL International plc
35 New Bridge Street, London EC4V 6BW
SSL International plc
Venus, 1 Old Park Lane, T rafford Park, Urmston, Manchester M41 7HA
SSL Healthcare Ireland Limited
Monarch Industrial Estate, Belgard Road, Dublin 24
Continental Europe 
Austria
SSL Healthcare Osterreich GmbH, Kuefsteingasse 15-19/2/20A,
A-1140 Vienna, Austria
Belgium
NV SSL Healthcare SA, Koning Albert 1 Laan 64, 1780, Wemmel, Belgium
Czech Republic
SSL Czeska Republica s.r.o., Karlovo nam 7 , 120 00 Prague 2, Czech Republic
Denmark
SSL Healthcare Denmark A/S, Ringager 4 D, DK-2605 Brøndby, Denmark
Finland
SSL Healthcare Suomi OY, Harmaaparrankuja1, Fin-02200 Espoo, Finland
France 
SSL Healthcare France SA, SSL Healthcare France, 23 allees de l'Europe,
92588 Clichy Cedex, France
Germany
SSL Healthcare Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG, Edisonstrasse 5, 
63477 Maintal, Germany
Greece
SSL Hellas SA , 17 Kim Spata Avenue, PO Box 17 , 19004 Spata Attikis,
Athens, Greece
Hungary
SSL Magyarorszag Kft, IP West Office Building, 1117 Budapest, 
Budafoki út 91-93. 1st Floor, Hungary
Italy
SSL Healthcare Italia Spa, Via Marco Emilio Lepido 178/5, 
40132 Bologna, Italy
Italy
( Footwear Development Group)
SSL Healthcare Italia Spa
FDG-Footwear Development Group
Strada Statale, 234/km 38,5 26867 , Somaglia, Lodi, Italy
Netherlands
SSL Healthcare Nedeland NV, De Weegschaal  14,
5215 MNS Hertogenbosch, Netherlands
Norway
SSL Healthcare Norway AS, Strandveien 35, NO-1366 Lysaker, Norway
Poland
SSL Healthcare Polska Sp.z 0.0., UBC ll Ul.Szturmowa 2A,
02-678 Warsaw, Poland
Romania 
SSL Romania Srl
blvd. Decebal nr1. bl.H2/sc.5/et.6/ap 141-143
Sector 3, Bucharest, Romania
Spain
SSL Healthcare Brands SA, C/ de la Marina, 16-18, T orre Mapfre, planta 28,
08005 Barcelona, Spain
Sweden
SSL Healthcare Sverige ABx, Box 1326, SE-171 26 Solna, Sweden
Switzerland
SSL Healthcare Schweiz AG, Rheinstrasse 81, 4133 Pratteln,
Switzerland 
T urkey 
LRC Products Ticaret ve Pazarlama Ltd. sti, Oztopus cadessi demirel Apt,
8D.5 Ulus 34340 Besiktas, Istanbul, T urkey
Americas
SSL Canada Inc
100 Courtland Avenue, Concord, Ontario, L4K 3T6, Canada
SSL Americas Inc
3585 Engineering Drive, Suite 200, Norcross, Georgia, 30092-9214, USA
Asia Pacific and Rest of the W orld 
Australia
SSL Australia Pty Ltd, 225 Beach Road, Mordialloc, Victoria 3195, Australia
China
SSL Healthcare Shanghai Ltd., Room 1905, 
ZhongRong HengRui International Building, 620 Zhang Yang Road, Pu Dong,
Shanghai, 200122, People’s Republic of China
Hong Kong
SSL Healthcare (Hong Kong) Ltd, Rm 1201A, Admiralty Centre, T ower One,
18 Harcourt Road, Hong Kong
India
SSL- TTK Limited, 6 Cathedral Road, Chennai 600 086, India
Indonesia
SSL Healthcare Indonesia, Graha Atrium Building 6Fl, Suite 602C,
Jl. Senen Raya No.135, Jakarta Pusat - 10410, Indonesia
Japan
SSL Healthcare Japan Ltd, URD Building, 4th & 5th Floor, 2-7-5 Shibuya,
Shibuya-Ku, T okyo 150-0002, Japan
Malaysia
SSL Healthcare Malaysia Sdn Bhd, Level 5, Wisma Samudra, 1 Jalan
Kontraktor U1/14, Seksyen U1, HICOM-Glenmarie Industrial Park, 
40150 Shah Alam, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
New Zealand
SSL New Zealand Ltd, c/-54 Carbine Road, Mt Wellington, Auckland, 
New Zealand
Singapore
SSL Healthcare Singapore Pte Ltd, 34 Boon Leat T errace, Singapore, 119866
T aiwan
SSL Healthcare T aiwan Ltd, 14, F No 102, Songlong Road, Sinyi District, 
T aipei City 110,  T aiwan
Thailand
SSL Healthcare (Thailand) Limited, 14th Floor, Ocean T ower 1, 
170-42 New Ratchadaphisek Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110, Thailand ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
Manufacturing and Distribution
UK and Guernsey
Simco Limited
Charwell House, Braye Road industrial Estate, Vale, Guernsey, 
Channel Islands GY3 5XA
SSL International plc 
Barncoose Industrial Estate, Wilson Way, Redruth, Cornwall, TR15 3RQ
SSL International plc 
Group Distribution Centre, Finlan Road, Stakehill Industrial Estate, 
Middleton M24 2SJ
SSL International plc 
Whitehouse Business Park, T raynor Way, Off Shotton Lane, Peterlee,
County Durham SR8 2RU
Americas
SSL Americas Logistics Operations Center
1306 George Albert Lake Road, Anderson, South Carolina, 29624, USA
Asia Pacific and Rest of the W orld 
China
Qingdao London Durex Company Limited 
103 T aidong 1st Road, Qingdao, 266022, People’s Republic of China
India
TTK-LIG Limited 
35 Old T runk Road Pallavaram, Chennai-600 043, India
TTK-LIG Limited 
20 Perali Road, Virudhunagar - 626 001, T amilnadu State, India
TTK-LIG Limited 
65/2, 65/3, 63/2 K P Natham Road, Thiruvandar Koil Village, 
Mannadipet Commune, Puducheri, India
SSL- TTK Limited
Plot 73, Sipcot Industrial Park, Irungattukottai 602105, 
Sriperumbudur, India
Thailand
SSL Manufacturing (Thailand) Limited 
Wellgrow Industrial Estate, 100 Moo 5, Bangna- T rad Rd KM#36, Bangsamak,
Bangpakong, Chachoengsao 24180, Thailand
105 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
Shareholder information • Annual Report and Accounts 2008 106
Company information Financial calendar
Secretary and Registered Office
Maria Buxton-Smith
35 New Bridge Street, London EC4V 6BW
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA
Credit Suisse
One Cabot Square, London E14 4OJ
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
8 Salisbury Square, London EC4Y 8BB
Solicitors
Allen & Overy
One Bishop Square, London E1 6AO
Hammonds
T rinity Court, 16 John Dalton Street, Manchester M60 8HS
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank Plc
7th Floor, 1 Marsden Street, Manchester M2 1HW
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
Public Affairs Advisers
The Maitland Consultancy
12th Floor, Orion House, 5 Upper St Martin’s Lane, London WC2H 9EA
Month / Y ear Event
2008
24 July Annual General Meeting
4 September Dividend payment (subject to approval)
November* Interim results
2009
March* Interim dividend payment
May* Preliminary results
July* Annual General Meeting
* Exact dates to be confirmed. ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
The following is a non-exhaustive list 
of the trade marks of the SSL Group:
Adapta
Allure
Avanti
Bioprint
Cuprofen
Derbac
Diana
Diocalm
Dr Scholl
Due In Uno
Durex
Eulactol
Fetherlite
Fresh Step
Full Marks
Gelactiv
Hydra-Gel
Massage Melts
Medised
Meltus
Mister Baby
Natruclear
Orthaheel
Paramol
Party Feet
Perfect Nail
Performa
Pescura
Play
Play O
Pleasuremax
ProSport
Ralgex
Realcheck
Remegel
Resolve
Sauber
Scholl
Scholl Flight Socks
Spring Action
Syndol
Ultima
Very Cherry
Vibrations
Woodward’s
T rade marks
107 ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
Designed by Pauffley
Printed in the UK by Beacon Press using their and
environmental print technology. The electricity used in the printing of this
report was generated from renewable sources and vegetable inks were 
used throughout. Beacon Press is a CarbonNeutral® company.
Both printer and the paper mill are registered to the Environmental
Management System, ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)
chain-of-custody certified.  SSL International plc
35 New Bridge Street
London EC4V 6BW
T el +44 (0)20  7367  5760
F ax +44  (0)20  7367  5790
www.ssl-international.com
Registration number
388828
