 Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Building integrated 
capabilities... St Ives is a group of market-leading companies that combines capabilities to deliver the UK’s most 
diverse range of marketing solutions and book publishing services.
Our combination of insight and consultancy services, combined with cross-media execution and printing 
capabilities, ensure that we deliver high-value solutions for our marketing clients.
In the publishing services environment Clays is the market leader , helping our publishing clients meet the 
changing needs of the books market.
From HSBC to Sainsbury’s, the RAC to Marks and Spencer , the latest JK Rowling novel to gold medal 
winner stamps, we deliver a wide range of services tailored to meet our clients’ needs.
By focusing on customer service, and by working together , St Ives Group offers unique marketing 
solutions and publishing services delivered from a single point of contact.
Overview
1 Highlights
2 St Ives Group at a glance
4 Chairman’s Statement
Business Review
6 Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
7  Our business model
8  Segment overview
8  Our strategic objectives
1 1  Key performance indicators
24 Corporate and Social Responsibility
28 Financial Review
Corporate Governance
30 Board of Directors
32 Corporate Governance
36 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
38 Directors’ Report
40 Directors’ Remuneration Report
50 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Our Figures
51  Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members  
of St Ives plc (the Group)
52 Consolidated Income Statement
53 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
54 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
55 Consolidated Balance Sheet
56 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
57 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
95  Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members  
of St Ives plc (the Company)
96 Company Balance Sheet
97 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Useful Information
106 Five Year Record
107 Financial Calendar
108 Shareholder Information
Our Group today
Contents  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1
 
Operational highlights
 Continued success in implementation of strategic 
repositioning of the Group
 Three acquisitions to enhance our marketing services 
offering, including:
 Response One, one of the UK’s fastest growing data 
marketing businesses, in September 2011
 Pragma Holdings, a leading consultancy specialising 
in retail and consumer markets, in September 2011
 Incite Marketing Planning, an industry leading market 
research and insights consultancy, in February 2012
Financial highlights
*  Before non-underlying items which comprise restructuring costs, provision releases, operating results of non-continuing sites, acquisition costs, adjustments  
to deferred consideration, net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other one-off items.
All figures for revenue, profit and earnings per share are based on continuing operations.
 
 Investment in Sponge, a leading mobile marketing 
agency, and Easypress Group (formerly 
EvolvedGroup), an eBook conversion  
software company
 Further successful cost reduction initiatives across 
Print businesses, and investment in digital production
 Winning additional market share, with the Group’s new 
multi-discipline offering gaining traction with key clients 
including HSBC, Punch Taverns, Holland and Barrett 
and Johnston Press
 Contract renewals with key clients including 
Sainsbury’s, Royal Mail and Heinz
£327 .4m
Underlying revenue
*
 
201 1 : £296.8m
£24.2m
Underlying profit before tax
*
 
201 1 : £20.9m
15.61p
Underlying earnings per share
*
 
201 1 : 14.45p
5.75p
T otal dividends per share 
201 1 : 5.25p
£14.9m
Profit before tax 
201 1 : £16.9m
11.64p
Earnings per share 
201 1 : 13.22p 2 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
St Ives Group at a glance
Print Print
Publishing Publishing
Services Services
Marketing Marketing 
Solutions Solutions
Books
Monochromatic books
Distribution
Logistics
Print on demand
Inventory risk management
Locations
Bungay
London
ePublishing solutions
Location
Surrey
Direct Response
Direct mail
Digital print
Personalisation
Commercial print
Locations
Bradford
Leeds
London 
Outsourcing
Vendor management
Print management
Location
London
Our integrated business model
Reporting Segments Contribution to Group sales
(%)
Market Sector Propositions
Print
A Books 23%
B Exhibitions and Events 12%
C Point of Sale 27%
D Direct Response  24%
Marketing Services
E Data Marketing 7%*
F Field Marketing 5%
G Consultancy Services 2%**
A
B
EFG
D
C
* Response One acquired September 2011.
** Pragma and Incite acquired September 2011 
 and February 2012 respectively.
Percentages are based on continuing operations 
before non-underlying items.
We are continuing our objective to 
increase overall profit contribution 
from Marketing Services through 
acquisition and growth of businesses 
in this segment. In addition our Print 
businesses continue to perform well 
in difficult market conditions.
Our business operates in two distinct markets: Publishing Services and Marketing Solutions. St Ives’ 
growth strategy aims to develop its sector specific propositions by cultivating a range of services 
and a toolbox of delivery capabilities. 
Our Marketing Solutions offer has strengthened following the acquisitions this year of Response One, 
Pragma and Incite – all of which provide insight offerings to our clients. Our marketing services 
propositions are underpinned by key customer relationships and account management.
We manage our business as two segments: Print, which is primarily efficiency focused, and Marketing 
Services, which is growth focused. 
Integrating our services
†
Market Sector 
Propositions
Print 
Operations
Marketing 
Services 
Operations
Publishing 
Services
Marketing 
Solutions
Key Customer 
Development
For further information on our sector propositions see page 9  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3
 
Marketing Services Marketing Services
Point of Sale
Retail and brand POS
Store audits
Logistics
Digital screen media
Locations
Birmingham
Burnley
Redditch
Digital media solutions
Locations
London
Redditch
  
Business audits
Retail strategy and insight
Market research
Site surveys and 
compliance
Location
London
Online campaign 
management
Location
London
Exhibitions & Events
Visual consultancy
Graphics production
Giant media
Outdoor graphics
Exhibition and events
Display products
Sports and sponsorship 
branding
Locations
Glasgow 
London
Nottingham
Skelmersdale
Field Marketing
Field sales services
Trade marketing
Sales training
Interim management
Location
Flintshire
Consultancy 
Services
Customer insight 
consultants
Location
London
Market research
Commercial due diligence
Investor services
Location
Twickenham
Mobile marketing solutions 
Location 
London
Data Marketing
Database management
Data analysis
Data insight
Location
Chilcompton
Campaign management
Data intelligence
List and media planning
Media sales
Campaign delivery
Location
Bath
†
 St Ives holds investments in the company.
† 4 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s Statement
The 12 months to July 2012 have seen St Ives continue the 
delivery of improved financial performance coupled with  
the strategic realignment of the business.
Print remains, and will continue to remain, an important 
component of the overall business. St Ives is a leader in its 
chosen print market sectors where it enjoys a strong reputation 
for quality and delivery and where it has long established and 
strong customer relationships.
Over the last two years, we have acquired a number of 
independent and complementary marketing services 
businesses. We are investing in those businesses and will 
continue to do so, and we shall look for further opportunities to 
acquire to broaden and deepen the range of services we offer. 
We also see scope to further strengthen the collaboration 
between all of our businesses and to increase cross-selling.
St Ives now has a portfolio of service activities ranging from 
data management to retail consultancy and from tactical retail 
and brand support to market research. All these businesses 
are being integrated into St Ives.
The organisation of St Ives is changing. The touchstone for the 
new organisation is customer focus. Different customers have 
different service and print needs. The Group is evolving and 
this will continue so that we can deliver to our customers the 
right combination of print and support services to meet their 
particular needs.
“  Great efforts have been  
made to concentrate  
on those segments  
of the market where 
customers’ needs  
match our capabilities.”
Richard Stillwell
Chairman
Investing in  
our business  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
 
The board is changing as well and is dedicating more time to 
the strategic development of the business, whilst continuing  
to maintain high levels of corporate governance. Technology 
developments across a broad front mean that St Ives will have 
to analyse and understand the changing requirements of its 
customers and refresh its market offering as necessary.
The asset base in the print side of the business is now far more 
appropriate for the Group’s future needs. Here too technology 
is making a significant impact and the board will need to 
decide on future investment and sourcing options.
The Executive team under Patrick Martell’s leadership is now 
firmly established and working well. There is a recognition that 
the reshaping of the business has to be done in tandem with 
the delivery of improved financial performance.
The board recognises that further investment in new or existing 
businesses may be necessary for the long-term strength of  
the Group. If that has an impact on short or medium-term 
performance it will only be undertaken if the end result is  
value creation.
The membership of the board is evolving. Simon Marquis is 
standing down as a director at this year’s AGM having reached 
the nine year recommended maximum term of service. He has 
made an outstanding contribution to the board, particularly 
during this recent period of strategic realignment when his 
knowledge about the marketing services businesses has been 
invaluable. We shall miss his wisdom and wise counsel.
Earlier in the year the board was delighted to welcome Helen 
Stevenson as a non-executive director. She brings a wealth of 
experience in marketing related activities and we look forward 
to her contribution.
Change has characterised virtually every aspect of the 
Group’s business in the last year. That can often be disruptive 
and painful for individuals. The board recognises that and on 
their behalf I would like to thank all of St Ives’ employees for 
their support and understanding during the changes which 
have taken place. The Group is fitter and better prepared for 
the future as a result.
Our thanks also go to our customers and clients. Increasingly 
we are forming strategic partnerships with our customers 
which allow us to develop a package of products and services 
which reflect their strategic needs.
The Group is now well positioned to develop the business and 
create value for our shareholders through further investment 
and through the development of our existing portfolio.
 
Richard Stillwell
Chairman
2 October 2012 6 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
“  We are very pleased to  
report further significant 
improvement in our financial 
performance and the 
continuing success in 
delivering our strategy.”
Patrick Martell
Chief Executive
Strategic Vision and Implementation
The strategic realignment of our business has resulted in  
us building a range of complementary marketing services 
capabilities and our exit from commoditised print markets. 
Whilst our Book business, Clays, continues to provide solutions 
focused on the needs of book publishers, our other businesses 
collaborate as required to provide marketing services across  
a number of sectors, including: Retail, Financial Services, 
FMCG, Leisure and Travel, Automotive, Charity and the  
Public Sector. 
The rise in consumer power is driving a fundamental change  
in the role of marketing which will impact across all of these 
markets. The shift from push marketing to conversational 
marketing based on understanding customer needs, and 
responding accordingly, is well under way and St Ives is 
ideally positioned to help our clients meet the challenges  
this presents.
Our consultancy services are set up to help our clients better 
understand their markets and customers, and to develop future 
strategies. We have the cross media capability to execute 
these strategies physically, digitally and socially using our Print 
and Marketing Services businesses, creating a unique and 
compelling combination of services in the market place.
For example:
 In Retail we see the combination of sophisticated customer 
insight and research driving specific in-store and online 
offerings that we fulfil for the UK’s largest brands.
 In Financial Services, the drive to create engaging and 
cost-effective customer connections has never been more 
important; at St Ives we help some of the largest retail banks 
deliver more targeted multi-channel campaigns whilst at the 
same time saving expenditure on printed materials.
Expanding  
our capabilities  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7
 
 In Publishing, our strategy is to provide a range of services 
which enable our customers to profitably produce books in 
more flexible quantities and to minimise the need for, and 
risk of, holding stock. We have invested in developing our 
eBook conversion software offering during the year through 
our stake in the Easypress Group. Our ongoing investment in 
digital production will help to mitigate the impact on margin 
of shorter run lengths and we will continue to seek further 
opportunities to reduce the cost of conventional production.
We have successfully exited commoditised print markets, such 
as magazines, fine art printing and CD/DVD insert printing, 
and invested in those print businesses serving markets where 
there is a requirement for added value services in addition  
to print. Other than Clays, our book printing business, all  
other businesses in the Group now provide marketing related 
to services. Last year we stated that in three years’ time  
30% – 40% of the Group’s operating profit would come from 
Marketing Services. We are pleased with the progress made in 
the first year and we remain confident that over the period this 
remains a deliverable target.
Execution of our strategy has enabled us to improve our 
financial performance and fund acquisitions. Our focus going 
forward is to further strengthen the individual businesses and 
continue to develop broader customer propositions that utilise 
a number of the capabilities across the Group.
We will invest to support organic growth in our businesses 
whilst also seeking further acquisition opportunities to 
complement our offering. The Group has an extensive blue 
chip customer base of which it is rightly proud and we will 
continue to seek opportunities to extend the scope of services 
and products we provide to them.
Our Business Model
As the shape of our business changes, we have to adapt our 
business model.
The real power of our business comes from collaboration 
across the Group’s businesses. We have created a culture  
of involvement which is starting to show benefits, with our 
success in cross-selling and the cultural shift having broken 
down the business silos. A growing proportion of our print 
work is in collaboration with, or in support of, our Marketing 
Services activities, and we increasingly provide marketing 
services invoiced directly through our Print businesses and 
vice versa.
This means that at times the way we approach our markets 
and customers may differ from the way we manage, measure 
and report on our business segments. We need to be flexible 
and adapt the management of our organisation to reflect this 
approach, as our clients and their markets change. Our 
external approach is focused on market sectors and, in 
particular, ensuring we continue to meet the needs of our 
clients. Our internal approach is to manage our Print segment 
as cost effectively as possible and develop the growth 
opportunities within our Marketing Services businesses.
This collaboration has manifested itself in new business wins 
such as our recent engagement by Punch Taverns, a contract 
won by our Point of Sale business in conjunction with a wide 
range of our Group companies including Occam and 
Response One. These businesses will all be delivering 
services to Punch Taverns via a single contact within the  
Point of Sale business.
The effectiveness of our cross-Group collaboration is also 
demonstrated in new long-term contracts for Sainsbury’s 
Supermarkets, Sainsbury’s Bank, Royal Mail, HSBC  
and Heinz.
Strong Performance in 2011/2012
During a year of significant change across the Group we have 
once again delivered a robust financial performance. Trading 
conditions during the year continued to be very tough as the 
economic climate remained challenging and uncertain. 
Underlying Group revenue of £327.4 million was 10.3% higher 
compared to the previous year. We have again made further 
progress in improving the underlying profit before tax of the 
business to £24.2 million (2011 – £20.9 million) with underlying 
EPS increasing by 8.0% to 15.61p (2011 – 14.45p). 
The improvement in our revenue and profit performance was 
driven by growth in our Marketing Services segment.
Our Marketing Services businesses contributed 16.4% of the 
Group’s operating profit in the financial year, which would have 
been just over 20% with a full year’s contribution from Incite, 
Pragma and Response One, which were all acquired during 
the year. The integration of all the Marketing Services 
businesses is progressing well and we have invested 
approximately £1.0 million in additional staff to support  
our future growth plans.
Overall our Print businesses have performed well as a result  
of the actions we have taken to reduce costs and improve 
operational efficiencies. We benefitted both from a late surge 
in activity associated with the 2012 London Olympics and from 
our decision to cease production of company reports and CD/
DVD inserts. Our Book business performed marginally below 
the comparative prior period as a result of further reductions  
in average run lengths and higher costs associated with their 
conventional production. The new digital equipment is 
expected to become operational by November 2012.
We finished the year with net debt of £13.4 million  
(2011 – net cash of £16.3 million) after £6.5 million of restructuring 
cash outflow and investment of £27.2 million in acquisitions.
The board is recommending a final dividend of 4.00p making a 
full year dividend of 5.75p (2011 – 5.25p). If approved, the final 
dividend will be paid on 21 December 2012 to shareholders on 
the register at 30 November 2012 with an ex-dividend date of 
28 November 2012. 8 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Segment Overview
Print
Our Print segment represented 85.6% (2011 – 95.3%) of 
Group external revenue for the year. This comprises the 
Books; Exhibition and Events; Point of Sale; and Direct 
Response businesses.
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Underlying revenue 280,327 282,736
Underlying operating profit 20,442 20,870
Books
The Group’s Book business accounted for 26.8% of the 
Print segment’s revenue. Books revenue was down by 
2.7% compared to the previous year at £75.0 million 
(2011 – £77.1 million). However, book volumes increased 
by 500,000 units compared to the same period in the 
previous year as our reputation for superior levels of service 
and quality continues to ensure we produce the majority of 
the bestselling titles. The trend towards ordering smaller 
quantities has had a negative impact on profitability as the 
number of orders processed increased by 13% whilst average 
run lengths reduced by 11%. Our investment in new digital 
equipment, due to come on stream by November 2012, 
will help to mitigate this impact and ensure we are better 
positioned to capitalise on this continuing trend.
Our strategic objectives
Our objective is to build on our success to date in establishing foundations for growth by increasing sales through customer 
and market focused propositions.
Improve financial 
performance
Disposal of non-
core operations
Targeted 
investment
– Margin improved
– Magazine business sold 
–  Investment in digital 
output
–  Create new Marketing 
Services proposition
–  Senior management
replaced
Reduce cost
Strengthen
balance sheet
– Site closures
– Headcount reduction
– Capex reduced
–  Significant working
capital improvement
Completed 
“  The improvement in our 
revenue and profitability 
was driven by growth in our 
Marketing Services segment.”
 Further acquisitions and diversification to enhance marketing solutions offering
 Group managed service offering development
 Improve margin through efficiency gains  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9
 
Exhibitions and Events
Revenue of £38.2 million (2011 – £34.8 million) was 9.6% 
ahead of last year and accounted for 13.6% of the Print 
segment revenue. We experienced a significant late boost 
in activity for the 2012 London Olympics and are benefitting 
from our new modern facility in Chessington.
Point of Sale
Point of Sale material for the UK retailers and brands 
represented 31.5% of the Print segment revenue at 
£88.2 million (2011 – £85.7 million). Although the market 
remains fiercely competitive, we have increased our market 
share with some exciting new customer wins and have 
succeeded in renewing a number of our existing contracts 
against strong competition and at acceptable margins.
Direct Response
Direct Response printing accounted for 28.1% of the Print 
segment revenue. Market conditions continued to be extremely 
challenging and, after the year end, we took further action 
to reduce costs by consolidating our operations into a single 
site at Bradford, which is planned to be completed in 
December 2012.
Revenue in the Direct Response business fell compared to the 
previous year to £78.9 million (2011 – £85.1 million). However, 
the sales mix has changed significantly as a result of our 
decision to exit the markets for company reports and CD/DVD 
inserts. The combination of reduced cost base and change of 
sales mix has significantly improved the financial performance 
of this business.
Marketing Services
Marketing Services accounts for approximately 14.4% 
(2011 – 4.7%) of external revenue and includes Occam, 
Tactical Solutions and our recently acquired businesses, 
Response One, Pragma and Incite.
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Underlying revenue 47,049 14,054
Underlying operating profit 4,011 450
Data Marketing
Our Data Marketing businesses, Occam and Response One, 
represented 52.8% of Marketing Services revenue at 
£24.8 million (2011 – £6.8 million). This combined offering 
gives us a unique end-to-end proposition enabling the delivery 
of highly targeted and sophisticated communications to help 
our clients both acquire and retain customers.
Market Sector Propositions
Publishing Services:
Unrivalled for quality, service and innovation, we are 
the largest book printer in the country and exclusive 
supplier to many leading publishing houses.
Marketing Solutions:
We provide a range of marketing solutions through 
each individual business as well as the combination of 
capabilities which delivers efficient, effective marketing 
communications across a range of market sectors.
Change management
Measurement
Strategy
Execution
Insight
These services all contribute to our seamless product offering. Pages 12 to 23 provide 
a snapshot into how we are building integrated capabilities across our business.
Distribution
Consultancy
Book 
Production
eBooks
Fulfilment
Please see the Group’s website (www.st-ives.co.uk) for more information 10 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Within Incite, our strategic market research business, acquired 
in February 2012, our team of senior consultants work with 
clients to help them make decisions and initiate change 
through identifying and communicating market research 
insights. We are very pleased with the quality of the business 
and have already identified good opportunities to grow its 
offering both in the UK and overseas.
Both Pragma and Incite have potential for significant growth 
and it is our intention to invest further in these businesses 
moving forward.
Mobile Marketing
We have made a minority investment in Sponge, one of the 
UK’s leading mobile marketing agencies, allowing us to offer 
these services as the desire for cross-media campaign 
execution grows.
Outlook
St Ives’ future is in selling services which enable organisations 
and brands to improve the effectiveness of their marketing. 
We have successfully integrated the Marketing Services 
acquisitions into the Group and we are very pleased with  
how the businesses have performed to date.
As a result of the major rationalisation across our Print 
businesses, the requirement for capital expenditure is 
substantially reduced versus historic levels. Investment is  
now predominantly focused on additional staff, expertise and 
capability within the Marketing Services businesses in order to 
realise growth opportunities, extend our customer propositions 
and develop the business for the long term.
We do not expect the current extremely difficult trading 
conditions to ease. However, our market positions are strong, 
we continue to improve operational efficiencies, our financial 
position is robust and we have recently renewed our banking 
facilities. We are proposing an increased dividend and remain 
confident that further progress can be made.
We believe that the actions we have taken during the year have 
significantly improved the Group’s prospects and positioned it 
well for the future.
Patrick Martell
Chief Executive
2 October 2012
Despite the current economic climate, which has resulted  
in client budget pressure and the deferral of some larger 
database builds, we have invested in our Data Marketing 
businesses to expand their capabilities. We have also been 
successful in winning new business and in sharing customers 
and expertise across our two businesses.
Field Marketing
Our Field Marketing business, Tactical Solutions, represented 
31.7% of Marketing Services revenue at £14.9 million  
(2011 – £7.2 million). The business is one of the UK’s leading 
and fastest growing field marketing companies working with 
major brands and retailers to drive increased sales in store 
through targeted intervention.
We have invested to grow this business and have adopted  
the latest tablet-based technology to support our teams  
when working in the retail environment.
Cross-sale success between Tactical Solutions and our  
Point of Sale business is starting to see some traction, with  
a number of projects having been commissioned across a 
range of clients.
Field Marketing is a growing marketing discipline and we  
are well placed to continue to benefit from this growth.
Consultancy Services
Our Consultancy Services businesses, Pragma and Incite, 
represented 15.5% of Marketing Services revenue at  
£7.3 million (2011 – £nil).
Pragma is a leading consultancy firm which specialises in retail 
and consumer markets; since its acquisition in September 
2011 the business has integrated well and made an excellent 
contribution to the Group.
“  We have successfully 
integrated the Marketing 
Services acquisitions into  
the Group and we are very 
pleased with how the 
businesses have performed 
to date.”  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
 
Key Performance Indicators
At the heart of current and future success of the business is evaluating the Key Performance Indicators, allowing us 
to measure and manage each segment against expectations. Each year targets are set and monitored to ensure we 
continue to build on our success to date.
Integrating our capabilities
As an organisation covering many businesses, our future success will be built on continuing to deliver successful 
solutions for our clients based on the integrated capabilities across the Group. Here are some examples of our 
client work this year.
0
75
150
225
300
2012 2011 2010
Underlying revenue
(£m)
280.3
290.5
282.7
0
5
10
15
20
2012 2011 2010
Underlying operating profit
(£m)
20.4
19.0
20.9
Print
*
0
10
20
30
40
50
2012 2011 2010
Underlying revenue
(£m)
47.1
0.9
14.1
-1.0
0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
2012 2011 2010
Underlying operating profit
(£m)
4.0
(0.2)
0.4
Marketing Services
*
-8
-4
0
4
8
12
2012 2011 2010
Underlying revenue growth
(%)
10.3
(6.5)
1.8
0
2
4
6
8
2012 2011 2010
Underlying operating margin
(%)
7.5
6.4
7.2
Group
*
* Continuing operations before non-underlying items.
0
5
10
15
20
2012 2011 2010
Underlying earnings 
per share
*
 (p)
15.61
11.83
14.45
0
2
4
6
8
2012 2011 2010
Total dividends per share
(p)
5.75
3.50
5.25
12 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
Sainsbury’s was founded in 1869 by John 
James Sainsbury and his wife Mary Ann 
Sainsbury in London and has grown to 
become one of the UK’s largest retailers.
Building integrated capabilities:
Engaging
customers
for Sainsbury’s
Challenge Supermarket shopping, as with all retail, is going through difficult times. The combination of shifting demographics, the recession and the impact of online shopping has made the need to engage customers in-store even more important. The retailers who survive will be those who use their stores effectively, but also provide a cross-media model for shoppers.
Solution St Ives works closely with Sainsbury’s to deliver engaging in-store and point of sale material, as well as providing customer campaign execution to ensure that the long-term relationships with customers are maintained. This includes direct marketing through mail and email. For example during the autumn of 2011, a ‘New Look & Feel’ was designed, produced and installed into four key new development stores around the UK.
Result By providing a much clearer definition of product categories within each aisle, using new materials, colours and fonts, the existing look was transformed. The overall impact on the store was very different and very well received. The ‘New Look & Feel’ has been so successful that it has now become business as usual for all new store developments since June 2012.
Cross-selling for St Ives
Execution
St Ives Direct printed all Sainsbury’s direct mail campaigns from local marketing to UK-wide customer communications.
Response One provided data cleaning and email execution.
SP and Service Graphics provided in-store point of sale material across the entire estate.
Tactical Solutions called in 350 stores every week for a variety of brands, driving new product launches and assuring availability.
Change Management
Forward Thinking provided a wide variety of consultancy services including compliance audits, competitor reviews and store surveys.
Connected Thinking delivered technology including datastore.
For further information on our Business model see page 9
The changing nature of our Group allows us to provide increased capability to our clients across the key marketing disciplines.
 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 14 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
HSBC is a multinational banking and 
financial services company headquartered 
in London. It is the world’s second-largest 
banking and financial services group with 
some 7,200 offices in 85 countries and 
territories across Africa, Asia, Europe, North 
America and South America and around 
89 million customers worldwide.
Building integrated capabilities:
Direct solutions 
for HSBC
Challenge As a large multinational organisation working across a range of products and services in many geographical areas, keeping track and managing efficiency in marketing campaigns is very challenging. HSBC knew there were inefficiencies in their communications, whether direct or in branch, but how to drive these inefficiencies out – and save money – was a major concern.
Solution St Ives started by understanding the challenge; it was essential to understand existing processes to implement changes. Having defined the current state, St Ives worked with HSBC to review and refine processes across the full marketing spectrum. The Connected Thinking team implemented our DNA Workflow & Tracking modules, enabling HSBC to directly enter print brief details, request quotations and place orders for direct mail campaigns, all online. 
Result The direct result was money saved, reduced end to end campaign times; efficient re-ordering management and re-use of assets; increased accuracy when monitoring performance against KPIs; and better targeting and consistency in media usage across all HSBC brands, including First Direct and M&S Money. 
Cross selling for HSBC
Insight
Occam built a small database to manage campaign response tracking.
Execution
St Ives Direct printed and executed direct mail campaigns.
Service Graphics provided high profile ad hoc projects including exhibition and internal display projects as well as airport branding.
SP provided in-branch point-of-sale material.
Change Management
Forward Thinking delivered monthly competitor reviews, store surveys and provided the transition management from HSBC’s previous partner.
Connected Thinking used DNA for a number of technology based projects to ensure consistent execution and management of campaigns and assets.
For further information on our Business model see page 9
The changing nature of our Group allows us to provide increased capability to our clients across the key marketing disciplines.
 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 16 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
As the largest pub and bar operator in the United Kingdom, 
with around 5,000 pubs nationwide, Punch Taverns aims 
to become the UK’s highest quality, most trusted and best 
value leased pub company. 
Building integrated capabilities:
Serving an 
integrated 
Punch
Challenge The British pub is an institution under threat. The trading environment for pubs and bars has become increasingly challenging over recent years, because of changes in the law, the recession and food price inflation.
Punch Taverns are looking to buck these trends. Plans are in place to open more pubs, whilst the running of existing pubs will be more tailored to customers’ needs. A bespoke marketing programme, covering all pubs is needed.
Solution Punch Taverns knew it needed a more integrated approach. St Ives is able to offer a one stop solution, utilising the expertise of a number of its businesses. Far from just focusing on print, the account, managed by SP, encompasses the development of bespoke communications packages for each pub, plus on-demand design and print of locally required materials such as menus to ensure consistency of brand messages.
Result As a brand new piece of business for St Ives, we are still working towards the end results. However, by combining capabilities from across the Group, we are very confident that we can provide an integrated solution that will allow Punch to develop bespoke solutions, at pub level, to engage and retain customers. 
Cross selling for Punch Taverns This account is managed by SP but, with such a complex account, a number of other additional St Ives businesses have been engaged.
Insight
Response One and Occam will manage data campaigns for the client.
Execution
In addition to SP, Sponge will provide SMS solutions. In the future there is also potential to incorporate digital signage in Punch’s pubs.
Change Management
Connected Thinking, which specialises in online campaign management, is devising an automated art working system.
For further information on our Business model see page 9
The changing nature of our Group allows us to provide increased capability to our clients across the key marketing disciplines.
 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 18 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Bacardi is the 
largest privately-held, 
family-owned spirits 
company in the world. 
Its brand portfolio 
comprises more 
than 200 brands 
and labels, including 
the eponymous 
Bacardi rum.
Building integrated capabilities:
Attracting 
new customers 
for Bacardi
Challenge Persuading drinkers to change brand or try something new is never easy. To cut through the noise in the retail/leisure environment, it is essential to be eye-catching and engaging, with the adaptability to react to current trends. 
Solution St Ives worked to create innovative, high impact material ranging from static displays to digital pricing and posters. SP and Tactical Solutions designed, built and deployed point of sale material in store and on premise. 
Result Sales were increased for both on and off trade. The provision of staff to deliver and deploy this material means it reaches the customer quickly and end to end implementation time is reduced.
Cross selling for Bacardi
Execution
SP provided in store point of sale material.
St Ives Digital Media provided electronic point of sale and advertising including shelf edge pricing displays.
Tactical Solutions ensured that the project was managed by one team, removing additional organisation from the client. This also created logistical cost savings as all items were fulfilled in one place.
For further information on our Business model see page 9
The changing nature of our Group allows us to provide increased capability to our clients across the key marketing disciplines. 12 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Sainsbury’s was founded in 1869 by John 
James Sainsbury and his wife Mary Ann 
Sainsbury in London and has grown to 
become one of the UK’s largest retailers.
Building integrated capabilities:
Engaging
customers
for Sainsbury’s
Challenge
Supermarket shopping, 
as with all retail, is going 
through difficult times. 
The combination of shifting 
demographics, the recession 
and the impact of online 
shopping has made the need 
to engage customers in-store 
even more important. The 
retailers who survive will be 
those who use their stores 
effectively, but also provide 
a cross-media model 
for shoppers.  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
Solution
St Ives works closely 
with Sainsbury’s to deliver 
engaging in-store and point 
of sale material, as well as 
providing customer campaign 
execution to ensure that the 
long-term relationships with 
customers are maintained. 
This includes direct marketing 
through mail and email. For 
example during the autumn 
of 2011, a ‘New Look & Feel’ 
was designed, produced 
and installed into four key 
new development stores 
around the UK.
Result
By providing a much 
clearer definition of product 
categories within each aisle, 
using new materials, colours 
and fonts, the existing look 
was transformed. The overall 
impact on the store was 
very different and very well 
received. The ‘New Look & 
Feel’ has been so successful 
that it has now become 
business as usual for all new 
store developments since 
June 2012.
Cross-selling for St Ives
Execution
St Ives Direct printed all 
Sainsbury’s direct mail 
campaigns from local 
marketing to UK-wide 
customer communications.
Response One provided 
data cleaning and 
email execution.
SP and Service Graphics 
provided in-store point of 
sale material across the 
entire estate.
Tactical Solutions 
called in 350 stores 
every week for a variety 
of brands, driving new 
product launches and 
assuring availability.
Change Management
Forward Thinking 
provided a wide 
variety of consultancy 
services including 
compliance audits, 
competitor reviews 
and store surveys.
Connected Thinking 
delivered technology 
including datastore.
For further information on our 
Business model see page 9
The changing nature of our 
Group allows us to provide 
increased capability to our 
clients across the key 
marketing disciplines. 14 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
HSBC is a multinational banking and 
financial services company headquartered 
in London. It is the world’s second-largest 
banking and financial services group with 
some 7,200 offices in 85 countries and 
territories across Africa, Asia, Europe, North 
America and South America and around 
89 million customers worldwide.
Building integrated capabilities:
Direct solutions 
for HSBC
Challenge
As a large multinational 
organisation working 
across a range of products 
and services in many 
geographical areas, keeping 
track and managing efficiency 
in marketing campaigns is 
very challenging. HSBC knew 
there were inefficiencies in 
their communications, whether 
direct or in branch, but how to 
drive these inefficiencies out 
– and save money – was a 
major concern.  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
Solution
St Ives started by 
understanding the challenge; 
it was essential to understand 
existing processes to 
implement changes. Having 
defined the current state, 
St Ives worked with HSBC to 
review and refine processes 
across the full marketing 
spectrum. The Connected 
Thinking team implemented 
our DNA Workflow & Tracking 
modules, enabling HSBC 
to directly enter print brief 
details, request quotations 
and place orders for direct 
mail campaigns, all online. 
Result
The direct result was money 
saved, reduced end to end 
campaign times; efficient 
re-ordering management and 
re-use of assets; increased 
accuracy when monitoring 
performance against KPIs; 
and better targeting and 
consistency in media usage 
across all HSBC brands, 
including First Direct and 
M&S Money. 
Cross selling for HSBC
Insight
Occam built a small database 
to manage campaign 
response tracking.
Execution
St Ives Direct printed 
and executed direct 
mail campaigns.
Service Graphics provided 
high profile ad hoc projects 
including exhibition and 
internal display projects 
as well as airport branding.
SP provided in-branch 
point-of-sale material.
Change Management
Forward Thinking 
delivered monthly 
competitor reviews, 
store surveys and 
provided the transition 
management from 
HSBC’s previous partner.
Connected Thinking 
used DNA for a number 
of technology based 
projects to ensure 
consistent execution 
and management of 
campaigns and assets.
For further information on our 
Business model see page 9
The changing nature of our 
Group allows us to provide 
increased capability to our 
clients across the key 
marketing disciplines. 16 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
As the largest pub and bar operator in the United Kingdom, 
with around 5,000 pubs nationwide, Punch Taverns aims 
to become the UK’s highest quality, most trusted and best 
value leased pub company. 
Building integrated capabilities:
Serving an 
integrated 
Punch
Challenge
The British pub is an institution 
under threat. The trading 
environment for pubs and 
bars has become increasingly 
challenging over recent years, 
because of changes in the 
law, the recession and food 
price inflation.
Punch Taverns are looking to 
buck these trends. Plans are 
in place to open more pubs, 
whilst the running of existing 
pubs will be more tailored to 
customers’ needs. A bespoke 
marketing programme, 
covering all pubs is needed.  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17
Solution
Punch Taverns knew it 
needed a more integrated 
approach. St Ives is able 
to offer a one stop solution, 
utilising the expertise of a 
number of its businesses. 
Far from just focusing on 
print, the account, managed 
by SP, encompasses the 
development of bespoke 
communications packages 
for each pub, plus on-demand 
design and print of locally 
required materials such as 
menus to ensure consistency 
of brand messages.
Result
As a brand new piece of 
business for St Ives, we are 
still working towards the 
end results. However, by 
combining capabilities from 
across the Group, we are very 
confident that we can provide 
an integrated solution that 
will allow Punch to develop 
bespoke solutions, at pub 
level, to engage and 
retain customers. 
Cross selling for 
Punch Taverns
This account is managed by 
SP but, with such a complex 
account, a number of other 
additional St Ives businesses 
have been engaged.
Insight
Response One and Occam 
will manage data campaigns 
for the client.
Execution
In addition to SP, 
Sponge will provide SMS 
solutions. In the future 
there is also potential 
to incorporate digital 
signage in Punch’s pubs.
Change Management
Connected Thinking, 
which specialises 
in online campaign 
management, is 
devising an automated 
art working system.
For further information on our 
Business model see page 9
The changing nature of our 
Group allows us to provide 
increased capability to our 
clients across the key 
marketing disciplines. 18 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Bacardi is the 
largest privately-held, 
family-owned spirits 
company in the world. 
Its brand portfolio 
comprises more 
than 200 brands 
and labels, including 
the eponymous 
Bacardi rum.
Building integrated capabilities:
Attracting 
new customers 
for Bacardi  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19
Challenge
Persuading drinkers to 
change brand or try 
something new is never 
easy. To cut through the 
noise in the retail/leisure 
environment, it is essential
to be eye-catching and 
engaging, with the 
adaptability to react 
to current trends. 
Solution
St Ives worked to create 
innovative, high impact 
material ranging from static 
displays to digital pricing 
and posters. SP and Tactical 
Solutions designed, built 
and deployed point of sale 
material in store and 
on premise. 
Result
Sales were increased for 
both on and off trade. The 
provision of staff to deliver 
and deploy this material 
means it reaches the 
customer quickly and end 
to end implementation time 
is reduced.
Cross selling for Bacardi
Execution
SP provided in store point 
of sale material.
St Ives Digital Media 
provided electronic point 
of sale and advertising 
including shelf edge 
pricing displays.
Tactical Solutions ensured 
that the project was 
managed by one team, 
removing additional 
organisation from the 
client. This also created 
logistical cost savings as 
all items were fulfilled in 
one place.
For further information on our 
Business model see page 9
The changing nature of our 
Group allows us to provide 
increased capability to our 
clients across the key 
marketing disciplines. 20 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Carphone Warehouse is a UK based company, established in 1989. With 
over 1,700 stores across Europe, Carphone Warehouse is Europe’s largest 
independent mobile phone retailer.
Building integrated capabilities:
Serving customers for 
Carphone Warehouse
Challenge
The world of mobile 
technology is fast 
moving, demanding 
and consumer driven. 
Carphone Warehouse 
realised that an effective 
multi-channel strategy 
was vital to its success 
and commissioned Incite 
to develop and align 
their strategy with a 
consumer Pathways 
to Purchase study.
Solution
Incite carried out a multi-
stage qualitative and 
quantitative research 
programme, which identified 
and sized the commercial 
opportunity for the key 
journeys that consumers 
take. This highlighted how 
Carphone Warehouse 
needed to engage with 
and serve their customers 
across all key touchpoints. 
Result
In utilising this truly customer-
centric approach to mobile 
technology, Carphone 
Warehouse gained insight 
into creating real relationships 
with their customers. Whilst 
the programme provided a 
means to harmonise and 
optimise each customer 
journey, it also went deeper 
to inform messaging and 
in-situ tactical execution.
What we provide
Strategy
Incite conducted large 
quantitative usage and 
attitude-type surveys 
across various markets, 
exploring its brand 
architecture and 
opportunities for growth. 
For further information on our 
Business model see page 9
The changing nature of our 
Group allows us to provide 
increased capability to our 
clients across the key 
marketing disciplines.  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21
Established in 1860, Battersea Dogs & Cats Home is the UK’s oldest and most 
famous home for dogs and cats. It is situated in the Battersea area of London 
and is financed by voluntary donations.
Building integrated capabilities:
Targeting strategy for 
Battersea Dogs & Cats Home
Challenge
Battersea Dogs & Cats 
Home reunites lost 
dogs and cats with their 
owners, or gives them 
shelter and the highest 
standards of veterinary 
care until new homes 
can be found. The 
charity relies heavily 
on the continued 
generosity of long-term, 
loyal supporters.
Solution
Response One envisaged 
a new customer acquisition 
programme, empowering 
the charity to translate the 
existing insight they had about 
their loyal supporters into a 
targeting strategy, to find the 
most long-term, valuable 
supporters for the charity. 
Result
The campaign exceeded all 
targets with a 27% increase 
in response against budget 
and a 24% increase in income 
against target.
“We are delighted with 
the results”, says Maddy 
Eastwood, Direct Marketing 
Manager Fundraising.
What we provide
Insight, strategy 
and execution
Response One provide 
data analysis, planning 
services and e-mail 
campaign execution.
For further information on our 
Business model see page 9
The changing nature of our 
Group allows us to provide 
increased capability to our 
clients across the key 
marketing disciplines. 22 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Founded in 1935, Jessops is the United Kingdom’s largest specialist 
photographic retailer, with over 200 shops across the country.
Building integrated capabilities:
Business development 
for Jessops
Challenge
Pragma carried out a 
business plan review 
and a brand development 
strategy for Jessops. A 
review of all the options 
for the business had to 
be executed rapidly 
due to the challenging 
market conditions that 
Jessops faced.
Solution
Pragma’s review identified a 
game-changing proposition 
that could be implemented 
without further lending or 
shareholder investment. 
Crucial recommendations 
were made regarding 
Jessops’ future trading 
position to secure the 
successful future of 
the company.
Result
Jessops saw an EBITDA 
increase of 30%, to £5.7m, 
due to strong cost control 
and margin improvement. 
Total sales rose to £236.8m 
and like-for-like sales 
increased by 1.3%.
What we provide
Strategy
Pragma Consulting 
provided a strategic 
overview based on 
market insight and 
consumer understanding 
that helped grow a well 
loved high street brand.
For further information on our 
Business model see page 9
The changing nature of our 
Group allows us to provide 
increased capability to our 
clients across the key 
marketing disciplines.  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23
Clays were delighted to win the order from Little, Brown, to produce and 
distribute JK Rowling’s new novel, ‘The Casual Vacancy’. 
Publishing Services:
Keeping it under wraps!
Challenge
Due to the intense interest 
surrounding this title, 
security was extremely 
high. It was essential that 
no part of this book was 
leaked before it was 
released on 8am on 
27 September.
Solution
Clays not only printed the 
book but also managed the 
despatch of The Casual 
Vacancy to retail destinations 
throughout the UK and 
worldwide, all within the very 
stringent pre-publication 
security requirements.
Result
Heavy supermarket promotion 
was always going to be a 
major element of the book 
launch and Clays were asked 
to supply Tesco UK stores with 
ready-packed promotional 
pallet bins which were 
carefully prepared at Clays’ 
on-site distribution centre. 
For further information on our 
Business model see page 9
The bins were erected 
and filled with books 
before being securely 
wrapped and despatched 
direct to Tesco’s 
distribution centres for 
onward delivery to stores
in time for the launch date.
The changing nature of our 
Group allows us to provide 
increased capability to our 
clients across the key 
marketing disciplines. 24 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate and Social Responsibility
“ St Ives is committed to 
operating in a socially 
responsible and 
ethical manner.”
Richard Stillwell
Chairman
53%
Reduction in energy 
consumption
201 1 : 3%
33%
Reduction in total water 
consumption
201 1 : 5%
£43,339
In charitable donations
201 1 : £16,031
A focused approach
The board recognises that, in managing the Group’s activities, 
it has responsibilities to a broad range of stakeholders.
In this report we outline how we seek to meet these responsibilities 
and measure the Group’s performance, now and in the future.
CSR focus
1
Customers 
and 
suppliers
3
Charitable and 
political 
donations
4
Shareholder 
relations
5
Environment
6
Health 
and 
Safety
2
Employees  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25
 
1  Customers and suppliers
We aim to utilise our production facilities, 
the skills of our employees and suppliers to 
benefit our customers. In our dealings with 
customers, we adhere to an Ethical T rading 
Policy. The Group’s approach for retaining 
customers is to deliver consistency and 
reliability of service and quality: no 
customer is tied in to an agreement that 
cannot be terminated in the event of 
under-performance.
It is the Group’s practice to agree payment 
terms with all suppliers, which will be 
adhered to, provided that they perform 
in accordance with the agreed terms. 
What we are doing
All subsidiaries report on how they manage 
their relationships with key customers. Their 
managing directors have signed up to the 
Group’s Anti-corruption and Bribery Policy 
which, together with the Ethical T rading 
Policy , is publicised to all employees. 
The Group deals with its customers and 
suppliers on an arm’s length, commercial, 
basis. It is a disciplinary offence for 
any employee to breach the Group’s 
Anti-corruption and Bribery Policy in their 
dealings with customers and suppliers. 
Payment terms granted to customers are 
negotiated according to the amount at 
risk and the financial strength of the 
customer concerned. 
How we are performing
The average creditor days outstanding 
at 27 July 2012 for the Group and the 
Company were 66 and 56 days, 
respectively (201 1 – 83 and 56 days). 
The Company Secretary maintains a 
Bribery Risk Register and the board reviews 
this annually , together with a report from the 
Head of Internal Audit and the Company 
Secretary on how the Group’s Anti-
corruption and Bribery Policy has been 
applied during the year .
2 Employees
The Group is an Equal Opportunities 
Employer and no job applicant or employee 
receives less favourable treatment on the 
grounds of age, sex, marital status, race, 
colour , religion or belief. Individuals with 
disabilities, whether registered disabled or 
not, receive full and fair consideration for 
all job vacancies to which they are suited. 
Employees who subsequently become 
disabled will be retained in employment 
wherever possible and will be given help with 
necessary rehabilitation and retraining and 
procedures or equipment suitably modified 
to make full use of an individual’s ability . 
What we are doing
The Group seeks to pay its employees 
competitive remuneration packages and 
incentives. We operate a Dignity at Work 
Policy to ensure that the Company and its 
subsidiaries provide a working environment 
free from harassment and bullying and in 
which employees do not behave in a 
manner which may be offensive to others. 
Our employees are regularly consulted 
by local managers and are kept informed 
of matters affecting them and the overall 
development of the Group. This is 
supplemented by regular email and other 
communications to staff from the board on 
how the Group is performing, plans for the 
future and how individuals can contribute 
to achieving the Group’s aims. 
Details of the Group’s pension schemes are 
set out on page 39 and in note 25 to the 
financial statements.
How we are performing
We measure voluntary employee turnover , 
sickness absence and absence from work 
due to accidents. Each subsidiary applies 
appraisal systems relevant to their business 
and identifies training needs, as they arise.
3  Charitable and 
political donations
As in prior years, the Group has made 
donations to registered charities. Generally , 
the Group supports smaller charities, where 
even a modest donation can make a big 
difference. Donations can be financial or 
the provision of time and material to provide 
added value services for charities.
What we are doing
The Group supports charities in four ways. 
The first way is to set and then donate 
an annual budget to charities serving 
communities in which the Group operates 
or to which employees or customers have 
a particular affinity; the second is by 
matching contributions made by the 
Chairman from foregoing a proportion 
of his fees, to registered charities that he 
nominates; and the third is to adopt a 
particular charitable project each year . This 
year the charity adopted was ‘Face Britain’ , 
developed by the Prince’s T rust. Finally , 
individual subsidiaries support initiatives 
of the kind undertaken by Occam for 
Children’s Hospice South West.
How we are performing
The Group made charitable donations of 
£43,339 during the year (201 1 – £16,031) to 
a wide spectrum of charities, including ACE 
Centre Advisory T rust, which offers help 
and support to individuals with complex 
physical and communication difficulties, 
and their carers, and contributions to a 
number of local Hospices. 
The Group has never made donations to any 
political party and the board has no intention 
to seek shareholders’ approval to permit the 
board to make political donations.
Occam’s employees were invited to nominate charities of their choice to benefit from 
their fund raising activities in 201 1. The most popular nominations were then put to the 
vote and, by an over-whelming majority , the Children’s Hospice South West was 
selected, having a Hospice relatively local to Occam’s site and which struck a 
particular chord with them.
A charity committee was formed and it soon set its aims for the campaign: to donate at 
least £10,000 to the Hospice and to engage as many people as possible in fund 
raising, by being as creative as possible to maximise interest in the project. Launching 
as many fun events as it could – large and small – the committee ensured that the 
campaign was constantly in everyone’s minds and that a steady supply of donations 
was made, resulting in the presentation, in December 201 1, of a final cheque to the 
Hospice to take the total donated to £13,590. 26 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate and Social Responsibility continued
4  Shareholder relations
The board attaches considerable 
importance to maintaining good 
relationships with shareholders. Effective 
two-way communication with institutional 
shareholders and analysts is established 
through regular presentations involving 
the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial 
Officer . Major shareholders are given 
the opportunity to meet with senior 
non-executive directors. 
What we are doing
The board receives an investor relations 
report at each of its regular meetings. The 
Chief Executive and the Chief Financial 
Officer conduct bi-annual analysts’ 
briefings and, where appropriate, meet 
with the Company’s major shareholders 
to further explain the Group’s investment 
proposition. The Group’s website, 
including its Investor Relations area, 
has been updated during the year .
How we are performing
The Company’s top 20 shareholders hold 
approximately 68% of the Company’s 
issued share capital. Y ear on year , we 
have seen little change in the make-up of 
our major shareholders. Those in the top 
20 which have an obligation to notify the 
Company of their voting interests are 
shown on page 38. 
The Annual General Meeting is regarded 
as an opportunity to communicate directly 
with shareholders and the chairmen of the 
Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees will each be available at the 
meeting to answer shareholders’ questions.
5 Environment
St Ives is committed to continuously 
improving its environmental performance 
and ranks its responsibilities with regard to 
environmental protection equally with its 
other key business objectives. The board 
is responsible for setting the Group’s 
Environmental Policy.
What we are doing
We continually monitor and attempt to 
reduce the Group’s overall energy 
consumption, emissions from energy , waste 
sent to landfill and water consumption, and 
the board receives monthly reports 
on environmental initiatives and any 
issues arising.
Businesses in our Print segment apply an 
ISO14001 :2004 – certified environmental 
management system to manage their 
performance against the Group’s KPIs on 
the basis of their consumption per square 
metre of substrate used.
The Group’s new headquarters and the 
Marketing Services businesses are office 
environments and their activities have 
minimal effect on the environment. 
Nevertheless, we apply good house-
keeping practices such as segregating 
waste for recycling and using timers and 
low voltage lighting where practicable. 
How we are performing
The Group’s overall performance, year on 
year shows significant reductions in energy 
and water consumption, primarily due to 
site closures and the disposal of the 
Magazine business in April last year . 
The Print segment also made pleasing year 
on year improvements against its KPIs, due 
in the main to improved efficiencies in its 
print production processes. Its customers 
have the final decision on which substrate 
they wish their work to be printed and, 
indeed, many of the larger book publishers 
prefer to supply their own paper for use in 
producing their work. 
The Group’s overall performance and the 
Print segment’s performance during 2012 
and the previous two years are set out in 
the charts opposite. Full details are set out in 
the Group’s Environmental Performance 
Report which will be made available on 
the Group’s website (www.st-ives.co.uk) 
from 26 October 2012.
6  Health and Safety
The board regards the health and safety 
of the Group’s employees while they are 
at work as a pre-eminent duty.
What we are doing
The board ensures that responsibilities for 
health and safety are properly assigned, 
accepted and fulfilled within the 
organisation. The board’s Health and Safety 
Statement, which sets out its approach to 
health and safety , is publicised at all of the 
Group’s sites. Each business has in place 
its own Health and Safety Policy which has 
been adapted to the specific nature of 
its operations. 
The first item on the parent board’s meeting 
agenda is to receive a report on:
 the circumstances of any accidents 
resulting in three days’ or more absence 
and management action taken as 
a result;
 monthly and cumulative statistics on 
the total number of working days lost 
from all accidents, ‘RIDDORs’ and 
‘near miss’ incidents;
 the cumulative incident rate, by 
business, of three days’ or more 
absence events; and
 Group initiatives for improving 
health and safety performance.
How we are performing
The total number of accidents at the Group’s 
sites for the year ended 27 July 2012 which 
resulted in at least three days’ absence 
each was 14 (201 1 – 1 7) and the number of 
days’ work lost from all accidents at work 
was 1 76 days (201 1 – 230). These data 
relate to the Company’s subsidiaries at 
27 July 2012. The number of ‘near miss’ 
events recorded was 2, 167 (201 1 – 1,704).
A copy of the Group’s Health and Safety 
Policy and performance data for 2012/2013 
will be made available on the Group’s 
website (www.st-ives.co.uk) from 
26 October 2012.  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27
 
The ‘Face Britain’ project was developed by the Prince’s T rust Foundation for Children & 
The Arts and was officially awarded the Guinness World Records ™ title for ‘Most artists 
working on the same art installation’ .
Over 200,000 children and young people created self-portraits which were then 
combined to form an image of HM The Queen that was projected on to Buckingham 
Palace for three nights in April 2012, to coincide with Her Majesty’s birth date. St Ives 
was proud to support the project’s development by donating its technical expertise, 
hands-on support – with the mass mail-out facility to every school in the UK – and the 
print production of a wide and complex range of resource and display materials.
As a result of support from St Ives and other contributors, ‘Face Britain’ raised a lot of 
money , raised the profile of the charity and got many youngsters interested in art for 
the first time.
Group Environmental Key Performance Indicators
Print Environmental Key Performance Indicators
0
30
60
90
120
150
2012 2011 2010
53
145
115
Total energy consumption
(million KWHr)
0.0
0.3
0.6
0.9
1.2
2012 2011 2010
Waste sent to landfill
(grams per square metre of substrate)
0.93
1.10
1.14
0
15
30
45
60
2012 2011 2010
Total emissions from energy
(thousand tonnes CO
2
)
34
57
46
0
15
30
45
60
2012 2011 2010
Water consumption
(millilitres per square metre of substrate)
45
57 57
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
2012 2011 2010
Total waste sent to landfill
(tonnes)
1,510
2,264
2,006
0.000
0.008
0.016
0.024
0.032
0.040
2012 2011 2010
Energy consumption
(KWHr per square metre of substrate)
 Total energy used per square metre
 Electricity used per square metre
 Gas used per square metre
0.037
0.009
0.027
0.038
0.011
0.027
0.034
0.008
0.026
0
30
60
90
120
2012 2011 2010
Total water consumption
(thousand cubic metres)
69
109
103
Richard Stillwell
Chairman
2 October 2012 28 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Review
Overview of revenue
Underlying revenue for the Group from continuing operations 
increased by £30.6 million (10.3%) to £327.4 million. Revenue 
of £25.2 million is included for Response One, Pragma and 
Incite, all acquired during the year.
Revenue from the Print segment decreased by £2.4 million 
(0.9%). Revenue decreased by 2.7% in the Books business  
but market share increased. Exhibitions and Events revenue 
increased by 9.6% and was helped by a late surge in 
Olympics related work towards the end of the year. Revenue 
for the Point of Sale business increased by £2.5 million (2.9%) 
but Direct Response revenue declined by 7.3%, due to 
planned reductions in capacity and our exit from  
unprofitable markets.
Revenue for the Marketing Services segment increased 
significantly due to the acquisitions of Response One,  
Pragma and Incite during the year.
From a geographical point of view, 96.6% (2011 – 95.8%) of 
our Print and Marketing Services’ revenue is generated within 
the UK.
Gross profit margin and underlying profitability
Underlying gross profit margin has increased from 26.8% to 
27.4%. Despite the revenue decline within the Print segment, 
gross margins in the segment were broadly maintained due to 
improved work mix, lower levels of outsourced work, improved 
production efficiencies, successful procurement initiatives  
and the labour cost reductions resulting from restructuring 
activities. Gross margins within the Marketing Services 
segment are significantly higher than those within the Print 
segment and therefore the growth of this segment has led  
to the overall improvement in margin at Group level.
Underlying selling and administrative overheads increased by 
£7.1 million driven by new acquisitions and investment within 
the Marketing Services businesses of £8.5 million, partially 
offset by restructuring related overhead reductions within  
the Print segment.
As a result of these management actions, underlying profit 
before taxation for the Group from continuing operations 
increased from £20.9 million to £24.2 million (7.0% to 7.4%  
of revenue).
Non-underlying items
The Group has undergone further restructuring during the  
year in order to mitigate the effects of the economic downturn, 
remove excess capacity, exit unprofitable markets and 
improve operating performance.
The £9.3 million net charge before tax (2011 – £4.0 million) 
relates to: redundancy, asset impairment and other 
restructuring related costs (net of associated asset disposals) 
within our Direct Response, Point of Sale, Exhibition and 
Events and Data Marketing businesses of £5.9 million; 
acquisition related transaction costs of £1.4 million; and the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles of £3.7 million; partially 
offset by a reduction in estimated acquisition related deferred 
consideration of £1.7 million.
Balance sheet
The Consolidated Balance Sheet has strengthened with net 
assets increasing to £146.8 million (2011 – £136.6 million).  
The movement reflects the profit after taxation of £13.3 million; 
dividends of £5.8 million; actuarial losses on the defined 
benefits pension scheme (net of deferred tax) of £9.2 million; 
and the impact of the issue of shares of £11.9 million.
Net debt
Net debt increased during the year from a cash balance  
of £16.3 million to a net debt position of £13.4 million. The 
increase in debt was entirely growth-driven: partly due to the 
acquisitions of Response One, Pragma and Incite and partly 
due to the working capital requirements associated with a 
number of large contract wins and renewals.
In May 2012, the Group concluded a new £55.0 million 
committed revolving multicurrency credit agreement  
which expires on 31 October 2015. 
“  Underlying revenue has 
increased by £30.6 million and 
underlying profit before tax by 
£3.3 million. The total dividend 
has increased by 9.5% to  
5.75 pence per share.”
Matt Armitage
Chief Financial Officer  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29
 
Capital expenditure and depreciation
Capital expenditure in cash flow terms on property, plant  
and equipment, together with additions to intangible assets, 
other than in the context of acquisitions, was £7.0 million  
(2011 – £8.9 million) and cash receipts from asset disposals 
were £4.9 million (2011 – £9.3 million). Depreciation, 
amortisation and impairments charged in the year were  
£13.2 million (2011 – £35.0 million which included a  
£13.5 million impairment charge in respect of the  
disposed Magazine printing business). 
The Group’s businesses are very well invested and they  
are therefore able to operate at reduced levels of capital 
expenditure versus historic levels without any deterioration  
in competitive advantage. The Group will, however, continue  
to invest in those businesses that present opportunities  
for growth.
Acquisitions
On 14 September 2011, the Group acquired Response One 
Holdings Limited, one of the UK’s leading data marketing 
companies. The total consideration payable for the business, 
net of cash acquired, was £18.4 million.
On 20 September 2011, the Group acquired Pragma Holdings 
Limited, a leading specialist retail and consumer strategy 
consultancy. The total consideration payable for the business, 
net of cash acquired, was £4.5 million.
On 28 February 2012, the Group acquired Incite Marketing 
Planning Limited, an industry leading consumer research 
consultancy. The total consideration payable for the business, 
net of cash acquired, was £14.2 million.
During the year the Group also invested, on a minority basis, in 
Easypress Group Limited (formerly EvolvedGroup), a provider 
of eBook conversion software, and Sponge Limited, a provider 
of mobile marketing solutions.
Tax
The Group’s tax rate on underlying profit before tax was 26.1% 
(2011 – 27.6%).
The non-underlying tax credit of £4.7 million (2011 – £2.7 million) 
relates to the non-underlying items and the revaluation of 
deferred tax liabilities following the substantial enactment of  
the reduction in the corporation tax rate from 25% to 23%.
Dividends
The board is recommending a final dividend of 4.00p, bringing  
the total dividend for the year to 5.75p, resulting in an underlying 
dividend cover of 2.6 times.
The Group remains cash-generative with a modest level of 
debt at the end of the financial year. Distributable retained 
earnings in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at 27 July 2012 
were £74.0 million (2011 – £76.4 million).
Pensions
The deficit (on an IAS 19 basis) in the Defined Benefits pension 
scheme at the end of the year, excluding the related deferred 
tax asset, was £20.0 million (2011 – £12.3 million). The increase 
of the deficit is due, primarily, to a reduction in corporate bond 
yields, which in turn reduced the applied discount rate, from 
5.5% to 4.5%, partially offset by a reduction in the assumed 
rate of inflation.
The charge to underlying operating profit for this scheme was 
£0.2 million (2011 – £0.2 million) which represents the costs of 
its administration. The Consolidated Income Statement also 
includes a net financing credit of £1.1 million (2011 – £0.6 
million) which reflects the expected return on assets of the 
scheme based on market rates available at the start of the 
financial year, less the effect of the fact that the benefits are 
one year closer to being paid.
The Group contributes £2.2 million per annum in order to meet 
its obligations regarding the current level of deficit within the 
scheme. The next triennial valuation for the scheme is 
scheduled for April 2013.
Matt Armitage
Chief Financial Officer
2 October 2012 30 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Matt Armitage
Chief Financial Officer & 
Group Managing Director 
– Marketing Services
Matt Armitage, ACMA
3
 
(43), joined the board on 
3 September 2007, having 
previously worked for 
Tequila London Ltd – a 
below-the-line marketing 
services business owned 
by Omnicom Inc – for 5 years 
as their Finance Director. 
Matt has headed up 
the Group’s Marketing 
Services businesses since 
March 2012. Prior to joining 
the Company, Matt had 
held various financial 
management positions 
with companies operating 
in the telecommunications, 
technology and fast-moving 
consumer goods industries, 
including 10 years with 
Unilever plc.
Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors
Patrick Martell
Chief Executive
Patrick Martell
3
 (48) joined 
the board on 2 August 2003. 
Patrick started with the 
Group in 1980, was appointed 
a director of Clays in 1994 
and became its Managing 
Director in 2000. Since 2003 
Patrick has held the positions 
of Managing Director – Media 
Products, then Managing 
Director – UK Operations 
and was appointed Chief 
Executive in April 2009.
Lloyd Wigglesworth
Group Managing Director 
– Print & Publishing Services
Lloyd Wigglesworth
3
 (53) 
joined the board on 
1 December 2008, initially 
as a non-executive director, 
taking an executive 
appointment the following 
year, and is now responsible 
for the Group’s Print & 
Publishing Services 
businesses. Lloyd has 
previously been Managing 
Director of Entertainment 
UK, Smiths News, EMAP’s 
Apex and Choice publishing 
companies, Frontline and The 
Dutch Meat Marketing Board 
in the UK. In addition he has 
served on the boards of a 
number of retailing, marketing 
and property companies after 
starting his career at Mars Inc. 
Lloyd is an advisory partner to 
NewMarket Partners, a 
business consultancy.
Mike Butterworth
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Mike Butterworth, ACA
1,2,3
 
(51) joined the board on 
1 August 2010. Mike has 
served as Group Finance 
Director of Cookson Group 
plc for the past 7 years, a 
FTSE250 company supplying 
products, processes and 
services to the ceramics, 
electronics and precious 
metals industries. Previously, 
Mike was Group Finance 
Director of Incepta Group 
plc for 5 years, an 
international marketing and 
communications group, 
prior to which he spent 
5 years as Group Financial 
Controller at BBA Group plc, 
the international aviation and 
materials technology group. 
Mike chairs meetings of the 
Audit Committee.
1. Member of the Audit Committee.
2. Member of the Remuneration Committee.
3. Member of the Nominations Committee.
Board of Directors
A board combining a wide range 
of relevant experience  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
 
Simon Marquis
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Simon Marquis
1,2,3
 (59) joined 
the board on 1 January 2004. 
Simon has over 30 years’ 
experience in the media and 
marketing industries, being 
Chairman of media agency 
ZenithOptimedia UK until 
2006, and currently Chairman 
of C Squared Holdings Ltd 
and National Readership 
Surveys Ltd. Simon will be 
stepping down from the 
board at the conclusion 
of the 2012 AGM.
Richard Stillwell
Chairman
Richard Stillwell
3
 (63) joined 
the board on 1 September 
2006 and was appointed 
Chairman of the Company 
on 26 April 2011. Richard 
is a qualified barrister 
(non-practising) and holds 
non-executive directorships 
with Fiberweb plc, Scott 
Bader Company Ltd 
(chairman) and TBI Ltd. Until 
2000 Richard was executive 
vice president of ICI plc, 
where he had held various 
posts for 26 years. Richard 
chairs meetings of the 
Nominations Committee.
Helen Stevenson
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Helen Stevenson
1,2,3
 (51) 
joined the board on 1 May 
2012. Helen was Chief 
Marketing Officer UK at Yell 
Group plc from 2006 to 2012 
and, prior to this, served as 
Lloyds TSB Group Marketing 
Director. Helen started her 
career with Mars Inc where 
she spent 19 years, 
culminating in her role as 
European Marketing Director, 
leading category strategy 
development across Europe. 
Helen has additionally served 
as a non-executive director 
on the main board of the 
Department of Work and 
Pensions. Helen sits on the 
Henley Business School 
Strategic Advisory Board and 
is a non-executive director of 
Navitas IP, a boutique private 
equity partnership.
Tony Stuart
Independent Non-Executive 
Director 
Tony Stuart, ACA
1,2,3
 (60) 
joined the board on 
31 January 2011. Tony is a 
former Managing Director 
at NM Rothschild, a leading 
UK investment bank, where 
he worked for more than 
25 years. In the course of his 
career, Tony was a corporate 
finance adviser to many 
leading companies in the 
UK and overseas. Now a 
consultant at Rothschild, 
Tony also serves as a director 
of Cornwall Development 
Company and is an 
independent Governor at 
University College, Falmouth. 
Tony chairs meetings of the 
Remuneration Committee. 32 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Responsible 
management
“  St Ives is committed to the 
continuous improvement in  
its corporate governance 
practices.”
Richard Stillwell
Chairman
Compliance statement
The Company is required to comply with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (June 2012) (‘the Code’), to the extent that  
it applies to ‘small-cap’ companies, or explain the reasons for 
non-compliance. The Code is the corporate governance code 
to which the Company is subject and a copy can be found on 
the FRC’s website (www.frc.org.uk).
In the opinion of the board throughout the year ended 27 July 
2012 the Company has been in compliance with the Code.
The following section, together with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 49, describes how  
the board has applied the Main and Supporting Principles 
contained in the Code and, where appropriate, it has  
adopted elements of corporate governance good practice.
Board of directors
The board meets at regular intervals and is responsible to  
the shareholders for overall Group strategy, acquisitions and 
divestments, major capital projects, risk and financial matters. 
All directors receive agendas and papers in advance of  
each meeting, detailed minutes are recorded and actions 
followed up.
The board’s membership throughout the year and the 
directors’ attendance at pre-arranged meetings of the board  
is set out on page 35.
It is the opinion of the board that, throughout the year, each of 
the Company’s non-executive directors was independent for 
corporate governance purposes and free from any business  
or other relationship which could materially interfere with the 
exercise of his or her judgement. In reaching this opinion, the 
board has carefully considered the balance between applying 
good practice and what it believes is in the shareholders’ best 
interests. The non-executive directors each have a clear 
understanding of their roles and responsibilities, which are 
appropriately documented. The non-executive directors met 
during the year, with no Group executive being present. Simon 
Marquis fulfilled the role of senior independent non-executive 
director throughout the year.
Corporate Governance  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
 
During the year, the board carried out a review of matters 
reserved to it for decision. The executive directors meet 
regularly with the managing directors of the businesses within 
the Group’s business segments to discuss major customers, 
sales growth (including cross-selling opportunities), people 
issues and Group-wide procurement initiatives.
Evaluations of the effectiveness of the board, its Audit and 
Remuneration Committees and individual directors, were 
carried out in 2011/2012. The effectiveness of the Nominations 
Committee will be reviewed in November 2012, 12 months 
after its inaugural meeting.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees evaluated their 
effectiveness by each member completing an extensive 
questionnaire which addressed the areas of behaviour and 
process. The annual review of the effectiveness of the board 
was led by the Chairman, who interviewed directors 
individually. The senior independent non-executive director 
then interviewed the Chairman. The key points arising from 
the review were then debated by the full board.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and 
distinct and an appropriate division of responsibilities between 
the two has been set out in writing and approved by the board.
All directors have full and timely access to all relevant 
information needed to enable them properly to discharge 
their responsibilities. A procedure exists for directors to seek 
independent professional advice in the furtherance of their 
duties and to be reimbursed their reasonable legal fees and 
each has access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary. All directors also have unrestricted access to 
other executives within the business to discuss any matter 
of concern to them. Senior executives within the Group make 
regular presentations to the board on issues affecting their 
businesses and future challenges and how they propose 
to address them.
On appointment, each director receives an induction 
appropriate to their previous experience as a director 
and their knowledge of the industry.
The Company’s articles of association require all directors to 
retire and offer themselves for re-appointment by shareholders 
at least once every three years and that any director appointed 
since the most recent Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) shall 
retire at the next following AGM. Although not required under 
the Code, all of the directors have, however, voluntarily agreed 
to retire at the 2012 AGM and, where appropriate, seek 
re-election.
The board confirms, following a performance review, that all 
of the directors standing for re-election continue to perform 
effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Board of directors
Remuneration 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
At least three independent 
non-executive directors 
served on each of the 
Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees
Current board of directors 
to be re-elected at the 
2012 AGM 34 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Audit Committee
Nominations Committee Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
The Audit Committee carries out the functions required by DTR 7 . 1.3R 
of the UKLA Disclosure and T ransparency Rules. The board is of the 
opinion that throughout the year the Audit Committee had sufficient 
relevant financial experience and that its membership was made up  
of independent non-executive directors.
During the year , the Audit Committee discharged its functions by:
 receiving a report at the half year end from Deloitte on agreed 
procedures they had undertaken to review certain subsidiaries’ 
balance sheets and income statements and controls; 
 reviewing the Group’s Interim Management Statements and  
Half Year Report prior to release;
 agreeing an internal audit plan and considering reports from 
the Group’s Head of Internal Audit on work carried out during 
2011/2012;
 reviewing annual internal controls questionnaires completed  
by the Group’s operating sites and the controls over key 
business risks;
 agreeing the nature and scope of the external annual audit  
for the financial year 2011/2012;
 reviewing and safeguarding the independence of Deloitte  
and reviewing its performance;
 recommending Deloitte’s reappointment as auditors; 
 approving Deloitte’s fees for audit and non-audit services  
within the policy set by the Committee;
 reviewing the Group’s ‘whistle-blowing’ policy; and
 reviewing the findings of the external audit for the financial year 
2011/12.
The Chief Financial Officer and Group Managing Director – Marketing 
Services, the Chief Executive and the Head of Internal Audit were also 
invited to attend the meetings to ensure that Committee members 
were fully informed and supported in carrying out their duties.
The members of the Audit Committee have been given specific 
approval by the board to meet with the Group’s external auditors 
whenever they , or the auditors, consider it appropriate. During the 
year , the Committee’s members had private meetings with 
representatives of Deloitte and with the Head of Internal Audit.
The main role of the Nominations Committee is to lead the process  
for board appointments and make recommendations to the board. 
During the year the Committee’s principal task was to identify and 
recommend the appointment of an independent non-executive 
director to fill a vacancy which will arise when Simon Marquis retires 
from the board later this year . A summary of requirements for the 
candidate was agreed by the Committee which then engaged the 
services of JCA Partners LLP , an executive search consultant, to 
assist in the process. JCA produced a short list of potential 
candidates for the Committee members to interview. The process 
resulted in the appointment of Helen Stevenson to the board on  
1 May 2012.
The Committee discharged its other duties by:
 deciding on which directors should retire at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting;
 considering and approving potential conflicts in directors’ 
interests;
 considering whether the non-executive directors were sufficiently 
independent for corporate governance purposes; and
 approving the division of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive.
Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees of the board 
existed throughout the year , each with written terms of reference. 
Copies of the terms of reference for these committees can be 
obtained from the Company Secretary and may be viewed on the 
Group’s corporate website (www.st-ives.co.uk).
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to these committees and 
ensures that committee members receive agendas and papers in 
advance of each meeting so that they are adequately prepared to 
transact the business in hand.
The membership of each committee throughout the year and their 
attendance at pre-arranged meetings are set out on page 35. In  
the opinion of the board these committees each met sufficiently 
frequently to properly discharge their responsibilities set out in  
their respective terms of reference.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to set the broad policy for 
remunerating the executive directors and certain members of the 
executive, and recommend remuneration strategies which support 
the creation of value for shareholders and support the delivery of the 
Group’s strategic priorities.
During the year the Committee:
 approved the payment of bonuses to certain directors for 
2010/2011;
 approved the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2010/2011;
 approved the structure of the directors’ bonus scheme for 
2011/2012;
 approved the grant of awards under the Company’s Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 2010 to certain executives and the performance 
conditions attached to their vesting;
 approved the executive directors’ salaries for 2012/2013; and
 reaffirmed the Company’s policy that directors’ service  
contracts should make no specific provision for the payment  
of compensation in the event of termination.
Corporate Governance continued  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
 
Other board issues
The Company has made qualifying third party provisions for 
the benefit of its directors (as defined by Section 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006) which continue in force at the date of 
this report. The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity 
in favour of each of its directors (on identical terms) who 
served during the year, under which the Company has granted 
directors an indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, in 
respect of liabilities incurred by virtue of their office.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, 
the Company has procedures in place to deal with the 
situation where a director has a conflict of interest and 
regularly reviews conflict authorisation. Directors take no part 
in discussions on matters in which they are interested and  
they may be requested to leave a meeting at which a matter  
in which they are interested is to be discussed.
Helen Stevenson was appointed to the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees on 26 July 2012. 
Details of directors’ attendance at board and committee 
meetings based on their maximum possible attendance  
during the year are as follows:
Board
Audit 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Matt Armitage 9/9 – 2/2 –
Mike Butterworth
(Chairman,  
Audit Committee) 9/9 3/3 2/2 3/3
Simon Marquis 
(Senior non-executive 
director) 9/9 3/3 2/2 3/3
Patrick Martell 9/9 – 2/2 –
Richard Stillwell
(Chairman,  
Nominations Committee) 9/9 – 2/2 –
Helen Stevenson 4/4 – – 1/1
Tony Stuart
(Chairman,  
Remuneration Committee) 9/9 3/3 2/2 3/3
Lloyd Wigglesworth 9/9 – 2/2 –
*  This table only shows details of attendance at meetings in the pre-arranged 
annual meeting calendar. Other ad-hoc meetings, including a meeting of 
the full board to discuss strategic issues and board succession, were held 
during the year.
Throughout the year at least three independent non-executive 
directors served on each of the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees.
Internal control and risk management
The board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control, including financial, operational and compliance 
controls and risk management, and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. A workable and realistic system can only be 
designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, therefore, 
can only provide a reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The directors consider themselves collectively responsible  
for ensuring that risks arising from social, environmental  
and ethical factors and the health and safety of the Group’s 
employees are suitably managed and are referred to the 
board, as necessary. The board has identified and assessed 
legislative and regulatory regimes which may present a 
significant risk to the business.
The Group recognises that taking and managing risks is 
inherent in any business and in delivering its strategy. On 
pages 36 and 37 we set out the principal strategic, market, 
operational, financial, market and legislative, regulatory, 
contractual and reputational risks; their possible impact  
on the business; and what mitigating actions the board  
has implemented.
The board at least once a year reviews, both from a top-down 
and bottom-up perspective, the impact that these principal 
risks might have on the business.
The process by which the board exercises control is by 
holding (a) regular meetings with senior management drawn 
from each of the Print and Marketing Services segments and 
(b) monthly management meetings of each operation within 
these segments. These meetings are chaired by Lloyd 
Wigglesworth, the Group Managing Director – Print & 
Publishing Services, and by Matt Armitage, the Chief Financial 
Officer and Group Managing Director – Marketing Services, 
respectively. Risk is reported on and monitored at the monthly 
management meetings and any new areas of significant risk to 
the businesses are then raised at the next meeting of the 
parent board if considered appropriate.
During the year the Group’s internal audit function performed 
work on the Group’s internal controls; reviewing the control 
environment and the testing of those controls. Controls testing 
of procurement, accounts payable, payroll, stock and credit 
control cycles took place at selected sites.
Annual internal control questionnaires are completed by all the 
Group’s businesses and reviewed by the Company Secretary 
and Head of Internal Audit. Any inconsistencies with the 
Group’s established corporate governance regimes which  
are identified are disclosed to the Audit Committee.
Approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by
Richard Stillwell
Chairman 
2 October 2012 36 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Delivering our integrated  
business model through effective 
risk management
Introduction
The Group maintains a high level register of risks that is 
reviewed by the board twice-yearly. The following table 
summarises these risks, which fall in to the following  
categories – strategic, market, operational, financial, 
legislative, regulatory, contractual and reputational risk –  
the possible impact that each may have on the business  
and examples of mitigating actions.
The Print businesses and Occam each has in place its own, 
business-specific, risk register which is kept under regular 
review by its management team. Each year the managing 
director of each of these businesses confirms to the parent 
board that he/she has formally reviewed their business’s risk 
register. Any risk at local level that may have an effect on the 
Group is escalated to the board. Business-specific risk 
registers for Response One, Pragma and Incite are being 
formulated, but the board has considered the principal risks 
arising from these businesses and has included these in the 
high level risk register as appropriate.
“  The Group recognises that 
taking and managing risks is 
inherent in any business and in 
delivering its strategy. Here we 
set out the process by which 
these risks are managed.”
Patrick Martell 
Chief Executive
Group risks
Risk Mitigation
Inability to successfully integrate 
the newly acquired Marketing 
Services businesses.
Regular discussion of strategy at board meetings and meetings of representatives from the Marketing Services 
businesses to develop the Group’s proposition and cross-selling opportunities.
Acquisitions not fitting in to the 
Group’s strategic direction. 
Annual board strategic reviews to monitor progress against the business model to, as necessary , refresh  
and adapt the Group’s acquisition strategy for helping deliver the business model.
Market risks
Risk Mitigation
A market decline in revenue from 
Books and reduced run lengths, 
due to the emergence of eBooks.
Extend the range of pre- and post-production added value services including minimising customers’ risk 
arising from holding stock. Increase market share and invest in digital book production to mitigate the impact  
on margin from producing more numerous, shorter , book production runs.
Poor economic conditions inhibit 
growth and create uncertainty.
Move away from the commoditised print market and invest in a wider range of services to enable customers to 
improve their return on spend. Rationalise production sites and reduce overhead. Secure long- term customer 
relationships. Increase market share by targeting potential customers from Retail, Financial Services, 
Publishing, FMCG, Leisure and T ravel, Automotive, Charity and the Public Sectors. Regularly review 
performance against budget and take remedial action, where needed.
Competitive pressure results in 
the loss of a key customer .
Achieve or exceed service level agreements with customers. Broaden our capabilities, providing marketing 
solutions in support of our customers’ marketing strategies. Avoid over reliance on any single customer . Implement 
bespoke propositions for securing the renewal of major accounts, providing Group support where appropriate.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
 
 
Operational risks
Risk Mitigation
Increases in the cost of materials, 
consumables or utilities; or the 
failure of a key supplier .
Avoid dependence on any single supplier . Continually monitor key suppliers’ financial strength. Conduct arms 
length procurement tendering processes; enter into long-term agreements where appropriate for paper , ink 
and other consumables; Receive monthly reports from the Group Commercial Director on procurement 
matters. Reduce the risk through implementing the strategy to reshape the Group’s business.
Loss of facility due to catastrophe. Have in place business continuity planning and maintain a comprehensive Insurance programme, including 
business interruption cover .
A failure to attract, develop and 
retain employees with the 
necessary talent for our 
businesses.
Invest in a Group-wide HR function. Implement appraisals and fulfil training needs where identified. Develop  
a collaborative culture across the Group’s businesses. Operate all-employee and discretionary L TIP share-
based incentive schemes, and other benefits. Ingrain a robust health and safety culture throughout the Group.
Legislative and regulatory, contractual and reputational risks
Risk Mitigation
Changes in legislation affect  
the ability of the Group to  
operate effectively.
Identify the principal laws and regulations that affect the Group’s day-to-day business and markets it serves: 
covering: Employment; Health and Safety; the Environment; Planning; Data Protection; T axation; Defamation; 
Bribery and Corruption; and Competition Law. Maintain systems to comply with these and keep developments 
under review.
Contractual liabilities are 
assumed under contracts with  
its customers or suppliers.
Involve the Group’s in-house legal team and, where appropriate, take external legal advice. Require board 
approval of major contracts (of more than three years’ duration and/or of a value in excess of £5.0m) and 
contracts with potentially significant risks arising. 
Exposure to reputational or 
financial damage due to 
accident, unethical trading, 
non-compliance with legislation 
or regulation or disputes.
Operate rigorous health and safety and environmental policies; monitor compliance; measure performance 
and investigate major incidents. Monitor changes in legislation and regulations, take legal advice and provide 
training where necessary. Apply the Group’s policies on Ethical T rading, Share dealings, Equal Opportunities, 
Dignity at Work and Whistle-blowing. Have in place business recovery plans and a procedure for dealing with 
‘leaks’ of Insider Information.
Finance and treasury risks
Risk Mitigation
The occurrence of an unplanned 
interest or foreign exchange risk.
Ensure interest as a proportion of profit before tax is relatively low and so limit the impact of changes in interest 
rates on profit. Conduct the Group’s trading, including purchases of property , plant and equipment, principally 
in Sterling. Use foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign exchange risk relating to material 
transactional business. Ensure the Group’s treasury function keeps these matters under review.
Inability to trade due to lack  
of cash funds. 
Regularly monitor the Group’s performance against its banking covenants and conduct ‘going concern’ 
reviews on a twice yearly basis. Regularly review the Group’s financial KPIs with our bankers.
A material unrecoverable debt 
arises from the Group’s practice 
of trading with the majority of its 
customers on credit.
Grant credit only to customers who agree to follow the Group’s credit verification procedures. Apply a rigorous 
system of credit control and payments monitoring. Maintain credit insurance covering the Group’s larger trade 
debtors. (Bad debt provisions represented 3.0% (201 1 – 3.6%) of gross trade debtors at the year end).
The volatility of the Defined 
Benefits Pension Scheme deficit.
Agree deficit recovery plan with the pension Scheme T rustee. Regularly engage the T rustee directors in 
discussions on the Group’s performance. Manage possible Section 75 debts arising from business disposals 
and closures. Contribute to discussions on the Scheme’s investment strategy. Proactively seek to limit the 
growth in the pension liability. 38 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The directors present their Directors’ Report and the audited 
financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 27 July 2012.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are set out on pages 8  
to 10 of the Business Review.
The subsidiaries principally affecting the profits or net assets 
of the Group in the year are listed in note 32 of the 
consolidated financial statements.
Business and operating review
A detailed review of the performance of the Group and its 
future prospects can be found in the Chief Executive’s 
Strategic Review, the Key Performance Indicators and the 
Financial Review which should be read in conjunction with  
the Chairman’s Statement on pages 4 and 5, the report on 
Corporate and Social Responsibility on pages 24 to 27 and the 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties set out on pages 36 and 37, 
all of which are incorporated by reference into and form part  
of this Directors’ Report.
This Directors’ Report covers the year under review and  
the period to the date of signature.
Certain sections of this Annual Report and Accounts contain 
forward-looking statements with respect to the strategy, 
financial condition, results, operations and businesses of  
the Group or markets in which the Group operates. These 
statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because 
they relate to events and depend on circumstances that occur 
in the future and relate to events, not all of which are within  
the Group’s control. Although the Group believes that the 
expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements  
are reasonable, there are a number of factors that could cause 
actual results or developments to differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. 
The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-
looking statement.
Results and dividends
The Group profit for the year before taxation amounted to 
£14,908,000 (2011 – loss of £882,000). The directors propose 
a final dividend of 4.00 pence for each ordinary share payable 
on 21 December 2012 to holders on the register as at  
30 November 2012. If approved, the final dividend will make 
total dividends for the year of 5.75 pence per ordinary share:
£’000
Ordinary dividends – interim 2,018
– proposed final 4,793
Share capital
Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in note 27  
to the financial statements. The Company’s share capital is 
composed of one class of ordinary shares of 10 pence each. 
The shares carry no rights to fixed income and each share 
carries the right to one vote at general meetings. All shares  
are fully paid. There are no specific restrictions on the size  
of a shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which are  
both covered by the provisions of the articles of association 
and prevailing legislation.
Major interests in shares
As at 27 July 2012, the Company had been notified, in 
accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, of the following voting rights as shareholders of  
the Company:
Number of  
voting rights %
Silchester International Investors 
Limited and its subsidiaries 16,158,999 13.69
Delta Lloyd NV and subsidiaries 13,661,073 11.40
Standard Life Investments Limited 9,161,139 7.99
Prudential plc and its subsidiaries 6,628,182 6.40
Schroder plc 5,594,902 4.99
State Teachers’ Retirement  
System of Ohio 5,625,000 4.73
Majedie Asset Management 
Limited 3,804,459 3.59
Directors
The present membership of the board is set out on  
pages 30 and 31.
Richard Stillwell holds a number of external non-executive 
directorships (set out on page 31) which, in the opinion of the 
board, does not prevent him from devoting sufficient time to  
his responsibilities as chairman of the board.
Helen Stevenson was appointed a non-executive director 
during the year on 1 May 2012. 
The directors’ interests in shares of the Company are set out  
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 46.
Annual General Meeting
The notice of Annual General Meeting 2012, included with  
the copy of the Annual Report and Accounts, will be mailed  
to shareholders on 26 October 2012 and sets out the following 
non-routine business in addition to routine business:
Allotment of share capital
The board will seek to renew the shareholders’ authority to 
permit it to allot relevant securities within the limits laid down 
by the Companies Act 2006 and the December 2008 
guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers.
Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights
The directors also seek authority to allot shares in the capital  
of the Company pursuant to the foregoing authority granted, 
subject to certain stringent conditions.
Authority for the Company to purchase its own  
ordinary shares
It will also be proposed to renew the shareholders’ approval  
for the directors to effect market purchases of the Company’s 
ordinary shares on behalf of the Company under the authority 
of the Companies Act 2006 and subject to certain limits  
and restrictions.
Notice for calling a general meeting
It will be proposed that a general meeting, other than an 
annual general meeting, may be called on not less than  
14 clear days’ notice.
Directors’ Report  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
 
Full explanations of the foregoing non-routine business are 
given in the Chairman’s letter which accompanies the notice  
of Annual General Meeting.
Employment policies
The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities  
with regard to employment, free from discrimination and 
harassment and in a healthy and safe working environment. 
Details of how we deliver on these commitments are provided 
in the Report on Corporate and Social Responsibility.
Pension Scheme
The Group’s companies contribute to a number of defined 
contribution schemes, the principal one of which is the St Ives 
Defined Contribution Pension Plan, which is available for all 
eligible employees to join and which was established in 2002 
on the closure of the Group’s defined benefits scheme to new 
membership. The investments of the defined benefits scheme 
are managed separately, partly passively and partly actively 
under the direction of a trustee company (‘the Trustee’).  
The fund managers of the actively managed portfolios are 
proscribed from holding any investment in, or lending to, the 
Group. The number of directors of the Trustee is split equally 
between member-nominated and Company-nominated Trustee 
directors, subject to casual vacancies which may arise from 
time to time.
Those employees who were active members of the defined 
benefits scheme on 1 September 2009 were each offered an 
invitation to participate in an alternative defined contribution 
Group Personal Pension Plan administered by Prudential.
Charitable and political donations
Details are given in the Report on Corporate and Social 
Responsibility on page 25.
Creditor payments
Details are given in the Report on Corporate and Social 
Responsibility on page 25.
Auditors
The Company held a competitive tender in 2009 and retained 
Deloitte LLP (‘Deloitte’) at that time as the Group’s auditor.
The Audit Committee has considered the effectiveness of the 
external audit undertaken by Deloitte in the light of their internal 
quality control procedures, the promptness and accuracy of their 
work, and other services obtained from them. The Committee 
also considered the robustness of Deloitte’s safeguards and 
procedures to counter threats or perceived threats to their 
objectivity, the application of their independence policies and 
their adherence to the Ethical Standards published by the 
Auditing Practices Board. In all these respects the Committee 
was satisfied with Deloitte’s objectivity and independence. 
During the year, the Committee satisfied itself that the 
Company’s policy on the provision by the Group’s external 
auditors of non-audit services had been appropriately applied.
Based on a review of Deloitte’s performance during 2011/2012 
and after reviewing their independence, the Committee has 
recommended to the board that Deloitte be re-appointed. The 
recommendation was accepted and therefore a resolution to 
re-appoint them as the Group’s auditors will be proposed at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s 
Strategic Review and the report on Corporate and Social 
Responsibility. The financial position of the Group, its cash 
flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described 
in the Financial Review. In addition, note 26 to the financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its interest rate risk, foreign exchange 
risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk. The foregoing 
statement, review and report are to be found on pages 4 to 37.
As highlighted in note 21 to the financial statements, the Group 
meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through  
an overdraft facility of £15.0 million that is part of an overall 
funding facility of £55.0 million which falls due for renewal  
on 31 October 2015.
The current economic conditions create uncertainty, 
particularly over the level of demand for the Group’s products, 
but the Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of 
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its 
current facility and obtain further financing when the current 
facility expires.
After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group 
has adequate resources and borrowing facilities to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Consequently, 
they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
Directors’ disclosures to the auditors
Each of the directors of the Company as at 2 October 2012  
has confirmed that:
 So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; 
and
 The director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by
Philip Harris
Company Secretary
2 October 2012 40 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report
This report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant conditions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (June 2010) 
(‘the Code’) relating to directors’ remuneration and the Companies Act 2006. The relevant legislation requires the auditors to 
report to the Company’s members on certain disclosures contained in this Report and to state whether in their opinion that part  
of the Report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. The Report has therefore been divided 
into separate sections containing unaudited and audited information. 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to approve this Report will be proposed at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting on Tuesday, 27 November 2012. Details of the resolution may be found in the Notice accompanying this  
Annual Report. The vote will be advisory but will be considered carefully by the members of the Committee and the board in  
the formulation and approval of the Company’s future remuneration policies. 
UNAUDITED INFORMATION 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the board the overall remuneration strategy and 
individual remuneration packages and contractual arrangements for the executive directors, senior management and the 
Chairman of the board. 
The membership, the number of meetings held, attendances and a description of the business transacted by the Committee 
during the year are detailed in the corporate governance section on pages 34 and 35. 
When undertaking its duties, the Committee ensures that due account is taken of pay and employment conditions throughout  
the Group by keeping abreast of matters such as (i) the general level of salary increases (if any) applied throughout the Group,  
(ii) the levels of bonuses paid (and bonus opportunity offered) to the workforce as a whole and (iii) any widespread changes  
that are proposed to Group-wide employment conditions. 
The full terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Company’s website (www.st-ives.co.uk). 
Committee’s advisers 
Throughout the year, the Committee and the Company were advised by AonHewitt Limited (operating through the brand Hewitt 
New Bridge Street (HNBS)). Other than in relation to advice on remuneration, neither AonHewitt Limited, nor any other part of the 
Aon Corporation group provided other services to the Company. 
The Committee recognises that, although the Committee fully accepts the independence of HNBS, there may be occasions when 
there could be a conflict of interests when proposals are put by management on the recommendation of HNBS. It therefore retains 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) to act solely for the Committee to review proposals where appropriate. 
PwC has provided pensions consulting services to the Company in relation to the Group’s defined benefits pension scheme  
and due diligence work in respect of potential acquisitions. The Committee is satisfied that the provision of these services to the 
Company does not affect PwC’s ability to comment on proposals for remunerating its executive directors and certain members  
of senior management. 
During the year under review, the Committee also, where appropriate, sought advice and assistance from the Company Secretary 
and members of the board, including the Chairman of the board, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer & Group 
Managing Director in connection with carrying out its duties. None of these persons took part in decisions relating specifically to 
their own remuneration. 
Remuneration policy 
The Committee’s policy for the remuneration of the Company’s executive directors is that it should be structured so as to attract 
and retain executives of a high calibre with the skills and experience necessary to develop the Company successfully. It aims to 
recommend strategies which support the creation of value for shareholders and reflect and support the delivery of the Company’s 
strategic priorities while taking due account of market and best practice. 
When determining levels of remuneration, the Committee periodically reviews the remuneration practices adopted by appropriate 
comparator companies both in the market generally and in the same business sector as the Company. 
The Committee believes that a significant portion of the remuneration package of senior executives should be linked to 
performance, while ensuring that an appropriate balance is struck between (i) fixed and variable pay, (ii) short-term and long-term 
variable pay and (iii) the delivery of rewards in cash and shares. The Committee will regularly review the Company’s remuneration 
policies to ensure that these policies neither encourage nor reward inappropriate operational risk-taking that may be to the 
detriment of shareholders’ interests and that these remuneration policies are, therefore, compatible with the Company’s general 
risk policies and systems.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
 
With regard to the core elements of executive directors’ remuneration to feature in the forthcoming year, the Committee has  
taken the following approach: 
 Base salaries remain frozen at the levels payable at the end of 2011/2012; 
 Any bonus awarded shall be capped at 125 per cent of basic salary;  
 Any bonus earned which is in excess of 50 per cent of basic salary shall normally be satisfied by the award of shares in the 
Company which shall be held in trust for two years. Any shares so awarded are subject, in specified circumstances, to a 
‘clawback’ from any bonuses paid going forward;  
 A third award will be made under the Group’s Long-Term Incentive Plan;  
 The Committee’s share ownership guideline, requiring executive directors over a five year period to build up and then retain  
a shareholding equal to 100 per cent of their basic salaries, will be retained; and 
 50 per cent of the number of shares received under any bonus share deferral or Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) award will 
normally be required to be retained by the executive director until the share ownership guideline is met. The Committee may 
take account of progress towards achieving this target when determining LTIP awards and/or the proportion of annual bonus 
that is subject to this requirement. 
The main components of the remuneration package for executive directors are: 
Basic salary 
In setting the basic salary for each executive director, the Committee takes into account the performance of each individual 
director, any changes in position or responsibility, market competitiveness, as well as pay and conditions in the Group as  
a whole. Basic salary is the only element of pay that is pensionable. 
The basic salary of each executive director for the year under review, and for the forthcoming year is: 
Matt Armitage £248,000
Patrick Martell £350,000
Lloyd Wigglesworth £248,000
Save for a modest correctional adjustment in the basic salary of Matt Armitage in the 2009/2010 financial year, this will be the 
fourth consecutive year of a basic salary freeze at executive director level. 
Benefits in kind  
Executive directors may receive benefits in kind, which may include the provision of a car, fuel and medical expenses insurance 
costs, or their cash equivalent.  
Pension arrangements 
Matt Armitage and Lloyd Wigglesworth each participated during the year in the Group’s defined contribution pension scheme  
to which the Company also contributes. The defined contribution pension scheme has a normal retirement age of 65. 
Patrick Martell’s entitlement to a deferred pension from the Group’s defined benefits pension scheme (‘the DB Scheme’) ceased 
during the year on the payment out of the scheme to a self-managed pension arrangement. The sum of £941,471 transferred  
out was calculated by the DB Scheme’s actuary after applying a reduction factor agreed by the Trustee and applied generally  
to such calculations to take account of the underfunded position of the DB Scheme.  42 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
 
Annual bonus 
Bonuses for 2011/2012  
At the beginning of the year the Remuneration Committee took the view that, for 2011/2012, the executive directors should be 
directed, primarily, to growing earnings per share (‘EPS’), supported by secondary, personal, objectives in the case of Matt 
Armitage and Lloyd Wigglesworth based, respectively, on the integration of the Group’s acquisitions and sales performance.  
For 2011/2012, therefore, directors were incentivised to earn a bonus of up to 125 per cent of basic salary split as follows: 
Director Portion of bonus relating to EPS targets Portion of bonus relating to personal targets 
Patrick Martell 125% of basic salary 0% of basic salary 
Matt Armitage 112.5% of basic salary 12.5% of basic salary 
Lloyd Wigglesworth 62.5% of basic salary 62.5% of basic salary 
As in prior years, in the event that the total bonus earned in 2011/2012 exceeded 50 per cent of basic salary, the excess is 
satisfied in shares under the rules of the Deferred Bonus Scheme (‘the DBS’ – see below). Part, or all, of the deferred portion of 
the bonus, however, would be forfeited if it became apparent during the holding period that the bonus was paid by reference to 
materially misstated results.  
The Group’s reported underlying EPS for 2011/2012 is 15.61 pence and the Committee has decided that the portion of each 
director’s bonus which is dependent on the achievement of a significant growth in EPS has been met in full, resulting in an EPS 
performance-related bonus of 125 per cent of basic salary for Patrick Martell, 112.5 per cent of basic salary for Matt Armitage  
and 62.5 per cent of basic salary for Lloyd Wigglesworth. The Committee, having compared the personal targets set for Matt 
Armitage and Lloyd Wigglesworth with the outcome for the year, decided that an additional bonus of 6.25 per cent of basic  
salary should be paid to Matt Armitage and 37.5 per cent of basic salary to Lloyd Wigglesworth in relation to this portion of  
their potential bonuses. 
Bonuses earned by directors in excess of 50 per cent of basic salary will be satisfied in the form of shares in the Company, the  
full beneficial ownership of which shall be deferred until expiry of a holding period. The share deferral element of the bonus shall 
be purchased from net pay by the directors at market value from the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust (‘the EBT’), to be held under 
the rules of the DBS. In accordance with the rules of the DBS these shares shall, inter alia, vest immediately, but be held on trust 
during a holding period, for release to the director in November 2014, provided that he remains employed by the Group at that 
time. During the holding period, the executive will be entitled to vote the shares and receive dividends on them but will be unable 
to sell, transfer, assign or charge any interest in the shares during the holding period without the consent of the Committee. 
Details of the 2011/2012 bonuses paid to directors are disclosed on page 45.  
Bonuses for 2012/2013 
The Committee has determined that delivering growth in EPS should be the sole determinant of executive directors’ bonus for 
2012/2013. Therefore, a range of stretching EPS targets has been established for the executive directors to strive to achieve 
which may result in a maximum potential bonus of 125 per cent of basic salary. 
Should the bonus earned by a director in 2012/2013 exceed 50 per cent of his basic salary, the excess shall, after the usual 
deductions of income tax and employee’s national insurance contributions, be applied to purchase shares from the EBT at  
market value. Such shares, once purchased, will be held in trust during the two-year holding period under the rules of the DBS. 
These shares shall form part of the director’s shareholding qualification under the Committee’s share ownership guideline for 
executive directors.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
 
Share incentive arrangements 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2010 (the ‘LTIP’) 
The Company operates the LTIP as its long-term incentive plan for senior executives. The LTIP was approved by shareholders  
at the 2010 Annual General Meeting. 
In line with current practice the LTIP provides for the award of ‘performance shares’ up to a maximum potential award limit of  
125 per cent of basic salary (200 per cent in exceptional circumstances). The Committee takes the view that this limit allows for 
market competitive grants to be made whilst applying challenging performance conditions. The three performance conditions  
set for the awards made under the LTIP in 2010 and 2011 are described fully on pages 47 to 49. 
The Committee is aware that the use of three different performance metrics is not common. Consequently, and having reviewed 
the operation of the LTIP in the context of the Group’s strategic objectives, it is intended to make awards under the LTIP in the 
forthcoming year and apply EPS and relative Total Shareholder Return targets as the sole conditions for vesting. The exact targets 
have not yet been finalised but these will be no less challenging than last year’s. 
The Committee does not currently consider it necessary to apply any ‘clawback’ provision to LTIP awards (noting that a clawback 
feature does form part of the annual bonus), but will keep this matter under review. 
Discretionary Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 (‘ESOS 2001’) 
The ESOS 2001 (which has both HMRC ‘approved’ and ‘unapproved’ elements) provided for the grant of options to participants 
over shares having a market value of up to 150 per cent of salary in any year (400 per cent in exceptional circumstances). 
Options granted and outstanding under the ESOS 2001 are capable of exercise three years after grant, subject to continued 
employment and the satisfaction of performance conditions. The final award of options to executive directors under this plan  
was made on 3 November 2009, further details of which are set out on pages 46 and 47. 
Save As You Earn Share Option Plan (‘Sharesave Plan’) 
The Company operates a standard HMRC-approved all-employee Sharesave Plan under which eligible employees, including 
executive directors, may from time to time be invited to participate. The Sharesave Plan was approved by shareholders at the 
2011 Annual General Meeting and the first invitations to enter into three year savings contracts with The Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc were issued to all eligible employees on 12 March 2012. The option price set by the Committee was 65.67 pence per share, 
which represented a 20 per cent discount to the market price of the shares at the date of invitation. Due to the popularity of the 
Sharesave Plan, applications were significantly scaled back and grants of options adjusted to ensure that the maximum number 
of options awarded as a result of this year’s invitation did not exceed one million shares. The directors’ interests arising from the 
award of options under the Sharesave Plan, after scale-back, are disclosed in the table on page 46. 
Dilution 
Under the LTIP, ESOS 2001 and the Sharesave Plan, awards of options over no more than an aggregate 10 per cent of the 
Company’s issued share capital may be granted over new issue shares in any rolling 10 year period (with awards made under 
any other share plans also being counted). 
As at 27 July 2012, excluding lapsed options, options over 6,303,058 shares (5.26 per cent of the Company’s issued share 
capital) remain outstanding and so count towards this limit.  44 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
 
Non-executive directors’ fees 
The Company’s policy on setting non-executive directors’ remuneration, which is decided by the board (but with the non-
executive directors not voting where it affects their personal position) is to offer fees sufficient to attract and retain individuals of 
appropriate calibre such that they are able to apply an independent view based on their experience and skills. These fees, which 
have been unchanged since 2007, comprise a base responsibility fee of £30,000 per annum plus additional fees of £8,000 per 
annum for the post of Senior Independent non-executive Director and £4,000 per annum for chairing the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees respectively. The Nominations Committee has acknowledged that the non-executives directors’ fees are now out of 
line with market rates, however it has been decided for the time being not to increase the fees paid. 
The fee paid to the Chairman is set separately by the Committee and has been set at £120,000 per annum. Mr Richard Stillwell  
has elected to forego £10,000 per annum of this fee. The Company donates this £10,000 withheld to registered charities 
nominated by Richard Stillwell, with such contributions being matched by contributions by the Company.  
Non-executive directors may not participate in the Group’s cash or share-based incentive arrangements. 
Service contracts and letters of appointment 
It is the Company’s policy that executive directors should serve under rolling service contracts of 12 months’ duration or less and 
that there should be no special provisions for compensation in the event of termination (neither in the normal course nor following 
a change in control of the Company) and that any compensation payments made should take account of the executive’s duty to 
mitigate his loss. This policy was confirmed during the year and the service contracts and letters of appointment disclosed below 
comply with this policy.  
The policy on non-executive directors’ letters of appointment is that they shall be for an initial period of no more than three  
years, but subject to notice at any time (six months’ notice in the case of the Chairman and three months’ in the case of other  
non-executive directors).  
Summaries of the directors’ contracts are disclosed below and brief biographical details are set out on pages 30 and 31. 
Directors’ contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection in accordance with Provision A.4.4 of the Code. 
Executive Date of contract 
Unexpired term/ 
Notice period
Matt Armitage 1 June 2007 12 months
Patrick Martell 1 August 2003 12 months
Lloyd Wigglesworth 11 February 2009 12 months
  
Non-executive Date of letter of appointment Notice period
Mike Butterworth 14 July 2010 3 months
Simon Marquis 5 December 2003 3 months
Helen Stevenson 3 April 2012 3 months
Richard Stillwell 11 August 2006  6 months
Tony Stuart 23 December 2010 3 months
External appointments 
Executive directors may accept appointments outside the Company with the permission of the board. The extent to which  
any fees are retained by the individual or are remitted to the Company will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Lloyd 
Wigglesworth is an Advisory Partner for NewMarket Partners for which he receives fees of £10,000 per annum, which he is 
permitted to retain. NewMarket Partners helps their clients to develop corporate marketing and financial strategies in a wide  
range of markets in the UK and globally. It is also an investor in some of the companies it advises.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
 
AUDITED INFORMATION 
Directors’ remuneration 
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration were as follows: 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Emoluments 2,095.2 2,205.4
Termination payments – 32.5
Gains on exercise of share options – –
Money purchase pension contributions 19.4 19.4
 2,114.6 2,257.3
Patrick Martell is the highest paid director of the Company. 
Individual directors’ emoluments from the Group were as follows: 
Total emoluments  
 
Basic 
salary/fee 
(note 1) 
£’000
Cash 
bonus 
£’000
DBS  
shares  
£’000 
Benefits  
in kind  
(note 2)  
£’000 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Executive   
Matt Armitage 260.5 124.0 170.5 1.5 556.5 571.9
Patrick Martell 365.3 175.0 262.5 1.5 804.3 805.9
Lloyd Wigglesworth  260.8 124.0 124.0 2.1 510.9 572.7
Non-executive   
Mike Butterworth 34.0 – – – 34.0 32.7
Simon Marquis 38.0 – – – 38.0 38.0
Helen Stevenson (from 1 May 2012) 7.5 – – – 7.5 –
Richard Stillwell 110.0 – – – 110.0 54.2
Tony Stuart 34.0 – – – 34.0 16.2
Past directors   
David Best (to 30 November 2010) – – – – – 11.3
Miles Emley (to 25 April 2011) – – – – – 135.0
 1,110.1423.0557.0 5.1 2,095.2 2,237.9
In respect of DBS shares, Matt Armitage, Patrick Martell and Lloyd Wigglesworth will acquire shares in the Company from their net 
pay, that is pay after deduction of income tax and employees’ national insurance contributions, of £81,840, £126,000 and £59,520 
(gross pay of £170,500, £262,500 and £124,000) respectively, which will be held under the terms of the DBS. A description of the 
DBS is given on page 42. 
Notes 
1. The basic salaries of Matt Armitage, Patrick Martell and Lloyd Wigglesworth include additional payments of £12,532, £15,250 and £12,815, respectively  
(2011 – £12,532, £13,119 and £12,815, respectively) in lieu of the provision of a company car and fuel benefit. Richard Stillwell’s fees are shown after  
foregoing £10,000 of fees during 2011/2012.  
2. Benefits in kind constitute medical expenses insurance cover for Matt Armitage, Patrick Martell and Lloyd Wigglesworth.   46 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
 
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company 
Interests of directors and their connected persons in 10 pence ordinary shares (fully paid) of the Company at 27 July 2012 were 
as follows: 
 
27 July 
2012
29 July 
2011 
or date of 
appointment
 if later
Executive 
Matt Armitage 205,879 74,752
Patrick Martell 191,555 120,286
Lloyd Wigglesworth 115,080 30,914
Non-executive 
Mike Butterworth 11,000 11,000
Simon Marquis 3,000 3,000
Helen Stevenson (Appointed 1 May 2012) – –
Richard Stillwell 42,000 13,000
Tony Stuart 20,000 10,000
All the above share interests were held beneficially and the information given is accurate as at 2 October 2012. The share 
interests of Matt Armitage, Patrick Martell and Lloyd Wigglesworth disclosed above include shares purchased from their 
2009/2010 and 2010/2011 bonuses which are held in the Company’s EBT under the rules of the Company’s DBS. 
Directors’ share options and LTIP awards 
Details of the share options held by directors are shown below. All options were granted for nil consideration. 
Share Options – ESOS 2001 and Sharesave Plan 
 Number of options   
 Date of grant
29 July  
2011 
Exercised 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
Granted 
during year
27 July 
2012
Exercise  
price pence 
Date  
from which 
exercisable 
Expiry 
date
Matt Armitage    
ESOS 2001 3 Nov 2009 544,000 – – – 544,000 66.17 3 Nov 2012 2 Nov 2019
Sharesave Plan 18 Apr 2012 – – – 2,576 2,576 65.67 1 Jun 2015 1 Dec 2015
 544,000 ––2,576 546,576  
Patrick Martell    
ESOS 2001 3 Nov 2009 544,000 – – – 544,000 66.17 3 Nov 2012 2 Nov 2019
Sharesave Plan 18 Apr 2012 – – – 2,576 2,576 65.67 1 Jun 2015 1 Dec 2015
 544,000 ––2,576 546,576  
Lloyd Wigglesworth    
ESOS 2001 3 Nov 2009 544,000 – – – 544,000 66.17 3 Nov 2012 2 Nov 2019
Sharesave Plan 18 Apr 2012 – – – 2,576 2,576 65.67 1 Jun 2015 1 Dec 2015
 544,000 ––2,576 546,576    St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
 
The vesting of the grant of options awarded on 3 November 2009 under the ESOS 2001 is conditional on the Group achieving a 
range of profit before tax for 2011/2012 as follows:  
Profit before tax 
Percentage of 
award vesting 
(stepped scale)
Above £15m and below £17m 20%
Above £17m and below £19m 20%
Above £19m and below £21m  30%
£21m or more 30%
The conditions of vesting provide that, unless the Committee determines otherwise, for the purposes of calculating the Group’s 
profit before tax, non-underlying items shall be excluded. The Committee may make such adjustments to the method of 
calculating the Group’s profit before tax as it considers appropriate to take account of (a) any increase or variation of the share 
capital of the Company; (b) any change to accounting standards practices affecting the calculation of profit before tax; or  
(c) any other factors considered by the Committee to be relevant. 
LTIP Awards 
Date of award 
Market price 
per share 
at date
 of award
29 July 
2011
Awarded 
during year
27 July 
2012
End of 
performance 
period 
Vesting 
date Expiry date
Matt Armitage 5 Jan 2011  97.75p 232,600 – 232,600 July 2013 5 Jan 2014 4 Jan 2021
 11 Nov 2011 95.25p – 266,800 266,800 July 2014 11 Nov 2014 11 Nov 2021
  232,600266,800499,400 
Patrick Martell 5 Jan 2011 97.75p 410,500 – 410,500 July 2013 5 Jan 2014 4 Jan 2021
 11 Nov 2011 95.25p 470,800 470,800 July 2014 11 Nov 2014 11 Nov 2021
  410,500470,800881,300 
Lloyd Wigglesworth 5 Jan 2011 97.75p 232,600 – 232,600 July 2013 5 Jan 2014 4 Jan 2021
 11 Nov 2011 95.25p – 266,800 266,800 July 2014 11 Nov 2014 11 Nov 2021
  232,600266,800499,400 
The vesting of LTIP awards made on 5 January 2011 is subject to performance conditions (a), (b) and (d) below and the vesting 
of awards made on 11 November 2011 is subject to performance conditions (a), (c) and (d) below, set by the Committee over a 
three year period as follows:  
(a) The EPS target  
One half of the total number of shares over which an award is granted is subject to an absolute adjusted EPS target. For these 
purposes the EPS target will be calculated by reference to the adjusted EPS as set out in the Company’s Annual Report and 
Accounts for the relevant financial year (subject to such further adjustments as the Committee considers fair and reasonable).  
No part of the award made on 5 January 2011 subject to the EPS target will vest unless EPS for the 2012/2013 financial year is 
equal to or greater than 14 pence, with full vesting for EPS of 16 pence or more, as follows: 
EPS for the 2012/2013  
financial year 
Percentage of the total number of shares subject to the EPS target that  
will vest 
16 pence or more 100% (i.e. 50% of the total number of shares subject to the award) 
From 14 pence to 16 pence Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis (i.e. between 12.5% and 50% of the 
total number of shares subject to the award) 
Less than 14 pence 0% 
  48 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
 
No part of the award made on 11 November 2011 subject to the EPS target will vest unless EPS for the 2013/2014 financial year is 
equal to or greater than 16 pence, with full vesting for EPS of 17.80 pence or more, as follows: 
EPS for the 2013/2014  
financial year 
Percentage of the total number of shares subject to the EPS target that  
will vest 
17.80 pence or more 100% (i.e. 50% of the total number of shares subject to the award) 
From 16.00 pence to 17.80 pence Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis (i.e. between 12.5% and 50% of the 
total number of shares subject to the award) 
Less than 16 pence 0% 
(b) Non-print added value target 
One quarter of the total number of shares over which an award is granted is subject to a target based on the increase in ‘added 
value’ attributable to non-print activities for the 2012/2013 financial year and an absolute EPS underpin. For these purposes 
added value attributable to non-print activities for the 2012/2013 financial year will be defined as sales less the costs of materials 
and bought-in costs attributable to non-print activities such as database marketing, pre-retail services and retail consultancy. No 
part of the award subject to the non-print added value target will vest unless the added value attributable to non-print activities for 
the 2012/2013 financial year is equal to 16%, with full vesting for added value attributable to non-print activities of 20% or more,  
as follows: 
Added value attributable to  
non-print activities for the  
2012/2013 financial year 
Percentage of the total number of shares subject to the non-print added value 
target that will vest, subject to satisfaction of the EPS underpin 
20% or more 100% (i.e. 25% of the total number of shares subject to the award) 
From 16% to 20% Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis (i.e. between 6.25% and 25% of the 
total number of shares subject to the award) 
Less than 16% 0% 
(c) Marketing Services segment underlying operating profit target 
One quarter of the total number of shares over which an award is granted is subject to achieving at least 25 per cent of the 
Group’s underlying operating profit (i.e. profit before non-underlying items) from the Marketing Services segment in the 2013/2014 
financial year as follows: 
Percentage of Group Operating Profit 
attributable to the Marketing Services 
segment for the 2013/2014 financial year 
Percentage of the total number of shares subject to the non-print added value 
target that will vest, subject to satisfaction of the EPS underpin 
40% or more 100% (i.e. 25% of the total number of shares subject to the award) 
From 25% to 40% Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis (i.e. between 6.25% and 25% of the 
total number of shares subject to the award) 
Less than 25% 0% 
(d) Relative TSR target 
One quarter of the total number of shares over which an award is granted is subject to a target measuring the relative Total 
Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) of the Company against a comparator group comprising those companies listed in the FTSE All-Share 
Support Services sector (excluding FTSE100 companies) on the award date and the satisfaction of an absolute EPS underpin. 
The TSR condition will be measured over a fixed three-year period from the date of the award and TSR will normally be averaged 
over the three-month period immediately prior to the commencement of the performance period and the three-month period 
immediately preceding the end of the performance period.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49
 
No part of the award subject to the TSR target will vest unless the Company’s TSR at the end of the performance period is at least 
the median as follows: 
Rank of the Company’s TSR against  
the comparator group at the end of  
the performance period 
Percentage of the total number of shares subject to the TSR target that will vest, 
subject to satisfaction of the EPS underpin 
Upper quartile or above 100% (i.e. 25% of the total number of shares subject to the award) 
Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis (i.e. between 6.25% and 25% of the 
total number of shares subject to the award) 
Median 25% (i.e. 6.25% of the total number of shares subject to the award) 
Below median 0% 
In addition, no part of the award subject to conditions (a), (b) and (c) described above will vest if EPS is less than 12 pence for  
the 2012/2013 financial year (for the 5 January 2012 award) or is less than 14.50 pence for the 2013/2014 financial year (for the  
11 November 2011 award) (unless the Committee, in its discretion, determines otherwise). 
The market price of St Ives plc ordinary shares of 10 pence each at 27 July 2012 was 71.50 pence and the range during the 
financial year was 67.50 pence to 95.25 pence.  
Pension 
Pension contributions made by the Company to defined contribution schemes in respect of executive directors are shown below: 
 
 2012
 £’000
2011
 £’000
Matt Armitage 9.7 9.7
Lloyd Wigglesworth 9.7 9.7
 19.4 19.4
Performance graph 
The graph below shows the Company’s performance, measured by Total Shareholder Return, compared with the performance of 
the FTSE Small Cap Index over the past five years. The FTSE Small Cap has been chosen as a comparator as it represents a 
broad equity index of which the Company has been a constituent member for the majority of the relevant five year period.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approved by the board and signed on its behalf by 
 
 
 
 
Tony Stuart 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
2 October 2012 
St Ives plc vs FTSE Small Cap – Total Shareholder Return Index
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
July 2007
St Ives plc FTSE Small Cap
July 2008 July 2009 July 2010 July 2011 July 2012 50 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year.  
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European 
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected  
to prepare the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
and applicable law). Under company law, the directors must 
not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company 
and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.  
In preparing the Group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: 
 properly select and apply accounting policies; 
 present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;  
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable  
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position 
and financial performance; and 
 make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue  
as a going concern. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements,  
the directors are required to: 
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently; 
 make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; 
 state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and 
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any  
time the financial position of the Company and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Group’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge the 
financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant 
financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and the management report, which is 
incorporated into the Directors’ Report, includes a fair review  
of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. 
Approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by 
 
 
 
 
 
Patrick Martell 
Chief Executive 
2 October 2012 
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of St Ives plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of St Ives plc 
for the 52 weeks ended 27 July 2012 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1  
to 32. The financial reporting framework that has been  
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for  
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our  
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit  
and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards  
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs  
as at 27 July 2012 and of its profit for the 52 week period  
then ended; 
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs  
as adopted by the European Union; and 
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by  
the IASB 
As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements,  
the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation  
to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also 
applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB). 
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with  
IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for 
the financial year for which the Group financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report  
by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion: 
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or 
 we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ Report 
in relation to going concern; and 
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the  
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; 
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board 
on directors’ remuneration. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial 
statements of St Ives plc for the 52 weeks ended 27 July 2012 
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
that is described as having been audited. 
 
 
Kate J. Houldsworth (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London 
2 October 2012  52 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated Income Statement
52 weeks to 27 July 2012 52 weeks to 29 July 2011 
 
Note
Underlying
£’000
Non
underlying*
(note 7)
£’000
Total 
£’000
Underlying 
£’000 
Non
underlying*
(note 7)
£’000
Total
£’000
     
Revenue 3, 4 327,376 2,083 329,459296,790 454297,244
Cost of sales  (237,686) (4,066) (241,752)(217,284) (4,645)(221,929)
Gross profit/(loss)  89,690 (1,983) 87,707 79,506 (4,191) 75,315
Selling costs  (24,469) (739) (25,208)(24,160) (276)(24,436)
Administrative expenses  (40,952) (8,019) (48,971) (34,207) (3,842) (38,049)
Other operating income  184 1,421 1,605 181 4,300 4,481
Profit/(loss) from operations 4, 5 24,453 (9,320) 15,133 21,320 (4,009) 17,311
Investment income 8 15,239 – 15,23913,973 –13,973
Finance costs 9 (15,464) – (15,464)(14,388) –(14,388)
Profit/(loss) before tax  24,228 (9,320) 14,908 20,905 (4,009) 16,896
Income tax (charge)/credit 10 (6,316) 4,737 (1,579) (5,764) 2,692 (3,072)
Profit/(loss) for the period from continuing operations 17,912 (4,583) 13,329 15,141 (1,317) 13,824
Loss from discontinued operations 12 ––– (1,312) (17,273) (18,585)
Net profit/(loss) for the period  17,912 (4,583) 13,329 13,829 (18,590) (4,761)
          
Attributable to:         
Shareholders of the Parent Company  17,795 (4,532) 13,263 13,748 (18,551) (4,803)
Non-controlling interests  117 (51) 66 81 (39) 42
   17,912 (4,583) 13,329 13,829 (18,590) (4,761)
         
Basic earnings per share (p)         
From continuing operations 14 15.61 (3.97) 11.64 14.45 (1.23) 13.22
From continuing and discontinued operations 14 15.61 (3.97) 11.64 13.19 (17.80) (4.61)
          
Diluted earnings per share (p)         
From continuing operations 14 15.44 (3.93) 11.51 14.36 (1.22) 13.14
From continuing and discontinued operations 14 15.44 (3.93) 11.51 13.11 (17.69) (4.58)
* Non-underlying items comprise restructuring costs, provision releases, operating results of non-continuing sites, acquisition costs, adjustments to deferred consideration, net profit on disposal 
of property, plant and equipment, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other one-off items. 
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
 
52 weeks to 
27 July
2012
 £’000
52 weeks to 
29 July
2011
 £’000
Profit/(loss) for the period 13,329 (4,761)
Actuarial (loss)/gains on defined benefits pension schemes (11,256) 16,696
Transfers of gains on cash flow hedges to hedged items (5) (59)
Gains on cash flow hedges  66 4
Tax credit/(charge) on items taken directly to equity 2,049 (4,697)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the period (9,146) 11,944
Total comprehensive income for the period 4,183 7,183
    
Attributable to:   
Shareholders of the Parent Company 4,117 7,141
Non-controlling interests 66 42
  4,183 7,183
  54 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
 
 
 
Share 
capital 
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000 
ESOP 
reserve 
£’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£’000
Share 
option 
reserve 
£’000
Hedging 
and 
translation 
reserve 
£’000
Other 
reserves 
£’000 
Retained 
earnings 
£’000 
Non-
controlling 
interest 
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 31 July 2010 10,358 46,706 (1,913) 1,238 60 43 46,134 73,394 –129,886
(Loss)/profit for the period – – –– –– – (4,803) 42 (4,761)
Other comprehensive 
(loss)/income for the period 
– – – – – (39) (39) 11,983 – 11,944
Comprehensive (loss)/income  
for the period 
– – – – – (39) (39) 7,180 42 7,183
Arising on acquisition of 
subsidiary (note 11) 
– – –– –– – – 620 620
Dividends – – –– –– – (3,616) – (3,616)
Issue of share capital 227 1,834 769 – – – 2,603 (606) – 2,224
Recognition of share-based 
payments 
– – – – 284 – 284 – – 284
Balance at 29 July 2011 10,585 48,540 (1,144) 1,238 344 4 48,982 76,352 662136,581
Profit for the period – – –– –– – 13,263 66 13,329
Other comprehensive 
income/(loss) for the period 
– – – – – 46 46 (9,192) – (9,146)
Comprehensive income for  
the period 
– – – – – 46 46 4,071 66 4,183
Adjustment in respect of 
acquisition of subsidiary  
(note 11) 
– – –– –– – – (13) (13)
Dividends – – –– –– – (5,774) – (5,774)
Issue of share capital 1,398 9,467 788 – – – 10,255 (607) – 11,046
Recognition of share-based 
payments 
– – – – 767 – 767 – – 767
Balance at 27 July 2012 11,983 58,007 (356) 1,238 1,111 50 60,050 74,042 715 146,790
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
 
  Note 
27 July
2012
£’000
29 July
2011
£’000
Assets   
Non-current assets   
Property, plant and equipment 15 56,361 62,376
Goodwill 16 87,169 67,443
Other intangible assets  16 31,325 11,522
Other financial assets 17 3,050 2,429
    177,905 143,770
Current assets     
Inventories 18 7,038 7,182
Trade and other receivables 19 89,498 65,110
Derivative financial instruments  19 76 4
Cash and cash equivalents 19 12,109 16,262
    108,721 88,558
Total assets   286,626 232,328
Liabilities     
Current liabilities     
Trade and other payables 20 79,101 69,255
Income tax payable   1,752 3,283
Deferred consideration payable   4,731 1,677
Deferred income 22 824 376
Provisions 23 1,348 1,626
    87,756 76,217
Non-current liabilities     
Loans 21 25,550 –
Retirement benefits obligations 25 19,991 12,295
Deferred consideration payable   – 2,621
Provisions 23 1,190 687
Deferred tax liabilities 24 5,349 3,927
    52,080 19,530
Total liabilities   139,836 95,747
Net assets   146,790 136,581
Equity     
Capital and reserves     
Share capital 27 11,983 10,585
Other reserves   60,050 48,982
Retained earnings   74,042 76,352
Attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company    146,075 135,919
Non-controlling interests   715 662
Total equity  146,790 136,581
These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 2 October 2012 and signed on its behalf by 
 
Patrick Martell  Matt Armitage 
Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer 56 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
 
Note 
52 weeks to 
27 July
2012
 £’000
52 weeks to 
29 July
2011
 £’000
Operating activities  
Cash generated from operations 28 10,822 22,282
Interest paid   (1,442) (1,079)
Income taxes paid   (5,700) (1,323)
Net cash generated from operating activities   3,680 19,880
   
Investing activities   
Purchase of property, plant and equipment   (6,426) (6,814)
Purchase of other intangibles   (613) (2,070)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment   4,917 9,263
Disposal proceeds of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed   2,255 14,772
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 11 (24,692) (12,170)
Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 17 (2,500) –
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities   (27,059) 2,981
   
Financing activities   
Dividends paid 13 (5,774) (3,616)
Increase/(decrease) in bank loans   25,000 (13,494)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities   19,226 (17,110)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (4,153) 5,751
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period   16,262 10,515
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes   – (4)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period 28 12,109 16,262  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
 
1. General information 
St Ives plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered 
office is One Tudor Street, London, EC4Y 0AH.The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in  
the Business Review, pages 6 to 29. 
These consolidated financial statements (‘the financial statements’) are presented in Sterling because this is the currency  
of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates. 
In the current period, the following revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted: 
Improvements to IFRSs 2010 (May 2010)  
Amendments to IFRS 7 (October 2010) Financial Instruments Disclosures 
Amendments to IAS 24 (November 2009) Related Party Disclosures 
Two interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the current period.  
IFRIC 14   Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement 
IFRIC 19   Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity  
The adoption of these interpretations has not led to any changes in the Group’s accounting policies. 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards, Amendments and Interpretations which have 
not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted 
by the EU). The Group has not applied these standards in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. 
IAS 1 (amendments) Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income; this standard is mandatory for accounting 
periods effective after 1 July 2012. 
IAS 12 (amendments) Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets; this standard is mandatory for accounting periods 
effective after 1 January 2012. 
IAS 19 (revised) Employee Benefits; this standard is mandatory for accounting periods effective after 1 January 2013. 
IAS 28 (revised) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures; this standard is mandatory for accounting periods 
effective after 1 January 2013. 
IAS 32 (amendments) Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities; this standard is mandatory for accounting periods 
effective after 1 January 2014. 
IFRS 1 (amendments) Government Loans; this standard is mandatory for accounting periods effective after 1 January 2013. 
IFRS 9  Financial Instruments; this standard is mandatory for accounting periods effective after  
1 January 2015. 
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements; this standard is mandatory for accounting periods effective after  
1 January 2013. 
IFRS 11  Joint Arrangements; this standard is mandatory for accounting periods effective after 1 January 2013. 
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities; this standard is mandatory for accounting periods effective 
after 1 January 2013. 
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement; this standard is mandatory for accounting periods effective after  
1 January 2013. 
In addition, ‘Annual Improvements 2009-2011 Cycle’ includes amendments to a number of Standards and Interpretations 
including IAS 1, IAS 16, IAS 12, IAS 32, IAS 34, IFRS 1 and IFRS 8. The effective date of all the amendments is for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
  58 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
2. Significant accounting policies 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) adopted 
by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and Article 4 of the EU 
IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments. The 
significant accounting policies adopted are set out below. 
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made judgements as to the policies that have the 
most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. The accounting estimates and assumptions that 
management considers to be its critical accounting estimations are detailed and explained in the Financial Review. 
Going concern 
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the 
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt  
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements. Further detail is contained in the Directors’ Report 
on page 39. 
(a) Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiary undertakings) for each period. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern  
the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the Consolidated Income Statement  
from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.  
The Consolidated Income Statement does not consolidate line by line the trading of operations classified as discontinued 
operations. These are shown on a single line under ‘Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations’ in the Consolidated Income 
Statement.  
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those  
of the Group. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. 
(b) Columnar classification in the Consolidated Income Statement 
Income statement items are presented in the middle column under the heading ‘non-underlying items’ if they are significant in 
size and do not occur in the normal course of business, or if they comprise the operating results of a site arising after a formal 
decision on its closure has been taken where that site does not meet the definition of a discontinued operation under IFRS 5 – 
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations (in which case the site and its activities are referred to as a ‘non-continuing 
operation’), or if they comprise amortisation charges on acquired intangible assets. 
(c) Revenue recognition 
Revenue 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and comprises amounts receivable for goods 
and services, net of trade discounts, up-front payments, VAT and other sales-related taxes.  
Revenue for goods is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership 
are transferred to the customer, normally on shipment of the product.  
Revenue for service is recognised as services are delivered or in proportion to the level of services performed. Revenue for the 
level of services performed is recognised using the stage of completion method when the outcome can be measured reliably. 
The stage of completion is determined using relevant criteria including service performed as a percentage of total services or 
as proportion of costs incurred.  
Income from advance billings is deferred and released to revenue when conditions for its recognition have been fulfilled. 
Interest income 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest  
rate applicable.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59
  
(d) Intangible assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the net fair value of 
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary at the date of the acquisition. Fair value is finalised 
within 12 months of the date of the acquisition. Goodwill is not amortised but reviewed for impairment annually in accordance 
with the impairment of goodwill policy set out below. 
Other intangible assets – computer software 
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment is classified as an intangible asset and is held 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost. These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, which is generally two 
to five years. 
Other intangible assets – customer relationships  
Customer relationships identified as separable intangible assets in the context of business combinations are capitalised at their 
fair value at the date of acquisition. They are amortised over their estimated useful lives, which is generally eight to ten years.  
Other intangible assets – proprietary techniques 
Proprietary techniques identified as separable intangible assets in the context of business combinations are capitalised at their 
fair value at the date of acquisition. They are fully amortised over their estimated useful life which is generally eight years. 
(e) Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment held for use in the production or supply of goods, or for administration purposes is stated in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet at deemed cost less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Costs are recognised as an asset only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the 
Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All repairs and maintenance are charged to the Consolidated Income 
Statement during the period in which they are incurred.  
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes professional fees. 
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use. 
Freehold land is not depreciated. 
Depreciation is charged, other than on freehold land and assets under the course of construction, so as to write off the cost  
or valuation of assets over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following basis: 
Freehold buildings 2% – 4%
Long leases Period of lease
Plant and machinery 10% – 33
1
/3%
Fixture, fittings and equipment 10% – 33
1
/3%
Motor vehicles 20 – 25%
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
(f) Impairment of property, plant and intangible assets excluding goodwill 
At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered any impairment loss. 
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment 
loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the 
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessment of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.   60 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately 
as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement.  
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior periods.  
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
(g) Impairment of goodwill 
Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to the group of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies 
of the combination. A cash-generating unit represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by the Group’s board of 
directors for internal management purposes. The recoverable amount of the group of cash-generating units to which goodwill 
has been allocated is tested for impairment annually on a consistent date during each financial year, or more frequently when 
such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. 
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement. Impairments of goodwill are not 
subsequently reversed. 
(h) Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those production overheads that have been 
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is valued on a first in, first out (‘FIFO’) basis.  
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in selling  
and distribution. 
(i) Tax 
The tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement comprises tax currently payable and deferred tax. 
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the 
Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other 
periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated  
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit; and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences 
can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise on goodwill or from the initial 
recognition (other than business combinations) of other assets or liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit  
nor the accounting profit.  
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the 
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.  
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is 
realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited to the Consolidated Income Statement, except where it relates to items charged  
or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current assets against current 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current 
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
  
(j) Government grants 
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the Consolidated 
Income Statement over a period to match the expected useful lives of the assets to which they relate. Grant income is 
recognised separately from the related expense. 
(k) Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the  
Group will be required to settle the obligation, and its value can be reliably estimated. When a provision needs to be released, 
the provision is taken back to the Consolidated Income Statement within the line where it was initially booked. 
Provisions for repairs 
Provisions for repairs are made where the Group is committed under the terms of the lease to make repairs to leasehold 
property. The provision is made for the estimated cost over the period of the lease. 
Provisions for restructuring costs 
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has  
been communicated to affected parties. 
(l) Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies other than Sterling are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to Sterling at the 
exchange rate ruling at that date. 
Foreign currency differences arising on translation or settlement of monetary items are recognised in the Consolidated Income 
Statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction and not retranslated each period end. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to Sterling at exchange rates ruling at the date the 
fair value was determined. Exchange gains and losses arising on the retranslation of non-monetary assets and liabilities are 
recognised directly in a separate component of equity.  
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the rates prevailing  
at the balance sheet date. Income and expense items and the cash flows of foreign operations are translated at the average 
exchange rates for the period, except for individually material items which may be translated at the exchange rate on the date 
of the transaction. Exchange differences arising on retranslation of non-monetary assets and liabilities are recognised directly  
in a separate component of equity.  
Such translation differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period in which the foreign operation 
is disposed of. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. 
(m) Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that 
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, 
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. 
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets  
is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation. 
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.  62 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
(n) Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party  
to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. Allowances are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement when there is objective 
evidence that their asset is impaired. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits. 
Bank borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded as the proceeds receivable, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges 
are accounted for on an accruals basis to the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are 
included in creditors to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
Available for sale investments 
Unlisted shares held by the Group are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value. Fair values of unlisted 
shares are based on cost. Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security 
is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is 
included in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period.  
Unsecured loan notes 
Floating Rate Guaranteed Loan Notes are recorded at their nominal value. Interest payable is accounted for on an accruals 
basis to the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and is included in creditors to the extent 
that it is not settled in the period in which it arises. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange for the purchase of capital 
equipment denominated in foreign currencies and the sale of goods similarly denominated. 
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, which provide written 
principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Group’s risk management strategy. The Group does not hold or 
issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecast 
transactions are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated  
Income Statement. 
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of an asset or liability, then, at the 
time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains and losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised 
in equity are included in the initial measurements of the asset or liability. For the hedges that do not result in the recognition of 
an asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the same period as 
gains or losses are recognised on the hedged item. 
The gain or loss on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion of a net investment hedge is recognised in equity and 
the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement. Gains or losses accumulated in equity 
are included in the Consolidated Income Statement when the foreign operations are disposed of.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63
  
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer 
qualifies for hedge accounting. 
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast 
transition occurs. If a hedge transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss previously recognised  
in equity is included in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period. 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks 
and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with 
unrealised gains or losses reported in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Those derivatives which are not designed as hedges are classified as held for trading and gains and losses on those 
instruments are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
(o) Retirement benefits 
The Group operates both defined benefits and defined contribution schemes for its employees. Payments to the defined 
contribution schemes are expensed to the Consolidated Income Statement as they fall due. 
For the defined benefits pension scheme full actuarial calculations are carried out every three years using the projected unit 
credit method and updates are performed for each financial year end. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in  
the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside the Consolidated Income Statement and presented in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
The retirement benefits obligation recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined 
benefits obligations and unrecognised past service costs, and as reduced by the fair value of the scheme’s assets. 
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service costs, plus the present value of available refunds and 
reductions to the scheme. 
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised  
on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. 
(p) Share-based payments 
The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are measured at fair value at the  
date of the grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. The fair value  
of share options issued is measured using a binomial model, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations. 
(q) Leases 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in equal amounts over the terms  
of the lease. 
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, the present value of the 
minimum lease payments; each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included  
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges 
and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.  64 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
(r) Business combinations 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each 
acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or 
assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs  
are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.  
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration 
arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the  
cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments (see below). All other subsequent changes in the  
fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs. 
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised. 
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s previously-held interests in the acquired entity are 
remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date (i.e. the date the Group attains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any,  
is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously 
been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the Consolidated Income Statement, where such treatment 
would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of. 
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 
(2008) are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that:  
 deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and 
measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively; 
 liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment awards are 
measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment; and 
 assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale 
and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard. 
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination 
occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts 
are adjusted during the measurement period (see below), or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new 
information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected 
the amounts recognised as of that date.  
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about 
facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year. 
The value of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries is calculated initially as their share of identifiable net assets, and is 
subsequently adjusted by their share of comprehensive income. 
(s) Critical accounting judgements 
In the course of applying the Group’s accounting policies the following estimations have been made which could have a 
significant effect on the results of the Group were they subsequently found to be inappropriate. 
Impairment of goodwill 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash-generating units for which 
goodwill has been identified. In arriving at the value in use an estimation of the future cash flows of cash-generating units  
and selecting appropriate discount rates is required to calculate present values, a process which involves estimation. The 
recoverability analysis indicates that the carrying amount of goodwill will be recovered in full. The situation will be monitored 
closely should future developments indicate that adjustments are appropriate. The carrying value of goodwill at the balance 
sheet date was £87.1 million (2011 – £67.4 million). 
Impairment of acquired intangibles and plant and machinery 
The Group considers the recoverability of acquired intangibles and plant and machinery which is included within the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet at £29.0 million and £20.3 million respectively. The key areas of judgement when assessing the 
recoverability of these assets are in relation to the forecast growth rates and discount rates to be applied to forecast cash flows.    St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
  
Retirement benefits obligations 
The calculation of retirement benefits obligations requires estimates to be made of discount rates, inflation rates, future salary 
and pension increases and mortality. The net liability in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for retirement benefits obligations is 
£20.0 million (2011 – £12.3 million). 
Allowances against amounts receivable  
The Group considers the recoverability of certain customer and other receivable balances. Determining whether an allowance 
against these balances is required involves an assessment of the ability of counterparties to make required payments. If the 
financial positions of the counterparties were to deteriorate, affecting their ability to make payments, additional allowances  
may be required in future periods. The Group maintains credit insurance covering its larger trade debtors, a rigorous system  
of credit control is applied and amounts receivable are continually monitored. Management specifically monitors historical bad 
debt, counterparty creditworthiness, current economic trends and changes in payment patterns when evaluating the adequacy 
of the allowances in place. 
3. Revenue 
An analysis of the Group’s revenue from continuing operations as defined by International Accounting Standard 18 − ‘Revenue’ 
is as follows: 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Continuing operations 
Revenue from the sale of goods and rendering of services 329,459 297,244
Investment income (note 8) 15,239 13,973
Total revenue 344,698 311,217
4. Segment reporting 
The Group manages its business on a market segment basis. The nature of the market segments is described in the Business 
Review. The Print segment comprises the Group’s Books, Exhibition and Events, Point of Sale and Direct Response businesses. 
The Marketing Services segment comprises the Data Marketing, Field Marketing and Consultancy Services businesses. 
During the current period, the Group acquired a Data Marketing business, Response One, and two Consultancy Services 
businesses, Pragma and Incite. The acquired entities are recorded within Marketing Services together with Occam, a Data 
Marketing business, and Tactical Solutions, a Field Marketing business.  
As detailed in Note 12, the Group’s Magazine printing business was sold on 6 April 2011 and is classified as a discontinued 
operation throughout the comparative period and is not included within segmental reporting. 
Inter-segment sales are charged at arm’s length prices. Corporate costs before non-underlying items are allocated to  
revenue-generating segments as this better reflects their profitability.  66 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
4. Segment reporting continued 
Business segments 
52 weeks to 27 July 2012
 
Print
£’000
Marketing 
Services  
£’000 
Eliminations
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue   
External sales 280,32747,049 –327,376
Group sales 211 608 (819) –
Underlying revenue 280,538 47,657 (819)327,376
Non-underlying revenue 2,083 – – 2,083
Total revenue 282,621 47,657 (819) 329,459
       
Result      
Result before non-underlying items 20,442 4,011 –24,453
Non-underlying items (5,608)(3,712) –(9,320)
Profit from operations 14,834 299 –15,133
Investment income     15,239
Finance costs     (15,464)
Profit before tax     14,908
Income tax charge     (1,579)
Profit for the period from continuing operations     13,329
 
52 weeks to 29 July 2011
 
Print 
£’000 
Marketing 
Services 
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue     
Underlying revenue 282,736 14,054 296,790
Non-underlying revenue 454 –454
Total revenue 283,190 14,054 297,244
      
Result     
Segmental result before non-underlying items 20,870 450 21,320
Non-underlying items (2,483) (1,526) (4,009)
Profit/(loss) from operations 18,387 (1,076) 17,311
Investment income   13,973
Finance costs   (14,388)
Profit before tax    16,896
Income tax charge    (3,072)
Profit for the period from continuing operations    13,824
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67
  
Other information (excluding discontinued operations) 
 52 weeks to 27 July 2012
 
 
Print 
£’000 
Marketing 
Services 
£’000
Total
£’000
Capital additions 4,999 1,084 6,083
Depreciation and amortisation 7,805 4,588 12,393
Impairments 832 – 832
 
 52 weeks to 29 July 2011
 
 
Print 
£’000 
Marketing 
Services 
£’000
Total
£’000
Capital additions 8,850 530 9,380
Depreciation and amortisation 9,914 1,478 11,392
Impairments 3,508 – 3,508
Balance sheet 
 27 July 2012
 
 
Print 
£’000 
Marketing 
Services 
£’000
Total
£’000
Assets     
Segment assets 185,377 86,090 271,467
Unallocated corporate assets    15,159
Consolidated total assets    286,626
     
Liabilities     
Segment liabilities 71,706 15,488 87,194
Unallocated corporate liabilities    52,642
Consolidated total liabilities    139,836
 
 29 July 2011
 
 
Print 
£’000 
Marketing 
Services 
£’000
Total
£’000
Assets   
Segment assets 176,214 37,423 213,637
Unallocated corporate assets   18,691
Consolidated total assets   232,328
   
Liabilities   
Segment liabilities 72,300 3,942 76,242
Unallocated corporate liabilities   19,505
Consolidated total liabilities   95,747
  68 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
4. Segment reporting continued 
Geographical segments 
The Print and Marketing Services segments both operate primarily in the UK, deriving more than 90% of their revenues and 
profits from operations and customers located in the UK. 
The largest customer of the Group accounted for £32.2 million (2011 − £33.2 million) of revenue in the current period. 
Reconciliation of segment assets and liabilities 
 
 
27 July
2012
£’000
29 July
2011
£’000
Unallocated corporate assets comprise: 
Financial assets 3,050 2,429
Cash and cash equivalents 12,109 16,262
Unallocated assets as per balance sheet 15,159 18,691
  
Unallocated corporate liabilities comprise:  
Deferred tax liabilities 5,463 3,927
Current tax payable 1,752 3,283
Loans and bank overdrafts (non-current) 25,550 –
Retirement benefit obligations 19,991 12,295
Unallocated liabilities as per balance sheet 52,756 19,505
5. Profit/(loss) from operations 
Profit/(loss) from operations has been arrived at after charging/(crediting): 
 Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2012
£’000
2011 
£’000 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Auditors’ remuneration         
Audit fees:        
– Audit of the Company accounts  68 69 – – 68 69
– Audit of the accounts of the Company’s subsidiaries 197 178 – – 197 178
Other assurance 25 28 – – 25 28
Non-audit fees:    
Corporate finance services 85 55 – – 85 55
 375 330 – – 375 330
Staff costs (note 6) 98,340 92,947 – 16,435 98,340 109,382
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 15) 7,837 9,551 – 3,058 7,837 12,609
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (note 15) 832 3,392 – 13,526 832 16,918
Impairment of software (note 16) – 116 – – – 116
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 16) 4,556 1,841 – 53 4,556 1,894
Operating lease rentals        
– land and buildings 1,309 1,093 – 175 1,309 1,268
– plant and equipment 1,356 1,371 – 101 1,356 1,472
– other 1,488 460 – 22 1,488 482
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1,605) (4,481) – (19) (1,605) (4,500)
Regional grant amortisation (note 22) – – – (465) – (465)
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69
  
6. Staff costs 
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was: 
  Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 
 
  
2012 
Number
2011 
Number
2012 
Number 
2011 
Number 
2012 
Number
2011 
Number
Production 2,026 2,004 – 598 2,026 2,602
Sales 450 437 – 21 450 458
Administration 418 374 – 101 418 475
  2,894 2,815 – 720 2,894 3,535
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2012 
£’000 
2011 
£’000 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Wages and salaries 85,496 80,664 – 14,745 85,496 95,409
Social security costs 9,205 9,049 – 968 9,205 10,017
Other pension costs 2,872 2,950 – 722 2,872 3,672
  97,573 92,663 – 16,435 97,573 109,098
Share-based payment (note 30) 767 284 – – 767 284
  98,340 92,947 – 16,435 98,340 109,382
The number of employees in discontinued operations for 2011 represents an average calculated over the period from  
30 July 2010 to 6 April 2011, the date of disposal.  
7. Non-underlying items 
Non-underlying items disclosed on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement included in respect of continuing  
operations are as follows: 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Expense/(income)   
Restructuring items   
Redundancies, impairments and other charges 6,699 6,788
Provision releases – (316)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1,421) (4,299)
  5,278 2,173
Other   
Operating losses from non-continuing sites 601 16
Amortisation of acquired intangibles  3,729 1,149
Costs associated with the acquisition of subsidiaries and other investments 1,384 608
Reduction in deferred consideration of acquired subsidiaries (1,689) –
Remaining other non-underlying expenses 17 63
 9,320 4,009
Income tax credit (4,737) (2,692)
  4,583 1,317
  70 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
7. Non-underlying items continued 
Restructuring items 
Current period 
Included within redundancies, impairment and other charges are redundancies and other charges of £4,333,000 relating to  
the closures of the Blackburn and Westerham sites. Also included are redundancies and other charges of £1,314,000 relating 
to restructuring activities in the Direct Response, Point of Sale and Exhibition and Events businesses. The activities of the sites 
and businesses are recorded within the Print segment. An impairment charge of £832,000 was recognised in respect of the 
disposal of the Crayford building. Redundancy costs of £220,000 were recorded in the Data Marketing business, part of the 
Marketing Services segment.  
Profit on disposal of fixed assets includes a £1,427,000 gain on disposal of plant and machinery following the closure of the 
Blackburn and Westerham sites, all within the Print segment. 
Prior period 
Included within redundancies, impairment and other charges are impairments of £3,508,000 in respect of plant, equipment and 
software located at the Bradford, Blackburn and Leeds sites. The activities of the sites are recorded within the Print segment. 
Also included are redundancy and other charges associated with restructuring activities principally in the Direct and Service 
Graphics operating businesses. Provision releases include the release of £316,000 in respect of costs associated with the 
Edenbridge site closure. Profit on disposal of fixed assets includes a gain from the disposal of the Lavington Street building,  
as well as gains on the disposal of buildings at the Edenbridge site, offset by losses on disposal of plant and machinery 
following the relocation of certain operations of Service Graphics to a new site. All restructuring items are recorded within  
the Print segment. 
Other 
Current period 
Operating losses from non-continuing sites classified as non-underlying items relate to operating results arising after the 
decision to close a site. In the current period, £601,000 arose in respect of the Blackburn and Westerham sites. Amortisation of 
acquired intangibles relates to customer relationships and proprietary techniques acquired with Incite, Pragma and Response 
One in the current period as well as to customer relationships and in-house developed software acquired with Occam and 
Tactical Solutions in prior periods. Costs associated with the acquisition of subsidiaries and investments include £970,000 in 
respect of the Incite, Pragma and Response One acquisitions and £414,000 in respect of the Easypress Group and Sponge 
investments. The fair value of the second tranche of deferred consideration payable in respect of the Tactical Solutions 
acquisition was reduced by £1,689,000. 
Prior period 
In the prior period, operating losses from non-continuing sites arose in the Edenbridge site. Amortisation of acquired intangibles 
relates to customer relationships and in-house developed software acquired with Occam and Tactical Solutions in prior periods. 
Costs associated with the acquisition of subsidiaries of £608,000 relate to the Tactical Solutions acquisition, principally 
professional advisers’ fees.  
Tax 
In the current period, the tax credit relates to the items discussed above, and to the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities 
following the substantial enactment of the reduction of the corporation tax rate from 25% to 23% (2011 – 27% to 25%). 
8. Investment income 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Interest on bank deposits 6 3
Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets (note 25) 15,009 13,898
Notional interest on loan notes receivable  224 72
15,239 13,973
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71
  
9. Finance costs 
 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 1,486 995
Notional interest on deferred consideration payable 71 46
 1,557 1,041
  
Finance charge on retirement benefits obligations (note 25) 13,907 13,347
 15,464 14,388
10. Income tax charge/(credit) 
Income tax on the profit/(loss) as shown in the Consolidated Income Statement is as follows: 
 Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2012 
£’000 
2011 
£’000 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
United Kingdom corporation tax charge/(credit) at 25.35% 
(2011 – 27.33%):  
          
Current period 3,842 4,891 – 456 3,842 5,347
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 28 (838) – 148 28 (690)
Total current tax charge 3,870 4,053 – 604 3,870 4,657
Deferred tax on origination and reversal of  
temporary differences:         
United Kingdom deferred tax (credit)/charge (1,303) (1,123) – 64 (1,303) (1,059)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (988) 142 – 139 (988) 281
Total deferred tax (credit)/charge (note 24) (2,291) (981) – 203 (2,291) (778)
Total income tax charge 1,579 3,072 – 807 1,579 3,879
The income tax charge/(credit) on the profit/(loss) before and after non-underlying items is as follows: 
 Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2012 
£’000 
2011 
£’000 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Tax charge on profit before non-underlying items 6,316 5,764 – 439 6,316 6,203
Tax (credit)/charge on non-underlying items (4,737) (2,692) – 368 (4,737) (2,324)
 1,579 3,072 – 807 1,579 3,879
The charge can be reconciled to the profit before tax shown in the Consolidated Income Statement as follows: 
 Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2012 
£’000 
2011 
£’000 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Profit/(loss) before tax 14,908 16,896 – (17,778) 14,908 (882)
Tax calculated at a rate of 25.35% (2011 – 27.33%) 3,779 4,617 – (4,858) 3,779 (241)
Non-deductible charges on impairment of assets – – – 4,641 – 4,641
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 654 561 – 734 654 1,295
Non-taxable income (12) (583) – – (12) (583)
Effect of alternative use tax basis on sale of buildings (957) (595) – – (957) (595)
Effect of change in UK corporate tax rate (925) (232) – 4 (925) (228)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (960) (696) – 286 (960) (410)
Total income tax charge 1,579 3,072 – 807 1,579 3,879 72 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
11. Acquisitions 
Response One 
On 14 September 2011, the Group acquired 100% of all classes of shares in Response One Holdings Limited. Response One 
Holdings Limited owns 100% of Response One Limited (‘Response One’), a provider of data marketing services. Goodwill 
arising on the acquisition relates to the value of future growth from new customers and of the assembled workforce. 
Purchase price allocation 
 
Historical 
net assets 
£’000 
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Fair value of 
net assets
£’000
Customer relationships − 11,244 11,244
Software − 1,103 1,103
Property, plant and equipment 162 − 162
Available for sale financial assets 802 (252) 550
Trade and other receivables 4,142 330 4,472
Bank balances and cash 4,667 (27) 4,640
Trade and other payables (5,228) (1,136) (6,364)
Deferred tax liabilities (184) (2,921) (3,105)
Net assets acquired 4,361 8,341 12,702
Goodwill arising on acquisition     10,379
Total consideration    23,081
The fair value of the components of the total consideration payable are as follows: 
  £’000
Paid in cash in the current period    17,398
St Ives plc ordinary shares issued in the current period    5,683
Total consideration     23,081
The acquisition had the following impact on investing cash outflows in the current period: 
  £’000
Cash paid    17,398
Less cash acquired    (4,640)
Net cash outflow    12,758
Had Response One been acquired at the beginning of the current period, it would have had the following incremental impact 
on revenue and operating profit for the Group in the current period. 
 £’000
Revenue 2,723
Operating profit 398
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73
  
Pragma 
On 20 September 2011, the Group acquired 100% of all classes of shares in Pragma Holdings Limited, which owns 100%  
of Pragma Consultancy Limited (‘Pragma’), a provider of consultancy services to businesses in the retail and consumer  
strategy sectors. Goodwill arising on the acquisition relates to the value of future growth from new customers and of the 
assembled workforce. 
Purchase price allocation  
  
Historical 
net assets 
£’000 
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Fair value of 
net assets
£’000
Proprietary techniques − 2,649 2,649
Property, plant and equipment 53 − 53
Trade and other receivables 731 29 760
Bank balances and cash 1,067 − 1,067
Trade and other payables (885) (53) (938)
Deferred tax liabilities − (636) (636)
Net assets acquired 966 1,989 2,955
Goodwill arising on acquisition     2,595
Total consideration    5,550
The fair value of the components of the total consideration payable are as follows: 
     £’000
Paid in cash in the current period    3,800
St Ives plc ordinary shares issued in the current period    1,750
Total consideration payable    5,550
The acquisition had the following impact on investing cash outflows in the current period: 
     £’000
Cash paid    3,800
Less cash acquired    (1,067)
Net cash outflow    2,733
Deferred consideration is payable in two tranches which are dependent upon the level of EBITDA achieved by Pragma in the 
years ending 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2013 respectively. The first of these was settled by cash of £1,086,000 and 835,596 
newly issued ordinary shares in St Ives plc. The second deferred consideration is estimated to be £nil. The total consideration 
payable is capped at £6,000,000 excluding a working capital adjustment of £823,000. 
Had Pragma been acquired at the beginning of the current period, it would have had the following incremental impact on 
revenue and operating profit for the Group in the current period. 
 £’000
Revenue 498
Operating profit 147
  74 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
11. Acquisitions continued 
Incite 
On 28 February 2012, the Group acquired 100% of all classes of shares in Incite Marketing Planning Limited (‘Incite’), an 
industry leading market research and insights consultancy. Goodwill arising on the acquisition relates to the value of future 
growth from new customers and of the assembled workforce.  
Purchase price allocation  
 
Historical 
net assets 
£’000 
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Fair value of 
net assets
£’000
Customer relationships – 8,720 8,720
Property, plant and equipment 315 – 315
Trade and other receivables 3,849 – 3,849
Bank balances and cash 2,810 – 2,810
Trade and other payables (2,804) (61) (2,865)
Deferred tax liabilities (16) (2,006) (2,021)
Net assets acquired 4,155 6,653 10,809
Goodwill arising on acquisition     6,215
Total consideration    17,024
The fair value of the components of the total consideration payable are as follows:     
    £’000
Paid in cash in the current period    10,382
St Ives plc ordinary shares issued in the current period    3,432
Estimated consideration payable in cash and shares    3,210
Total consideration    17,024
The acquisition had the following impact on investing cash outflows in the period:   
    £’000
Cash paid    10,382
Less cash acquired    (2,810)
Net cash outflow    7,572
Deferred consideration is payable in three tranches which are dependent upon the level of EBITDA achieved by Incite in the 
years ending 29 February 2012, 28 February 2013 and 28 February 2014 respectively. The first of these was settled by cash of 
£1,594,000 and 967,561 newly issued ordinary shares in St Ives plc. The total consideration payable is capped at £17,500,000 
excluding a working capital adjustment of £2,374,000. 
Had Incite been acquired at the beginning of the current period, it would have had the following incremental impact on revenue 
and operating profit for the Group in the current period. 
 £’000
Revenue 6,105
Operating profit 1,104
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75
  
Tactical Solutions 
In the prior period, on 9 February 2011, the Group acquired 90% in aggregate of all shares in Tactical Solutions UK Limited 
(‘Tactical Solutions’), a provider of field marketing services. Deferred consideration for Tactical Solutions is payable in two tranches, 
based on the EBITDA achieved for the calendar years 2011 and 2012. The Group paid £1,629,000 in respect of the first tranche  
of deferred consideration. The Group received an option to purchase the remaining 10% of the single class of ordinary shares from 
August 2013 at a price dependent on the level of EBITDA achieved by Tactical Solutions in the financial year preceding the date  
of the exercise of the option. A nominal value of £1 has been attributed to this option at the balance sheet date. 
The final allocation of the purchase price payable for Tactical Solutions is as follows: 
  
Historical 
net assets 
£’000 
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Fair value of 
net assets
£’000
Customer relationships – 6,840 6,840
Property, plant and equipment 219 – 219
Trade and other receivables 3,069 162 3,231
Bank balances and cash 169 – 169
Trade and other payables (2,266) (275) (2,541)
Deferred tax liabilities 1 (1,847) (1,846)
Net assets acquired 1,192 4,880 6,072
Goodwill arising on acquisition     13,597
Non-controlling interest    (607)
Total consideration    19,062
The fair value of the components of the total consideration payable are as follows: 
     £’000
Paid in cash prior to 29 July 2011    12,339
St Ives plc ordinary shares issued prior to 29 July 2011    2,000
Estimated consideration payable in cash    4,723
Total consideration    19,062
The adjustments made in the current period to the fair value of consideration payable and to the allocation of consideration to 
acquired assets are summarised as follows: 
  
At 29 July 
2011 
£’000 
Adjustments
£’000
At 27 July 
2012
£’000
Fair value of consideration 18,637 425 19,062
Allocated to:     
Identifiable net assets acquired 6,197 (125) 6,072
Goodwill arising on acquisition  13,060 537 13,597
Non-controlling interest (620) 13 (607)
  18,637 425 19,062
These amounts are not considered to be material and are shown in the current year. There are no other changes to the 
acquisition fair values disclosed in the 2011 financial statements. 
The acquisition had the following impact on investing cash outflows in the current period: 
    £’000
Cash paid in the period    1,629
Net cash outflow in the period    1,629
As at 27July 2012, there was an adjustment to the second tranche of deferred consideration, resulting in a reduction  
of £1,689,000. The adjustment is shown as a non-underlying item in the Consolidated Income Statement (see note 7).  
The fair value of consideration payable at 27 July 2012 was £1,521,000.  76 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
12. Discontinued operations 
In the prior period, on 6 April 2011, the Group completed the disposal of the four operating subsidiaries that made up the 
Group’s Magazine printing business, namely St Ives Peterborough Limited, St Ives Plymouth Limited, St Ives Roche Limited  
and St Ives Web Limited (‘the Magazine printing business’). The Magazine printing business was classified as a discontinued 
operation in the prior period. 
The profit after tax for the prior period from the discontinued operation is analysed below: 
Loss from discontinued operations  
 
 
31 July 2010 
to 6 April 2011
£’000
Loss from the Magazine printing business before non-underlying items: 
Revenue 51,248
Operating costs (51,754)
Operating loss before non-underlying items (506)
Finance cost (367)
Loss before tax before non-underlying items (873)
Income tax charge (439)
Loss after tax before non-underlying items (1,312)
Non-underlying items 
 
31 July 2010 
to 6 April 2011
£’000
Non-underlying items  
Impairment of property, plant and equipment of the Magazine printing business (13,526)
Impairment of US promissory loan note (3,454)
Defined benefits pension scheme curtailment credit  1,345
Other non-underlying items (1,270)
Total non-underlying items before tax (16,905)
Tax charge on non-underlying items (368)
Total non-underlying items after tax (17,273)
Loss from discontinued operations 
  
31 July 2010 
to 6 April 2011
£’000
Loss after tax before non-underlying items (1,312)
Non-underlying items (17,273)
Total loss from discontinued operations (18,585)
In the prior period, the impairment of property, plant and equipment in the Magazine printing business was recorded in light of 
the decision to dispose of this business and was established by reference to the fair value less costs to sell of the assets.    St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77
  
The US promissory loan note was fully impaired in the prior period following a continued downturn in the previously disposed 
US business, resulting in a charge of £3,454,000. 
The defined benefits pension scheme curtailment credit arose as a result of the change in membership status of employees  
of the Magazine printing business from in-service members to deferred members following the disposal of this business in  
the prior period. 
Other non-underlying items recorded in the prior period comprise redundancy and other restructuring charges arising in the 
Group’s Magazine printing business. The sale of the four operating subsidiaries that make up the Magazine printing business 
was free of tax.  
The net assets of the Magazine printing business at the date of disposal 6 April 2011 were as follows: 
31 July 2010 
to 6 April 
2011
£’000
Other intangible assets 55
Property, plant and equipment 20,653
Inventories 4,308
Trade and other receivables 23,678
Bank overdraft (386)
Trade and other payables (26,627)
Tax liabilities (1,898)
Other liabilities (982)
Net assets 18,801
Profit on disposal before tax –
Total consideration receivable, net of selling costs 18,801
The fair value of the consideration receivable for the Magazine printing business, net of selling costs, is comprised as follows: 
 
£’000
Consideration net of selling costs, received in cash on completion 14,178
Loan note receivable and received prior to 29 July 2011 208
Fair value of loan notes receivable 4,415
Fair value of consideration receivable, net of selling costs 18,801
 
 
£’000
Loan notes receivable within one year 1,986
Loan notes receivable in more than one year 2,429
Total consideration receivable 4,415
 
Net cash inflow 
Net cash inflow arising from the disposal in the prior period: 
 
£’000
Total consideration net of selling costs, received in cash in the period 14,386
Overdraft included in net assets disposed of in the period 386
Proceeds in the period from disposal, net of cash disposed 14,772
The terms of the loan note are detailed in note 17.  78 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
13. Dividends 
 Per share 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Final dividend paid for the 52 weeks ended 30 July 2010 1.75p – 1,806
Interim dividend paid for the 26 weeks ended 28 January 2011 1.75p – 1,810
Final dividend paid for the 52 weeks ended 29 July 2011 3.50p 3,756 –
Interim dividend paid for the 26 weeks ended 27 January 2012 1.75p 2,018 –
Dividends paid during the period   5,774 3,616
Proposed final dividend at the period end of 4.00p per share (2011 – 3.50p per share) 4.00p 4,793 3,749
The proposed final dividend is subject to the approval by shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting and has not been 
included as a liability in these financial statements. 
14. Earnings per share 
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: 
Number of shares 
 
2012
‘000
2011
‘000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 114,017 104,206
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 115,228 104,879
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
2012 2011 
 
Earnings
£’000
Earnings 
per share 
pence 
Earnings
£’000
Earnings
per share
pence
Earnings and basic earnings per share from continuing activities         
Underlying earnings and underlying earnings per share 17,795 15.61 15,060 14.45
Non-underlying items (4,532) (3.97) (1,278) (1.23)
Earnings and basic earnings per share 13,263 11.64 13,782 13.22
       
Earnings and diluted earnings per share from continuing activities      
Underlying earnings and underlying earnings per share 17,795 15.44 15,060 14.36
Non-underlying items (4,532) (3.93) (1,278) (1.22)
Earnings and basic earnings per share 13,263 11.51 13,782 13.14
 
2012 2011 
 
Earnings
£’000
Earnings 
per share 
pence 
Earnings
£’000
Earnings
per share
pence
Loss and basic loss per share from discontinued activities – – (18,585) (17.83)
Loss and diluted loss per share from discontinued activities – – (18,585) (17.72)
       
Basic earnings/(loss) per share from continuing and discontinued activities 13,263 11.64 (4,803) (4.61)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share from continuing and discontinued activities 13,263 11.51 (4,803) (4.58)
Underlying earnings is calculated by adding back non-underlying items, as adjusted for tax, to the profit/(loss) for the period 
(see note 7).   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79
  
15. Property, plant and equipment 
 
Land and 
buildings 
Freehold
£’000
Land and 
buildings 
Long leases 
£’000 
Plant and 
machinery 
£’000 
Fixtures, 
fittings, 
equipment 
and motor 
vehicles
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost or valuation:    
At 31 July 2010 50,050 5,349 221,297 12,820 289,516
Acquisitions –– 185 34219
Additions (10)2,771 3,905 7377,403
Disposals  (2,958) (315) (4,118) (480) (7,871)
Disposals – discontinued operations – – (100,261) (1,481) (101,742)
Reclassification – non-current assets (27) 28 900 (1,478) (577)
At 29 July 2011 47,055 7,833 121,908 10,152 186,948
Acquisitions –29 115 386530
Additions –29 5,071 3705,470
Disposals (7,003)(56) (17,222) (1,076)(25,357)
Reclassification – non-current assets – – (218) 117 (101)
At 27 July 2012 40,052 7,835 109,654 9,949 167,490
Accumulated depreciation and impairment:        
At 31 July 2010 13,152 2,513 156,467 9,946 182,078
Charge for the period 741 555 10,465 848 12,609
Impairment losses – – 16,791 127 16,918
Disposals  (771) (263) (3,896) (437) (5,367)
Disposals – discontinued operations – – (79,660) (1,429) (81,089)
Reclassification – non-current assets (28) 28 647 (1,224) (577)
At 29 July 2011 13,094 2,833 100,814 7,831 124,572
Charge for the period 742 594 5,737 764 7,837
Impairment losses 832 – – – 832
Disposals (3,803)(43) (17,155) (1,044)(22,045)
Reclassification – non-current assets – – (44) (23) (67)
At 27 July 2012 10,865 3,384 89,352 7,528 111,129
Net book value:        
At 27 July 2012 29,187 4,451 20,302 2,421 56,361
At 29 July 2011 33,961 5,000 21,094 2,321 62,376
Impairment losses of £832,000 arose on disposal of the freehold building at the Crayford site. The impairment losses have  
been measured by reference to consideration receivable less cost to sell and have been recorded as a non-underlying item.  
The Group has freehold land, included within property, plant and equipment with a book value of £4,385,000  
(2011 – £5,325,000), which has not been depreciated. The amount of fully depreciated property, plant and  
equipment is £75,615,000 (2011 – £54,722,000).   80 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
16. Goodwill and other intangible assets 
  £’000
Cost and carrying amount of goodwill  
At 31 July 2010 54,383
Acquisitions 13,060
At 29 July 2011 67,443
Acquisitions 19,726
At 27 July 2012 87,169
Goodwill is allocated amongst the following cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) or groups of CGUs: 
  £’000
SP Group 31,322
Service Graphics 14,952
Data Marketing 18,488
Tactical Solutions 13,597
Pragma 2,595
Incite 6,215
 87,169
SP Group and Service Graphics are reported within the Print segment. Data Marketing, Tactical Solutions, Pragma and Incite 
are reported within the Marketing Services segment. The Occam and Response One CGUs are presented together as Data 
Marketing. The businesses were combined due to future expectations of synergies in assets held by the businesses.  
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts of Pragma and Incite were tested by reference to market value at 27 July 2012. The recoverable 
amounts of the other CGUs are determined using value-in-use calculations. The key assumptions for the value-in-use 
calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs  
(and therefore profits and losses) during the forecast period. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that 
reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. Changes in selling prices  
and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. The Group prepares cash flow 
forecasts derived from the most recent medium-term business forecasts with a terminal value calculation. The key assumptions 
used in the value-in-use calculations and the sensitivities to the key revenue growth and pre-tax discount rate assumptions are 
detailed below. 
  
SP 
Group
Service 
Graphics 
Data 
Marketing
Tactical 
Solutions
Value-in-use assumptions:     
Pre-tax discount rate 10.2% 10.2% 10.2% 10.2%
Terminal growth used in terminal value calculation 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5%
Average annual revenue growth used in five year forecast calculation 2.3% 1.5% 6.7% 6.6%
Excess of value-in-use over carrying value (£’000) 39,134 8,140 6,414 21,417
Sensitivity of value-in-use to changes in key growth assumption:     
Average annual revenue growth in five year forecast calculation resulting  
in potential impairment 0.0% 0.7% 4.7% 4.6%
Increase to pre-tax discount rate resulting in potential impairment 8.0% 3.5% 2.0% 8.0%
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81
 
Other intangible assets 
Computer 
software 
£’000 
Customer 
relationships 
£’000 
Proprietary 
techniques 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost:     
At 31 July 2010 6,661 1,801 – 8,462
Acquisitions – 6,840 – 6,840
Additions 2,070 – – 2,070
Reclassifications  125 – – 125
Disposals (9) – – (9)
Disposals – discontinued operations (759) – – (759)
At 29 July 2011 8,088 8,641 – 16,729
Acquisitions 1,103 19,964 2,650 23,717
Additions 613 – – 613
Reclassifications  101 – – 101
Disposals (78) – – (78)
At 27 July 2012 9,827 28,605 2,650 41,082
Accumulated amortisation:   
At 31 July 2010 3,728 51 – 3,779
Charge for the period 1,071 823 – 1,894
Impairment losses 116 – – 116
Reclassifications  125 – – 125
Disposals (3) – – (3)
Disposals – discontinued operations (704) – – (704)
At 29 July 2011 4,333 874 – 5,207
Charge for the period 1,489 2,866 201 4,556
Reclassifications  67 – – 67
Disposals (73) – – (73)
At 27 July 2012 5,816 3,740 201 9,757
Net book value:   
At 27 July 2012 4,011 24,865 2,449 31,325
At 29 July 2011 3,755 7,767 – 11,522
  82 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
17. Other financial assets 
 2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Available-for-sale investments carried at fair value   
Unlisted shares 2,050 –
Convertible loan stock 1,000 –
  3,050 –
Loans receivable carried at amortised cost   
Loans to other entities – 2,429
Total other financial assets 3,050 2,429
As at 27 July 2012, unlisted shares represent a 15.75% non-controlling interest in Easypress Group Limited and shares that 
were acquired with the Response One acquisition, which are secured against non-current loans of £550,000. The Group holds 
convertible loan stock in Sponge Limited, returning interest of 5% per annum. The Group has the option to convert the loan 
stock to acquire 18.18% of the equity in Sponge Limited. A nominal value of £1 has been attributed to this option at the balance 
sheet date. 
In the prior period, loans receivable comprise loan notes in respect of the sale of the Magazine printing business receivable  
in more than one year. During the current period, the Group received £2,255,000 in respect of these loan notes. 
18. Inventories 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Raw materials 3,694 3,069
Work-in-progress 3,338 4,080
Finished products 6 33
 7,038 7,182
There was no material write-down of inventories in either period. 
19. Other financial assets 
Trade and other receivables 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Current 
Amounts receivable for the sale of goods and services 65,502 56,074
Allowance for doubtful debts (1,945) (2,034)
Trade receivables  63,557 54,040
Other receivables 10,138 4,271
Prepayments and other assets 15,803 6,799
  89,498 65,110
Trade and other receivables include an amount of £4,023,000 that is receivable in more than one year. The directors consider 
that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83
 
Derivative financial instruments 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Forward foreign currency contracts  76 4
All forward foreign currency contracts are designated and effective as hedging instruments. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 12,109 16,262
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less. The carrying amounts of these assets approximate their fair value. 
20. Trade and other payables 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Trade payables 36,086 45,662
Accruals for goods and services 17,362 8,616
Other taxes and social security 16,182 12,126
Other payables 9,471 2,851
 79,101 69,255
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value. 
21. Loans  
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Bank loans 25,000 –
Others 550 –
  25,550 –
The borrowings are repayable as follows: 
Between two and five years 25,550 –
Bank loans 
In May 2012, the Group entered into a three-year £55 million revolving multicurrency loan facility. Up to £15 million may be 
drawn as an overdraft facility. Interest on loan drawdowns is charged at LIBOR plus a margin which varies between 2.00%  
and 2.50%, depending on the ratio of the Group’s net debt to EBITDA excluding non-underlying items. Interest on overdraft 
drawdowns is charged at 2.00% over UK base rate.  
As at 27 July 2012, the Group’s outstanding loans, within this facility, were £25 million (2011 – £nil). The undrawn portion  
of this facility at 27 July 2012 was £30 million (2011 – £55 million).  
Others 
The loans are interest bearing and secured against unlisted shares (see note 17). The loan is due for repayment in 2015. 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of the loans approximates their fair value.  84 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
22. Deferred income 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Advance billings and other deferred income  824 376
 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Movement in UK regional capital grants:   
Balance at the beginning of the period – 708
Transfer to the Consolidated Income Statement – (465)
Disposal of the Magazine printing business – (243)
Balance at the end of the period – –
23. Provisions 
Provision for 
repairs 
£’000 
Provision for 
reorganisation
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 31 July 2010 1,242 3,176 4,418
Charged to the Consolidated Income Statement 145 2,192 2,337
Credited to the Consolidated Income Statement (165) (40) (205)
Disposal – discontinued operations 7 (122) (115)
Utilised during the period (71) (4,050) (4,121)
Balance at 29 July 2011 1,158 1,156 2,314
Charged to the Consolidated Income Statement 258 3,144 3,402
Credited to the Consolidated Income Statement (133) – (133)
Utilised during the period – (3,045) (3,045)
Balance at 27 July 2012 1,283 1,255 2,538
Current  545 803 1,348
Non-current 738 452 1,190
 1,283 1,255 2,538
Provision for repairs 
Where the Group is committed under the terms of a lease to make repairs to leasehold premises, provision for repairs is  
made for these estimated costs over the period of the lease. It is anticipated that these liabilities will crystallise between  
2013 and 2021. 
Provision for reorganisation 
The provision for reorganisation relates primarily to the remaining costs in respect of plant closures and relocation and 
comprises redundancy payments, plant relocation, onerous property and other costs, which are expected to be settled  
by the end of the 2014 financial year. The charge in the current period relates principally to the closure of the Blackburn  
and Westerham sites within the Direct Response business, as well as to restructuring activities in the Point of Sale and 
Exhibition and Events businesses, all of which are included within the Print segment.    St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 85
  
24. Deferred tax 
Deferred income taxes are calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a principal tax rate of 
23% (2011 – 25%). 
The total movement in the deferred tax liability/(asset) is as follows: 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
At the beginning of the period 3,927 (88)
Acquisitions 5,762 1,846
Disposals – (1,751)
Credit to the Consolidated Income Statement (2,291) (777)
Items taken directly to equity  (2,049) 4,697
At the end of the period 5,349 3,927
The individual movement in the deferred tax liabilities/(assets) is as follows: 
 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
£’000
Retirement 
benefits 
obligations
£’000
Rolled over 
capital gains
£’000
Revenue tax 
losses
£’000
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
£’000 
Derivative 
financial 
instruments 
£’000 
Acquired 
intangible 
assets
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 31 July 2010 9,082 (8,880) 369 (324)(1,248) 16 897 (88)
Acquisitions (1)–––– – 1,8471,846
Disposals (1,751) –––– – –(1,751)
(Credit)/charge to Consolidated  
Income Statement (2,461)1,095 340 324 191 – (266) (777)
Items taken directly to equity  – 4,712 – – – (15) – 4,697
Balance at 29 July 2011 4,869 (3,073) 709 – (1,057) 1 2,478 3,927
Acquisitions 34–––– – 5,7285,762
(Credit)/charge to Consolidated  
Income Statement (803) 539 (617) – 291 – (1,701)(2,291)
Items taken directly to equity  – (2,063) – – – 14 – (2,049)
Balance at 27 July 2012 4,100 (4,597) 92 – (766) 15 6,505 5,349
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.  
At 27 July 2012, deferred tax assets in respect of losses, at current tax rates, all of which have an unlimited life, are as follows: 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Unrecognised deferred tax in respect of trading losses 289 314
Unrecognised deferred tax in respect of capital losses 896 206
 1,185 520
  86 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
25. Retirement benefits 
Defined contribution schemes 
The Group operates defined contribution schemes for all qualifying employees. The assets of the schemes are held separately 
from those of the Group in funds under control of the trustees. Payments to the schemes are expensed to the Consolidated 
Income Statement as they fall due. The total expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement for continuing 
operations of £1,299,000 (2011 – £1,634,000) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates 
specified in the rules of the schemes. At 27 July 2012, contributions of £183,000 (2011 – £215,000) due in respect of the 2012 
reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes. The amounts were paid over subsequent to the balance sheet date, 
within the requisite time limits. 
Defined benefits scheme – St Ives Group 
The Group operates the St Ives defined benefits pension scheme, with assets held in separate trustee administered funds. This 
scheme was closed to new entrants from 6 April 2002, and closed to future benefit accruals with effect from 31 August 2008.  
The most recent full actuarial valuations of the scheme assets and the present value of the defined benefits obligations were 
carried out in April 2010 by Jonathan Punter, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, Punter Southall & Co Ltd, (‘the actuary’) who  
is independent of the Group. This valuation was updated at 27 July 2012. The present value of the defined benefits obligation, 
and the related current service cost and past service cost, were measured using the projected unit credit method. 
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuations were as follows: 
 
2012
 per
annum
2011
 per
annum
Discount rate 4.50% 5.50%
Expected rate of inflation 2.70% 3.50%
Expected rate of salary increases nil nil
Future pension increases 2.65% 3.25%
Post-retirement mortality in the 2011 and 2012 calculation is in accordance with the S1PA tables with an allowance of 1% lighter 
mortality for females. Future improvements from 2004 have been assumed in line with the 2009 CMI model and a long-term 
improvement of 1% per annum. No adjustment has been made to the base table for males. 
The amount recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefits scheme is as follows: 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Present value of funded obligations 270,909 258,269
Fair value of scheme assets (250,918) (245,974)
 19,991 12,295
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87
  
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the defined benefits scheme are as follows: 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Current service cost 200 200
Curtailments (397) (1,345)
Interest on obligation (note 9) 13,907 13,347
Expected return on scheme assets (note 8) (15,009) (13,898)
  (1,299) (1,696)
The current service cost was allocated to functional cost lines in the Consolidated Income Statement. Expected return on assets 
is recorded under investment income and interest on obligation is recorded under finance costs. The actual return on scheme 
assets was a profit of £13,240,000 (2011 – £32,673,000). 
Changes in the present value of defined benefits obligations are as follows: 
 
52 weeks to 
27 July
2012
 £’000
52 weeks to 
29 July
2011
 £’000
Opening defined benefits obligation 258,269 251,105
Service cost 200 200
Interest cost 13,907 13,347
Curtailments and settlements (1,338) (1,345)
Age-related rebates 39 214
Actuarial losses 9,487 2,079
Benefits paid (9,655) (7,331)
Closing defined benefits obligation 270,909 258,269
Curtailments and settlements of £1,338,000 incurred in the current period includes Patrick Martell’s transfer out value of 
£941,000 which was paid on 1 March 2012. 
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 
 
52 weeks to 
27 July
2012
 £’000
52 weeks to 
29 July
2011
 £’000
Opening fair value of scheme assets 245,974 218,218
Expected returns 15,009 13,898
Actuarial (losses)/gains (1,769) 18,775
Contributions by employer 2,261 2,200
Age-related rebates 39 214
Benefits paid (9,655) (7,331)
Settlements (941) –
Closing fair value of scheme assets 250,918 245,974
The fair value of the scheme assets at the balance sheet date is analysed as follows: 
Long-term 
rate of return 
expected at 
27 July 2012 
per annum 
Value at  
27 July 2012 
£’000 
Long-term 
rate of return 
expected at 
29 July 2011
per annum
Value at 
29 July 2011
£’000
Equity instruments 6.30% 158,829 7.50% 148,950
Bonds 2.80% 89,440 4.30% 94,902
Other  0.50% 2,649 0.50% 2,122
   250,918 245,974 88 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
25. Retirement benefits continued 
The scheme assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets 
used by, the Group. The expected rates of return on the individual categories of the scheme assets are determined following 
actuarial advice. The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the 
anticipated balance in the scheme’s investment portfolio. 
The history of the scheme for the current and prior period is as follows: 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000
2008
£’000
Present value of defined benefits obligations 270,909 258,269 251,105 232,482 226,605
Fair value of scheme assets (250,918) (245,974) (218,218) (194,199) (178,261)
Net obligation 19,991 12,295 32,887 38,283 48,344
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 9,487 2,700 8,844 (1,462) (1,462)
Percentage of total scheme obligation 3.5% 1.1% 3.5% (0.6%) (0.6%)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets (1,769) 18,775 16,431 (4,049) (13,915)
Percentage of scheme assets (0.7%) 7.6% 7.5% (2.1%) (7.8%)
The Group expects to contribute £2,200,000 to the scheme in 2013. 
26. Financial risk management 
The Group’s Treasury function is responsible for managing the Group’s exposure to financial risk and operates within a defined 
set of policies and procedures reviewed and approved by the Board. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group carries a cash flow risk where there are changes in the interest rate levied on the Group’s borrowings as currently 
interest on the majority of the Group’s borrowings is at floating rates. The Group finances its operations through a mixture of 
retained earnings and bank borrowings. Group policy is to constantly review the exposure risk to interest rate fluctuations in 
relation to the risk as a proportion of Group earnings and wherever possible with matching short-term deposits of surplus  
funds. The Group is not subject to fair value interest rate risk as the majority of debt is at floating rate. 
Interest rate management 
An analysis of financial assets and liabilities exposed to interest rate risk is set out below: 
Financial assets subject to interest rate risk 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Sterling 11,566 15,544
US Dollar 160 –
Other 383 718
  12,109 16,262 
The Group’s financial assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, all of which attract interest at floating rates based upon 
LIBOR or equivalent measures. 
Financial liabilities subject to interest rate risk 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Sterling bank loans 25,000 –
The Group’s financial liabilities comprise loan borrowings which bear interest at floating rates based upon LIBOR, and overdraft 
borrowings which bear interest at floating rates based upon UK base rate.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89
  
Interest rate sensitivity analysis  
The analysis below has been performed assuming that the amount of the liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was 
outstanding for the entire period. 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
100% movement in Sterling LIBOR 140 –
The changes would not have impacted other equity reserves as all interest bearing financial assets and liabilities are subject  
to floating interest rates and their fair values do not fluctuate with changes in interest rates. 
Foreign exchange risk 
From time to time the Group enters into contracts to supply goods to customers trading in continental Europe at prices 
denominated in Euros and to customers trading in the USA at prices denominated in US Dollars. 
Forward foreign exchange contracts 
The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts and  
to manage the risk associated with anticipated sale and purchase transactions. Basis adjustments are made to the carrying 
amount of non-financial hedged items when the anticipated sale or purchase transaction takes place. 
The following table details the forward currency contracts outstanding at the period end: 
Average 
exchange rate 
Sterling: foreign 
currency 
Foreign 
currency  
‘000 
Contract 
value 
£’000
Fair value 
£’000
Sell US dollars (up to 12 months) 1.58 270 171 (1)
Sell Euros (up to 12 months) 1.20 1,566 1,309 77
Forward foreign exchange contracts have been used to hedge the exchange rate risk arising from these commitments  
which are designated as cash flow hedges. As at 27 July 2012, the aggregate amount of unrealised profits under forward 
foreign exchange contracts deferred in the hedging reserve relating to the exposure on trade receivables and anticipated  
sale transactions amounted to £66,000. It is anticipated that the sales will be made in the 12 months following the balance  
sheet date.  
Credit risk 
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables, which represent the Group’s 
maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade 
receivables. The amounts presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, 
estimated by the Group’s management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. 
The Group’s credit risk is relatively low as the Group maintains credit insurance up to a maximum aggregate claim in any one 
year of £7 million. In addition, its UK subsidiaries’ sales are principally with a large number of counterparties and customers  
in the UK, and are denominated in Sterling. 
Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s  
credit quality and defines credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers are reviewed regularly.  
Trade receivables include an amount with a single large customer which represents more than 10% of the total balance.  
This customer has the highest credit score attributable under the credit scoring method used by the Group. 
Included in the Group’s trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £16.2 million (2011 – £19.4 million) 
which are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in 
credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.  90 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
26. Financial risk management continued 
Ageing of impaired receivables 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Between 0 and 59 days – 18
Between 60 and 89 days 767 1,196
Between 90 and 119 days 810 232
120 days and above 368 588
 1,945 2,034
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Balance at the beginning of the period  2,034 2,851
Impairment losses recognised  239 505
Amounts written off as uncollectible (318) (402)
Impairment losses reversed (10) (793)
Disposals  – (127)
Balance at the end of the period  1,945 2,034
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the Group considers any change in the quality of the trade receivable 
from the date the credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the 
customer base being large and unrelated, and being covered by credit insurance arrangements. Accordingly, the directors 
believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts. 
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables: 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Between 0 and 59 days 14,894 19,168
Between 60 and 89 days 1,310 229
 16,204 19,397
Liquidity risk 
The Group’s policy is to maintain flexibility with respect to its liquidity position, by utilising short-term cash deposits and, where 
necessary, short-term bank borrowings for working capital and longer-term borrowings for capital expenditure requirements. 
The Group entered in to a £55.0 million, three year revolving multicurrency facility in the current period. The agreement includes 
an overdraft facility of £15.0 million to fund short-term working capital requirements. The contractual maturities of drawn down 
borrowings, as well as undrawn facilities, are detailed in note 21. 
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will each be able to continue as a going concern while 
maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the 
Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 21, cash and cash equivalents, and equity attributable 
to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91
 
27. Share capital 
  
Number  
of shares 
Ordinary shares 
of 10p each 
£’000
Issued and fully paid:    
At 30 July 2011 105,848,507 10,585
Issued in the period 13,977,862 1,398
At 27 July 2012 119,826,369 11,983
All authorised and issued share capital is represented by equity shareholdings. 
28. Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
Reconciliation of cash generated from operations 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Profit from continuing operations 15,133 17,311
Loss from discontinued operations – (17,411)
  15,133 (100)
Adjustments for:   
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7,837 12,609
Impairment losses 832 20,488
Amortisation of intangible assets 4,556 1,894
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1,605) (4,652)
Increase/(decrease) in deferred income 436 (393)
Share-based payment charge 766 284
Cash contributions to defined benefits pension schemes (2,458) (3,345)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 225 (1,880)
Operating cash inflows before movements in working capital 25,722 24,905
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 212 (1,379)
Increase in receivables (14,955) (8,375)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (157) 7,131
Cash generated from operations 10,822 22,282
Analysis of net debt 
 
29 July 
2011 
£’000 
Cash flow 
£’000 
Acquired 
(note 11)
£’000
27 July
2012
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 16,262 (4,153) – 12,109
Bank loans – (25,000) (550) (25,550)
 16,262 (29,153) (550) (13,441)
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheet) 
comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less. The effective 
interest rates on cash and cash equivalents are based on current market rates.  92 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
28. Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement continued 
Cash flows from discontinued operations 
Included within the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement are the following cash flows from discontinued operations: 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Net cash used in operating activities – (733)
Net cash used in investing activities – (123)
Net cash generated from financing activities – 182
Net decrease in cash from discontinued activities – (674)
29. Capital and other commitments 
  
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Capital expenditure contracted but not provided 1,921 141
At 27 July 2012, the Group had outstanding commitments for the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases as follows: 
  
2012 
Land and 
buildings 
£’000
2012 
Other 
£’000 
2011
Land and 
buildings
£’000
2011
Other
£’000
Within one year 1,680 1,758 1,466 1,405
Between two and five years 6,410 1,894 4,690 1,605
After five years 4,678 3 4,250 96
 12,768 3,655 10,406 3,106
30. Share-based payments 
The Company operates a number of share-based payment schemes for certain employees of the Group. IFRS 2 – Share-based 
Payment has been applied to all share-based rewards made after 7 November 2002 that did not vest before 31 July 2004 as 
detailed below: 
Discretionary Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 (‘ESOS 2001’) 
Executive directors and certain members of senior management have been granted share options under the Company’s 
discretionary share option schemes. Details of the ESOS 2001 Scheme are included on pages 46 and 47 of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.  
Long-term Incentive Plan 2010 (the ‘LTIP’) 
Executive directors and certain members of senior management have been granted nil-cost share options under the 
Company’s long term incentive plan. Details of the LTIP are included on pages 47 to 49 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Save As You Earn Share Option Plan (‘Sharesave Plan’) 
The Company has granted share options to eligible employees under an HMRC-approved all-employee Sharesave Plan.  
Details of the Sharesave Plan are included on page 43 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93
 
A reconciliation of the movement in the number of share options is shown below: 
 ESOS 2001 LTIP Sharesave Plan 
 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Number of options         
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 2,232,000 2,494,800 1,197,000 – – –
Granted during the period – – 2,250,600 1,197,000 995,335 –
Lapsed during the period (150,000) (262,800) (202,800) – (19,077) –
Outstanding at the end of the period 2,082,000 2,232,000 3,244,800 1,197,000 976,258 –
Exercisable at the end of the period – – – – – –
 
ESOS 2001 LTIP Sharesave Plan 
  
 
2012
£
2011
£
2012 
£ 
2011 
£ 
2012
£
2011
£
Weighted average exercise price   
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.66 0.84 – – – –
Granted during the period – – – – 0.66 –
Lapsed during the period 0.62 2.37 – – – –
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.66 0.66 – – 0.66 –
The fair value of the options granted in the current period under the LTIP and Sharesave Plan were measured using a  
Black-Scholes options pricing model. The inputs to the model are: 
 
Sharesave 
Plan LTIP
Weighted average mid-market share price £0.73 £0.94
Weighted average exercise price £0.66 £nil
Expected life 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 30.00% 30.00%
Risk free rate 2.00% 2.00%
Dividend yield 5.00% 5.00%
The Group recognised a total charge of £767,000 (2011 – £284,000) relating to equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions. The exercise price of options outstanding at 27 July 2012 ranges between nil and 66.17 pence.  
Deferred Bonus Scheme 
On 25 October 2011, pursuant to the Directors and Senior Executives Deferred Bonus Scheme outlined on page 45 of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, a portion of the net bonus payable to Patrick Martell, Matt Armitage and Lloyd Wigglesworth in 
respect of the 2011 financial year was used to purchase 205,934 shares in the Company from the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust 
(‘the EBT’) on behalf of these directors at 87.95 pence per share. An ESOP reserve was set up when the EBT originally purchased 
these shares at a price of 383 pence per share. When the shares were purchased on behalf of the directors in the current period, 
an amount equivalent to their original cost of £788,000 was released from the ESOP reserve with the difference of £607,000 
between the price paid on behalf of the directors and the original cost to the EBT of the shares taken directly to retained earnings. 
31. Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation  
and are not disclosed in this note. No material related party transactions have been entered into during the current period, 
which might reasonably affect the decisions made by the users of these financial statements. 
On 25 October 2011, shares in the Company were purchased from the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust on behalf of  
Patrick Martell, Matt Armitage and Lloyd Wigglesworth as outlined in note 30.  
No other executive officers of the Company or their associates had material transactions with the Group during the  
current period.  94 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
31. Related party transactions continued 
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the directors and other executives who are key management personnel of the Group is set out below in 
aggregate for each of the categories specified in International Accounting Standard 24 − Related Party Disclosures: 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 2,095 2,103
Post-employment benefits 19 19
Termination benefits – 33
Share-based payment 427 229
 2,541 2,384
32. List of principal undertakings 
The principal trading subsidiaries of the Company as at 27 July 2012 are shown below. All are wholly-owned subsidiaries, with 
the exception of Tactical Solutions (UK) Limited which is 90% owned. With the exception of any marked (†) which are owned 
directly, all are owned via wholly-owned intermediate holding companies. 
The following companies are incorporated and registered in England and Wales: 
Location
Clays Limited Bungay
Incite Marketing Planning Limited † London
Pragma Consulting Limited London
Response One Limited Bath
Occam DM Limited † Chilcompton
St Ives Burnley Limited Burnley
St Ives Direct Bradford Limited Bradford
St Ives Direct Leeds Limited Leeds
St Ives Management Services Limited London
Service Graphics Limited † London & other UK sites
SP Group Limited † Birmingham/Redditch
Tactical Solutions (UK) Ltd † Flintshire
Clays, St Ives Burnley, St Ives Direct Bradford, St Ives Direct Leeds, St Ives Management Service, Service Graphics and SP 
Group are engaged in the activities of printing and related services. Incite Marketing Planning, Pragma Consulting, Response 
One, Occam and Tactical Solutions are engaged in the activity of Consultancy, Data Marketing and Field Marketing services. 
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 95
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of St Ives plc
We have audited the Parent Company financial statements  
of St Ives plc for the 52 weeks ended 27 July 2012, which 
comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related 
notes 1 to 15. The financial reporting framework that has  
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our 
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the Parent Company financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to  
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud  
or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non-financial information in the annual 
report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: 
 give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s  
affairs as at 27 July 2012; 
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Parent Company financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report  
by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
 the Parent Company financial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified  
by law are not made; or 
 we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial 
statements of St Ives plc for the 52 weeks ended 27 July 2012. 
 
 
Kate J. Houldsworth (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London 
2 October 2012 
  96 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Company Balance Sheet
 
  
 Note 
27 July 2012 
£’000 
29 July 2011 
£’000 
Fixed assets 
Tangible assets 5 33,928 39,173
Investments 6 152,524 105,404
 
186,452 144,577
 
Current assets 
Debtors – amounts falling due within one year 7 13,998 9,371
Debtors – amounts falling due after more than one year 7 − 2,429
 
 13,998 11,800
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (34,801) (33,439)
Net current liabilities  (20,803) (21,639)
Total assets less current liabilities  165,649 122,938
 
 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 8 (25,000) (2,621)
Provision for liabilities 10 (551) (276)
Net assets  140,098 120,041
 
 
Capital and reserves  
Share capital 11 11,983 10,585
Share premium account 11 58,007 48,540
Other reserves 12 2,054 442
Profit and loss account 13 68,054 60,474
Total equity 140,098 120,041
These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 2 October 2012 and signed on its behalf by 
 
 
Patrick Martell  Matt Armitage 
Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer 
   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 97
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
 
1. Accounting policies 
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom  
accounting standards. 
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group 
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements. Further detail is contained in the Directors’ Report on page 39. 
(a) Accounting convention 
The financial statements of the Company are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for revaluation of certain land 
and buildings and financial instruments. 
(b) Accounting period 
The financial statements are prepared for the 52 weeks ended 27 July 2012 (‘the financial year’). Comparative figures are for the  
52 weeks ended 29 July 2011. 
(c) Tangible fixed assets 
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction. On other assets it is provided on cost  
or revalued amounts in equal annual instalments over the estimated lives of the assets. The annual rates of depreciation are  
as follows: 
Freehold buildings  2% – 4%
Long leases Period of lease
Plant and machinery  10% – 33 %
Fixtures, fittings and equipment  10% – 33 %
Motor vehicles  20% – 25%
As permitted by Financial Reporting Standard 15 − Tangible Fixed Assets (‘FRS 15’), those freehold buildings valued at  
31 July 1985 continue to be carried at that value, subject to depreciation. 
(d) Investments 
Investments are stated at historical cost, less any provision for impairment. 
(e) Tax 
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the 
tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a 
right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law. Timing 
differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in 
which they are included in financial statements. 
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the 
asset, or on unremitted earnings where there is no commitment to remit these earnings. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. 
(f) Provision for repairs 
As the Company is committed under the terms of a lease to make repairs to leasehold premises, provision is made for the 
estimated cost of repairs over the lease period.  98 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting policies continued 
(g) Foreign currencies 
Where foreign currency borrowings have been used to finance or provide a hedge against equity investments in overseas 
subsidiaries, exchange gains or losses on the borrowings have been offset in reserves to the extent that they do not exceed  
the associated exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net investments. 
The transactions of the Company denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rate ruling at the date of  
the transaction. Amounts receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated  
at the rates ruling at that date. These exchange differences are included in profit on ordinary activities before tax. 
(h) Share-based payments 
The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are measured at fair value at the date of 
grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line  
basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. The fair value of share options 
issued is measured using a binomial model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s 
best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. 
(i) Derivative financial instruments 
The Company’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest 
rates. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange for the purchase of capital 
equipment denominated in foreign currencies and the sale of goods similarly denominated. 
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, which provide written 
principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Group’s risk management strategy. The Company does not hold 
or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecast 
transactions are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. 
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of an asset or liability, then, at the 
time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains and losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised  
in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For the hedges that do not result in the recognition of an 
asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged 
item affects the net profit or loss. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer 
qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is 
retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. If a hedge transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative 
gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the profit and loss account for the period. 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks 
and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with 
unrealised gains or losses reported in the profit and loss account. 
Those derivatives which are not designated as hedges are classified as held for trading and gains and losses on those 
instruments are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 99
  
 
(j) Pension costs 
The Company operates a defined benefits pension scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme. The Company  
accounts for the defined benefits pension scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme under the provisions of FRS 17. 
Pension costs for the Company’s defined contribution scheme are charged against profits as payable. Further details are set  
out in note 14. 
(k) Leases 
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal annual amounts over the periods  
of leases. 
(l) Cash flows 
A statement of cash flows has not been prepared for the Company as, in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 1 
(Revised): ‘Cash Flow Statements’ (‘FRS 1’), cash flow information has been shown in the financial statements of the ultimate 
parent company. 
2. Profit from operations 
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account of the Company is included in these  
financial statements. The profit for the financial period for the Company was £14.0 million (2011 – £7.2 million). 
3. Auditors’ remuneration 
Fees paid to the auditors in respect of their audit of the Company were £68,000 (2011 – £69,000). 
4. Employee information 
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was: 
 
2012
Number 
2011
Number 
Sales  14 16
Administration 36 44
50 60
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 
2012
£’000 
2011
£’000 
Wages and salaries 4,222 3,571
Social security costs 372 346
Other pension costs  93 99
Share-based payment  766 284
 5,453 4,300
  100 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
5. Tangible fixed assets 
Land and 
buildings
Freehold
£’000 
Land and 
buildings
Long leases
£’000 
Plant and 
machinery 
£’000 
Fixtures, 
fittings, 
equipment 
and motor 
vehicles
£’000 
Total
£’000 
Cost or valuation:       
At 31 July 2010 51,484 6,194 2,810  2,287 62,775 
Additions − 542 236  1,393 2,171 
Transfers from subsidiaries − − 99,741  1,920 101,661 
Transfers to subsidiaries (108) − (99,741) (1,934) (101,783)
Reclassifications − − 576  (576)− 
Disposals (5,255)− (131) (879)(6,265)
At 29 July 2011 46,121 6,736 3,491  2,211 58,559 
Additions − 29 24  332 385 
Transfers from subsidiaries 314 − −  − 314 
Disposals (6,994)− −  (21)(7,015)
At 27 July 2012 39,441 6,765 3,515  2,522 52,243 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment:       
At 31 July 2010 13,784 2,726 2,056  1,249 19,815 
Charge 691 334 850  252 2,127 
Transfers from subsidiaries − − 66,102  1,890 67,992 
Transfers to subsidiaries − − (66,699) (1,911) (68,610)
Reclassifications − − 297  (297)− 
Disposals (1,440)− (88) (410)(1,938)
At 29 July 2011 13,035 3,060 2,518  773 19,386 
Charge 691 300 251  375 1,617 
Impairment 832 − −  − 832 
Transfers from subsidiaries 300 − −  − 300 
Disposals (3,799)− −  (21)(3,820)
At 27 July 2012 11,059 3,360 2,769  1,127 18,315 
Net book value:  
At 27 July 2012 28,382 3,405 746  1,395 33,928 
At 29 July 2011 33,086 3,676 973  1,438 39,173 
The Company has freehold land with a book value of £4,320,000 (2011 – £5,214,000) which has not been depreciated.  
The net book value of the Company’s land and buildings includes £192,000 (2011 – £198,000) in respect of assets revalued  
on 31 July 1985. The historical written down cost of these assets would have been £76,000 (2011 – £80,000).   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 101
  
 
6. Investments held as fixed assets 
  
Shares in 
subsidiaries 
at cost 
£’000 
Loans to 
subsidiaries 
£’000 
Other 
investments
£’000 
Total
£’000 
At 30 July 2011 94,510 10,894 − 105,404
Acquisitions 51,080 − 2,50053,580
Loan advances − 1,500 − 1,500
Loan repayments − (1,680) − (1,680)
Loan reclassification − (6,280) − (6,280)
At 27 July 2012 145,590 4,434 2,500 152,524
All of the above are unlisted investments. The principal trading subsidiaries are listed in note 32 of the Group financial statements. 
Acquisitions of shares in subsidiaries at cost and loans relate to the acquisition of Response One Holdings Limited, Pragma 
Holdings Limited and Incite Marketing Planning Limited on 14 September 2011, 20 September 2011 and 28 February 2012 
respectively, as disclosed in note 11 of the notes to the Group financial statements. Other investments represent investments  
in Easypress Group Limited and Sponge Limited, as disclosed in note 17 of the notes to the Group financial statements.  
Certain subsidiary loans have been reclassified to debtors due within one year. 
7. Debtors: amounts falling due within and after more than one year 
 
2012
£’000 
2011
£’000 
Within one year 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 6,890 4,326 
Loans receivable  2,456 1,986 
Other debtors 959 918 
Tax recoverable 2,427 1,466 
Prepayments and accrued income 1,205 671 
Derivative assets 61 4 
 13,998 9,371 
After more than one year 
Loans receivable − 2,429 
 − 2,429 
Loans receivable within one year of £2,456,000 (2011 – £1,986,000) and after more than one year of £nil (2011 – £2,429,000) 
comprise Sterling amounts receivable as deferred consideration for the sale of the Magazine printing business on 6 April 2011. 
These loans are non-interest bearing and are carried at amortised cost.   102 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
8. Creditors: amounts falling due within and after more than one year 
2012
£’000 
2011
£’000 
Within one year 
Amounts owing to Group undertakings 18,929 8,673
Bank loans and overdrafts (note 9) 3,694 18,190
Consideration payable on purchase of subsidiaries 4,731 1,677
Trade creditors 1,565 878
Other creditors including tax and social security 4,335 2,402
Accruals and deferred income 1,547 1,619
34,801 33,439
 
2012
£’000 
2011
£’000 
After more than one year 
Consideration payable on purchase of subsidiaries − 2,621
Bank loans and overdrafts (note 9) 25,000 −
25,000 2,621
Consideration payable for the purchase of subsidiaries within one year of £4,731,000 (2011 – £1,677,000) and after more than 
one year of £nil (2011 – £2,621,000) represents the fair values of the loan notes issued as part of the consideration for Tactical 
Solutions (UK) Limited and the deferred consideration payable for Incite Marketing Planning Limited, as detailed in note 11 to  
the Group financial statements.  
9. Borrowings and finance obligations 
2012
£’000 
2011
£’000 
Within one year 
Bank overdrafts 3,694 18,190
 
2012 
£’000 
2011
£’000 
After more than one year 
Bank loans 25,000 −
Bank overdrafts and loans 
In May 2012, the Company entered into a three-year £55 million revolving multicurrency loan facility. Up to £15 million may be 
drawn as an overdraft facility. Interest on loan drawdowns is charged at LIBOR plus a margin which varies between 2.00%  
and 2.50%, depending on the ratio of the Group’s net debt to EBITDA excluding non-underlying items. Interest on overdraft 
drawdowns is charged at 2.00% over UK base rate.  
As at 27 July 2012, the Company’s outstanding loans, within this facility, were £25 million (2011 – £nil). The undrawn portion of 
this facility at 27 July 2012 was £30 million (2011 – £55 million).  
The Company’s overdraft is guaranteed by certain United Kingdom subsidiary undertakings and the Company guarantees the 
loans and overdrafts of those United Kingdom subsidiary undertakings. At 27 July 2012, the aggregate liability for the Company 
under this guarantee amounted to £35,772,000 (2011 – £11,765,000). The aggregate value of the Company’s loans and overdraft 
liabilities guaranteed by certain United Kingdom subsidiaries amounted to £14,377,000 (2011 – £18,677,000). 
As at 27 July 2012, there was no loan or overdraft secured against the assets of the Company (2011 – £nil). The directors 
consider that the carrying amount of the loans and overdrafts approximates their fair value. 
The Company has guaranteed amounts payable to certain suppliers of some of its trading subsidiaries. The maximum aggregate 
liability under these guarantees is £812,000.    St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 103
  
 
10. Provisions for liabilities and charges 
 
Provision for 
repairs 
£’000 
Deferred tax
£’000 
Total
£’000 
Balance at 30 July 2011 166  110 276 
Charge to profit and loss account −  275 275 
Balance at 27 July 2012 166  385 551 
The amounts of deferred tax provided in the financial statements are as follows: 
2012
£’000 
2011
£’000 
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 413 230
Other timing differences (28) (120)
 385 110
11. Called up share capital and share premium account 
Number  
of shares 
Ordinary shares 
of 10p each
£’000 
Share premium 
account
£’000 
Allotted and fully paid:       
At 30 July 2011 105,848,507  10,585 48,540 
Issue of share capital  13,977,862  1,398 9,467 
At 27 July 2012 119,826,369  11,983 58,007 
All authorised and issued share capital is represented by equity shareholdings.  
The following shares were issued as partial consideration in respect of acquisitions made during the year: 
Number of  
shares issued 
Consideration 
received
£’000 
Share premium 
arising
£’000 
Response One Holdings Limited 7,308,235  5,682 4,951 
Pragma Holdings Limited 2,401,078  1,751 1,511 
Incite Marketing and Planning Limited 4,268,549  3,432 3,005 
  13,977,862  10,865 9,467 
Further details of these acquisitions are contained in note 11 to the Group financial statements.   104 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
12. Other reserves 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£’000 
Share option 
reserve
£’000 
ESOP  
reserve 
£’000 
Hedging 
reserve 
£’000 
Total
£’000 
Balance at 30 July 2011 1,238 344 (1,144) 4 442 
Recognition of share-based payments − 766 −  − 766 
Issue of share capital − − 788  − 788 
Gains on cash flow hedges:  
Transferred to underlying hedged items − − −  (4) (4)
Arising on forward currency contracts − − −  61 61 
Balance at 27 July 2012 1,238 1,110 (356) 61 2,053 
On 25 October 2011, pursuant to the Directors and Senior Executives Deferred Bonus Scheme outlined on page 41 of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, a portion of the net bonus payable to Patrick Martell, Matt Armitage and Lloyd Wigglesworth  
in respect of the 2011 financial year was used to purchase 205,934 shares in the Company from the Group’s Employee  
Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) on behalf of these directors at 87.9 pence per share. An ESOP reserve was set up when the EBT originally 
purchased these shares at a price of 383 pence per share. When the shares were purchased on behalf of the directors in  
the period, an amount equivalent to their original cost of £766,000 was released from the ESOP reserve with the difference  
of £607,000 between the price paid on behalf of the directors and the original cost to the EBT of the shares taken directly to 
retained earnings. 
13. Profit and loss account 
£’000 
Balance at 30 July 2011 60,474
Net profit for the financial period 13,962
Issue of share capital (607)
Dividends paid on equity shares (5,774)
Balance at 27 July 2012 68,054
The adjustment to retained earnings in respect of the issue of share capital is explained in note 12 above.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 105
  
 
14. Retirement Benefits 
The Company participates in both the defined benefits and defined contribution schemes operated by St Ives plc. The defined 
benefits scheme is a multi-employer scheme, the assets and liabilities of which are held in separate trustee-administered funds. 
The pension costs are based on pension costs across the Group as a whole. For the defined contribution schemes, the profit  
and loss charge represents contributions payable. 
The pension costs of the Company are disclosed in note 4. 
For the purpose of FRS 17, the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the defined 
benefits scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis. Accordingly, the Company accounts for the defined benefits scheme  
as if it were a defined contribution scheme.  
The defined benefits scheme was closed to new entrants with effect from 6 April 2002 and closed to future benefit accrual from  
31 August 2008. There are no contributions to fund future defined benefits accrual after 31 August 2008. Regular contributions  
of £2,200,000 were made in the period and the Company expects to contribute £2,200,000 to the scheme in 2013. 
The Group is required to account for the defined benefits scheme under International Accounting Standard 19 − Employee 
Benefits (‘IAS 19’). The IAS 19 disclosures, included in note 25 of the notes to the Group financial statements, have been based 
on the results of the actuarial valuation of the defined benefits scheme as at 6 April 2010 adjusted to allow for the assumptions 
and actuarial methodology required by IAS 19 and updated to 27 July 2012 by the scheme’s actuary. These disclosures show 
that the scheme’s assets represented 92.6% of the scheme’s liabilities (2011 – 95.2%). 
15. Capital commitments 
2012 
£’000 
2011
£’000 
Capital expenditure contracted but not provided − 273 106 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Five Year Record
 
52 weeks 
to 27 July 
2012 
£’000 
52 weeks 
to 29 July 
2011 
£’000 
52 weeks  
to 30 July 
2010 
£’000 
52 weeks 
to 31 July 
2009
£’000 
52 weeks 
to 1 August 
2008
£’000 
Revenue 
Print 280,327 282,736 290,542  386,782 391,200 
Marketing Services 47,049 14,054 888  – – 
327,376 296,790 291,430  386,782 391,200 
Profit/(loss) from operations before non-underlying items   
Print 20,442 20,870 18,968  10,150 32,953 
Marketing Services 4,011 450 (216) – – 
24,453 21,320 18,752  10,150 32,953 
Non-underlying items* (9,320) (4,009) (4,622) (14,532) 1,126 
Profit/(loss) from operations 15,133 17,311 14,130  (4,382) 34,079 
Investment income 15,239 13,973 13,267  12,857 11,051 
Finance costs (15,464) (14,388) (14,222) (15,716) (14,508)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 14,908 16,896 13,175  (7,241) 30,622
Income tax (charge)/credit (1,579) (3,072) (1,974) 916 (16,096)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities after taxation 13,329 13,824 11,201  (6,325) 14,526
(Loss)/profit on discontinued operations – (18,585) (3,463) (8,233) 1,714 
Profit/(loss) for the period 13,329 (4,761) 7,738  (14,558) 16,240
 
Earnings per share  
Basic 11.64 13.22 10.87  (6.14) 14.10 
Continuing before non-underlying items 15.61 14.45 11.83  4.94 19.57 
Balance sheet  
Property, plant and equipment 56,361 62,376 107,438  122,178 141,581 
Goodwill 87,169 67,443 54,383  46,274 54,679 
Other intangible assets 31,325 11,522 4,683  1,215 1,753 
Other non-current assets 3,050 2,429 5,052  8,008 2,517 
Assets held for sale – – 2,140  1,282 6,650 
Other current assets 108,721 88,558 89,402  98,218 116,811 
Liabilities held for sale  – – –  – (1,142)
Other current liabilities (87,756) (76,217) (84,606) (113,717) (79,015)
Non-current liabilities (52,080) (19,530) (48,606) (41,390) (88,964)
Net assets 146,790 136,581 129,886  122,068 154,870 
Revenue and profit/(loss) from operations before non-underlying items is shown by business segment. The figures for Print 
segment for the periods ended 1 August 2008 and 31 July 2009 include the results of the operations previously classified  
within the Media and Commercial segments, including those of the Magazine printing business.  
The Five Year Record is not audited. 
* Non-underlying items comprise restructuring costs, provision releases, operating results of non-continuing sites, acquisition costs, adjustments to deferred 
consideration, net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment, amortisation of acquired intangibles and other one-off items.   St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 107
Financial Calendar
 
Financial year ended 29 July 2011  
Record date for final dividend 2 December 2011 
Annual General Meeting 29 November 2011 
Payment date for final dividend of 3.50 per ordinary share  23 December 2011  
  
Financial year ended 27 July 2012  
Half year end 27 January 2012 
Announcement of Half year results 6 March 2012 
Record date for interim dividend 10 April 2012 
Payment date for interim dividend of 1.75p per ordinary share 9 May 2012 
Financial year end 27 July 2012 
Announcement of Full year results 2 October 2012 
Earliest date for IMS 5 October 2012 
Ex-dividend date 28 November 2012 
Record date for proposed final dividend 30 November 2012 
Annual General Meeting 27 November 2012 
Latest date for IMS 21 December 2012 
Payment date for proposed final dividend of 4.00p per ordinary share  21 December 2012* 
  
Financial year ended 2 August 2013  
Half year end 1 February 2013 
Announcement of Half year results March 2013 
Financial year end 2 August 2013 
 
* If approved by shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting the proposed final dividend will be paid on 21 December 2012.  108 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
 
Corporate information 
Further information about the Group can be found on our website: www.st-ives.co.uk 
This year’s Annual Report and Accounts, as well as copies of past years’ Annual Reports and Accounts, Half year and  
Interim Management Statements and Shareholder circulars, are available to view and download from our website. Regulatory 
announcements and press releases made during the year, and in past years, are also available to view in the Regulatory  
News section of the Investor Relations area of the website. 
Should you wish to receive further copies of the Annual Report and Accounts or a copy of our Environmental Performance report, 
please contact the Company Secretary, St Ives plc, One Tudor Street, London EC4Y 0AH. 
Shares 
St Ives plc ordinary shares of 10 pence each are listed on the London Stock Exchange and trade under the symbol: SIV. Our 
International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) is GB0007689002 and our Stock Exchange Daily Official List (SEDOL) 
number is 768900.  
Share price information and our latest regulatory announcements can be obtained from the Stock Exchange website, 
www.londonstockexchange.com 
Shareholding enquiries 
St Ives plc’s register is maintained by Capita Registrars, who are able to deal with shareholders’ queries, including in respect  
of any of the following matters: 
 transfer of shares 
 change of name or address 
 registering the death of a shareholder 
 lost share certificates 
 lost or out of date dividend warrants 
 the payment of dividends directly into a bank or building society account. 
Their contact details are: St Ives plc Shareholder Services, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent BR3 4TU. 
Capita’s shareholder helpline telephone number is 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras). If you  
are calling from overseas, please telephone + 44 208 639 3399. Lines are open from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m., Monday to Friday. 
Alternatively, you can email your query to our registrars at ssd@capitaregistars.com although, for legal reasons, they may 
subsequently require you to confirm any instruction in writing.  
Our principal advisers 
Stockbrokers: 
Numis Securities Limited, The London Stock Exchange Building, 10 Paternoster Square, London EC4M 7LT 
Financial Advisers: 
N.M. Rothschild & Sons Limited, New Court, St Swithin’s Lane, London EC4P 4DU 
Bankers: 
HSBC Bank plc, 76 Edgware Road, London W2 2EQ 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, PO Box 2 AG, 63 Piccadilly, London W1A 2AG 
Solicitors: 
Herbert Smith LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2HS 
Shareholder Information St Ives plc
Registered in England & Wales No. 15521 13 
Registered office 
One Tudor Street  
London EC4Y 0AH
Printed on paper sourced from well-managed and sustainable 
resources and converted at mills, which conform to ISO14001 
and EMAS Environmental Management Standards, using pulp 
which is Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF). The inks used are all 
vegetable based.
The cover is printed on 300gsm ‘Edixion’. The front section is 
printed on 150gsm Hello Silk, with the section to the rear on 
120gsm ‘Edixion Offset’.
All papers are produced at mills which conform to ISO14001 and 
EMAS Environmental Management Standards, using pulp which 
is Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF).
Printed at St Ives Direct Bradford Limited, ISO 14001 and 9001
Designed by Black Sun Plc 
www.blacksunplc.com
St Ives plc is grateful to all the valued customers who allowed us 
to use photographs in this document that represent the products 
and services we supply. St Ives plc
One Tudor Street
London
EC4Y 0AH
Telephone  020 7928 8844
Fax 020 7902 6436
www.st-ives.co.uk
