 SThree plc   Report & Accounts 2008 Executive Directors
Russell Clements
Gary Elden
Alex Smith
Sunil Wickremeratne
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Anthony Cleaver
Paul Bowtell
Alicja Lesniak
T ony Ward
Nadhim Zahawi
Secretary and Registered Office
Steve Hornbuckle
41-44 Great Windmill Street
London
W1D 7NB
Company number
3805979
Contact details
T el: 020 7292 3838
Fax: 020 7292 3839
Email: enquiries@sthree.com
Web: www.sthree.com
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London
WC2N 6RH 
Registrars (ordinary shares)
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
HD8 0GA
T el: (UK) 0871 664 0300*
T el: (Non UK) +44 208 639 3399
Email: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
Web: www.capitaregistrars.com
* Calls at 10p per minute plus network extras
Solicitors
Linklaters
One Silk Street
London
EC2Y 8HQ
Clifford Chance LLP
10 Upper Bank Street
London
E14 5JJ
Financial Advisers & Stockbrokers
UBS Investment Bank
1 Finsbury Avenue
London
EC2M 2PP
Investec Investment Banking
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Financial PR
Citigate Dewe Rogerson
3 London Wall Buildings
London Wall
London EC2M 5SY
SThree plc
Company Information and Corporate Advisers  1 Board of Directors and Secretary
 3  Chairman’s Statement
 5  Financial Highlights
 6  Chief Executive Officer’s Review
10 Chief Financial Officer’s Review
12 Directors’ Report
18 Directors’ Remuneration Report
24 Corporate Governance Report
30  Corporate Social Responsibility Report
35 Audit Opinion
37 Consolidated Income Statement
38 Balance Sheets (Consolidated and Company)
39 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
40 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
41 Cash Flow Statement
42 Notes to the Financial Statements
88 Five Year Financial Summary
Inside Back Cover  Shareholder information
SThree plc
Contents SThree plc 1
Board of Directors and Secretary
Report & Accounts 2008
The Board brings together a wealth of experience across differing sectors and businesses on an international basis.   
Most importantly, they share a passion for the business and the outstanding opportunities ahead.
Chairman 
Sir Anthony Cleaver (age 70) has served as SThree’s Non-Executive Chairman since July 2000 and sits on the SThree Nomination Committee. 
He spent the majority of his career with IBM, where he served as European Vice-President of Marketing and Chairman and Chief Executive in the 
United Kingdom. Sir Anthony has also served as Chairman of the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, IX Europe plc, United Kingdom Atomic Energy 
Authority, AEA T echnology plc, General Cable plc, and the Medical Research Council, and as a Non-Executive Director of General Accident, Lockheed 
Martin UK Limited and Smith & Nephew plc. He currently serves as Chairman of the Engineering and T echnology Board and Novia Financial plc. Sir 
Anthony was President of the Chartered Management Institute.
Chief Development Officer  
Gary Elden (age 41) was appointed to the Board in July 2008, having been with the Group since 1990, when he joined Computer Futures. He has held 
a number of senior positions, including that of founding Managing Director of Huxley Associates. In his role as Chief Development Officer, he has 
special responsibility for the expansion of the Group’s international operations and non-ICT disciplines.
Chief Executive Officer 
Russell Clements (age 44) has served as SThree’s Chief Executive Officer since 2004 having previously held the position of Deputy Chief Executive 
Officer since 2001. He worked for VNU Business Publications, before joining Computer Futures in 1986 shortly after its inception as the group’s 
second employee. He subsequently served as Sales Director and Managing Director of Computer Futures. Russell holds a degree in Government from 
the University of Essex and is also a graduate of the Advanced Management Program at the Wharton Business School, University of Pennsylvania. He 
is former Chairman of the Association of Professional Staffing Companies (APSCo).
Chief Operating Officer 
Sunil Wickremeratne (age 44) has served as SThree’s Chief Operating Officer since 2004 having previously been Managing Director of Progressive. 
After working for VNU Business Publications, he joined Computer Futures in 1988 and subsequently established Progressive in 1990, Pathway in 1997 
and Real IT Resourcing in 1998. Sunil holds a degree in Economics from University College, London.
Chief Financial Officer 
Alex Smith (age 43) joined SThree in May 2008, having held a number of senior financial and operational roles in the leisure and retail sectors. Most 
recently he held the position of Integration Finance Director at TUI T ravel PLC, the company formed through the merger of First Choice Holidays plc 
and the tourism businesses of TUI AG. Prior to this he was Finance Director of First Choice’s UK Mainstream business, at WH Smith plc, as Managing 
Director of its T ravel Retail business and held senior financial roles at T ravelodge and Forte PLC. Alex has a degree in Economics from Durham 
University and is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Sir Anthony Cleaver
 
Russell Clements 
Sunil Wickremeratne 
Alex Smith  
Gary Elden  SThree plc 2
Non-Executive Director  
Paul Bowtell (age 40) was appointed to the SThree Board and as Chairman of the SThree Audit Committee, in November 2007 and Nomination 
Committee in April 2008 and is currently Chief Financial Officer of TUI T ravel PLC, the company formed through the merger of First Choice Holidays 
plc and the tourism businesses of TUI AG. Paul has extensive experience gained from senior finance roles in a variety of companies including 
First Choice Holidays PLC, British Gas, a subsidiary of Centrica plc, where he was appointed Finance Director in 2002. Prior to that, Paul was with 
WH Smith plc, where he held a number of corporate centre roles before becoming Finance Director of the UK Retail business, as well as senior tax 
roles at Forte and Arthur Andersen. Paul is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Non-Executive Director   
Alicja Lesniak (age 57) was appointed to the SThree Board in May 2006, to the SThree Audit Committee in July 2006, the Remuneration Committee 
in February 2008 and the Nomination Committee in April 2008. Alicja is currently a Non-Executive Director of DTZ Holdings plc and CFO of Aegis 
plc and has over thirty years experience in fast moving service businesses, in the latter twenty years holding senior financial and managerial roles 
within the advertising/media sector, including seven years with BBDO Worldwide, latterly as Chief Financial Officer for BBDO EMEA, and seven years 
at WPP Group plc, where she held positions as Chief Financial Officer for Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and Managing Director of J Walter Thompson 
in the UK. Prior to joining the advertising sector she held senior management positions with Arthur Andersen & Co, having originally qualified as 
a Chartered Accountant with them in 1976. Alicja is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales and holds a degree in 
Mathematics from Imperial College.
Non-Executive Director  
Nadhim Zahawi (age 41) was appointed to the SThree Board and to the Remuneration and Audit Committees in May 2008. Nadhim is CEO and 
co-founder of YouGov plc, a leading International online market research agency. He was previously European marketing director at Smith & Brooks, 
with responsibility for marketing brands such as Warner Bros, Disney and Barbie, after stepping down as a councillor of the London Borough of 
Wandsworth, a post he had held since 1994, in which he worked on public-sector consultation, planning, social services and research within local 
government. Nadhim was previously a director at Allen Hinckley, the property rights licensing group, Marketing Director at Global Inc, a supplier to 
major retailers, and a Conservative Party candidate in the 1997 General Election. Nadhim is a patron of the Genesis Initiative and Peace One Day.
Non-Executive Director (Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)  
Tony Ward, OBE (age 58) was appointed to the SThree board Board in August 2006 and to the SThree Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
in October 2006. T ony currently chairs the Remuneration Committee and has over thirty years experience in a variety of senior executive roles 
with blue chip companies, including BAA plc, Kingfisher plc and Grand Metropolitan Group plc. He joined BAA in 1997 as Group HR Director and was 
Services Director from 1999 until March 2007, being responsible for activities including IT , Security, Rail and Airside Operations. T ony was a board 
director of BAA plc between November 1999 and July 2006. T ony is a Non-Executive Director of the OCS Group Limited, and an advisor to Manchester 
Square Partners LLP; a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development; a former Deputy Chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality; 
and a graduate of the University of Leeds.
Company Secretary  
Steve Hornbuckle (age 41) was appointed to the role in October 2006. Steve has over twenty years company secretarial experience, having held 
Deputy and Assistant Secretary positions within a variety of listed companies, including Intertek Group plc, BPB plc, Kidde plc, Railtrack Group plc, 
London & Manchester Group plc and English China Clays plc. Steve is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
Tony Ward
 
Board of Directors and Secretary
Report & Accounts 2008 (continued)
Paul Bowtell
Alicja Lesniak
Nadhim Zahawi
Steve Hornbuckle  SThree plc 3
In our fourth Annual Report as a 
listed Company, I am very pleased 
to say that, despite the economic 
uncertainty which continued into 
and throughout 2008, we were 
still able to build on the three prior 
years’ excellent progress and have 
refined and further strengthened our 
strategy, business model and market 
position.
Throughout this period our business 
focus has been to continue to deliver 
strong, profitable growth and this 
focus has again generated a highly  
creditable performance across our 
business. Particularly encouraging is 
that the Group is now an even more 
diversified business, both in terms of 
geographic and sector spread and we 
feel that this will not only optimise  
performance in the short-term but 
also provide an excellent platform for 
future growth.
During the year we grew revenue 
and gross profit by 20.8% and 19.8%, 
respectively. Profit before tax and 
before exceptional items grew by 
11.3% to £56.0m, profit before tax 
after exceptional items grew by 7.4% 
to £54.1m in line with the Board’s 
and market expectations, once again 
reflecting the quality within the 
Group and our management teams 
at all levels. Our net cash balances 
at the year end stood at £24.6m 
(2007: £3.5m), despite having spent 
some £31.3m on our share buy-back 
programme. We also reduced our 
average days’ sales outstanding 
from 59 days in 2007 to 43 days in 
2008. We believe these measures 
demonstrate solid stewardship and 
place the Group in an enviable position 
compared to many organisations, as 
we face the current economic climate.
As previously, our clear and effective 
strategy remains to focus on 
pursuing organic growth through 
continued development of the Group’s 
well-established UK Information, 
Communication and T echnology 
(”ICT”) staffing business, while also 
increasing the Group’s revenues from 
other sectors and countries. Our 
business model continues to prioritise 
high quality over high volume and 
seeks to optimise the superior 
margins we consistently achieve as 
a consequence of this approach. The 
multi-brand strategy we operate and 
our highly diversified client base will, 
as ever, be crucial in achieving this 
goal and we believe that all current 
SThree businesses have further scope 
for growth. 
However, as always, we remain open-
minded with regard to the launch 
of new ventures, continuing to back 
home-grown entrepreneurial talent 
and utilise the established minority-
stakes model where appropriate, in 
order to expand beyond our existing 
bases in the UK, the Netherlands, 
Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, 
USA, Hong Kong, Australia and Dubai 
and into other countries, such as 
Singapore as we move into 2009. The 
Board has now implemented a regular 
programme to visit each of its offices 
in order to meet employees, the first of 
which began with a visit to our brands 
in Amsterdam, in October 2008.
Without question 2009 will be 
an extremely challenging year. 
Nevertheless we take confidence 
from the Group’s long track record 
of success to date and look forward 
to seeing the achievements of this 
year acting as a platform for further 
progress as we move forward.
The Directors recommend a final 
dividend of 8.0p per share for the 
year ended 30 November 2008, to 
be paid on 8 June 2009, to those on 
the register as at 1 May 2009. This 
follows the interim dividend of 4.0p 
per share declared earlier in the 
year and paid in December 2008. A 
detailed review of our trading and 
results is provided within the Chief 
Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial 
Officer’s Reviews. During the year, 
we have also expanded our reporting 
on Remuneration, Governance and 
Corporate Social Responsibility issues, 
wherever appropriate, in line with best 
practice and will continue to expand 
these further as the business moves 
forward.
The SThree business is built on an 
absolute determination to deliver high 
quality and timely permanent and 
contract specialist staffing services 
to our clients. It remains therefore, 
first and foremost a people business 
and it is only as a direct result of the 
talent and dedication of our people 
that we are able to continue to post 
such positive results. At the year end 
the Group employed a total of 2,274 
people worldwide, an increase of 11.7% 
on the prior year and with a growing 
emphasis on non-UK employees. I 
would like to thank all our employees, 
in all locations, for their contribution 
this year, and especially those who 
have been with us during the twenty 
years since the business was first 
established.
During the year we welcomed Alex 
Smith as the Group’s Chief Financial 
Officer. Alex has been instrumental 
in further strengthening the Group’s 
balance sheet and cash position, 
whilst shaping and re-aligning the 
vision of our finance and shared 
service functions.
Gary Elden joined the Board as Chief 
Development Officer in July 2008. 
Gary joined the Group in 1990 and was 
founding Managing Director of Huxley 
Chairman’s Statement
Report & Accounts 2008 SThree plc 4
Associates. His experience has been 
invaluable as we further expand the 
Group’s international operations and 
non-ICT disciplines.
T o ensure the continuing 
independence of the Board and 
also strengthen our Audit and 
Remuneration Committees, we 
appointed Nadhim Zahawi as a 
Non-Executive Director in May 2008. 
Nadhim’s international experience 
within an entrepreneurial and 
customer focussed environment is 
already benefiting the Board.
All of these Directors plus myself 
will retire and seek election at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
and I look forward to your support on 
their election.
Whilst our business will ultimately 
depend on the overall strength of 
the economy, we believe our current 
position, as well as prospects for 
further growth and success remain 
good and we therefore enter the new 
year with a realistic view of what lies 
ahead but with great confidence in the 
quality of our business.
Sir Anthony Cleaver 
CHAIRMAN
30 January 2009
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
Report & Accounts 2008 SThree plc 5
Financial Highlights 
Year ended 30 November 2008
“2008 was, by any standards, an extraordinary year. In particular, the second half 
of the year was influenced by the enormous upheavals in global financial markets 
and the inevitable uncertainty that such events bring to the recruitment market 
place.
Given these exceptional circumstances, it is pleasing to be once again in a position 
to report on another year of growth and significant further progress towards 
the Group’s strategic objectives. SThree ends the 2008 financial year a more 
international and more diversified business than at any time in its twenty-two year 
history.
We enter 2009 with our eyes open, mindful of the risks and challenges ahead. 
Nonetheless, we are confident that as a business we are particularly well suited to 
emerge from the current difficult period in excellent shape to take advantage of the 
inevitable market recovery, whenever it may materialise.”
£m    2008 2007 Change
Revenue   £631.5m £522.7m + 20.8%
Gross Profit (Fee Income)  £218.9m £182.7m + 19.8%
Operating profit*  £56.8m £52.3m + 8.6%
Profit before taxation*  £56.0m £50.3m + 11.3%
Statutory profit before taxation  £54.1m £50.3m + 7.4%
Basic earnings per share*  29.9p 25.2p + 18.7%
Proposed final dividend  8.0p 6.2p + 29.0%
T otal dividend  12.0p 9.3p + 29.0%
* Current year operating profit, profit before taxation and EPS are shown before exceptional charges of £2m before tax, 
£1.4m after tax, in respect of the early close out of foreign exchange derivative transactions, which were entered into 
in 2007.
Operational Highlights 
•  
Significant volume growth achieved whilst maintaining gross margins – gross profit increased by 19.8% to £218.9m;
•  
Permanent placements increased by 7.0% to 10,236 (2007: 9,568), with average fees increased by 5.9%;
•  
Number of active contractors at year end increased by 1.5% to 5,745 (2007: 5,662) with average gross profit per day 
rates increasing by 9.7%;
•  
Contract versus Permanent mix of gross profit now 52:48 in favour of Contract, providing us with an excellent ‘’cash 
hedge’’ in challenging market conditions;
•  
Excellent further progress made with roll-out of new sector disciplines (accountancy, banking & finance, human 
resources, engineering, pharmaceuticals and energy), resulting in non-ICT gross profit increasing by 55.2% to £50.5m 
(2007: £32.5m), representing 23.1% of total gross profit;
•  
59% of gross profit now derived from outside of the UK ICT market;
•  
International business performed particularly strongly, growing by 64% to £97.4m (2007: £59.3m), representing 45% 
of the Group total (2007: 32%);
•  
UK gross profit declined slightly by 1% to £121.6m (2007: £123.3m), reflecting a weaker UK market and impact of 
financial markets crisis;
•  
Year end net cash of £24.6m (2007: £3.5m) despite significant cash out flows on share buy-backs, an increased 
dividend and a growing contractor book, reflecting our strong cash generation;
•  
New offices opened in existing geographies (Aberdeen, Paris and Amsterdam) and new geographies (Dubai and 
Sydney). Further new offices in Singapore, Hamburg, Frankfurt, Dusseldorf and Marseilles to be opened in H1 of 2009;
•  
T otal headcount increased by 11.7% to 2,274 (2007: 2,035) at year end. Sales consultant headcount increased to 1,684 
(2007: 1,537) up 9.6% with net new staff hired only for new geographies and/or new sectors;
•  
£31.3m returned to shareholders via share buy backs during the year, representing 13.6% of the issued share capital as 
at 30 November 2008, funded from cash flows from operating activities. SThree plc 6
Overview
2008 was, by any standards, an 
extraordinary year. In particular, the 
second half of the year was influenced 
by the enormous upheavals in global 
financial markets and the inevitable 
uncertainty that such events bring to 
the recruitment market place.
Given these exceptional 
circumstances, it is pleasing to be 
once again in a position to report on 
another year of growth and significant 
further progress towards the Group’s 
strategic objectives. SThree ends 
the 2008 financial year a more 
international and more diversified 
business than at any time in its 
twenty-two year history.
Indeed, the exceptional progress we 
made in our ongoing roll out of the 
SThree model into newer geographies 
and staffing segments was the 
highlight of the year under review. 
The continued success of this well-
established programme means that as 
of the year end, the Group generated 
59% of gross profit outside of the UK 
ICT market, our longest established 
franchise.
Given the robustness of our 
international business and our 
increasing success in growing our 
newer staffing segments, we are 
confident that this trend is set to 
continue. As time goes on the Group’s 
exposure to the UK as a whole will 
inevitably decline as a percentage 
of the whole as we establish an ever 
more global platform. That said, 
we remain convinced that once an 
economic recovery is established, 
even given its relatively mature 
nature, the UK will once again 
represent both a substantial and 
growing marketplace for the Group.
Given the events of the year, 
geographic and segmental 
distinctions were even more 
important than usual in determining 
the scale of opportunities available 
to the Group. In line with this we 
were able to continue to invest 
substantially in the development of 
some teams, whereas in other areas 
we were content to see consultant 
numbers decline in line with reduced 
demand.
The overall impact was an increase 
in consultant headcount of 
approximately 18.6% – relatively 
modest growth by the standards of 
recent years (2007: c. 42.3%) The 
Non UK/Non ICT teams grew by a 
robust 42% on average whilst the UK 
ICT headcount reduced over the year 
by 24%. In the latter case we once 
again benefited from our unusually 
flexible workforce. Our lower fixed to 
variable remuneration and relatively 
young consultant demographic meant 
that right sizing was achieved almost 
exclusively through natural attrition.
That said, even in the worst affected 
parts of the market, the Group was 
able to keep its discipline in terms 
of the quality of the business it 
transacted and typically either 
preserved or improved margins. The 
result of this was that across almost 
all markets and geographies we saw 
an overall improvement in average 
permanent recruitment fees and 
average contract gross profit per 
day rates. As a consequence we are 
pleased to be able to report that both 
of these metrics reached record levels 
once again.
We see our strength in both 
permanent and contract recruitment 
as a significant competitive 
advantage, since the relative 
resilience of contract demand helps 
to mitigate the natural decline in 
permanent hires in more challenging 
markets. Given the current tough 
market conditions in the UK in 
particular, we take confidence from 
the fact that the majority of our 
business in this geography is derived 
from the contract marketplace.
During 2008 the Group placed a great 
deal of emphasis on the importance 
of cash management. It is pleasing 
to note that the Group’s performance 
in this area was exemplary. Our 
Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) figure 
reduced to a record 43 days (2007: 59) 
with a meaningful improvement in the 
quality of the aged debtors. Alongside 
strong, profitable trading this helped 
the Group fund over £31m of share 
buy-backs, a substantially increased 
dividend and a growing contractor 
book. Despite these significant cash 
out flows the Group ended 2008 with 
net cash of £24.6m (2007: £3.5m).
The Group’s very strong year end 
financial position and excellent cash 
generation characteristics give us 
great confidence for the future even in 
the event of further declines in market 
sentiment. We believe we will be able 
to continue to manage the business 
for the longer term and afford to make 
investments for the future without 
compromising our need to manage 
the Group prudently in line with the 
prevailing market conditions.
Group gross profit for the year 
improved by 19.8% to £218.9m 
(2007: £182.7m) with profit before 
tax and before exceptional items 
improving by 11.3% to £56.0m (2007: 
£50.3m) and profit before tax after 
exceptional items improving by 7.4% 
to £54.1m (2007: £50.3m). Given the 
exceptionally challenging business 
environment we are pleased with this 
result which we believe validates both 
the Group’s strategy and the quality of 
our staff and management.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Year ended 30 November 2008   SThree plc 7
Strategy
Notwithstanding the very different 
market conditions experienced 
during 2008, the Group’s strategy 
remained fundamentally unchanged. 
We continued to roll out the SThree 
model internationally into markets 
with strong structural growth 
characteristics. In parallel we looked 
to increase our exposure to a growing 
number of specialist staffing markets 
characterised by attractive supply and 
demand dynamics.
We remained highly selective in terms 
of the type of business we pursued. 
This meant once again rejecting the 
“high volume, low margin” model, 
instead favouring higher value 
transactions. Our niche-within-
niche approach underpins our strong 
margins and is a key element of this 
strategy, as is our ongoing push to go 
further up the value chain by securing 
a greater percentage of senior level 
placements. We also retained our 
preference for a broad client base to 
avoid being overly exposed to a limited 
number of influential clients. Our 
significant SME franchise helps us to 
mitigate this risk.
Our internal hiring strategy continued 
to be based on “grow our own” with 
an emphasis on taking on relatively 
young individuals early in their 
professional careers. We then provide 
extensive training to transform 
raw potential into productive 
consultants and ultimately our future 
management and Directors. For 
the most able and entrepreneurial 
of these, the possibility of equity 
participation through our Minority 
Interest (MI) programme remains an 
important incentive.
Our multi-brand approach remains 
a key element of our model and 
the brand’s separate identities and 
specialist areas of expertise are an 
important market segmentation 
strategy. However, we increasingly 
look to maximise synergies and 
during the year saw a pleasing level 
of cross-pollination within the Group, 
particularly in terms of talented 
individuals moving inter-brand to 
pursue new opportunities.
Geographical expansion
At the end of 2008 the Group operated 
a total of fifty-seven offices in ten 
countries. During the year we added 
four new offices outside of the UK 
and one in the UK in Aberdeen. T wo 
of these international offices were in 
established countries (Huxley Paris 
and Madison Black Amsterdam) with 
two others in entirely new locations 
for the Group (Pathway Dubai and 
Progressive Sydney). The latter are 
both seen as platforms for further 
geographical expansion within their 
respective regions. In H1 of 2009, we 
plan to open additional international 
offices in Singapore, Hamburg, 
Frankfurt, Dusseldorf and Marseilles.
Whilst it is exciting to note the 
increasingly global nature of the 
Group, it is worth commenting that 
much of the very strong Non UK result 
was attributable to the performance 
of our longer established and far 
larger territories in mainland Europe, 
particularly Germany and Benelux.
Overall Non UK gross profit growth 
accelerated slightly during the year 
improving by 64.1% to £97.4m (2007: 
62% to £59.3m). Given that 2007 was 
a tough act to follow being itself an 
extremely strong year, we believe this 
represents an excellent performance. 
It is worth considering the fact that 
growth on this scale was achievable 
despite the Eurozone not providing 
a strong economic tailwind during 
the year. We believe this is testimony 
to the powerful structural growth 
dynamics that prevail in the specialist 
staffing markets of territories such as 
Germany and France.
By contrast the UK staffing market 
is far more mature. This fact was 
compounded by the weakness in 
the UK economy and the impact 
on the (already weak) banking and 
finance market of the intensification 
of the banking crisis in the second 
half. In these circumstances a gross 
profit of £121.6m representing only 
a 1.4% decline against the previous 
year (2007: £123.3m) was an entirely 
acceptable result. As we would 
expect, the UK showed greater 
weakness within the permanent 
market than in contract with the latter 
market holding up reasonably well in 
the circumstances.
Sector Expansion
The major investment that we made 
during 2007 to accelerate our growth 
into newer staffing segments was 
continued in 2008. The results were 
extremely encouraging. In particular 
we saw a step up in the roll-out of Non 
ICT segments into Non UK territories. 
We believe the combination of the 
two is a powerful one with (to cite just 
one example) the German engineering 
market having massive long term 
potential. The result was a striking 
step forward in the growth of Non ICT 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued) SThree plc 8
gross profit during 2008 to a total of 
£50.5m representing a year on year 
improvement of 55.2% compared 
to the 33.3% increase posted the 
previous year.
The performance of the Non ICT 
segment is all the more impressive 
when we consider that historically 
our largest Non ICT franchise has 
been the UK investment banking 
market which was down around 50% 
in 2008. T aking up a good part of this 
shortfall was the investment banking 
market overseas, which was (perhaps 
surprisingly) robust during the year. In 
addition we saw strong performances 
from teams in areas such as public 
sector, oil & gas, pharmaceuticals and 
engineering.
Notwithstanding the successes 
referred to above, the Group’s Non 
ICT franchise is still a relatively young 
and underdeveloped element of the 
Group’s activities and one which we 
believe has great future potential.
Staffing levels
Growth in sales headcount is an 
integral part of the Group’s strategy. 
We look to staff our sales teams to 
the maximum level that the prevailing 
market opportunity and management 
bandwidth will sustain. Consistent 
with this, in recent years, sales 
headcount growth has been very 
significant.
Unsurprisingly, 2008 saw a far more 
conservative growth with overall 
Group headcount increasing by a total 
of 239 to 2,274 as at 30 November 
2008 (2007: 2,035). However, this 
top-level view disguises the fact that 
in those markets where demand 
remained robust we were still able 
to grow teams quite aggressively. As 
such, teams that address Non UK and/
or Non ICT areas grew by 42% during 
2008.
Conversely, markets which saw major 
reduction in demand contracted 
sharply. For example our UK ICT teams 
ended the year 23.8% down and the 
UK Banking segment rightsized by c. 
45% in line with the further decline 
in that market. Our remuneration 
strategy is unashamedly “Darwinian” 
and a survival of the fittest ethos 
applies. We believe this inherent 
flexibility is a great strength of the 
business allowing us to react in “real 
time” to changes in the market. 
Conversely because we hire staff at a 
junior level and train them ourselves 
we can rebuild teams in anticipation 
of an upturn almost equally quickly.
Contract/Permanent business 
mix
During the year the Group recorded 
increases in both volume and 
value across both the contract and 
permanent sides of the business. 
In 2008 we made a total of 10,236 
permanent placements, an increase 
of 7.0% on 2007 (2007: 9,568). Our 
year end total of contract runners was 
5,745 compared to 5,662 at the end 
of 2007, representing an increase of 
1.5%.
Consistent with our strategy of 
focusing on good quality, high margin 
business we were still able to post 
meaningful increases in value. During 
the year our average permanent 
placement fee grew 5.9% to £10,355 
(2007: £9,780). Similarly the Group’s 
contractors produced an average daily 
gross profit of £78.30 (2007: £71.42) 
representing a 9.7% increase.
Although advantageous FX 
movements explain some of these 
improvements, even if we strip this 
effect out the underlying growth rates 
remain strong. Indeed it is interesting 
to note that even in the very tough UK 
market both the average permanent 
fee and the average contractor gross 
profit showed growth. The former 
is all the more noteworthy when 
we consider that the percentage 
of banking-related fees in the mix 
(typically significantly higher fees 
than average) was substantially down 
year-on-year.
The impact of a weaker UK permanent 
market and a strong performance 
from Non UK contract business 
combined to impact the overall 
business mix in favour of contract. At 
the end of 2008 the group was biased 
52%: 48% in favour of contract for 
the year ended 30 November 2008, 
a change from the 51%: 49% ratio in 
favour of permanent that we saw at 
the end of 2007.
Brand Analysis
In 2007, as in previous years, we 
reported the four largest brands as 
being Computer Futures, Huxley, 
Progressive and Pathway. However, 
Real Resourcing, a brand not 
previously mentioned specifically, 
had an outstanding 2008. As a result 
of its 48.1% increase in gross profit 
to £15.4m (2007: £10.4m) it overtook 
Pathway to become the 4th largest of 
the SThree brands.
Real Resourcing’s achievement was 
all the more impressive considering 
that it currently has relatively limited 
exposure to our more buoyant 
overseas markets through its very 
recently established international 
office in Amsterdam and its planned 
Frankfurt office. It does however have 
a strong UK public sector franchise 
and this certainly contributed to 
its exceptional performance. For 
its part, Pathway posted growth of 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued) SThree plc 9
15.5% to £13.4m (2007: £11.6m) with 
a significant contribution from its 
Dubai operation helping to offset the 
relative weakness of its domestic ICT 
business.
Computer Futures (which re-branded 
as FS Group during the year) was 
once again our largest brand with 
gross profit of £63.1m (2007: £53.9m) 
representing a 17.1% increase on the 
previous year. We see this as a very 
credible performance from our longest 
established business which benefited 
from the maturity of its international 
presence and improved returns 
from its newer non ICT franchises 
in Accountancy and HR. During H1 
of 2009, this brand will add further 
offices in Hamburg and Marseilles.
Huxley, although close behind, stayed 
in second position with growth of 
19.1% resulting in gross profit of 
£60.4m (2007: £50.7m). Huxley’s 
performance was achieved despite the 
fact that it has the Group’s greatest 
overall exposure to the investment 
banking market. The impact of this 
was offset by its fast growing Non 
UK business. During the year Huxley 
added to its network of international 
offices by opening a new operation in 
Paris.
Progressive, our third largest brand, 
had an excellent year. Gross profit 
increased during 2008 by 37.2% to 
£43.5m (2007: £31.7m). In common 
with Huxley and Computer Futures 
(FS Group) this was driven through 
an expanding international presence, 
which will be further enhanced in 
2009 through office openings in 
Singapore, Dusseldorf and Dubai. 
In Progressive’s case it was also 
enhanced by the success of its Oil & 
Gas franchise which led to the planned 
establishment of an Aberdeen office 
to open in Q1 of 2009. Progressive 
opened in Sydney during the year and 
will launch in Singapore in Q1 2009.
Overall the performance of the five 
largest brands resulted in an increase 
in their internal “market share” 
relative to the smaller Group brands. 
In aggregate they were responsible 
for 89.4% of the Group’s gross profit 
compared to 86.6% in the previous 
year.
Outlook
We enter 2009 off the back of a 
very creditable 2008 performance 
achieved in exceptional 
circumstances. The year was more 
challenging than we anticipated but 
the Group still posted significant 
growth and we were able to continue 
to build the strategic platform for our 
future success.
Looking forward to 2009 we are not 
anticipating a meaningful change in 
market sentiment from that we saw 
in the latter part of 2008. As such, we 
expect 2009 trading conditions to be 
more difficult overall than in 2008 and 
there is little doubt that the year in 
prospect will be the toughest we have 
experienced in some years.
However, we have a twenty two-year 
track record of profitable trading and 
cash generation throughout the cycle 
and  a seasoned management team 
that has been through major market 
downturns in the past. As a business 
we have been thoroughly stress 
tested on a number of occasions and 
have never been found wanting. The 
Group also benefits from a flexible 
workforce and an agile business 
model. We start the year with a strong 
cash position and no debt.
Our substantial exposure to the 
contract market is a significant 
mitigating factor and a valuable ‘cash 
hedge’ in difficult market conditions. 
Each contractor ties up working 
capital, therefore as contractor 
numbers reduce, so working capital is 
released, improving the Group’s cash 
position. That said, we will continue 
to run the business with an emphasis 
on operational efficiency and prudent 
cost control. We will not, however, 
cease to make sensible investments 
where appropriate or turn our back on 
opportunities where they arise.
In summary, we enter 2009 with our 
eyes open, mindful of the risks and 
challenges ahead. Nonetheless, we 
are confident that as a business we 
are particularly well suited to emerge 
from the current difficult period in 
excellent shape to take advantage 
of the inevitable market recovery, 
whenever it may materialise.
Russell Clements
Chief Executive Officer
30 January 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued) SThree plc 10
Revenue for the year grew by 20.8% 
to £631.5m (2007: £522.7m). Gross 
profit (“Net Fee income”) for the year 
increased by 19.9% to £218.9m (2007: 
£182.7m), representing an overall 
gross profit margin of 34.7% (2007: 
34.9%). The gross profit margin was 
held broadly flat, despite the shift 
of business mix from permanent 
revenue, which is at 100% gross 
margin. The permanent revenue 
ratio reduced to 16.8% from 17.9% of 
total revenue, but this was offset by 
contract gross profit margins which 
grew to 21.5% (2007: 20.8%).
Administration expenses before 
exceptional items increased by 24.3% 
to £162.1m (2007: £130.4m), primarily 
driven by increasing numbers of 
staff, the costs of new office openings 
and the first full year effect of the 
depreciation of the 2007 SAP and CRM 
investments. As a result, the Group’s 
pre-exceptional conversion ratio (pre-
exceptional operating profit divided 
by gross profit) stood at 25.9% (2007: 
28.6%). Nevertheless, pre-exceptional 
operating profit grew by 8.6% to 
£56.8m (2007: £52.3m).
Group headcount was 2,274 at 30 
November 2008, up 11.7% on the 
opening headcount at 2 December 
2007 of 2,035. Average total 
headcount for the year was 2,157 
(2007: 1,786). Sales headcount year 
on year comparatives are not strictly 
like for like as the Group took steps 
in 2007 to more accurately define 
its sales cohort, resulting in some 
reclassification.
The net finance charge of £0.8m 
(2007: £2.0m) reduced as a result of 
strong cash generation during the 
year.
Profit before tax and exceptional 
items amounted to £56.0m (2007: 
£50.3m), an increase of 11.3%, whilst 
profit before tax after exceptional 
items grew by 7.4% to £54.1m (2007: 
£50.3m).
T axation on profits before exceptional 
items was £16.8m (2007: £16.5m), 
representing an effective tax rate of 
30% (2007: 32.8%). The reduction 
in the effective tax rate was driven 
by the reduction in UK corporate tax 
rates from 30% to 28% from April 
2008 and the utilisation of unrelieved 
overseas tax losses, where entities 
have now become profitable. Based 
on the current structure of the Group 
and existing local taxation rates and 
legislation, it is expected that the 
underlying effective tax rate will 
remain at a level of around 30% going 
forward. The Group’s effective cash 
tax rate was 26.4% (2007: 16.7%), 
reflecting the reducing Schedule 23 
tax benefit.
Basic earnings per share before 
exceptional items were 29.9p (2007: 
25.2p), up 18.7%. This is driven by a 
growth in profit before taxation before 
exceptional items of 11.3%, a reduction 
of the effective tax rate to 30% (2007: 
32.8%), an increase in the minority 
charge to £2.0m (2007: £1.2m) and 
a reduction of the weighted average 
number of shares to 124.7m (2007: 
129.8m). Fully diluted earnings per 
share before exceptional items were 
29.2p (2007: 24.1p), up 21%. Basic 
earnings per share after exceptional 
items were 28.8p (2007: 25.2p), up 
14%. Fully diluted earnings per share 
after exceptional items were 28.1p 
(2007: 24.1p), up 17%.
The Board previously declared an 
interim dividend of 4.0p per share 
(2007: 3.1p). The Board proposes 
to pay a final dividend of 8.0p per 
share (2007: 6.2p), bringing the total 
dividend for the year to 12.0p per 
share (2007: 9.3p), an increase of 
29.0%. The final dividend will be paid 
on 8 June 2009 to those shareholders 
on the register at 1 May 2009.
Balance Sheet
The Group had net assets of £90.6m 
at 30 November 2008 (2007: £93.4m). 
Net cash amounted to £24.6m 
(2007: £3.5m), the improvement 
reflecting the net impact of increased 
profitability of the Group and the 
improved management of working 
capital.
Financial Review
2008 2007
Revenue Gross Profit Revenue Gross Profit
Contract £525.5m £113.1m £429.1m £89.2m 
Permanent £106.0m £105.8m £93.6m £93.5m
Total £631.5m £218.9m £522.7m £182.7m
Chief Financial Officer’s Review 
Year ended 30 November 2008  SThree plc 11
T angible fixed asset capital 
expenditure T angible fixed asset 
capital expenditure amounted to 
£2.3m (2007: £5.2m), relating to a 
significantly reduced investment in 
IT hardware and fit out of new offices, 
as expected following the high level 
of investment in 2007. Intangible 
asset additions, primarily relating to IT 
software purchases and development 
costs, also reduced significantly to 
£3.9m (2007: £8.9m). T otal capital 
expenditure more in line with these 
lower levels is expected to continue 
into 2009.
Net trade debtors reduced by 7.0% to 
£101.9m (2007: £109.6m) representing 
DSOs of 43 days (2007: 59 days). T otal 
trade and other payables increased 
from £73.2m to £81.2m as the Group 
sought to manage its supply chain 
more effectively.
Cash Flow
At the start of the year the Group had 
net cash of £3.5m. During the year, the 
Group generated cash from operating 
activities of £87.0m (2007: £29.3m). 
The Group achieved a significant 
reduction in working capital of £23.5m 
through improved debtor and creditor 
management (2007: increased 
working capital requirement of 
£27.2m). Income taxes paid increased 
to £11.4m (2007: £2.1m) as the benefits 
of the Schedule 23 relief reduced as 
expected and overseas businesses in 
higher tax jurisdictions became more 
profitable.
During the year, the Group bought 
back 16.6m shares for £31.3m, 
representing 13.6% of the issued share 
capital as at 30 November 2008. This 
was funded from cash flows from 
operating activities.
At 30 November 2008 the Group had 
net cash of £24.6m.
The Group has a committed invoice 
discounting facility of £20m, with 
further funding flexibility up to £50m, 
through to 25 February 2010. The 
Group is not currently drawing down 
against this.
Treasury Management and 
Currency Risk
The main functional currencies of 
the Group are Sterling and the Euro. 
The Group has significant operations 
outside the United Kingdom and as 
such is exposed to movements in 
exchange rates.
During 2007, some derivative 
transactions were undertaken 
to mitigate these exposures and 
the results for 2008 include an 
exceptional charge of £2.0m arising 
from having closed out the positions 
before maturity. Note 25 to the 
Financial Statements provides more 
information on financial instruments 
and financial risk factors.
The Board has undertaken a review 
of its currency hedging strategy 
to ensure that it is appropriate and 
currently the Group does not actively 
manage its exposure to foreign 
exchange risk by the use of financial 
instruments, consistent with its 
major listed competitors. The impact 
of foreign exchange will become a 
more significant issue for the Group as 
we expect the business mix to move 
further towards International, with 
International business accounting 
for 45% of gross profit in 2008 (2007: 
32%). The Group will continue to 
monitor its policies in this area.
Alex Smith
Chief Financial Officer
30 January 2009
Chief Financial Officer’s Review 
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued) SThree plc 12
Directors’ Report 
Year ended 30 November 2008
The Directors present their Annual 
Report on the activities of the Group, 
together with the financial statements 
and auditors’ report for the year ended 
30 November 2008.
Group business review, 
principal activities and risks 
facing the business
The Chairman’s Statement, Chief 
Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial 
Officer’s Reviews, taken together 
with this Directors’ Report, provide 
information relating to the Group’s 
activities, its business and strategy 
and principal risks and uncertainties 
faced by the business, including 
analysis using financial and other KPIs 
where necessary. These, together 
with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, Corporate Governance and 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Reports, provide an overview of the 
Group, including environmental 
and employee matters and give an 
indication of future developments in 
the Group’s business. This provides 
a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position 
and prospects, in accordance with the 
business review requirements of the 
Companies Act.
The Group has contractual 
arrangements with numerous third 
parties in support of its business 
activities. The disclosure in this 
Annual Report of information 
about any of those third parties is 
not considered necessary for an 
understanding of the development, 
performance or position of the Group’s 
business.
SThree plc is the parent company 
of a Group of specialist permanent 
and contract staffing businesses, 
currently comprising 8 operating 
brands, the five largest being 
Computer Futures (FS Group), 
Huxley Associates, Progressive, Real 
Resourcing and Pathway, all of which 
operate under a well established 
multi-brand strategy. The first office, 
as Computer Futures, opened in 
London in 1986, whilst international 
expansion started in 1998 with the 
launch of an office in Brussels. Each 
brand operates independently, but 
share common services such as 
finance, information services, human 
resources and legal.
The Group has grown organically and 
currently has 33 UK offices and 24 
non-UK offices in 10 countries and 
a diverse client base of over 7,000 
clients. Offices are predominantly in 
Europe, the Netherlands, Belgium, 
France, Germany and Ireland, 
although outside Europe the Group 
has offices in New York, Sydney, 
Australia, Hong Kong and Dubai and 
plans to open an office in Singapore in 
early 2009.
From our well-established position in 
the information & communications 
technology (‘ICT’) sector the Group 
has broadened its operations by 
building fast-growing businesses 
serving the accountancy & finance, 
banking, engineering, oil & gas, 
pharmaceuticals, human resources, 
energy and legal sectors. The Group 
began trading on the London Stock 
Exchange in November 2005 and 
in 2007 launched a US Level 1 ADR 
facility.
SThree has a selective approach to 
clients and focuses on high margin 
opportunities, predominantly within 
the small to medium-sized enterprises 
(‘SMEs’) market and, from its inception, 
the Group has avoided the high 
volume, low margin business model 
in favour of a focus on high quality 
business.
The Group’s main subsidiary 
undertakings are listed in the Notes to 
the financial statements.
Principal risks facing the business 
include the following and are 
explained in more detail within 
the Chairman’s Statement, Chief 
Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial 
Officer’s Reviews, where relevant:
Macro economic environment – The 
performance of the Group has a 
relationship and dependence with the 
underlying growth of the economies 
of the countries in which we operate. 
The Group’s strategy is to continue 
to grow the size of our international 
business in both financial terms 
and in geographic coverage in order 
to reduce exposure or dependence 
on any one specific economy. For 
example, a downturn in the UK ICT 
market could, in particular, adversely 
impact the Group’s business.
Competitive environment – In the 
United Kingdom, Ireland and Australia, 
the markets for the provision of 
permanent and contract recruitment 
are highly competitive and 
fragmented. In these more developed 
markets, competitor risk manifests 
itself in increased competition for 
clients and candidates and in pricing 
pressures. Although the Group has 
experienced some margin pressures 
during the year, these were not 
significant.
In Continental Europe and many 
parts of the world, the markets for 
the provision of recruitment services 
are somewhat less developed and 
the market place is also fragmented, 
although the markets in Continental 
Europe and Asia are developing 
more quickly. Where these markets 
are still in a development phase, 
pricing pressure is less of a risk and  SThree plc 13
Directors’ Report (continued) 
Year ended 30 November 2008
our strategy is to rapidly grow our 
businesses in these territories.
Competitors in our markets range from 
large multi-national organisations 
to small, boutique, privately owned 
businesses. In all of our markets 
we are continually subject to both 
existing and new competitors entering 
into the markets in which we operate, 
both by geographic region and 
specialist activity. The competitive 
threat is from both small start-up 
operations and large multi-nationals 
as the costs of entry into specialist 
recruitment can be relatively low, 
although these costs have risen 
with increased levels of compliance 
required from local regulators and 
clients.
Commercial relationships – The Group 
benefits from close commercial 
relationships with key clients, 
particularly in the SMEs market, 
although it is not dependent on 
any single key client. However, 
like most companies, the Group is 
always subject to the risk that large 
customers might be unable to fulfil 
obligations, which could impact 
results.
Contractual risk – Clients increasingly 
require more complex levels of 
compliance in their contractual 
arrangements. The Group takes 
its responsibilities seriously and 
contracts are closely controlled via 
the Group’s centralised Legal and 
Business Administration functions. 
Although the placing of contract 
workers potentially represents a 
greater inherent risk than permanent 
placements, wherever possible 
contracts include clauses placing 
the responsibility for supervision 
and control of each worker with the 
client; exclude any consequential loss 
and limit the Group’s total liability 
under the contract. The Group has 
clear guidance in place on approval 
of contractual terms and monitors 
the application thereof, especially 
any requests to make exceptions 
to standard liability and insurance 
protection.
People – The Group is reliant on the 
ability to recruit, train and develop 
people to meet its growth strategy 
and is focused on ensuring it has 
competitive pay structures which are 
linked to performance, a succession 
planning process and a process to 
develop talent in order to expand. In 
addition, brand managers are focused 
on allocating resources in respect of 
the best Group opportunities available.
Financial – The Group has significant 
operations outside the United Kingdom 
and as such is exposed to movements 
in exchange rates. The Board has 
undertaken a review of its currency 
hedging strategy to ensure that it is 
appropriate and currently the Group 
does not actively manage its exposure 
to foreign exchange risk by the use of 
financial instruments, consistent with 
major listed competitors. The impact of 
foreign exchange will become a more 
significant issue for the Group as we 
expect the business mix to move further 
towards International, with International 
accounting for 45% of gross profit 
in 2008. The Group will continue to 
monitor its policies in this area. See 
Note 25 to the Financial Statements in 
relation to financial instruments and 
financial risk factors.
T echnology systems – The Group is 
reliant on a number of technology 
systems in providing its services to 
clients. These systems are housed 
in various locations and the business 
continues to review and enhance 
its ability to cope with a significant 
data or other loss via its Business 
Continuity Plan arrangements. The 
business is also reliant upon important 
suppliers that provide critical IT 
infrastructure, although it monitors 
the performance and robustness of 
such suppliers to ensure business 
critical processes are safeguarded as 
far as is practicably possible.
In order to reduce any risks associated 
in upgrading key operational 
and financial systems, project 
management teams are appointed, 
including specialist IT , operational 
and external resource, utilising robust 
management tools which monitor 
progress across the life of any project.
Regulatory environment – In 
common with many other sectors, 
the specialist recruitment industry 
is governed by increasing levels 
of compliance, which varies from 
country to country and market to 
market. In addition, clients require 
more complex levels of compliance 
in their contractual arrangements. 
The Group takes its responsibilities 
seriously, is committed to meeting all 
of its regulatory responsibilities and 
continues to strengthen its internal 
controls and processes with respect 
to legal and contractual obligations. 
As employment laws are revised and 
harmonised in certain geographies, 
this creates both new risks and 
opportunities. The contract market is 
more heavily regulated and changes 
in legislation, such as changes in 
managed service company legislation 
or to contract worker rights, can 
impact the Group. However, the Group 
ensures that its policies, processes 
and systems reflect best practice 
wherever possible in order to meet the 
legal requirements of the markets in 
which it operates.
Post balance sheet events
There have been no significant events 
since the balance sheet date. SThree plc 14
Results and dividends
Information in respect of the Group’s 
profits, dividends and other key 
financial information is contained 
within the Chairman’s Statement, the 
Chief Executive Officer’s and Chief 
Financial Officer’s Reviews.
Directors and their interests
The current Directors of the Company 
are:
•  
Sir Anthony Cleaver, Chairman
•  
Russell Clements, Chief Executive 
Officer
•  
Gary Elden, Chief Development 
Officer (appointed 1 July 2008)
•  
Alex Smith, Chief Financial Officer 
(appointed 7 May 2008)
•  
Sunil Wickremeratne, Chief 
Operating Officer
•  
Paul Bowtell, Independent Non-
Executive Director
•  
Alicja Lesniak, Independent 
Non-Executive Director
•  
T ony Ward, Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
•  
Nadhim Zahawi, Independent Non-
Executive Director (appointed 1 May 
2008)
Biographies are shown earlier in this 
Annual Report, with details of Board 
Committee membership being set out 
in the Corporate Governance Report. 
All Directors served throughout the 
financial year, except where otherwise 
shown. Michael Nelson resigned on 20 
December 2007, whilst Brian McBride 
and David Tilston retired at the Annual 
General Meeting on 24 April 2008.
In accordance with the Articles of 
Association, Sir Anthony Cleaver will 
retire at the Annual General Meeting 
and, being eligible, offers himself 
for re-election for a further year. 
Sir Anthony will have been SThree 
Chairman for some nine years as at 
July 2009 and the Board believe that 
this proposal should be supported for 
the following reasons:
•  
The appointment will be for a 
further year only, during which 
the Board will effect a smooth 
handover to a new Chairman;
•  
Sir Anthony is well regarded by 
investors generally and the Board 
believe that he is performing well, 
sound in his judgements and 
remains independent;
•  
The Board and its advisors see 
value in continuity, particularly 
in the current uncertain phase 
of the economy. Although the 
Executive Directors are far from 
inexperienced in managing the 
Company through an economic 
downturn, Sir Anthony has many 
more years’ valuable experience in 
steering companies through such 
difficult periods.
Alex Smith, Gary Elden and Nadhim 
Zahawi, who were all appointed during 
the year, hereby retire and, being 
eligible, offer themselves for election. 
Further information is contained in the 
Notice of Meeting.
Other than employment contracts 
and loans to Gary Elden in order to 
participate under the Group’s Minority 
Interest arrangements, none of 
the Directors of the Company had 
a material interest in any contract 
with the Company or its subsidiary 
undertakings. The key terms of the 
Directors’ service contracts, the 
Directors’ interests in the shares 
and options of the Company and 
Minority Interest loans to Gary 
Elden are disclosed in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
Supplier payment policy and 
essential contractors
It is the Group’s policy to comply with 
terms of payment negotiated with 
suppliers. Where payment terms are 
not negotiated, the Group endeavours 
to adhere to the suppliers’ standard 
terms. SThree plc acts as a holding 
company for the Group and does 
not trade and consequently cannot 
disclose an average creditors’ payment 
period. T rade creditors of the Group at 
30 November 2008 were equivalent 
to 24 days’ purchases (2007: 19 days). 
Although the Group has contractual 
relationships with a number of 
contractors, none are considered 
essential to our business.
Share capital
The authorised and issued share 
capital of the Company, together 
with details of the movements in the 
Company’s issued share capital during 
the year, are shown in the Notes to the 
financial statements.
Minority Interests Model
The Group continues to regard its 
Minority Interests or ‘Minority Stakes’ 
model as a key factor in its success 
and it is planned to create more of 
these this year, on similar terms of 
participation to those previously 
approved at the AGMs in 2007 and 
2008, subject to shareholder approval 
at the AGM in April 2009.
Entrepreneurial employees within 
the Group often create ideas for new 
business opportunities, which the 
Group may elect to pursue and develop. 
Historically the Group has engaged 
with such key employees in setting 
up new brands for the purpose of 
pursuing these new ideas, which have 
typically evolved organically out of 
one of the existing SThree businesses, 
for example, JP Gray was established 
as a result of an idea presented to the 
Directors by certain senior managers 
of Computer Futures, who were then 
given the opportunity to manage and 
develop that new brand. T ypically, 
those managers of the new SThree 
Directors’ Report (continued) 
Year ended 30 November 2008 SThree plc 15
brand will be able to invest, at the 
Company’s discretion, in the new 
entity and share in its success as well 
as the risk of failure.
Only the Group’s key entrepreneurial 
employees may be invited to invest 
in the creation of any new minority 
shareholding business. Such 
employees must invest in any stake 
at fair value and be actively engaged 
in that business for a minimum term 
of between three and five years. 
Should the employee wish to dispose 
of their stake the Company retains 
pre-emption rights.
The minimum term for each minority 
stake will be set at the outset and will 
normally be five years, but will never 
be less than three years, in order to 
allow the Group flexibility to adapt 
to the individual needs of its brands 
and businesses and differing rates of 
growth.
Although there are a number of 
different companies in which key 
employees will be invited to invest, 
each invitation will be on generally 
similar terms to that used previously 
and it is therefore appropriate to put 
only one resolution to shareholders 
each year.
The proposed resolution, together with 
the standard terms upon which the 
Minority Stakes are normally based, are 
outlined within the Notice of Meeting.
Authority to purchase own 
shares
The Company is, until the date of 
the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting, generally and unconditionally 
authorised to buy back a proportion 
of its own ordinary shares. During 
the year the Company purchased 
some 16.6m ordinary shares under 
this and prior similar authorities 
and the Directors will seek to renew 
the authority for up to 10% of the 
Company’s issued share capital at the 
Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ indemnities
The Companies (Audit, Investigations 
and Community Enterprise) Act 
2004, which came into force in 
2005, changes the provisions of the 
Companies Act, and gives companies 
the power to extend indemnities to 
Directors against liability to third parties 
(excluding criminal and regulatory 
penalties) and also to pay Directors’ 
legal costs in advance, provided that 
these are reimbursed to the Company 
should the individual Director be 
convicted or, in an action brought 
by the Company, where judgement 
is given against the Director. The 
Company currently has a Directors’ 
and Officers’ Insurance policy in place, 
which provides this cover.
Financial instruments
Information in respect of financial 
instruments is set out in the Notes to 
the financial statements.
Corporate and Social 
Responsibility
The Board recognises its 
environmental, health and safety 
and employment responsibilities 
and devotes appropriate resources 
towards monitoring compliance with 
and improving existing standards. 
The Chief Executive Officer has 
responsibility for these areas at Board 
level, ensuring that the Group’s policies 
are upheld and providing the necessary 
resources. Further information is 
contained in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report section.
Health and safety – The Group is 
committed to providing for the health, 
safety and welfare of all its employees. 
Every effort is made to ensure that the 
requirements of the Health and Safety 
at Work Act 1974 and all other relevant 
regulations and codes of practice are 
complied with.
Employees – The Group has continued 
its policy of informing all employees 
of matters of concern to them as 
employees, both in their immediate 
work situation and in the wider context 
of the Group’s well being. It encourages 
participation and involvement in 
matters which affect their interests 
as employees. Communication 
with employees is effected through 
the Group’s management briefings 
structure, Board Committees, formal 
and informal meetings and through the 
Group’s information systems. Informal 
communication is facilitated by emails 
to all Group companies.
The Group is also committed to 
achieving equal opportunities and to 
complying with anti-discrimination 
legislation. In addition, employees are 
encouraged to train and develop their 
careers. It is established Group policy 
to offer employees and job applicants 
the opportunity to benefit from fair 
employment, without regard to their 
sex, sexual orientation, marital status, 
race, religion or belief, age or disability.
The Group gives full and fair 
consideration to the employment of 
disabled persons for suitable jobs. 
In the event of members of staff 
becoming disabled every effort is 
made to ensure that their employment 
within the Group continues either in 
the job or in a suitable alternative. It is 
the Group’s policy to support disabled 
employees in all aspects of their 
training, development and promotion 
where it benefits the employee and the 
Group.
Information on employee share plans 
and share ownership is contained in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Directors’ Report (continued)
Year ended 30 November 2008 SThree plc 16
Directors’ Report (continued) 
Year ended 30 November 2008
Substantial shareholdings
As at the date of this Report, the Group had been notified, in accordance with the Companies Act, of the following significant 
interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company:
Name of holder Number of shares Percentage shareholding
AXA 6,291,253 5.12%
Simon Peter Arber 4,168,758 3.03%
William Frederick Bottriell 9,030,518 6.54%
Russell Clements 4,738,151 3.43%
Fidelity 7,344,118 5.61%
HBOS plc 6,983,314 5.21%
JP Morgan Asset Management (UK) Limited 7,021,061 5.07%
Legal & General Group plc 5,241,484 4.00%
Martin Currie Investment Management Limited 4,314,627 3.12%
Standard Life Investments Limited 7,244,043 5.95%
Sunil Wickremeratne 10,670,975 8.12%
The Community – The Group is 
committed to providing support to 
the community and society through a 
number of charitable activities. During 
the period the Group made charitable 
donations of £81,000 (2007: £30,962). 
The Group made no donations for 
political purposes either in the UK or 
overseas during the year.
Corporate governance
There is a separate Corporate 
Governance Report.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the 
Company will be held on 24 April 2009, 
at Home House, 20 Portman Square, 
London W1H 6LW. A separate formal 
Notice of Meeting details all business to 
be transacted.
Auditors
As required by Sections 8&9 of the 
Companies (Audit, Investigations and 
Community Enterprise) Act 2004, 
which introduced key changes to the 
Companies Act, each Director in office, 
at the date of this Report, hereby 
confirms that:
•  
so far as the Director is aware, 
there is no relevant audit 
information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; 
and
•  
he/she has taken all steps that 
he/she ought to have taken as 
a Director in order to make him/
herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that 
the Company’s Auditors are aware 
of such information.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have 
indicated their willingness to continue 
in office. Accordingly, a resolution 
will be put to the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting proposing their 
re-appointment as auditors for the 
ensuing year. SThree plc 17
Directors’ Report (continued)
Year ended 30 November 2008
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities in respect 
of the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group and 
parent company financial statements 
in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union. In 
preparing these financial statements, 
the Directors have also elected to 
comply with certain IFRSs, issued 
by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB) – see Note 1 to 
the financial statements. The financial 
statements are required by law to 
give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and the Group 
and of the profit or loss of the Group for 
that period.
In preparing those financial 
statements, the directors are required 
to:
•  
select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently;
•  
make judgements and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent;
•  
state that the financial statements 
comply with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union and IFRSs 
issued by IASB; and
•  
prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis, unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the 
Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have 
complied with the above requirements 
in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for 
keeping proper accounting records 
that disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and 
to enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the 
Companies Act and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and the Group and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The financial statements are published 
on the Company’s website, www.
sthree.com and the Directors are 
responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of all statutory and 
audited information on that website 
and legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of the financial 
statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names 
and functions are listed above, confirm 
that, to the best of their knowledge:
•  
the Group financial statements, 
which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group; and
•  
this Directors’ Report, taken 
together with the Chairman’s 
Statement, the Chief Executive 
Officer’s and Chief Financial 
Officer’s Reviews, includes a fair 
review of the development and 
performance of the business and 
the position of the Group, together 
with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that it 
faces.
By order of the Board 
Steve Hornbuckle
Company Secretary
30 January 2009
Registered Office:
41-44 Great Windmill Street, London, 
W1D 7NB SThree plc 18
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 30 November 2008
Introduction
This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the Companies 
Act (as amended by the Directors’ 
Remuneration Regulations 2002 (the 
‘Regulations’)), relevant provisions of the 
Listing Rules and the Combined Code.
The Regulations require the auditors to 
report to the Company’s shareholders 
on the ‘auditable part’ of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and to state 
whether in their opinion that part of 
the report has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies 
Act (as amended by the Regulations). 
The report has therefore been divided 
into separate sections for audited and 
unaudited information.
As required by the Regulations, a 
resolution to approve the report will 
be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee 
(the ‘Committee’) determines 
the remuneration policy and the 
individual remuneration packages 
of the Chairman, the Executive 
Directors, the Company Secretary 
and certain key senior management 
posts. The Committee’s T erms of 
Reference are available at  
www.sthree.com.
During the year the Committee 
comprised only independent Non-
Executive Directors, its current 
members being T ony Ward 
(Chairman), Alicja Lesniak and Nadhim 
Zahawi. The Chief Executive Officer, 
Group HR Director and remuneration 
advisors regularly attend meetings 
by invitation, except for matters 
related to their own remuneration. 
The Committee met four times during 
the year and no member of the 
Committee has any personal financial 
interest (other than as a shareholder) 
in the matters decided.
T o help achieve its objectives, the 
Committee has appointed and 
taken independent advice from 
Deloitte LLP (‘Deloitte’), in relation to 
remuneration matters and on share 
incentive arrangements. Deloitte do 
not undertake any other work for the 
Company.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy has been 
designed to ensure that the Group 
has the capability to attract and retain 
Directors and senior managers of a 
high calibre, to align the interests of 
senior management with those of 
shareholders and to be compliant with 
recommended practice. Individual pay 
levels are determined by reference 
to competitive market conditions, 
performance, experience and potential. 
In setting the policy the Committee 
considers, for benchmarking purposes, 
the remuneration of relevant senior 
management in comparable quoted or 
other similar companies.
There are three main elements of the 
remuneration package for Executive 
Directors:
• 
basic annual salary and benefits, 
including company car allowance, 
pension contributions, and health 
insurance cover;
• 
annual cash bonus payments; and
• 
share-based long-term incentives 
(see Long T erm Incentive Plan 
below).
In setting total remuneration, the 
Group’s policy is to position the 
base salaries of Directors and senior 
management at between lower 
quartile and median for the relevant 
competitive market, with a higher 
than average proportion of their 
remuneration being performance 
related. The Directors may earn 
annual bonus payments as a 
percentage of their basic salary, 
as defined and agreed by the 
Committee. This policy was examined 
by Deloitte during the benchmarking 
exercise undertaken in 2007 and will 
continue to be reviewed in line with 
market practice.
In order to ensure an appropriate 
balance between fixed and 
performance-related pay, annual 
cash bonus payments are dependent 
on the Group’s annual financial 
performance and the receipt of 
shares under the new Long T erm 
Incentive Plan will be primarily 
dependent on enhanced relative 
returns to shareholders over a three-
year period.
Executive Directors are required 
to obtain the Board’s prior written 
consent to accept external 
appointments. Currently they hold no 
such positions.
Executive Directors’ 
remuneration, bonus and  
pension arrangements
The basic annual salaries of the 
Executive Directors for the year-
ended 30 November 2008, together 
with proposed increases from 
1 December 2008, are set out below. 
Salaries are normally reviewed 
annually and during 2007 the 
Committee undertook a detailed 
benchmarking of total compensation 
with the support of Deloitte. As 
reported last year, the Committee 
concluded from the market data 
that current base salary levels for 
both Russell Clements and Sunil 
Wickremeratne were significantly 
below comparable market levels. 
Therefore in accordance with the 
policy stated above, the Committee 
decided in 2007 that their salaries 
should be adjusted to a level between 
the lower quartile and the median 
of the data over a period of two to 
three years, which is reflected below. 
In addition, salary increases were 
approved for both Gary Elden and Alex 
Smith, following a general review 
against market levels. All Directors 
will be subject to a full benchmarking 
of total compensation in 2009. SThree plc 19
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued)
Executives receive annual bonus 
payments based on the achievement 
of Group profit targets, underpinned 
by objectives linked to specific Group 
targets, which are agreed by the 
Committee. The maximum bonus 
opportunity is currently 100% of 
salary. Where agreed targets, based 
on profit before tax, are achieved, 
50% of salary is paid. For achievement 
above these targets, bonus is paid on 
a pro-rata basis, with maximum bonus 
payable for achieving substantially 
above target (currently 110%). No 
bonus is paid for achievement below 
a certain threshold (currently 90% 
of target), with pro-rata payment for 
achievement between 90% and 110% 
of target. During the year, an average 
bonus equal to 75% of salary was 
accrued for all Executive Directors.
The Committee has discretion 
to consider performance on 
environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) issues when setting the 
remuneration of Executives to ensure 
that the incentive structure for senior 
management does not inadvertently 
encourage behaviour which is not 
aligned to agreed objectives.
Executive Directors also receive 
an employers’ contribution to their 
personal pension schemes equivalent 
to 10% of their basic salaries, subject 
to each Executive Director making 5% 
personal contributions. Bonuses and 
benefits are not pensionable.
Long Term Incentive Plan
In November 2006, shareholders 
approved a share-based Long T erm 
Incentive Plan (‘L TIP’) for Executive 
Directors and other members of the 
senior management team to provide 
an incentive to increase shareholder 
value and support alignment with 
shareholder interests through building 
a stake in SThree shares.
The main features of the L TIP are 
currently as follows:
• 
Awards of shares can be made, 
each year, to Executive Directors 
and other senior executives.
• 
Awards can take the form of 
forfeitable shares or share options 
(nil-cost or market value).
•
  The maximum face value of the 
first awards made to Executive 
Directors was 120% of salary. For 
ongoing awards, there is an annual 
maximum face value of 175% of 
salary, whilst over a three-year 
period the Committee intends that 
no Executive Director will receive 
aggregate awards in excess of a 
face value of 450% of salary.
•
  All Executive Directors’ awards 
must be subject to a performance 
condition, assessed over the 
three years following the date 
of grant, with no facility to 
re-test performance. For other 
participants, the Committee has 
discretion to decide whether 
or not a performance condition 
should apply to grants.
•
  Performance conditions have 
been attached to all awards made 
based on relative total shareholder 
return (‘TSR’), in addition to budget 
or personal targets, although 
for awards below Executive 
Committee level the TSR condition 
is only applied in respect of half 
the award. In respect of the TSR 
condition, all the shares will vest 
only where SThree’s TSR is at 
or above the upper quartile of a 
selection of UK-listed peer group 
companies. No shares will vest 
if SThree’s TSR performance is 
below median and 30% of the 
shares will vest at median rising 
on a straight line basis to full 
vesting for TSR at or above the 
upper quartile. The Committee will 
also ensure that the underlying 
financial performance of the 
Company, i.e. EPS growth, is taken 
into account when determining to 
what extent awards vest.
•
  In 2008, the Committee 
commissioned a detailed review 
of the performance criteria by 
Deloitte in order to consider 
whether to change or introduce 
additional concurrent performance 
targets, but concluded that TSR 
remained the most appropriate 
performance condition at this 
time given the clear link between 
the reward provided to Executive 
Directors and the investment 
return enjoyed by shareholders.
•
  The peer group is reviewed 
annually and currently consists 
of the following 18 companies, 
all being from the FTSE Support 
Services or recruitment sectors, 
which are considered the most 
relevant to the Group: BPP , 
  2008 2009 Percentage 
Name  salary proposed salary change
Russell Clements  £288,500 £317,000 9.9%
Gary Elden  £230,000 £241,500 5.0%
Alex Smith  £220,000 £235,400 7.0%
Sunil Wickremeratne  £242,500 £266,500 9.9% SThree plc 20
Harvey Nash Group, Hays, Hyder 
Consulting, Interserve, Kellan 
Group, Michael Page International, 
Mitie, Mouchel Parkman, OPD 
Group, Ricardo, Robert Walters, 
RPS, Scott Wilson, Serco, Spring 
Group, White Young and WS 
Atkins.
Employee Benefit Trusts and 
other Share Plans
The Group has a culture that 
encourages share participation at all 
levels. T wo Employee Benefit T rusts 
(‘EBT s’), which were funded by gifts 
from some of the current and former 
Directors, hold assets comprising 
shares in the Company. The shares in 
the EBT s are mainly held for awards 
and grants under share option and 
share award schemes introduced 
prior to flotation, in which a number 
of employees currently participate. 
The Group keeps under regular 
review whether other share option or 
similar plans may be appropriate and, 
subject to shareholder approval at 
the forthcoming AGM, the Committee 
proposes to introduce a Savings-
Related Share Option Scheme (‘SAYE 
Scheme’) and a Savings & Investment 
Plan (‘SIP’) to further benefit the 
Group’s employees, since those 
employees who joined the Group 
after 2004 cannot benefit from the 
tax approved status of the existing 
share schemes. Further details and 
appropriate resolutions are contained 
in the AGM notice.
In respect of those share plans and 
related T rusts introduced prior to 
flotation, specifically these comprise 
an Executive Share Option Scheme, 
the Forfeitable Share Plan, the Share 
Gift Plan, and the No.1 ESOP and No.2 
ESOP . In respect of the No.2 ESOP , this 
had adopted a T rust Option Plan (the 
‘T rust Option Plan’) and had agreed 
to satisfy the majority of options 
granted under the Executive Share 
Option Scheme, and all awards under 
the Forfeitable Share Plan, with 
shares existing in the T rust. Under the 
terms of the T rust Deed constituting 
the No.2 ESOP , the T rustees have 
undertaken to waive all dividend 
rights on ordinary shares comprised 
in the trust fund, above 0.01p per 
share. The Executive Directors do not 
currently participate in any of these 
arrangements.
In terms of dilution, the Committee’s 
current intention is that awards 
under the L TIP , EBT s and other share 
plans are to be satisfied by shares 
currently held through the EBT s. 
If newly issued shares are used, 
this will be done in accordance 
with the guidelines provided by the 
Association of British Insurers.
Executive Directors’ service 
contracts
It is the Company’s policy that 
Executive Directors should have 
contracts with a rolling term providing 
for a maximum of 12 months’ notice. 
Consequently, in the event of an early 
termination, the contractual right is to 
12 months’ basic salary and benefits, 
with mitigation being generally 
required to reduce any compensation 
payable to a departing Director.
The Executive Directors are employed 
on service contracts with the Group 
which commenced on 11 November 
2005 but which were revised on 
3 December 2007 in the light of 
employment law changes (both Russell 
Clements and Sunil Wickremeratne), 
1 July 2008 (Gary Elden) and 7 May 
2008 (Alex Smith). Each of these 
contracts provides an entitlement to 
a basic annual salary, performance 
bonus scheme participation, a 
company car allowance, pension 
contributions and health insurance 
cover and is terminable by 12 months’ 
notice given by either party.
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors have 
specific letters of appointment, 
available upon request, and their 
remuneration is determined by the 
Board within the limits set by the 
Articles of Association and normally 
based on independent surveys of 
fees paid to Non-Executive Directors 
of similar companies. Remuneration 
is set taking account of the 
commitment and responsibilities of 
the relevant role. The Non-Executive 
Directors do not have service 
contracts. In 2007, the Committee 
undertook a benchmarking review of 
fees payable to the Chairman and Non 
Executive Directors with the support 
of Deloitte and the resulting proposals 
were agreed with the Board. A further 
similar benchmarking exercise is 
planned for 2009.
Sir Anthony Cleaver has a letter of 
appointment dated 11 November 
2005, which replaced a prior letter of 
appointment signed before flotation. 
The current annual fees paid to 
Sir Anthony Cleaver are £100,000 
(increased from £70,000 in December 
2007).
Alicja Lesniak, T ony Ward, Paul 
Bowtell and Nadhim Zahawi were 
appointed Non-Executive Directors 
on 3 May 2006, 14 August 2006, 
5 November 2007 and 1 May 2008 
respectively and receive annual fees 
of £35,000 each.
Sir Anthony Cleaver is Chairman 
of the Nomination Committee, but 
receives no additional fee (previously 
£5,000 pa). Paul Bowtell is Chairman 
of the Audit Committee for which 
he receives an additional fee of 
£5,000 pa, whilst T ony Ward also 
receives an additional fee of £5,000 
pa as Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. During the year a 
payment of £2,500 was made to 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued) SThree plc 21
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued)
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (‘TSR’)
The graph below illustrates the T otal Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) of the Company since flotation on 16 November 2005, for 
the Group and the FTSE All Share Support Services index, which is considered the most appropriate comparator index, as 
the Company is a constituent of this index and its constituents are also used for comparing pay and benefit levels.
Source: Datastream
60
20
100
140
180
220
260
300
FTSE All Share Support Services SThree
FTSE Support Services
30-Nov 07 28-Nov 08 24-Oct 06 16-Nov 05
T otal shareholder returns (rebased to 100)
Alicja Lesniak who chaired the Audit 
Committee during 2007, prior to the 
appointment of Paul Bowtell.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed 
for an initial term of three years, 
terminable by either the Company 
or the Non-Executive Director at 
will, and, in normal circumstances, 
subject to performance and re-
election at Annual General Meetings, 
they would be expected to serve for 
a second three-year term. Non-
Executive Directors may be requested 
to serve for a further (third) three-year 
term subject to rigorous review at the 
relevant time and their agreement. 
Upon termination or resignation, 
Non-Executive Directors are not 
entitled to compensation and no fee 
is payable in respect of the unexpired 
portion of the term of appointment. 
Non-Executive Directors cannot 
participate in any Company incentive 
scheme. SThree plc 22
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued) 
AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ remuneration
The table below summarises all Directors’ emoluments and pension contributions for the current and the prior year  
for comparison. No other awards were made to any Director during the year to 30 November 2008.
       2008 2007
   Pension   Loss of 
Name of Director Salary & fees contributions Benefits Bonuses office Total Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors
Russell Clements 288.5 28.9 10.5 216.4 – 544.3 411
Gary Elden (appointed 01/07/08) 95.8 9.6 4.4 71.9 – 181.7 N/A
Alex Smith (appointed 07/05/08) 125.0 12.5 6.0 93.8 – 237.3 N/A
Sunil Wickremeratne 242.5 24.2 10.5 181.9 – 459.1 347
Michael Nelson (resigned 20/12/07) 24.7 2.5 0.6 – 437.5 465.3 331
David Tilston – interim appointment  
(23/01/08 – 24/04/08) 83.6 – – – – 83.6 N/A
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Anthony Cleaver 100.0 – – – – 100.0 75
Paul Bowtell  40.0 – – – – 40.0 3
Alicja Lesniak 37.5 – – – – 37.5 35
T ony Ward  39.2 – – – – 39.2 35
Nadhim Zahawi (appointed 01/05/08) 20.4 – – – – 20.4 N/A
Brian McBride (retired 24/04/08) 16.1 – – – – 16.1 40
 
Aggregate emoluments 1,113.3 77.7 32.0 564.0 437.5 2,224.5 1,277
Benefits in kind include car allowance, medical and life insurance. Compensation for loss of office comprises staged 
payments of salary, bonus and other benefits. In addition, payments totalling £35,000 were made in the year to former 
directors who resigned in 2005, being Colin Haylock (£25,000); William Bottriel and Simon Arber (£5,000 each).
Long Term Incentive Plan, Minority Stakes and other share option awards
The Committee has made awards of forfeitable and deferred shares under the L TIP to the Executive Directors and others. 
Share-based incentive awards have been made to Executive Directors as follows:
 Date of Market price Outstanding as Shares Shares Vesting Outstanding as 
Name of Director award at award at 3 Dec 2007 awarded lapsed date at 30 Nov 2008
Russell Clements 8/2/2007 402p 78,358 – – 8/2/2010 78,358
Russell Clements 6/2/2008 196.75p – 175,959 – 6/2/2011 175,959
Gary Elden 8/2/2007 402p 49,751 – – 8/2/2010 49,751
Gary Elden 6/2/2008 196.75p – 108,476 – 6/2/2011 108,476
Alex Smith 8/5/2008 183.5p – 143,869 – 8/5/2011 143,869
Sunil Wickremeratne 8/2/2007 402p 65,820 – – 8/2/2010 65,820
Sunil Wickremeratne 6/2/2008 196.75p – 147,903 – 6/2/2011 147,903
Michael Nelson 8/2/2007 402p 62,686 – 62,686 8/2/2010 –
Except as disclosed below, awards in the above table are subject to the Company’s TSR performance relative to the peer 
group listed earlier (as revised from time to time). Where the Company’s TSR performance is below median, no part of the 
awards will vest. For median performance, 30% of the awards will vest rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper-
quartile performance and above. Michael Nelson’s award lapsed in full on 20 December 2007. There were no movements 
other than as shown and no other awards or share options are held by the Executive Directors.
The awards for Gary Elden include 12,500 shares granted in February 2008, without performance targets, as compensation 
for prior gifts of shares lost. SThree plc 23
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued)
Gary Elden also holds small percentage shareholdings in a number of SThree businesses under the Group’s Minority Stake 
arrangements. The earliest of these was created in November 2006 and, in respect of these earlier shareholdings, loans 
on normal commercial terms were provided by the Group to enable participants, including Gary, to acquire their shares. In 
Gary’s case, loans totalling £486,651 were effected on 30 November 2006 and 6 February 2007, prior to his appointment 
as a Director and these loans are expected to be repaid in full. Details of the individual arrangements are shown below and 
also disclosed in the statutory accounts of the relevant businesses concerned.
Year of approval Summary of arrangement
2006 ‘C’ shares amounting to between 2% – 2.5% in
 each of 8 Huxley Minority Stake businesses.
2007 ‘B’ shares amounting to 2% in each of 18
 Huxley and Pathway Minority Stake businesses.
Directors’ interests in shares
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company at 30 November 2008 are 
shown below and there have been no changes to this information as at the date of this report. No Director had any other 
interest in the share capital of the Company or its subsidiaries, or exercised any share options, during the year, other than 
as already disclosed.
 Ordinary shares held at  Ordinary shares held at Percentage of 
Name of Director 3 Dec 2007* Changes in year  30 Nov 2008 Share Capital
Russell Clements 4,738,151 – 4,738,151 3.89%
Gary Elden 3,384,620 – 3,384,620 2.78%
Alex Smith – – – –
Sunil Wickremeratne 10,786,075 (115,100) 10,670,975 8.77%
Sir Anthony Cleaver 152,446 – 152,446 0.13%
Paul Bowtell – 10,000 10,000 0.01%
Alicja Lesniak 4,245 – 4,245 0.01%
T ony Ward 5,447 6,616 12,063 0.01%
Nadhim Zahawi – 14,720 14,720 0.01%
 
*or as at date of appointment
The disposal of shares by Sunil Wickremeratne was in respect of shares gifted to employees.
During 2008, following a review of market practice in conjunction with Deloitte, the Committee decided to introduce formal 
shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors. As such, all Executive Directors must attain a level of shares equivalent to 
at least 100% base salary within five years of 1 December 2008, or their date of appointment. Although there is no formal 
shareholding requirement below Executive Director level, most Executive Committee members (i.e. Executive Directors, 
brand MDs and key function heads) already hold shareholdings well in excess of this level and the Group has a culture, which 
encourages share participation at all levels. In particular, it is currently estimated that, in total, over 30% of the Company’s 
share capital is held by Directors, Founders, the Employee Benefit T rusts, senior management and other employees.
On 28 November 2008, the closing market price of SThree plc ordinary shares was 128p. The highest and lowest closing prices 
of these shares during the year was 235p and 122.75p respectively, based on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Approval
This report was approved by the Committee, on behalf of the Board, on the date shown below and signed on its behalf by:
Tony Ward, OBE
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
30 January 2009 SThree plc 24
The Company is committed to high 
standards of corporate governance 
and this report outlines how it has 
complied with the provisions of 
the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance revised by the Financial 
Reporting Council in June 2006 (‘the 
Code’). During 2008, the Company 
complied with all key provisions of 
the Code, except where explained 
below. The Board is accountable 
to the Company’s shareholders for 
good corporate governance and this 
statement describes how the relevant 
principles of governance have been 
applied.
The Board – Framework
An effective Board is in place, which 
provides entrepreneurial leadership 
and overall control of the Group. The 
Board’s main role is to create value for 
shareholders, to approve the Group’s 
long-term strategic objectives, and to 
develop robust corporate governance 
and risk management practices, 
whilst ensuring that the necessary 
financial and other resources are 
made available to enable those 
objectives to be met. The Board is 
responsible to shareholders for the 
proper management of the Group.
A statement of the Directors’ 
responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report is set out in the 
Directors’ Report and the Board also 
confirms that there are appropriate 
procedures in place to ensure that its 
powers to authorise any Directors’ 
conflicts of interest are operated 
effectively. Under these procedures, 
the Board has been notified of the 
significant shareholdings held 
by Executive Directors, as set out 
in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report. Directors have a wide range 
of experience of various industry 
sectors relevant to the Group’s 
business and each member brings 
independent judgement to bear in the 
interests of the Company on issues 
of strategy, performance, resources 
and standards of conduct. The Board 
has an appropriate and varied range 
of skills, vital to the success of the 
Group.
Board and Committee meeting papers 
are circulated well in advance of the 
relevant meeting and where a Director 
is unable to attend he/she is provided 
with a copy of the papers and has 
the opportunity to comment on the 
matters to be discussed. Minutes of 
all Committee meetings are circulated 
to all the Directors, irrespective 
of Committee membership. Each 
Director ensures that if he/she has 
any concerns, which cannot be 
resolved, about the Company or a 
proposed action, such concerns 
are recorded in the Board minutes. 
Appropriate insurance cover is in place 
in respect of legal action against the 
Directors.
The number of, and attendance at, 
Board and Committee meetings 
during the year, is shown under 
the relevant section below. Outside 
these, there was frequent contact 
between Directors to discuss the 
Company’s affairs and develop its 
business. Arrangements are in place 
for the Chairman to meet with the 
Non-Executive Directors without the 
Executive Directors being present, 
either before or after each Board 
meeting.
The Group has identified a number 
of key areas that are subject to 
regular reporting to the Board and 
this enables the performance of 
management to be reviewed and 
monitored. There is a formal schedule 
of matters reserved for the Board and 
this was updated during the year to 
accommodate current practice, with 
the schedule to be reviewed on a 
regular basis. The schedule outlines 
all matters requiring specific consent 
of the Board and includes, inter-alia, 
the approval of Group strategy and 
operating plans, the annual budget, 
the Annual Report, the Interim Report 
and related announcements, major 
divestments and capital expenditure, 
large acquisitions and disposals, the 
recommendation of dividends and 
the approval of treasury and risk 
management policies.
The schedule facilitates structured 
delegation, subject to certain 
financial limits, and thereby provides 
a practical framework for executive 
management, which seeks to achieve 
the objectives of maintaining effective 
financial and operational controls 
while providing sufficient flexibility to 
manage the business.
Certain powers are delegated to 
the Remuneration Committee, 
Audit Committee and Nomination 
Committee and decisions reported to 
the full Board. Details of the roles and 
responsibilities of these Committees 
are set out under the relevant section 
below. In addition, as part of an overall 
review of working practices during 
the year, the Group has set up or 
revised the T erms of Reference for 
its other formal committees in order 
to facilitate more efficient working 
practices. These include the Executive 
Committee, an Investment Committee 
and a Routine Business Committee, 
in line with a clear framework of 
delegated and other authorities.
The Board – Balance, 
independence and appointments
The Board comprises a balance 
of Executive and Non-Executive 
Corporate Governance Report 
Year ended 30 November 2008 SThree plc 25
Directors who bring a wide range 
of skills and experience to its 
deliberations. The Non-Executive 
Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate 
accountability and have a particular 
responsibility to ensure that the 
strategies proposed by the Executive 
Directors are fully discussed and 
critically examined, not only in 
the best long-term interests of 
shareholders, but also to take proper 
account of the interests of customers, 
employees and other stakeholders. 
The Non-Executive Directors are 
all experienced and influential 
individuals and through their mix 
of skills and business experience 
they contribute significantly to the 
effective functioning of the Board 
and its Committees, ensuring that 
matters are fully debated and that no 
one individual or group dominates the 
decision making process.
The Board comprises the Chairman, 
four Executive Directors and four 
independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The Chairman and Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director are available to 
shareholders to discuss governance 
issues or should there be matters 
of concern that have not, or cannot, 
be addressed through the Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer or Chief Operating Officer. 
However, no requests to meet with 
the Chairman or Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director were made by 
shareholders during the year.
Appointments to the Board are the 
responsibility of the full Board, on the 
recommendation of the Nomination 
Committee. During the year, and after 
appropriate external consultation 
and selection with advisors, this 
Committee recommended the 
appointments to the Board of Nadhim 
Zahawi as a Non-Executive Director, 
Alex Smith as Chief Financial Officer 
and Gary Elden as Chief Development 
Officer. In particular, it was felt that 
Nadhim’s breadth of business and 
political knowledge and experience 
within an entrepreneurial and service 
driven environment would be of 
benefit as the Group continues to 
expand globally, whilst Alex had a 
strong track record that combined 
experience in both finance and 
operational roles. Gary’s appointment 
reflected his vast knowledge not only 
of SThree’s business, but also of the 
recruitment industry generally, as well 
as his particular experience in building 
and expanding Huxley around the 
globe. On joining the Board, Directors 
receive a formal appointment letter, 
which identifies the time commitment 
and responsibilities expected of them. 
Any potential Director candidate is 
also required to disclose all significant 
outside commitments prior to 
appointment. All Non-Executive 
Directors have undertaken that they 
have sufficient time to meet these 
commitments and major shareholders 
may, upon appropriate request, meet 
new Non-Executive Directors.
The composition of the Board and 
its various Committees is reviewed 
and evaluated so as to reflect the 
Board’s and the Committees’ balance 
of skills, expected time commitment, 
knowledge and experience. The 
Directors’ aim is to ensure that 
the balance of the Board reflects 
the changing needs of the Group’s 
business and therefore composition, 
balance and skills are all regularly 
monitored. Excluding the Chairman, 
the Board considers all Non-Executive 
Directors to be independent. This is 
in compliance with the Code, which 
requires at least half of the Board to 
consist of independent Non-Executive 
Directors.
The Company’s Articles of Association 
state that a Director appointed by 
the Board in accordance with the 
Articles of Association shall hold office 
only until the next Annual General 
Meeting, unless re-elected during that 
meeting. Additionally, each Director 
must retire at the Annual General 
Meeting held in the third calendar 
year following the year in which he/
she was elected or last re-elected, but 
shall be eligible for re-election. Any 
Director who has agreed to do so shall 
retire at the Annual General Meeting 
(whether in accordance with terms of 
appointment or otherwise) and, unless 
the other Directors have agreed, he/
she shall not be eligible for re-election.
The Board explains the reasons why it 
believes each retiring Director should 
be re-elected in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’) and complies 
fully with the Code in respect of its 
AGM arrangements.
Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer
There is a clear division of 
responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive Officer and 
they have been set out in writing and 
approved by the Board so that no 
one individual has unfettered powers 
of decision. Upon appointment, the 
Chairman met the independence 
criteria set out in the Code. The 
Chairman leads the Board in the 
determination of its strategy and in the 
achievement of its objectives and is 
responsible for organising the business 
of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness 
and setting its agenda but has no 
involvement in the day-to-day business 
of the Group. The Chairman facilitates 
the effective contribution of the Non-
Executive Directors, and constructive 
relations between Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors, ensures 
Directors receive accurate, timely 
and clear information and effective 
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued) SThree plc 26
communication with shareholders. 
The Chief Executive Officer has direct 
charge of the Group on a day-to-day 
basis and overall responsibility to the 
Board for the financial and operational 
performance of the Group.
Information and professional 
development
An induction programme is in place 
for new Directors and this is tailored 
to each individual to ensure that 
it is appropriate for their level of 
previous experience. At scheduled 
Board meetings Directors receive 
detailed reports from executive 
management on the performance of 
the Group and senior management 
regularly make presentations on 
their areas of responsibility. Board 
members are invited to the Group’s 
annual conference, together with 
senior management from each brand 
and geographic area, in order to 
discuss relevant initiatives and Board 
meetings are scheduled at different 
office locations in order to allow all 
Directors to meet local managers. 
Regular updates are provided on 
other topics as required and Directors 
are encouraged to attend external 
seminars on areas of relevance to 
their role. These measures help to 
ensure that the Directors continue 
to develop their knowledge of the 
Group’s business and get to know its 
senior management.
Directors have access to the advice 
and services of the Company 
Secretary, who is responsible to 
the Board for ensuring that Board 
procedures are complied with 
and to assist in arranging any 
additional information as required. 
The appointment and removal of 
the Company Secretary is a matter 
reserved for the Board as a whole 
and the Board last appointed a 
Company Secretary in October 
2006. All Directors are entitled to 
obtain independent professional 
advice, at the Company’s expense, 
in the performance of their duties as 
Directors. No such advice was sought 
during the year.
Performance Evaluation
A performance evaluation process, 
led by the Chairman, is in place to 
evaluate the Board, Committees and 
individual Directors. This ensures that 
the performance of each individual 
Director and the functioning and 
constitution of the Board and 
each Committee are assessed. 
The Chairman also discusses the 
individual performance of Directors, 
in consultation with other Directors, 
whilst the Senior Independent Director 
holds annual discussions with the 
other Non-Executive Directors without 
the Chairman being present and 
also with the Executives, in order to 
appraise the Chairman’s performance. 
These assessments concluded that 
the performance of the Board, each 
Committee and each Director was 
and is effective and that Directors 
demonstrate full commitment in 
their respective roles. The Board will 
continue to develop this process as 
necessary in order to ensure that it 
can properly review, on an annual 
basis, its performance and that of its 
Committees and individual Directors.
Board and Committee 
Composition and Attendance
The Board has established various 
Committees, each with clearly defined 
terms of reference, procedures 
and powers, as summarised below, 
which are regularly reviewed. All 
Committees operate in accordance 
with the relevant terms of reference 
as approved by the Board. Copies of 
the terms of reference for each of 
these Committees are available on 
request from the Company Secretary 
at the registered office or can be 
downloaded from www.sthree.com. 
In addition to the nine scheduled 
Board meetings during the year, the 
Board met at the AGM and strategy 
away day. The number of Committee 
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued)
Directors Possible attendance Actual attendance
    Remun- Nom-   Remun- Nom-
  Board Audit eration ination Board Audit eration ination
Sir Anthony Cleaver  10 N/A N/A 3 10 N/A N/A 3
Russell Clements  10 N/A N/A N/A 10 N/A N/A N/A
Sunil Wickremeratne  10 N/A N/A N/A 10 N/A N/A N/A
Alex Smith (appointed 07/05/2008) 6 N/A N/A N/A 6 N/A N/A N/A
Gary Elden (appointed 01/07/2008) 4 N/A N/A N/A 2 N/A N/A N/A
David Tilston (resigned 24/04/2008) 4 N/A N/A N/A 4 N/A N/A N/A
Brian McBride (resigned 24/04/2008) 4 2 2 1 3 2 2 1
T ony Ward  10 N/A 4 3 10 N/A 4 3
Alicja Lesniak  10 4 4 1 9 4 3 1
Paul Bowtell  10 4 N/A 1 10 3 N/A 1
Nadhim Zahawi (appointed 01/05/2008) 6 2 2 N/A 6 1 2 N/A SThree plc 27
meetings held for each respective 
Committee, and attendance thereat, is 
shown in the table below.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee met four times 
during the year and consists of Paul 
Bowtell (Chairman), Alicja Lesniak 
and Nadhim Zahawi, and accordingly 
comprises at least three independent 
Non-Executive Directors as required 
by the Code. The Chief Executive 
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer 
and the external auditors attend 
all meetings at the request of the 
Committee. Paul Bowtell is a Chartered 
Accountant and is considered by the 
Board to have recent and relevant 
financial experience.
The Committee’s principal 
responsibilities are to monitor the 
integrity of the Company’s Annual and 
Interim Reports, preliminary results 
announcements and any other formal 
announcements relating to financial 
performance, reviewing particularly 
any significant financial reporting 
judgements contained therein; to 
review the Group’s systems of internal 
control and risk management; to 
identify and report on any business 
areas where action or improvement 
are needed and recommend actions 
to be taken; to review arrangements 
by which Group employees may raise 
concerns about possible improprieties 
in financial reporting or other such 
matters, and ensure appropriate follow 
up; to monitor the effectiveness of the 
external audit process; and to ensure 
that the audit report and all related 
work are properly completed.
The Committee considers matters 
relating to the recommendation 
for appointment, re-appointment, 
remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the Company’s 
auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP . Both the Committee and the 
auditors themselves have safeguards 
in place to ensure that the objectivity 
and independence of the auditors is 
maintained, including the periodic 
rotation of the audit partner. In 
addition to the annual appointment 
of the auditors by the shareholders, 
the Committee regularly reviews 
their independence taking into 
consideration relevant UK professional 
and regulatory requirements. 
The Committee reviews auditor 
performance and fees charged and 
meets with the auditor at least once a 
year without management present.
The Committee’s policy is that non-
audit work may be carried out by the 
auditors only where that work does 
not impair the auditor’s independence 
and where the Committee believes 
that it is in the Group’s best interests 
to make use of the auditor’s knowledge 
of the business. Such work has 
included detailed local statutory audits 
required due to legislation, other 
services required due to legislation, 
assurance work, taxation advice and 
other specialist services where no 
internal resource is currently available. 
The Committee continuously monitors 
the quality and volume of this work in 
order to assess whether to use other 
accounting firms (or appropriately 
qualified organisations).
Details of fees paid to the auditors 
for both audit and non-audit work, 
are given in the Notes to the financial 
statements. The Committee has fully 
evaluated this work and remains 
comfortable that it is appropriate and 
the fees justified.
Following a review by the Audit 
Committee in light of the growth of 
the business and its current needs, 
the Group created an internal audit 
function in 2008. Although at an early 
stage, the Committee has reviewed 
the effectiveness of this function and 
will continue to do so but is already 
seeing benefits from its creation. 
Further recruitment to expand the 
function is already underway.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee met three 
times during the year and consists of 
Sir Anthony Cleaver (Chairman), T ony 
Ward, Alicja Lesniak and Paul Bowtell 
and accordingly comprises a majority 
of independent Non-Executive 
Directors as required by the Code.
The Nomination Committee’s terms 
of reference are to review regularly 
the structure, size and composition 
(including the skills, knowledge 
and experience) of the Board, make 
recommendations with regard to 
any changes, and to review and 
prepare relevant job descriptions 
for new appointees. The Committee 
also considers future succession for 
appointments to the Board and to 
senior management, so as to maintain 
an appropriate balance of skills and 
expertise within the Company and 
on the Board. Where appropriate, the 
Committee engages external search 
consultants with respect to both 
Executive and Non-Executive Board 
appointments, as was the case for the 
appointments of Nadhim Zahawi and 
Alex Smith.
In terms of succession planning, in 
2008 the Group launched its ‘T op 60’ 
leadership initiative in order to identify 
and develop its most talented senior 
managers for executive positions 
throughout the Group and the 
Nomination Committee will closely 
monitor these activities to ensure 
that they are aligned with the Group’s 
strategy.
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued) SThree plc 28
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee 
met four times during the year 
and is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board on 
Group policy for the remuneration 
of the Executive Directors and 
senior executives and for the 
determination, within agreed terms 
of reference, of additional benefits 
for each of the Executive Directors, 
including pension rights and any 
compensation for loss of office. The 
Committee is also responsible for 
the implementation and operation 
of employee share incentive 
arrangements. The Committee 
comprises a majority of independent 
Non-Executive Directors as required 
by the Code. Full information on the 
composition, role and operation of 
the Remuneration Committee and 
Directors’ Remuneration is detailed in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility 
for the Group’s internal control 
systems and for monitoring their 
effectiveness in order to safeguard 
shareholders’ investments and the 
Group’s assets. Executive Directors 
and senior management are 
responsible for the implementation 
and maintenance of the internal 
control systems, which are subject to 
periodic, and at least annual, review 
by the Board. As explained above, 
the Group created an internal audit 
function in 2008.
The Board monitors the ongoing 
process by which critical risks to the 
business are identified, evaluated and 
managed. This process is consistent 
with the T urnbull Guidance on Internal 
Control and has been in operation for 
the period under review and up to the 
date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board assesses the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of internal 
controls, including financial, 
organisational and compliance 
controls and risk management 
systems. These are designed to 
manage, rather than eliminate, the 
risk of failure to achieve the Group’s 
objectives, and can only provide 
reasonable, and not absolute, 
assurance against material mis-
statement or loss. The Board 
considers, in assessing what 
constitutes reasonable accuracy, 
the materiality of financial and non-
financial risks and the relationship 
between the cost of, and benefit from, 
internal control systems.
The Board regularly reviews the 
actual results compared with the 
budgeted and forecast performance 
of the Group, as well as other key 
performance indicators.
Lines of responsibility and delegated 
authorities are areas which continue 
to be defined and the Group’s policies 
and procedures therefore continue 
to be updated and communicated 
internally.
Assessment of risk
The Board, through the Audit 
Committee, has overall responsibility 
for risk management activities and 
implementing policies to ensure that 
all risks are evaluated, measured 
and kept under review by way of 
appropriate KPIs. During the year the 
Group conducted a thorough review 
of its risk control processes, working 
closely with its Non-Executive 
Directors and external advisors. As 
a result, a revised Enterprise Risk 
Management (‘ERM’) framework 
was developed and approved by the 
Audit Committee and is currently 
being implemented. The Committee 
feels that this improved framework 
will enhance the Group’s and 
individual brand’s focus on key 
risk areas, provide greater clarity 
on risk ownership, better identify 
opportunities as well as threats, whilst 
also facilitating improved monitoring 
of progress, mitigation measures 
and visibility going forward looking 
assessment. The framework also 
takes into account Environmental 
Social Governance (‘ESG’) matters 
and will be fully rolled out, working 
closely with brands, during 2009. 
It is hoped that the framework can 
meet, as closely as possible, the 
appropriate BSI standard (BS 3100) 
on risk management processes and 
the resulting enhanced corporate risk 
register will improve, for example, the 
recording of the key risks facing the 
business, assessment of the likelihood 
of risks crystallising, their potential 
materiality, progress on reducing each 
risk area and the Group’s response 
to each risk. Responsibility for 
management of each risk identified 
is typically attributed to senior 
management and, as previously, 
the Audit Committee will review the 
register twice a year.
Going concern
The Board remains satisfied with the 
Group’s funding and liquidity position. 
The Group’s main sources of debt 
funding are the invoice discounting 
facility of £50m, which provides 
committed funding of up to £20m, 
and an uncommitted overdraft facility. 
The invoice discounting facility will 
expire on 25 February 2010.
The Board has reviewed cash flow 
forecasts for the financial year ending 
29 November 2009 and for the 
foreseeable future. These forecasts 
take account of proposed capital 
expenditure and include scenarios 
with adjustments for significantly 
worse economic conditions. In all 
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued) SThree plc 29
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued)
scenarios, the forecasts show that 
the Group remains in a cash positive 
position.
On the basis of these forecasts, both 
base case and adjusted as described 
above, the Board has concluded that 
the going concern basis of preparation 
for the accounts of both the Company 
and the Group continues to be 
appropriate.
Corporate Social and 
Environmental Responsibility
The Board recognises that the Group 
has a responsibility to act ethically 
in relation to the physical and social 
environment in which it operates, and 
that failure to do so could adversely 
impact on the Group’s long and short-
term value as a result of financial 
penalty and loss of customer support. 
It takes such responsibilities seriously 
paying due regard to international and 
local laws in all its dealings. Further 
details are disclosed in the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report.
Communications with 
shareholders
Communications with shareholders 
are given a high priority. The Company 
produces an Annual Report, which is 
sent to shareholders. At the half-
year, an Interim Report is published. 
The Company’s website contains 
up-to-date information on the Group’s 
activities, investor presentations 
and published financial results. 
Shareholders can also subscribe 
for e-mail alerts of important 
announcements made by the 
Company.
There is regular dialogue with 
institutional shareholders, whilst 
ensuring that price sensitive 
information is released at the same 
time to all shareholders in accordance 
with the requirements of the UK 
Listing Authority. Presentations 
are made after the Company has 
published its full-year and half-year 
results and there is also dialogue 
on specific issues, such as the re-
election of the Chairman, Minority 
Interests, introduction of the Long 
T erm Incentive Plan and on other key 
remuneration issues.
The Chairman is available to discuss 
strategy and governance issues 
with shareholders and is available to 
shareholders if they have concerns 
that have not, or cannot, be addressed 
through the Chief Executive 
Officer, Chief Financial Officer or 
Chief Operating Officer. The Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director is 
available to shareholders if they have 
concerns that have not, or cannot, 
be addressed through the Chairman, 
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer or Chief Operating Officer.
The Group obtains feedback from its 
brokers on the views of institutional 
investors on a non-attributed basis 
and any issues or concerns are 
communicated to the Board. The 
Board routinely receives regular 
reports on issues relating to share 
price, trading activity, institutional 
investor sentiment and sector 
updates.
The Board views the Annual General 
Meeting as a valuable opportunity 
to communicate with private and 
institutional investors and welcomes 
their participation. Normally, all 
Board members attend the Annual 
General Meeting and in particular, the 
Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees are 
available to answer questions. At 
General Meetings, a schedule of the 
proxy votes cast is made available 
to all shareholders and may also be 
accessed via the Company’s website. 
The Company proposes a resolution 
on each substantially separate issue 
and does not combine resolutions 
inappropriately. The website contains 
copies of all Notices of Meeting and 
explanatory notes, once issued and 
the Notice of AGM is posted at least 
twenty working days prior to the date 
of the meeting.
Steve Hornbuckle
Company Secretary 
30 January 2009 Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report
Year ended 30 November 2008
Introduction
At SThree plc, we take our duty to 
behave responsibly in governance 
and ethics seriously. During 2007, the 
Board commissioned Reputation Inc, a 
specialist advisor in CSR best practice, 
to undertake a detailed review of the 
Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility 
(‘CSR’) practices, in order to benchmark 
and improve these wherever possible. 
This resulted in the launch of our 
‘Giving Something Back’ programme, 
which is explained in detail below. 
Outputs included setting targets and 
implementing office-wide sustainability 
policies to reduce office waste and 
increase energy efficiency, creating 
a fit for purpose CSR Committee, with 
appropriate membership, T erms of 
Reference and reporting structure and 
developing a dedicated CSR Section of 
the SThree website (www.SThree.com).
We will continue to review, build on 
and report our CSR commitments 
in the coming years, in addition to 
fulfilling national and international legal 
requirements.
Why SThree believes in social  
responsibility
We strive to be the best company 
to work for. That is our mission. We 
understand that great people make 
great companies. As a result we are 
always looking for opportunities to 
empower employees to be leaders 
in their teams and their brands. Now 
we want to extend that to outside the 
business by giving part of what makes 
us successful to others.
We are delighted to have developed our 
first full CSR strategy – an important 
first step in becoming a world leader in 
our industry. Our strategy comprises:
•  
The launch of a community 
volunteering scheme to develop the 
employability and entrepreneurial 
skills of disadvantaged young people 
in our communities;
•  
A three part sustainability drive to 
review, measure and reduce our 
impact on the environment;
•
  
Formation of a new CSR Committee 
to co-ordinate the programme with 
our brands, empower employees 
and formally report progress to the 
Board;
•  
Future plans to enhance the health 
and productivity of our workplace.
Our history
From the beginning SThree has stood 
for ambition and growth. Part of our 
DNA is the idea of ‘entrepreneurialism 
with a heart’. This belief was embedded 
in the business by our founders, who 
regularly campaigned for the homeless. 
Now we want it to be a greater part of 
who we are and what we do.
An enterprise mentality is what 
defines SThree – the ‘nothing is 
impossible’ attitude. But the essence 
of a true entrepreneur is someone who 
is not only prepared to take risks but 
who creates greater value by sharing 
their rewards and knowledge with the 
people around them.
SThree takes its responsibility to 
society seriously and we do it in our 
own style. CSR doesn’t have to be 
simply about bureaucracy, at SThree 
it is about behaviour, leadership and 
results and will be integrated with our 
business strategy, skill base and our 
way of working. In fact, rather than 
referring to it as ‘CSR’ we prefer the 
term ‘Giving Something Back’ – back 
to the community, to the environment 
and to our people and in doing so we 
will generate internal pride and external 
impact. That is the hallmark of a truly 
great place to work for.
The Financial Times said ‘the 
companies that will be most resilient 
in the economic downturn will have 
talented and committed workforces, 
deep roots in their communities and 
environmentally sustainable business 
models’. T o invest in CSR in this climate 
says a lot about what we are trying to 
achieve in terms of being an industry 
leader.
T o truly grow and develop this 
business we have to take a long term 
perspective. Planning for the future is 
about investment – in our assets, our 
people and our reputation.
Putting in place this vision of CSR will 
enable us to build a stronger business 
better placed to capitalise when the 
world economy returns to normality.
CSR Strategy – Giving Something 
Back
Our defining mission is to positively 
transform the lives of our employees, 
society and stakeholders by giving 
something back.
CSR will be integrated throughout our 
business – how we promote careers 
to graduates, our workplace policies, 
our management of properties and 
materials, the technology we buy and 
how we travel to meet clients and 
associates.
In 2007 we took the proactive decision 
to produce our first CSR strategy for 
SThree. It is true that as both a publicly 
listed and international company we 
have a responsibility to this issue. 
Moreover, our employees made a clear 
statement that they wanted to use their 
business skills to give something back 
to the disadvantaged.
We are listening and responding to 
what our employees want; that:
• 
65% of employees believe it is 
important for them to work for a 
company which plays a positive 
part in society;
• 
52% of employees think there 
is a direct correlation between 
CSR and employee welfare and 
development;
• 
74% of management want 
to up-weight our community 
involvement;
SThree plc 5 30 SThree plc 5 31
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report   (continued)
Year ended 30 November 2008
• 
45% of employees want to do give 
something back and 50% want to 
use and improve their business 
skills in doing so.
Shareholders reading this report 
should be assured that this 
commitment to giving back is fully 
aligned with our core objective of 
developing shareholder value.
Not only is it the right thing to do, CSR:
• 
Helps attract and retain talent as 
it strengthens our reputation as a 
place to work;
• 
Deepens our relationship with 
clients giving us new commercial 
opportunities;
• 
Meets the expectations of our 
shareholders who see us as a 
leading public company.
Our ambition is to:
1. give those in the community that 
most need it opportunity and 
aspiration;
2. protect the environment we live in;
3. give back to the people who work 
so hard to make this a great 
company.
Our CSR strategy is set by a newly 
formed CSR Committee – drawing on 
all of the talents and experience from 
across the business.
It is chaired by the Group HR Director, 
who reports directly to the Chief 
Executive Officer and Board. T o back 
up our promises Senior Managers have 
taken responsibility for delivering the 
foundation elements of our strategy 
– Community, Environment and 
Workplace – which we set out next.
 
4Good
We are pleased to report progress as 
we this year joined The FTSE4Good 
Index. It measures the performance 
of companies that meet globally 
recognised corporate responsibility 
standards and is designed to facilitate 
investment in those companies.
Community 
We feel we do recruitment very well. 
Our employee training is industry 
leading and our knowledge of labour 
market trends unrivalled. Therefore, 
it made sense to share this with the 
community. From the outset we 
made the decision to volunteer our 
employee’s skills and time to help 
disadvantaged young people.
Our company success is built on a 
meritocracy – no matter who you are or 
where you come from the opportunity 
to be a success is universal. 
Unfortunately, there are young people 
out of work and education that have 
been denied such an opportunity.
In October, Huxley Associates 
employees hosted an ‘Apprentice’ style 
pilot training day for disadvantaged 
young people in London sharing with 
them the job skills they have become 
experts in at SThree.
Partnering with Connexions 
community group in Westminster, 
we provided CV writing, interview 
techniques, motivation and business 
training offering the best work 
experience with us and the prospect of 
a permanent placement.
We want to create leaders in our 
business. T o that end we will be 
aligning SThree’s community 
volunteering scheme with our training 
and development programme as we 
ask our employees to lead outside of as 
well as inside the business.
We will be expanding both the pilot and 
our volunteering scheme to offer all 
brands and offices the opportunity to 
share their expertise with young people 
desperate to realise their potential. In 
London alone 10% of under 18’s are 
neither in employment or education. 
The private sector has the ability to 
reach and inspire these young people 
and SThree will play our role.
Not only is this the right thing to do it 
could unlock new talent to work for this 
business that we never knew existed.
Community Partnerships
Reflecting our leading position in 
London’s recruitment sector, we 
formed a number of exploratory 
partnerships to drive our giving 
something back work. Time & T alents 
is a public, private and voluntary sector 
partnership we joined this year to 
deliver effective Employer Supported 
Volunteering (ESV) and local Corporate 
Community Involvement (CCI).
In partnership with Volunteer 
Centre Westminster we hosted an 
‘Employability Think-T ank’ enabling 
large employers and community 
groups to brainstorm how business 
volunteering can inspire young people 
into employment.
Charitable Giving 
Funds are raised by employees 
through a multitude of sporting, 
cultural and charitable activities 
that have now become a core part of 
life in SThree. For the last two years 
SThree has supported the Children’s 
Hospices UK charity as our official 
charity partner to great success. In 
total our employees raised £33,465, 
plus a further £30,000 was provided to 
sponsor events. We were particularly 
proud to host an art auction for the 
Children’s Hospice, which added 
a further £250,000 in value. SOS 
Children’s Villages has been selected 
as a SThree charity for 2009.
SThree supports SThree plc 5 32
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report   (continued)
Year ended 30 November 2008
 
Climate Change 
As an international company we are 
aware of the impact we have on the 
planet. While being a resource light 
organisation, we still believe it is right 
to operate on a sustainable basis. From 
a business perspective, the more rare 
resources become, the higher their 
price. Therefore, it is in our mutual 
interest to protect and conserve 
the resources business and society 
depends on to grow.
It is the SThree way to tackle the 
biggest challenges with determination 
and energy. We know we have a 
long journey to complete before our 
business becomes environmentally 
friendly but are delighted to have taken 
the first vital steps.
Strategy
Working with the Carbon T rust we 
piloted a carbon footprint study of our 
Huxley Associates office in central 
London. Because our offices in the UK 
have similar specifications (technology, 
layout and suppliers) we can use this 
pilot to develop energy saving solutions 
across the network.
T wo sets of important insights 
emerged from our Carbon T rust pilot 
that will inform our future work. Firstly, 
the business does not have adequate 
systems or central records to measure 
the data and activities that determine 
environmental performance. As a 
result we now require an enabling 
strategy to put these in place.
Secondly, a number of energy 
efficiency opportunities have been 
identified to be implemented across 
our brands. Based on the pilot audit, 
the Carbon T rust Pilot made a range of 
recommendations, including:
• 
Adjust air conditioning terminal 
units to operate in occupancy 
times only;
• 
Investigate comms room cooling 
with a view to switching off cooling 
plants;
• 
Convert existing T8 lamps in offices 
to T5s using conversion kits to 
improve energy efficiency;
• 
Install automatic lighting controls;
• 
Replace T ungsten Halogen lamps 
with compact fluorescents or LEDs;
• 
Ensure all office equipment 
including PCs, slide projectors etc 
are on energy saving sub-routines;
• 
Implement energy monitoring and 
targeting for gas and electricity;
• 
Develop a comprehensive energy 
policy for the company.
According to the Carbon T rust such 
measures at one office would cut 240 
tonnes of carbon saving the business 
an estimated £26,000 in a year.
Future Environmental Strategy
We propose a three pronged strategy to 
improve our long-term environmental 
performance:
Phase 1 – Review of Organisation 
and Systems
As we lack a system of monitoring and 
measuring our environmental impacts, 
we will initiate a review of current 
systems to assess how information is 
collected, recorded and used in order 
to take corrective action. For example, 
we will work with our landlords to 
supply energy consumption data to our 
facilities management teams across 
all brands. When in possession of 
this data we can establish our carbon 
baseline footprint, work to improve 
efficiency and save the business costs.
The same approach would apply 
to recording and monitoring CO
2
  
emissions. A future review would look 
into the availability of information 
on employee travel (both business 
and commuting), supplier chain 
performance and utilities.
Phase 2 – Site Audits
With more robust measurement and 
information systems in place we will 
conduct site audits for each office 
to identify opportunities for carbon 
reduction and future environmental 
improvements.
Phase 3 – Implementing Efficiency 
and Sustainability
Following work in Phase 2 we will 
be in a stronger position to increase 
the speed at which we implement 
initiatives that reduce our CO
2
 
emissions and improve sustainability.
Reducing carbon emissions to 
tackle climate change
As we put in place our new strategy 
in order to record our environmental 
impact, we won’t sit idly by doing 
business as usual. We are committed 
to reducing carbon emissions and to 
play our part in helping the UK reduce 
emissions by 60% by 2050.
In 2008 we operated various initiatives 
to become more sustainable and 
energy efficient including:
•
 Cycling to work scheme to reduce 
employee reliance on cars and 
trains;
• 
Installed an automatic computer 
turn off device to reduce energy 
use;
• 
Piloting and installing video 
conferencing to reduce air travel.
Next year we are committed to 
improving our environmental 
performance by reducing our use of 
water and waste and to reviewing our 
supply chain in order to do business 
with sustainable suppliers. We intend 
to reduce carbon emissions as much 
is possible and will be able to report 
on specific quantities in our next 
Annual Report having completed a full 
environmental audit. SThree plc 5 33
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report   (continued)
Year ended 30 November 2008
Sources of our Environmental 
Impact
CO
2
 emissions
Direct
Business travel using company owned 
transport 
Heating energy (gas or oil)
Indirect
Use of electrical energy (heat, light or 
power) 
Business travel using public transport 
(train, plane etc) 
Business travel using privately owned 
transport 
Water
Waste
Office consumables (e.g. paper, IT 
toners etc) 
Lighting 
IT equipment 
Electrical equipment (mobile phones 
etc) 
Furniture 
Other fixtures & fittings (e.g. carpets, 
blinds etc) 
Domestic waste (e.g. food etc)
Learning & Development
We aim to develop our employees to 
their full potential. Our training and 
development programme is one of 
the most sophisticated in the global 
recruitment industry.
It is supported by a range of 
management and supervisory training 
programmes aiming to build the 
commercial and management skills 
of our managers and supervisors. 
Learning and development is not only 
about equipping people with the skills 
to do their job but also about helping 
them to develop personally.
In terms of succession planning, in 
2008 the Group launched its ‘T op 60’ 
leadership initiative in order to identify 
and develop its most talented senior 
managers for executive positions 
throughout the Group and ensure 
that the Group’s succession plans are 
aligned with its strategy.
Recruitment and Retention
Our people are the most valuable assets 
of the Company. As we have expanded 
the business over the past number 
of years our skills and employee 
requirements have increased. In 
order to remain competitive we are 
committed to offering our employees 
a balance of financial, professional and 
personal rewards.
As the Government introduces 
new legislation on flexible working, 
employee welfare and maternity 
we will act in the appropriate and 
progressive way. As an example we 
operate a sabbatical scheme for long 
serving employers of more than ten 
years.
Where appropriate, the Group 
undertakes structured consultation 
processes with works councils or 
similar bodies. An annual employee 
survey is also undertaken and the 
Group has consistently been placed in 
the T op 50 of the Sunday Times Best 
Places T o Work.
Diversity
We are an equal opportunity 
employer, committed to delivering 
equal treatment and opportunities 
for all employees. SThree has over 
2,000 employees in 10 countries and, 
together with our policy to recruit 
qualified local people wherever 
possible, this diversity is one of our 
biggest assets.
Combined with pursuing practices that 
are sensitive to the needs and cultures 
of our employees, diversity allows 
us to be adaptable and more open to 
different ways of doing business, in line 
with local practices and customs.
In working with clients we propose 
candidates with a healthy range 
of views and skills that reflects the 
communities we live in. It is because 
we support equal employment 
opportunities and diversity that we can 
provide this service.
All employment decisions are 
made, subject to legal obligations, 
on a non-discriminatory basis. 
Due consideration is given to the 
recruitment, promotion, training and 
working environment of all employees, 
including those with disabilities.
We recognise the importance of 
diversity in the workplace for our own 
and our clients’ businesses, both in 
increasing the recognition of our brand 
amongst a wider audience and to 
encourage a diverse candidate base 
and workforce.
We comply with the recruitment 
industry body APSCo’s equality and 
ethics standards. 
Governance
SThree is committed to high standards 
of corporate governance as outlined 
in the Corporate Governance Report 
and the Board is accountable to the 
Company’s shareholders for ensuring 
that principles of good governance are 
applied.
Ethics
At SThree, and as individuals, we:
• 
Value trust and personal 
responsibility;
• 
Act with integrity, honesty, respect 
and fairness;
• 
Deliver excellent services that 
add value to our customers’ 
businesses;
• 
Focus on continual growth and 
outstanding performance;
• 
Strive to create a safer working 
environment;
• 
Value each employee’s contribution 
towards achieving our business 
objectives;
• 
Promote a culture where 
motivated customer-orientated 
employees can flourish, experience 
professional fulfilment and reach 
their highest potential; and
• 
Respect diverse perspectives, 
experiences and traditions as 
essential.
The foundation of this policy rests with 
the Group’s employees, each of whom 
must adhere to the Group’s values, 
which are set out in detail in a Code of  SThree plc 5 34
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report   (continued)
Year ended 30 November 2008
Business Conduct. Should employees 
have a concern, they are able to report 
any matters via an independent and 
dedicated telephone line, or via the 
Company Secretary, where the reporting 
does not conflict with local laws or 
customs.
Clients
SThree is built upon a strong ethos of 
client service. A combination of years 
of experience, detailed knowledge of 
our specialist recruitment sectors and 
local legislation, culture and market 
conditions, as well as comprehensive 
training programmes, mean that clients 
receive the most professional service 
which adds value. We conduct internal 
and external customer care surveys 
and regular client contact reports. 
Listening to our customers, helps us 
understand what they expect from 
us and how we can meet and exceed 
their expectations and in doing so 
helps to ensure that we can maintain 
a meaningful business relationship in 
the long term.  Ultimately, the Chief 
Executive Officer is responsible for all 
customer service issues.
Proof of results is what we are about. 
Clients, candidates and employees 
expect us to deliver for them. In order 
that our CSR work can be judged on its 
merits we are setting clear targets to be 
measured in 2009 and beyond.
 
Russell Clements
Chief Executive Officer 
30 January 2009
Environment T arget Initiative
Reduce energy consumption Installation of video conferencing facility; 
more environmentally friendly company 
car scheme;  
Implement energy saving 
recommendations from Carbon T rust
Achieve audited carbon footprint 
measurement by end of 2009 – have 
baseline energy use for all UK offices
Engage external environmental  
management consultant 
Increase recycling Central waste stations in 50% more 
offices
Sustainability Review suppliers for more sustainable  
alternatives
People T arget
 
Initiative
Improve staff retention rates Cultural survey, expansion of community 
volunteering scheme; workplace policy 
review
Increase learning and leadership  
opportunities
Mentoring of managers; development 
plans
Increase ranking in Best Places to  
Work Survey (36th in 2007)
Launch CSR strategy; employee 
engagement and motivation programme; 
T o improve diversity and well-being  
of our employees
Secure diversity accreditation
Community T arget
 
Initiative 
Increase number of employee  
volunteers in the community to tackle 
youth unemployment
Expand employability pilot project across 
group
Support policymakers and schools 
provide employability education
Joint projects with stakeholders
Increase fundraising support for  
Children’s Hospice Service
Support for staff fundraising initiatives
Rally the industry in giving back  
to the community
Share Industry CSR best practice
2009 CSR T argets
Proof of results is what we are about. Clients, candidates and staff expect  
us to deliver for them. In order that our CSR work can be judged on its merits we 
are setting clear targets to be measured against next year. SThree plc 35
Audit Opinion 
Year ended 30 November 2008
Independent Auditors’ 
Report to the Members of 
SThree plc
We have audited the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements (the 
‘‘financial statements’’) of SThree plc 
for the year ended 30 November 2008 
which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated 
and Parent Company Balance Sheets, 
the Consolidated and Parent Company 
Statements of Changes in Equity, the 
Consolidated and Parent Company 
Cash Flow Statements and the related 
notes. These financial statements 
have been prepared under the 
accounting policies set out therein. 
We have also audited the information 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
that is described as having been 
audited.
Respective responsibilities of 
directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for 
preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union are set out 
in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the 
financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited in accordance 
with relevant legal and regulatory 
requirements and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). This report, including the 
opinion, has been prepared for and 
only for the company’s members as 
a body in accordance with Section 
235 of the Companies Act 1985 and 
for no other purpose. We do not, in 
giving this opinion, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this 
report is shown or into whose hands 
it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to 
whether the financial statements give 
a true and fair view and whether the 
financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 
4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report 
to you whether in our opinion the 
information given in the Directors’ 
Report is consistent with the financial 
statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our 
opinion, the company has not kept 
proper accounting records, if we have 
not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit, 
or if information specified by law 
regarding directors’ remuneration and 
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate 
Governance Report reflects the 
company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the Combined Code 
2006 specified for our review by the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority, and we report if it does 
not. We are not required to consider 
whether the board’s statements on 
internal control cover all risks and 
controls, or form an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate 
governance procedures or its risk and 
control procedures.
We read other information contained 
in the Annual Report and consider 
whether it is consistent with the 
audited financial statements. The 
other information comprises only the 
details of the Board of Directors and 
Secretary, the Chairman’s Statement, 
the Financial Highlights, the Chief 
Executive Officer’s Review, the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review, the 
Directors’ Report, the unaudited part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
the Corporate Governance Report, 
the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report, the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibility and the Company 
Information and Corporate Advisers. 
We consider the implications for our 
report if we become aware of any 
apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the financial 
statements. Our responsibilities do not 
extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance 
with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued 
by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on 
a test basis, of evidence relevant 
to the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements and the 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited. It also includes 
an assessment of the significant 
estimates and judgments made 
by the directors in the preparation 
of the financial statements, and of 
whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the group’s 
and company’s circumstances, 
consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit 
so as to obtain all the information and 
explanations which we considered 
necessary in order to provide us 
with sufficient evidence to give 
reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements and the part of  SThree plc 36
Audit Opinion  (continued) 
Year ended 30 November 2008
the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or other irregularity or error. 
In forming our opinion we also 
evaluated the overall adequacy of 
the presentation of information in the 
financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•  
the Group financial statements give 
a true and fair view, in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union, of the state of the 
Group’s affairs as at 30 November 
2008 and of its profit and cash 
flows for the year then ended;
•  
the Parent Company financial 
statements give a true and fair 
view, in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union 
as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies 
Act 1985, of the state of the 
parent company’s affairs as at 30 
November 2008 and cash flows for 
the year then ended;
•  
the financial statements and the 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited have been 
properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985 and, 
as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation; and
•  
the information given in the 
Directors’ Report is consistent with 
the financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and 
Registered Auditors
London
30 January 2009 SThree plc 5 37
SThree plc
Consolidated Income Statement
Year ended 30 November 2008
 30 November 2 December 
 2008 2007
  Before
  exceptional Exceptional
  items items Total Total
 Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 2 631,520 – 631,520 522,698
Cost of sales  (412,581) – (412,581) (340,033)
Gross profit 2 218,939 – 218,939 182,665
Administrative expenses 3 (162,129) (1,957) (164,086) (130,408)
Operating profit  56,810 (1,957) 54,853 52,257
Finance income 5 25 – 25 6
Finance cost 5 (827) – (827) (1,985)
Share of profit of joint venture 12 – – – 46
Profit before taxation  56,008 (1,957) 54,051 50,324
T axation 6 (16,809) 594 (16,215) (16,509)
Profit for the year  39,199 (1,363) 37,836 33,815
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company  37,241 (1,363) 35,878 32,648
Minority interest     1,958 – 1,958 1,167
  39,199 (1,363) 37,836 33,815
Earnings per share 8 pence pence pence pence
Basic  29.9 (1.1) 28.8 25.2
Diluted  29.2 (1.1) 28.1 24.1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
All amounts relate to continuing operations.
SThree plc 5 37 SThree plc 5 38
SThree plc
Balance Sheets
As at 30 November 2008
 Consolidated Company
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
 Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 6,575 6,479 – –
Intangible assets 10 12,262 10,771 – –
Investment in subsidiaries 11 – – 237,117 234,383
Investment in joint venture 12 – 135 – –
Deferred tax assets 18 3,146 3,052 226 1,265
  21,983 20,437 237,343 235,648
Current assets
T rade and other receivables 13 139,937 151,085 2,374 2,024
Current tax assets 14 – – – 261
Cash and cash equivalents 22 24,584 4,771 – 143
  164,521 155,856 2,374 2,428
Total assets  186,504 176,293 239,717 238,076
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Provisions for liabilities and charges 17 (332) (250) – –
T rade and other payables 15 (81,246) (73,180) (66,376) (10,218)
Financial liabilities 16 – (1,267) (1,167) (2,809)
Current tax liabilities 14 (10,818) (4,911) – –
  (92,396) (79,608) (67,543) (13,027)
Non-current liabilities
Provisions for liabilities and charges 17 (3,535) (3,252) – –
  (3,535) (3,252) – –
Total liabilities  (95,931) (82,860) (67,543) (13,027)
Net assets  90,573 93,433 172,174 225,049
EQUITY
Capital and reserves attributable to the  
Company’s equity holders
Share capital 19 1,218 1,383 1,218 1,383
Share premium  2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925
Capital redemption reserve 19 168 2 168 2
Capital reserve 19 878 878 878 878
Currency translation reserve  2,331 69 – –
Retained earnings  78,906 85,751 166,985 219,861
  86,426 91,008 172,174 225,049
Minority interest  4,147 2,425 – –
Total equity  90,573 93,433 172,174 225,049
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 30 January 2009.
On behalf of the Board of Directors.
Sir Anthony Cleaver   Alex Smith
Chairman   Chief Financial Officer
SThree plc 5 38 SThree plc 5 39
SThree plc
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Year ended 30 November 2008
       Attributable
   Capital  Currency  to Company
 Share Share redemption Capital translation Retained equity Minority Total
 capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings shareholders interest equity
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 30 November 2006 1,380 2,925 – 878 (248) 58,828 63,763 348 64,111
Currency translation differences – – – – 317 – 317 – 317
Deferred tax on employee share options – – – – – (7,597) (7,597) – (7,597)
Current tax on employee share options – – – – – 8,258 8,258 – 8,258
Net income recognised directly in equity – – – – 317 661 978 – 978
Profit for the year to 2 December 2007 – – – – – 32,648 32,648 1,167 33,815
T otal recognised income and expense for the period – – – – 317 33,309 33,626 1,167 34,793
Repurchase of share capital (2) – 2 – – (388) (388) – (388)
Issue of share capital to minority interest – – – – – – – 990 990
Repurchase of minority interest – – – – – – – (10) (10)
Dividends paid to equity holders (note 7) – – – – – (6,345) (6,345) – (6,345)
Dividends paid to minority interest – – – – – – – (70) (70)
Employee share award and share option credit 5 – – – – 347 352 – 352
T otal movements in equity 3 – 2 – 317 26,923 27,245 2,077 29,322
Balance at 2 December 2007 1,383 2,925 2 878 69 85,751 91,008 2,425 93,433
Currency translation differences – – – – 2,262 – 2,262 95 2,357
Deferred tax on employee share options – – – – – (1,297) (1,297) – (1,297)
Current tax on employee share options – – – – – 1,043 1,043 – 1,043
Net income recognised directly in equity – – – – 2,262 (254) 2,008 95 2,103
Profit for the year to 30 November 2008 – – – – – 35,878 35,878 1,958 37,836
T otal recognised income and expense for the period – – – – 2,262 35,624 37,886 2,053 39,939
Repurchase of share capital (166) – 166 – – (31,250) (31,250) – (31,250)
Issue of share capital 1 – – – – – 1 – 1
Employee subscription for share awards (note 19c) – – – – – 127 127 – 127
Repurchase of minority interest – – – – – – – (242) (242)
Dividends paid to equity holders (note 7) – – – – – (12,004) (12,004) – (12,004)
Dividends paid to minority interest – – – – – – – (89) (89)
Employee share award and share option credit – – – – – 658 658 – 658
T otal movements in equity (165) – 166 – 2,262 (6,845) (4,582) 1,722 (2,860)
Balance at 30 November 2008 1,218 2,925 168 878 2,331 78,906 86,426 4,147 90,573
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
SThree plc 5 39 SThree plc
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
Year ended 30 November 2008
      Capital   Attributable
    Share Share redemption Capital Retained to Company
    Capital premium reserve reserve earnings shareholders
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 30 November 2006    1,380 2,925 – 878 184,439 189,622
Deferred tax on employee share options    – – – – (1,664) (1,664)
Expenses recognised directly in equity    – – – – (1,664) (1,664)
Profit for the year to 2 December 2007    – – – – 43,472 43,472
T otal recognised income and expense for the period    – – – – 41,808 41,808
Repurchase of share capital    (2) – 2 – (388) (388)
Issue of share capital    5 – – – – 5
Increase in value of investments (IFRIC 11)    – – – – 347 347
Dividends paid to equity holders (note 7)    – – – – (6,345) (6,345)
T otal movements in equity    3 – 2 – 35,422 35,427
Balance at 2 December 2007    1,383 2,925 2 878 219,861 225,049
Deferred tax on employee share options    – – – – (693) (693)
Expenses recognised directly in equity    – – – – (693) (693)
Loss for the year to 30 November 2008    – – – – (9,587) (9,587)
T otal recognised income and expense for the period    – – – – (10,280) (10,280)
Repurchase of share capital    (166) – 166 – (31,250) (31,250)
Issue of share capital    1 – – – – 1
Increase in value of investments (IFRIC 11)    – – – – 658 658
Dividends paid to equity holders (note 7)    – – – – (12,004) (12,004)
T otal movements in equity    (165) – 166 – (52,876) (52,875)
Balance at 30 November 2008    1,218 2,925 168 878 166,985 172,174
 Of the above reserves only the retained profit of £166,985,000 (2007: £219,861,000) is distributable.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
SThree plc 5 40 SThree plc 5 41
 Consolidated Company
    30 November  2 December 30 November  2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
 Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit/(loss) before taxation  54,051 50,324 (9,853) 42,862
Depreciation and amortisation charge  5,895 3,761 – –
Unrealised losses on financial instruments 3 – 999 – 999
Realised losses on financial instruments  1,957 – 1,957 –
Finance income  (25) (6) (666) (335)
Finance cost  827 1,985 6,435 2,194
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  – 46 – –
Profit attributable to joint venture  – (46) – –
Profit from partial deemed disposal of subsidiary  – (855) – –
Non-cash charge for employee share options and awards  658 347 – –
Non-cash reversal of impairment  – – – (37,352)
Employee subscription for share awards 19c 127 – – –
Operating cashflow before changes in 
working capital and provisions  63,490 56,555 (2,127) 8,368
Decrease/(increase) in receivables  16,455 (58,500) (350) 22,694
Increase/(decrease) in payables  6,731 33,383 57,769 (23,959)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions  295 (2,122) – –
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operating activities  86,971 29,316 55,292 7,103
Income tax (paid)/received  (11,449) (2,113) 261 –
Net cash generated from operating activities  75,522 27,203 55,553 7,103
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (2,341) (5,173) – –
Purchase of intangible assets  (3,861) (8,901) – –
Capital injection  – – (1,004) (131)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  – 30 – –
Net cash used in investing activities  (6,202) (14,044) (1,004) (131)
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of loan facility  (1,000) – (1,000) –
Cash loss on settlement of treasury investments  (2,956) – (2,956) –
Finance income  25 6 666 335
Finance cost  (827) (1,985) (6,435) (2,194)
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares  1 5 1 5
Issue of share capital to minority interest  – 1,845 – –
Repurchase of share capital  (31,250) (388) (31,250) (388)
Repurchase of minority interest  (1,072) (28) (1,072) –
Dividends paid  (12,004) (6,345) (12,004) (6,345)
Dividends paid to minority interest  (89) (70) – –
Net cash used in financing activities  (49,172) (6,960) (54,050) (8,587)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  20,148 6,199 499 (1,615)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  4,504 (1,841) (1,666) (51)
Exchange (loss)/gain on cash and cash equivalents  (68) 146 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 22 24,584 4,504 (1,167) (1,666)
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
 
SThree plc
Cash Flow Statement
Year ended 30 November 2008 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 42
1  Accounting policies
The Company (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (together “the Group”) operate predominantly in the United Kingdom 
and Europe. The Group’s activities and business are set out in the Directors’ Report.
The Company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and is listed on the London 
Stock Exchange.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as endorsed by the European Union and also comply with International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The 
consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation 
of financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through the income statement. 
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared on the same basis and as permitted by Section 230(3) of the 
Companies Act 1985, no income statement is presented for the Company.
The financial year of the Group comprises 52 weeks and not a calendar year.
The Group’s accounting policies, as set out below, have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless 
otherwise stated.
The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS since 1 December 2004. The 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. 
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. 
Management consider that the areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions 
and estimates affect the consolidated financial statements, do not substantially impact the results.
The Group has adopted the following IFRS, IFRIC and amendments with effect from 3 December 2007:
  IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ and the complementary amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial 
Statements – Capital Disclosures’ were issued in August 2005 and have introduced revised and additional disclosures. 
This implementation has had no impact on the results or net assets of the Group. The comparative disclosures have 
been represented to comply with the requirements of IFRS 7.
  IFRIC 11 ‘IFRS 2 Group and T reasury Share T ransactions’ was issued in November 2006. This interpretation gives 
guidance on accounting for shares issued by a parent company to employees of its subsidiary companies. IFRIC 11 was 
effective from 1 March 2007, however, adopted early by the Group from 1 December 2006. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 43
1  Accounting policies (continued)
As at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following IFRS and IFRIC were in issue but not yet 
effective. The Group has not applied these IFRS and IFRIC in the preparation of financial statements:
  Amended IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ (effective 1 January 2009) affects the presentation of other 
changes in equity and introduces a statement of comprehensive income. The Group will have the option of presenting 
items of income and expense and components of other comprehensive income either in a single statement of 
comprehensive income with subtotals, or in two separate statements (a separate income statement followed by a 
statement of other comprehensive income).
  Amended IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’ (effective 1 January 2009) eliminates the option to recognise all borrowing costs 
immediately as an expense. T o the extent that borrowing costs relate to the acquisition, construction or production 
of a qualifying asset, the revised Standard requires that they be capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. All other 
borrowing costs should be expensed as incurred.
  The revised and amended Standards i.e., IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ and IFRS 3 ‘Business 
Combinations’ are effective from 1 July 2009. The amendments relate primarily to accounting for non-controlling 
interests and the losses of control of a subsidiary. It also addresses the guidance for applying the acquisition method 
of accounting.
  Amendments to IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ in respect 
to Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation are effective from 1 January 2009. Subject to 
specified criteria being met, these instruments will be classified as equity whereas, prior to these amendments, they 
would have been classified as financial liabilities.
  Amendment to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ in respect to eligible hedged items. 
Effective from 1 July 2009, it provides clarification on identifying inflation as a hedged risk or portion and hedging with 
options.
  Amendment to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures’ in respect to disclosures that would permit reclassification of some financial instruments out of the fair-
value through profit or loss category is effective from periods starting on or after 1 July 2008.
  Amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Share-Based Payment’ (effective 1 January 2009) clarifies terms ‘vesting conditions’ and 
‘cancellations’ with proposed recognition and measurement criteria.
  IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ (effective from period commencing 1 January 2008) sets out requirements for disclosure 
of information about an entity’s operating segments and also about the entity’s products and services, the 
geographical areas in which it operates, and its major customers. This standard replaces IAS 14 ‘Segment Reporting’ 
and will requires a change in the disclosure of segmental information.
  IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’ (effective from period commencing 1 July 2008) applies to customer loyalty 
award credits that an entity grants to its customers as part of sales transaction.
  IFRIC 16 ‘Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation’ (effective 1 October 2008) applies to an entity that hedges 
the foreign currency risk arising from its net investments in foreign operations and wishes to qualify for hedge 
accounting in accordance with IAS 39.
The impact on the Group‘s financial statements of the future adoption of the Standards and Interpretations is still under 
review, but the Group does not expect any of these changes to have a material effect on the results or net assets of the 
Group. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 44
1  Accounting policies (continued)
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and of its subsidiaries, 
together with the Group’s share of the results of its joint venture. Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has 
the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of 
the voting rights. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group; they are 
de-consolidated from the date when control ceases. Joint ventures are defined as where the Group has joint control and 
are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the income statement. 
Purchases from minority interests are accounted for using the parent company method. Goodwill is calculated as being 
the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the 
subsidiary.
Foreign currencies
(i) Functional and presentation currency
  Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which that subsidiary operates (its “functional currency”). The consolidated 
financial statements of the Group are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the Group’s functional and presentation 
currency.
(ii) T ransactions and balances
  Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the income statement.
(iii) Group companies
  The results and financial position of all of the Group’s subsidiaries (none of which has the currency of a hyper-
inflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the Group’s presentational currency are 
translated into the presentational currency as follows:
 –  Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date;
 –  Income and expenses for each income statement are translated using average rate of exchange (unless this 
average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, 
in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and
 – All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities and of 
borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders’ equity. 
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or 
loss on sale. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 45
1  Accounting policies (continued)
Revenue and revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the provision of services provided in the 
ordinary course of the Group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value added tax and other sales taxes, returns, rebates 
and discounts and after elimination of sales within the Group.
Contract revenue for the supply of professional services is based on the number of hours worked by a contractor.
Revenue for permanent placements is recognised when candidates commence employment.
Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Segment reporting
The Group operates in one business segment being that of recruitment services (primary segment), therefore no 
additional business segment information is required to be provided. The Group operates in two geographic segments 
(secondary segment) being the United Kingdom and Europe and the Rest of the World.
Dividends
The final dividends declared to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Company’s and Group’s 
financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is 
directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the depreciable value of property, plant and 
equipment to the income statement over their useful economic lives as follows:
Furniture, fittings and equipment 20% per annum
Computer equipment 33.33% per annum
Motor vehicles 33.33% per annum
Leasehold improvements 20% per annum
Assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only 
when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item 
can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial 
period in which they are incurred.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts. These are included in the 
income statement. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 46
1  Accounting policies (continued)
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable 
assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries is included in 
intangible assets. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Any 
impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed. Gains and losses on the 
disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Computer software
The cost of acquired computer software licenses is capitalised. These costs are amortised over their estimated useful 
lives (up to three years).
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Assets under construction
Purchased fixed assets or internally generated intangible assets that are still under development are classified as ‘Assets 
under construction’. These assets are reclassified over the phased completion dates and are amortised from the date they 
are reclassified.
Software and system development costs
Costs incurred on development projects (relating to the design or improvement of systems) are recognised as intangible 
assets when the IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ recognition criteria are met. Capitalised software and system development 
costs are amortised from the date available for use of the system over their expected useful lives (not exceeding 
five years).
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Trademarks
T rademarks are initially recognised at cost. They have a definite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of trademarks over their 
estimated useful lives (up to twelve years).
Impairment of assets
Assets that are not subject to amortisation are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, by analysing individual assets or classes of assets that naturally 
belong together. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value 
in use is measured based on the expected future discounted cash flows (“DCF” model) attributable to the asset. For the 
purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash 
flows (cash generating units).
A number of significant assumptions and estimates are involved in using DCF models to forecast operating cash flows, 
e.g. with respect to factors such as market growth rates, revenue volumes, market prices for services and working capital 
requirements. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on best estimates of future revenues and operating expenses 
using historical trends, general market conditions, industry trends and forecasts and other available information. These 
assumptions are subject to review by management and the Board of Directors. The cash flow forecasts are adjusted by an 
appropriate discount rate derived from the Group’s cost of capital. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 47
1  Accounting policies (continued)
Significant judgements and estimates
In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often required where the choice of specific policy, 
assumption or accounting estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported results or net position of the Group, 
should it later be determined that a different choice be more appropriate.
Management considers the following to be areas of significant judgement and estimation for the Group:
(i) The determination of the carrying amount of capitalised software and systems development costs and assets under 
construction with related amortisation, estimation of useful economic life and recoverability of such assets is deemed 
to be judgmental. The costs capitalised during the year amounted to £3.3m (2007: £7.4m) (see note 10).
(ii) The Group follows the guidance of IAS 39 to determine when trade and other receivables are impaired. This 
determination requires significant judgement. In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, amongst other factors, 
the duration and extent to which the carrying values of a receivable is less than its cost, the risk profile of the client 
and other credit rating factors, the financial health, historical experience of and near-term business outlook for the 
client.
(iii) Revenue is recognised when the supply of professional services has been rendered, it also includes an assessment 
of professional services received by the client for the placement of temporary services between the date of the last 
received timesheet and the year end. Unsubmitted timesheets are estimated to the extent that an open contract has 
not expired during the period under assessment. Management apply judgement to several factors in estimating the 
revenue and cost of sales accruals; any difference compared to actual experience would result in the amount payable 
to the contractor and receivable from the client being adjusted in the next financial year. The judgement applied, 
and the assumptions underlying these judgements are considered to be appropriate. However, a change in these 
assumptions would impact upon both the amount of revenue and cost of sales recognised.
Investments
The Company’s investments in shares in Group companies are stated at cost less provisions for impairment. Any 
impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises.
Financial assets
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an 
active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet 
date. These are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ 
and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the balance sheet.
Trade and other receivables
T rade accounts receivable are recorded at amortised cost after deducting an allowance for doubtful accounts. The 
Group makes judgements on an entity by entity basis as to its ability to collect outstanding receivables and provides an 
allowance for doubtful accounts based on a specific review of significant outstanding invoices. For those invoices not 
specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at differing percentages based on the age of the receivable. In determining 
these percentages, the Group analyses its historical collection experience and current economic trends. T rade receivable 
balances are written off when the Group determines that it is unlikely that future remittances will be received. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 48
1  Accounting policies (continued)
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
current financial liabilities on the balance sheet unless they form part of a cash pooling arrangement in which case they 
are reported net of related cash balances.
Financial instruments
The Group uses financial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts as economic hedges of the risk associated with 
foreign currency fluctuations. Such financial instruments transactions are stated at their fair value.
Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising any resulting gain or loss depends on whether the financial 
instrument is designed as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Changes in the fair value of any financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised 
immediately in the income statement.
Leases
Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of assets remain with the lessor are accounted for as 
operating leases. Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease periods.
Trade and other payables
T rade and other payables are stated at amortised cost.
Short term financial liabilities and overdrafts
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Financial liabilities are 
subsequently stated at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the 
redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest 
method.
Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of 
the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and it is more 
likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably 
estimated.
Provisions are recognised as the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. No 
provision is recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined 
by considering the class of obligation as a whole. A provision may be recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with 
respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 49
1  Accounting policies (continued)
T axation
Corporation tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. Interest and penalties relating 
to tax are also included in income tax expense.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profits for the year. T axable profit differs from profit as reported in the 
income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it 
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax 
rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of 
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax is determined 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when 
the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are 
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Employee benefits
Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the period in 
which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
Pension obligations — The Group has defined contribution plans and pays contributions to privately administered 
pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the 
contributions have been paid.
Bonus plans — The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based on the Directors’ best estimate of the 
amounts due. The Group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice of payments 
that has created a constructive obligation.
T ermination benefits — T ermination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement 
date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for those benefits. The Group recognises 
termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees 
according to a detailed formal plan without the possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benefits as a result of an 
offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 50
1  Accounting policies (continued)
Employee Benefit Trusts
The Employee Benefit T rusts (“EBT”) were funded by gifts from certain of the Group shareholders and Directors. The 
assets and liabilities of the EBT are consolidated into the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
The EBT’s main assets are the ordinary shares in the Group which were gifted and hence no cost is attributed to 
those shares and no amounts are shown in the Group’s financial statements. The EBT also holds shares which were 
subsequently newly issued in order to satisfy awards under the share option schemes and Long T erm Incentive Plans 
(“L TIP”).
Share-based compensation
The shares in the EBT are held for awards and grants under the employee share award, share option schemes and L TIP .
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which 
equity instruments are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which 
the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. Fair value is determined by using an appropriate valuation 
model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a 
market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided 
that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions 
and the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market 
condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance 
sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled 
award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, 
an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, 
based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as 
measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet 
recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of 
the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as 
an expense in the income statement.
Exceptional items
Items which are of a non-recurring nature and material, when considering both size and nature, have been disclosed 
separately to give a clearer presentation of the Group‘s results. These items are shown as “exceptional items” on the face 
of the income statement. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 51
2  Segmental analysis
As the Group operates in one business segment, being that of recruitment services, no additional business segment 
information is required to be provided. The Group’s secondary segment is geographical and the segmental results by 
geographical area are shown below.
Geographic analysis
  By location of 
 By location of client operating company
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
United Kingdom  386,934 369,735 486,944 479,521
Europe and Rest of World  244,586 152,963 144,576 43,177
  631,520 522,698 631,520 522,698
Gross Profit
United Kingdom  121,566 123,321 144,975 147,459
Europe and Rest of World  97,373 59,344 73,964 35,206
  218,939 182,665 218,939 182,665
Operating Profit
Operating profit before exceptional items
United Kingdom    27,372 44,472
Europe and Rest of World    29,438 7,785
    56,810 52,257
Exceptional items (note 3)
United Kingdom    (1,957) –
    54,853 52,257
 Total assets Capital expenditure
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom  124,817 155,898 4,806 12,811
Europe and Rest of World  61,687 20,395 1,396 1,263
  186,504 176,293 6,202 14,074 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 52
2  Segmental analysis (continued)
The following segmental analyses by brand, recruitment classification and by discipline (being the profession 
of candidates placed) have been included as additional disclosure over and above the requirements of IAS 14 
‘Segment Reporting’.
 Revenue Gross profit
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Brand
Computer Futures Solutions  174,838 148,096 63,081 53,850
Huxley Associates  160,918 134,374 60,428 50,746
Progressive  127,911 95,067 43,462 31,688
Real Resourcing  49,713 34,005 15,443 10,364
Pathway  45,026 45,279 13,426 11,595
Others  73,114 65,877 23,099 24,422
  631,520 522,698 218,939 182,665
Recruitment classification
Contract  525,531 429,121 113,098 89,143
Permanent  105,989 93,577 105,841 93,522
  631,520 522,698 218,939 182,665
Discipline
Information & communication technology  535,164 469,883 168,465 150,139
Others 
1
  96,356 52,815 50,474 32,526
  631,520 522,698 218,939 182,665
1
 Including accountancy and finance, banking, engineering, oil and gas, pharmaceuticals, human resources, energy, jobboard and legal sectors. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 53
3  Administrative expenses
(a) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items which, because of their size, incidence or nature, are disclosed to give a proper 
understanding of the underlying results for the period. Items classified as exceptional are as follows:
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Exceptional items — charged to operating profit
Exchange loss on settlement of financial instruments    (1,957) –
Exceptional items — before taxation    (1,957) –
During the prior period, some complex financial instruments transactions were undertaken to mitigate certain foreign 
currency exposures. These have resulted in a £2.0m loss arising when a series of equal and opposite positions were 
taken during this financial year in order to reduce the Group’s total exposure from these positions to a minimal level. The 
Board has undertaken a review of its currency hedging strategy to ensure that it is appropriate and currently the Group 
does not actively manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk by the use of financial instruments. The impact of foreign 
exchange will become a more significant issue for the Group as we expect the business mix to move further towards our 
international business; which accounted for 45% of gross profit in 2008. The Group will continue to monitor its policies in 
this area. As a result of earlier mitigation, the Group no longer has net exposure to complex financial instruments, which 
the Board believes are not appropriate for the Group going forward. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 54
SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
3  Administrative expenses (continued)
(b) Administrative expenses – other
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Net trade receivables provision (release)/charge (note 13)    (697) 1,814
Depreciation    2,767 2,237
Amortisation of intangible assets
— Software and systems development cost    2,301 1,019
— T rademarks    6 6
— Computer software    821 499
Unrealised losses on financial instruments    – 999
Foreign exchange (gains)    (4,447) (2,241)
Profit on deemed disposal of subsidiary
1
    – (855)
Staff costs (note 4)    124,564 92,884
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment    – 46
Operating lease charges
— Motor vehicles    2,410 1,914
— Land and buildings    11,202 4,762
1
 Profit on deemed partial disposal relates to shares issued by a subsidiary of the SThree Group and sold to third parties.
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors at 
the costs detailed below:
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
Amounts payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers:    £’000 £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of parent   
and consolidated financial statements    173 165
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
— The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  313 197
— Other services pursuant to legislation    55 45
— Other assurance services    165 42
— T axation advice    350 167
— Other services    47 24
Costs charged to operating profit    1,103 640
  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 55
4  Directors and employees
Staff costs and numbers consist of:
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries (including bonuses)    107,530 77,991
Social security costs    14,500 10,866
Pension costs    519 298
T emporary staff costs    1,357 3,382
Cost of employee share options and awards    658 347
    124,564 92,884
The average number of employees (including Directors) during the year was:
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    Number Number
Geographic analysis
United Kingdom
— Sales    996 973
— Non-sales    498 416
    1,494 1,389
Europe and Rest of World
— Sales    599 372
— Non-sales    64 25
    663 397
    2,157 1,786
Included in the headcount numbers above is a total of 56 (2007: 64) temporary short-term full time employees.
Information on Directors’ emoluments and interests, which forms part of these audited financial statements, is given in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report (the auditable part).
The Company had an average of 4 (2007: 3) employees in the year to 30 November 2008. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 56
5  Finance income and cost
    30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Finance income
Bank interest receivable    25 6
    25 6
Finance cost
Bank loans and overdraft    (827) (1,985)
    (827) (1,985)
Net finance cost    (802) (1,979)
6  T axation
(a) Analysis of tax charge for the year
    30 November 2 December
    Ordinary Exceptional 2008 2007
  activities items Total Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current taxation
UK
Corporation tax at 28% (2007: 30%) on profits for the year  12,592 (876) 11,716 12,646
Adjustments in respect of prior periods  33 – 33 –  
Overseas
Corporation tax on profits for the year  5,857 – 5,857 2,778
Adjustments in respect of prior periods  – – – 278
T otal current tax charge/(credit)  18,482 (876) 17,606 15,702
Deferred taxation
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  (1,193) 282 (911) 473
Adjustments in respect of prior periods  (216) – (216) 571
Schedule 23 deferred tax credit in respect of unexercised  
employee share awards and options  (264) – (264) (32)
Impact of change in UK tax rate  – – – (205)
T otal deferred tax (credit)/charge  (1,673) 282 (1,391) 807
Total income tax charge/(credit) in the income statement  16,809 (594) 16,215 16,509 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 57
6  T axation (continued)
(b) Reconciliation of the effective tax rate
The Group‘s tax charge for the year ended 30 November 2008 exceeds the UK statutory rate and can be reconciled as 
follows:
 30 November 2008 2 December 2007
    £’000 % £’000 %
Profit before taxation  54,051  50,324
Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation  
tax in the UK of 28%  15,134 28% 15,097 30% 
Effects of:
Disallowable items and other timing differences  283 – 679 1%
Net difference between IFRS 2 charge and Schedule 23  
deferred tax credit  – – 70 –
Higher tax rates on overseas earnings  959 2% 19 –
Utilisation of tax losses brought forward  (235) – – –
Unrelieved overseas losses net of deferred tax  (23) – – –
Adjustment due to UK tax rate change  280 – – –
Adjustment to tax in respect of previous periods  (183) – 849 2%
Remeasurement of deferred tax change in UK tax rate  – – (205) –
T ax expense and effective tax rate  16,215 30% 16,509 33% 
(c) Current and deferred tax movement recognised directly in equity
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Current tax
Equity settled employee share options    1,043 8,258
Deferred tax
Equity settled employee share options    (1,297) (7,597)
    (254) 661
The Directors expect to receive additional tax deductions in respect of the share awards and share options currently 
unexercised. Under IFRS the Group is required to provide for deferred tax on all unexercised share awards and options. At 
30 November 2008 a deferred tax asset of £0.8m (2007: £1.8m) has been recognised in respect of this (note 18). SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 58
7  Dividends
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Amounts recognised and distributed to shareholders in the year
Equity
Interim dividend of 3.1p per ordinary share    4,101 –
Dividend paid of 6.2p per ordinary share (2007: 4.8p)    7,903 6,345
    12,004 6,345
Amounts proposed
Interim dividend for the period ended 1 June 2008: 4.0p (2007: 3.1p)   4,738 4,101
Final dividend of 8.0p (2007: 6.2p) per ordinary share for the year ended 30 November 2008  9,280 7,903
An interim dividend of 3.1 pence per ordinary share for the six months ended 3 June 2007 was paid on 7 December 2007 to 
shareholders on record at 9 November 2007.
The dividend of 6.2 pence (2007: 4.8 pence) per ordinary share for the year ended 2 December 2007 was paid on 9 June 
2008 to shareholders on record at 2 May 2008. 
An interim dividend of 4.0 pence per ordinary share for the six months ended 1 June 2008 was paid on 5 December 2008 
to shareholders on record at 7 November 2008.
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 November 2008 of 8.0 pence (2007: 6.2 pence) per ordinary share will 
be paid on 8 June 2009 to shareholders on record at 1 May 2009, if approved on 24 April 2009. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 59
8  Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’) is based on the following data.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the EBT which are treated as 
cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion 
of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Earnings
Profit after taxation excluding exceptional items    39,199 33,815
Minority interest    (1,958) (1,167)
Adjusted profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company excluding  
exceptional items    37,241 32,648
Effect of exceptional items (net of tax)    (1,363) –
Profit after taxation attributable to equity holders of the Company   35,878 32,648
    millions millions
Number of shares
Weighted average number of shares used for basic EPS    124.7 129.8
Dilutive effect of share plans    3.0 5.9
Diluted weighted average number of shares used for diluted EPS   127.7 135.7
    pence pence
Basic
Basic earnings per share    28.8 25.2
Adjusted basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items    29.9 25.2
Diluted
Diluted earnings per share    28.1 24.1
Adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items   29.2 24.1
All earnings are derived from continuing operations. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 60
9  Property, plant and equipment
 IT  Leasehold Fixtures and Motor
 hardware improvements fittings vehicles Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 30 November 2006 6,919 2,001 1,499 221 10,640
Additions 2,248 1,458 1,297 170 5,173
Disposals (94) (67) (37) (69) (267)
Exchange difference 71 20 36 – 127
At 2 December 2007 9,144 3,412 2,795 322 15,673
Additions 919 821 454 147 2,341
Reclassification 72 – – – 72
Exchange difference 289 275 156 – 720
At 30 November 2008 10,424 4,508 3,405 469 18,806
Depreciation
At 30 November 2006 5,580 716 688 98 7,082
Charge for the year 1,248 507 437 45 2,237
Disposals (90) (46) (25) (30) (191)
Exchange difference 50 5 11 – 66
At 2 December 2007 6,788 1,182 1,111 113 9,194
Charge for the year 1,393 679 613 82 2,767
Exchange difference 180 37 53 – 270
At 30 November 2008 8,361 1,898 1,777 195 12,231
Net book value
At 30 November 2008 2,063 2,610 1,628 274 6,575
At 2 December 2007 2,356 2,230 1,684 209 6,479
  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 61
10  Intangible assets
    Software and
    system
  Assets under Computer development
 Goodwill construction software cost Trademarks Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 30 November 2006 206,051 2,361 406 619 63 209,500
Additions 18 2,372 1,536 4,993 – 8,919
Reclassification – (2,361) – 2,361 – –
At 2 December 2007 206,069 2,372 1,942 7,973 63 218,419
Additions 830 3,305 515 33 8 4,691
Reclassification – (5,038) 107 4,859 – (72)
At 30 November 2008 206,899 639 2,564 12,865 71 223,038
Amortisation and Impairment
At 30 November 2006 205,687 – 304 90 43 206,124
Charge for the year – – 499 1,019 6 1,524
At 2 December 2007 205,687 – 803 1,109 49 207,648
Charge for the year – – 821 2,301 6 3,128
At 30 November 2008 205,687 – 1,624 3,410 55 210,776
Net book value
At 30 November 2008 1,212 639 940 9,455 16 12,262
At 2 December 2007 382 2,372 1,139 6,864 14 10,771 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 62
10  Intangible assets (continued)
Goodwill
Goodwill has been recognised after the purchase of a
a)  15% minority interest holding in Jobboard Enterprises Limited, increasing the Group’s share of identifiable net assets 
from 80% to 95%.
b)  18% minority interest holding in New Wave Resourcing Limited, increasing the Group’s share of identifiable net assets 
from 82% to 100%.
c)  10% minority interest holding in Strategic Resource Group Limited, increasing the Group’s share of identifiable net 
assets from 90% to 100%.
The total amount paid to increase the Group’s holding in the above companies was £1.1m
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill has been tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit, including 
goodwill, with the recoverable amount of that cash-generating unit.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are calculated by preparing cash flow forecasts derived 
from the most recent financial budget and an average annual growth rate of 2% over the next five years, which does not 
exceed the long-term average growth rate of the relevant markets. A terminal value of the cash flow is then calculated by 
assuming growth of 2%, discounted using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. If the recoverable amount of the 
cash generating-unit is less than the carrying value, then an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Software and system development cost
The Group brought into use a new Enterprise Resource Planning (‘ERP’) system during the prior year. The Group also 
begun a phased rollout of a Customer Relationship Management (‘CRM’) system to complement the front-office system. 
Costs directly attributable to the development of the new systems were capitalised.
Additions during the year represent investment to enable integration of web portals with candidate CV details. This allows 
the contractors to file online time sheets and also enables the development of a candidate/client management system. 
The Group also developed and configured Human Resource, Payroll and Business Consolidation modules within the ERP 
system. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 63
11  Investments in subsidiaries
 Shares 
 in Subsidiaries
 £’000
Cost
At 30 November 2006 243,503
Capital contribution relating to share based payments (IFRS 2) 347
Additions 131
At 2 December 2007 243,981
Capital contribution relating to share based payments (IFRS 2) 658
Additions
 – Capital injection 1,004
 – Repurchase of Minority interest  1,072
At 30 November 2008 246,715
Provision for impairment
At 30 November 2006 46,950
Reversal of impairment (37,352)
At 2 December 2007 9,598
At 30 November 2008 9,598
Net carrying value
At 30 November 2008 237,117
At 2 December 2007 234,383
In accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’ the carrying values of the Company’s investments in subsidiaries have 
been allocated to their cash-generating units to assess their value in use. In assessing the value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are calculated by preparing cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budget and an 
average annual growth rate of 2% over the next five years, which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate of 
the relevant markets. A terminal value of the cash flow is then calculated by assuming growth of 2%, discounted using 
the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. If the recoverable amount of the cash generating-unit is less than the 
carrying value, then an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. Management’s annual review procedures 
have identified a reversal of the impairment provision of £nil (2007: £37.4m) to the Company’s income statement. The pre-tax 
discount rate applied to projected future net cash flows to arrive at the valuation was 12.8% (2007: 11.6%).
IFRS 2 also requires that any options or awards granted to employees of a subsidiary company will increase the carrying 
value of the investment held. In 2008, the Group has recognised an increase in the investments in its subsidiaries of 
£0.7m (2007: £0.3m) relating to these share options and awards.
In 2008, the additions in the investment relate to the following:
•
  investment in ordinary share capital of £1m in SThree UK Holdings Limited and SThree Overseas Holdings Limited to 
acquire the Group’s holding of 100% of their share capital.
•
  purchase of an additional 15% of Jobboard Enterprises Limited and 18% of New Wave Resourcing Limited for £0.7m 
which increased the Group’s holding to 95% and 100% respectively of their share capital. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 64
11  Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
•
  purchase of an additional 10% of Strategic Resource Group Limited for £0.4m which increased the Group’s holding from 
90% to 100% of its share capital.
Investments comprise the following principal subsidiary companies:
    Shareholding Country of
   Note 2008 2007 incorporation Principal Activity
SThree Australia Pty Limited (ii) 100% 100% Australia IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions NV (i) 100% 100% Belgium IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Belgium NV (ii) 100% 100% Belgium IT Recruitment
Progressive Belgium NV (ii) 100% 100% Belgium IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions SAS (i) 100% 100% France IT Recruitment
Progressive SAS  82% 82% France IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions GmbH (i) 100% 100% Germany IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates GmbH (i) 100% 100% Germany IT Recruitment
Progressive GmbH (i) 80% 80% Germany IT Recruitment
SThree Limited (ii) 100% 100% Hong Kong Finance Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions Limited (i) 100% 100% Ireland IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions BV (i) 100% 100% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions Nederland BV (i) 100% 100% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Banking and Finance BV (i) 75% 75% Netherlands Finance Recruitment
Huxley Associates BV (i) 70% 70% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Nederland BV (i) 70% 70% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Jobboard Enterprises BV (i) 100% 100% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Progressive BV (i) 100% 100% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Progressive Nederland BV (i) 80% 80% Netherlands IT Recruitment
SThree Holdings BV (i) 100% 100% Netherlands IT Recruitment
SThree Pte. Ltd. (ii) 100% 100% Singapore IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions Limited (i) 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Banking & Finance Limited  70% 70% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Belgium Limited (ii) 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates France Limited  100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates International Limited (i) 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Limited (i) 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Jobboard Enterprises Limited (a) 95% 80% UK IT Recruitment
Madison Black Limited  80% 80% UK IT Recruitment
Orgtel Contract Limited  78% 78% UK IT Recruitment
Orgtel Limited  80% 80% UK IT Recruitment
Pathway Resourcing Limited (i) 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Pathway Resourcing Dubai Limited (ii) 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Real Resourcing Limited (i) 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
SThree Management Services Limited  100% 100% UK Management Services
Staff Search Group Limited  98% 98% UK IT & Human Resource 
     Recruitment
SThree Overseas Holdings Limited (ii) 100% – UK Holding Company
SThree UK Holdings Limited (i) 100% – UK Holding Company
Strategic Resource Group Limited (b) 100% 90% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Finance Resourcing Inc  70% 70% USA Finance Recruitment
Huxley Associates, Inc  100% 100% USA IT Recruitment
Resourcing Services Inc (ii) 100% 100% USA IT Recruitment
Resourcing Services USA Inc (ii) 100% 100% USA IT Recruitment SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 65
11  Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
(a)  During 2008, the Company acquired a 15% (2007: 0%) interest in the equity of the Company noted above. The minority 
interest is entitled to 5% (2007: 20%) of the voting rights, but only 2.5% (2007: 10%) of the dividend declared.
(b)  During 2008, the Company acquired a 10% (2007: 0%) interest in the equity of the Company noted above. The minority 
interest is entitled to nil (2007: 20%) of the voting rights and nil% (2007: 10%) of the dividend declared.
Group Reorganisation
During the year the Group reorganised the corporate structure and two new holding companies, SThree UK Holdings 
Limited and SThree Overseas Holding Limited were incorporated. SThree UK Holdings Limited incorporated or purchased 
the share capital in a share for share exchange of a number of subsidiaries (noted (i) above). SThree Overseas Holdings 
Limited incorporated or purchased the share capital in a share for share exchange of a number of overseas subsidiaries 
(noted (ii) above). This has no effect on the net assets of the Group.
Minority Interest Rights
In the event of a return of capital in a winding up or capital reduction the minority interest holding reverts to the ‘right to 
dividend’ percentage in any distribution.
12  Investment in joint ventures
During 2008, the Group acquired the remaining third party interest in its joint venture, All the Jobs Ltd, from Interactive 
Prospect T argeting Ltd for consideration of nil. No goodwill arose on this transaction as the consideration paid was equal to 
the net asset value acquired.
The primary activity of All the Jobs Ltd is recruitment advertising through the medium of the internet. In 2007, the Group’s 
share of the results of the joint venture, and of its assets, were included as part of the Group’s consolidated Income 
Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet, respectively.
Investments in joint ventures     2008 2007
At 2 December 2007/30 November 2006    135 89
Share of results after tax    – 46
Dividends paid to the Group    (135) –
Purchase of remaining 3rd party interest by the Group    – –
At 30 November 2008/2 December 2007    – 135
Group’s share of results of joint ventures     2008 2007
Revenues    – 46
Profit after tax    – 46
Net assets and liabilities of joint ventures     2008 2007
T otal assets    – 339
T otal liabilities    – (69) SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 66
13  Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current
T rade receivables  104,675 113,850 56 12
Less provision for impairment of trade receivables  (2,772) (4,226) – –
Net trade receivables  101,903 109,624 56 12
Other receivables  1,228 2,754 2,258 1,532
Prepayments and accrued income  36,806 38,707 60 480
  139,937 151,085 2,374 2,024
T rade receivables do not carry interest. The Group makes judgements on an entity by entity basis as to its ability to 
collect outstanding receivables and provides an allowance for doubtful accounts based on a specific review of significant 
outstanding invoices. For those invoices not specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at differing percentages based 
on the age of the receivable. In determining these percentages, the Group analyses its historical collection experience 
and current economic trends. T rade receivable balances are written off when the Group determines that it is unlikely that 
future remittances will be received. Management considers the carrying values of trade and other receivables to be equal 
to the fair value and are deemed to be current assets.
T rade, receivables and cash, and cash equivalents are deemed to be all current loan and receivables for disclosure under 
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments’ — Disclosures.
 Group Company
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The following table shows the development of allowances on receivables:
Allowances at start of financial year  4,226 3,072 – –
Charge for the year  1,321 2,951 – –
Amounts written down during the year  (757) (660) – –
Amounts recovered during the year  (2,018) (1,137) – –
Allowances at end of financial year  2,772 4,226 – – SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 67
14  Current tax liabilities/assets
The current tax liability of £10.8m (2007: £4.9m) for the Group and the current tax assets of nil (2007: £0.3m) for the 
Company represent current tax payable/recoverable relating to current and prior periods respectively.
15  Trade and other payables
 Group Company
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current
T rade payables  30,261 22,806 98 1,591
Amounts due to Group companies  – – 63,791 6,051
Other taxes and social security  5,945 3,061 – –
Other payables  4,697 5,721 – 1,224
Accruals  40,343 41,592 2,487 1,352
  81,246 73,180 66,376 10,218
All amounts detailed above are payable within one year. The fair values of trade and other payables are not materially 
different from those disclosed above.
T rade and other payables are predominantly interest free.
Amounts due to Group companies are charged interest at the rate of 6.75% for sterling denominated balances and at 1% 
above the local base rate for other currencies. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 68
16  Financial liabilities
 Group Company
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank overdraft  – 267 1,167 1,809
Bank borrowings  – 1,000 – 1,000
  – 1,267 1,167 2,809
The overdraft shown above is repayable on demand or otherwise within one year. The carrying amounts of the Group’s 
borrowings are denominated in sterling.
A flexible invoice financing arrangement is in place with the Royal Bank of Scotland Group (RBS) until 25 February 2010. 
Under this arrangement the Group is able to borrow up to £50m, with a committed facility of £20m. Funds borrowed under 
this facility bear interest at the rate of 0.75% above the RBS base rate.
(i) Maturity profile of bank overdrafts and loans
 Group Company
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within 1 year, or on demand  – 1,267 1,167 2,809
(ii) Interest rate risk profile of bank overdrafts and loans
The interest rate risk profile of bank overdrafts and loans are as follows:
 Group Company
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Floating rate – overdraft  – 267 1,167 1,809
– borrowings  – 1,000 – 1,000
  – 1,267 1,167 2,809
The floating interest rate incurred by the Group during the year fluctuated between 3.75% and 6.78%. SThree plc 5 69
SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
17  Provisions for liabilities and charges
   Property Other Total
   £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 November 2006   672 4,952 5,624
Charged/(released) to the income statement   146 (2,268) (2,122)
At 2 December 2007   818 2,684 3,502
Charged/(released) to the income statement   470 (105) 365
At 30 November 2008   1,288 2,579 3,867
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
Current/non-current analysis:    £’000 £’000
Current liabilities    332 250
Non-current liabilities    3,535 3,252
    3,867 3,502
Property
Dilapidations — The Group is obliged to pay for dilapidations at the end of its tenancy of various properties. Provision has 
been made based on independent professional estimates of the likely costs based on current conditions and these have 
been spread over the relevant lease term. The liability will crystallise as follows:
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Within one year    332 250
One to five years    713 390
After five years    243 178
    1,288 818
Other
Other provisions principally include amounts in respect of liabilities resulting from indemnities given to Group clients in 
continental Europe arising in the normal course of business in respect of the employment status of contractors.
The timing of settlement is uncertain but the management expects that the provision will be utilised within the average 
statute of limitation period in the countries to which this exposure relates. Unutilised provisions in respect of earlier years 
where no further exposure remains have been released.
SThree plc 5 69 SThree plc 5 70
SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
18  Deferred tax asset
  European
 Excess tax contractor Share-based
 depreciation liabilities payments Other Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 November 2006 679 1,486 9,410 (116) 11,459
(Charge)/credit to income statement for the year (1,040) (774) 32 975 (807)
Charge to equity for the year – – (7,597) – (7,597)
Exchange differences – – – (3) (3)
At 2 December 2007 (361) 712 1,845 856 3,052
Credit/(charge) to income statement for the year 482 (11) 264 440 1,175
Prior year credit/(charge) to income statement  
for the year 250 (34) – – 216
Charge to equity for the year – – (1,297) – (1,297)
At 30 November 2008 371 667 812 1,296 3,146
The Group believes that the deferred tax assets will be recoverable against projected taxable profits over the foreseeable 
future in the companies to which they relate.
The Group has tax losses of £3.9m (2007: £1.5m) in respect of overseas territories. A deferred tax asset in respect of these 
losses has been recognised on consolidation.
Unremitted earnings
As at 30 November 2008, unremitted earnings of overseas Group companies amounted to £8.8m (2007: £6.1m). 
Unremitted earnings may be liable to some overseas tax and UK tax (after allowing for double taxation relief) if they were 
to be distributed as dividends. However, no tax is expected to be payable on them because, as at the balance sheet date, 
there are no plans to remit these earnings, therefore no provision for tax in respect of possible future remittances has been 
made.
   Share-based
   payments Other Total
Company   £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 November 2006   2,319 – 2,319
Credit to income statement for the year   – 610 610
Charge to equity for the year   (1,664) – (1,664)
At 2 December 2007   655 610 1,265
Credit to income statement for the year   – (18) (18)
Credit to equity for the year   (693) – (693)
T ransferred to Group Companies   – (328) (328)
At 30 November 2008   (38) 264 226
SThree plc 5 70 SThree plc 5 71
SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
19  Share capital
(a) Share capital
 30 November 2008 2 December 2007
  Number of  Number of
Authorised  shares £’000 shares £’000
Ordinary shares of 1p each  300,000,000 3,000 300,000,000 3,000
   Capital
  Ordinary redemption  Capital
  shares reserve  reserve Total
Allotted and fully paid Number £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000
At 30 November 2006 137,991,170 1,380 – 878 2,258
Repurchase of own shares (200,000) (2) 2 – –
Issue of share capital — L TIP 474,993 5 – – 5
Issue of share capital 11,000 – – – –
At 2 December 2007 138,277,163 1,383 2 878 2,263
Repurchase of own shares (16,613,387) (166) 166 – –
Issue of share capital 63,000 1 – – 1
At 30 November 2008 121,726,776 1,218 168 878 2,264
Capital Redemption Reserve
During the year ended 30 November 2008 the Group purchased 16,613,387 (2007: 200,000) of its own shares for 
cancellation on the London Stock Exchange. The average price paid per share amounted to 188.0994p (2007: 194.0845p) 
and the total consideration paid was £31,249,681 (2007: £388,000).
Share issue
Share options that were issued in November 2000 were satisfied in the current period with a new issue of 59,000  
(2007: 11,000) ordinary shares. 4,000 shares were also issued during the year in order to reimburse the EBT for shares 
used to settle share awards on behalf of the Company.
SThree plc 5 71 SThree plc 5 72
SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
19  Share capital (continued)
(b) Share options
Certain employees hold options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company under the share option schemes. 
The number of shares subject to options, the period in which they were granted and the period in which they may be 
exercised are given below. During this financial year, on exercise 59,000 (2007: 11,000) of these options were satisfied by 
the issue of new ordinary shares and nil (2007: 2,500) were settled by the Employee Benefit T rust.
  Number    Number    
  of options    of options    
  outstanding    outstanding  Exercise  
Year of 1 December Granted Exercised Lapsed 2 December  price  Exercise
grant Note 2006 in year in year in year 2007 per share period
2000 a 94,000 – 12,500 – 81,500 1p 2000-2010
*
2002 b 7,000 – 1,000 – 6,000 1p 2002-2012
*
2004 c 4,000 – – – 4,000 1p 2004-2014
*
2007 d – 474,993 – 5,134 469,859 – 2007-2017
  105,000 474,993 13,500 5,134 561,359
  Number    Number    
  of options    of options    
  outstanding    outstanding  Exercise  
Year of 3 December Granted Exercised Lapsed 30 November  price  Exercise
grant Note 2007 in year in year in year 2008 per share period
2000 a 81,500 – 49,500 – 32,000 1p 2000-2010
*
2002 b 6,000 – 5,500 – 500 1p 2002-2012
*
2004 c 4,000 – 4,000 – – 1p 2004-2014
*
2007 d 469,859 – – 100,809 369,050 – 2007-2017
2008 e – 1,153,352 – 22,836 1,130,516 – 2008-2018
  561,359 1,153,352 59,000 123,645 1,532,066
* Exercisable at IPO (15 November 2005), but granted in the disclosed years, prior to IPO.
Note
a)  8,500 share options became exercisable on 15 November 2005, the remainder of these share options will remain exercisable 
until 2010; 36,000 (2007: 36,000) can be exercised from 16 November 2006 until 16 November 2010 and 37,000 can be 
exercised from 16 November 2007 until 16 November 2010.
b)  All of these options became exercisable on 15 November 2005 and will remain exercisable until 2012.
c)  All of these options became exercisable on 15 November 2005 and will remain exercisable until 2014.
Long-term incentive plan
  In November 2006, shareholders approved a share-based L TIP . The main features of the L TIP are discussed in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
d)  The weighted average fair value of the equity-settled share awards granted in 2007 amounted to 226.64p per award. 
The fair value of the share awards was calculated using the Monte-Carlo simulation model. The Monte-Carlo simulation 
model reflected the historical volatilities of the Company’s share price and those other companies to which the Company’s 
performance is compared, over a period equal to the vesting period. The average share price on the date of grant was 402.0p, 
the vesting period in which performance of the TSR is assessed is 3 years, expected dividends 6% and a risk-free interest rate 
of 6.5%.
e)  The weighted average fair value of the equity-settled share awards granted during the year amounted to 117.42p per award. 
The average share price on the date of grant was 196.75p, the vesting period in which performance of the TSR is assessed is  
3 years, expected dividends 6% and a risk-free interest rate of 6.5%.
SThree plc 5 72 SThree plc 5 73
SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
19  Share capital (continued)
(b) Share options (continued)
Employee benefit trusts
In addition to the share options set out above the Company has issued further share options and awards which will be 
satisfied by shares held by the Group’s EBT. The shares held by the EBT are shown as a deduction from shareholders’ 
funds.
The EBT waive their rights to receive a dividend under the terms of the trusts. No other shareholder waives their rights to 
dividends.
Ordinary shares
1 December 2006       6,602,856
Movement in the year L TIP award * 474,993 
 Options/awards exercised (648,986) (173,993)
2 December 2007   6,428,863
Movement in the year Director gift to the trust 37,200
 Forfeitable ordinary shares lapsed in year 31,250
 Shares issued to reimburse EBT for share 
 awards settled 4,000
 Options/awards exercised (2,236,252) (2,163,802)
30 November 2008   4,265,061
 * L TIP options are held in the trust as deferred shares until all conditions under option grant have been satisfied and the shares vest unconditionally 
with the employee.
SThree plc 5 73 SThree plc 5 74
SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
19  Share capital (continued)
(b) Share options (continued)
Employee benefit trusts (continued)
Options granted and awards to be settled by shares held in the EBT are as follows:
  Number of    Number of  
  options/    options/  
  awards    awards  
  outstanding Granted/   outstanding  Exercise 
Year of  1 December awards Exercised Lapsed 2 December  price Exercise
grant/award Note 2006 in year in year in year 2007 per share period
2000 a 170,099 – 107,622 – 62,477 1p 2000-2010
*
2004 b 438,964 – 296,949 1,000 141,015 1p 2004-2014
*
2004 c 40,300 – 9,500 1,800 29,000 1p 2004-2014
*
2004 d 5,250,000 – 207,871 78,162 4,963,967 1p 2004-2014
*
2005 e 3,702 – 3,702 – – n/a 2005-2015
*
2005 f 55,929 – 23,342 – 32,587 £1 total 2005-2015
*
2007 g – 37,200 – – 37,200 – 2007-2017
  5,958,994 37,200 648,986 80,962 5,266,246
* Providing certain conditions have been met at the time of exercise.
  Number of    Number of  
  options/    options/  
  awards    awards  
  outstanding Granted/   outstanding  Exercise 
Year of  3 December awards Exercised Lapsed 30 November  price Exercise
grant/award Note 2007 in year in year in year 2008 per share period
2000 a 62,477 – 28,586 – 33,891 1p 2000-2010
*
2004 b 141,015 – 84,461 2,500 54,054 1p 2004-2014
*
2004 c 29,000 – 15,900 – 13,100 1p 2004-2014
*
2004 d 4,963,967 – 1,925,995 89,325 2,948,647 1p 2004-2014
*
2005 e – – – – – n/a 2005-2015
*
2005 f 32,587 – 1,500 1,087 30,000 £1 total 2005-2015
*
2007 g 37,200 – 37,200 – – – 2007-2017
2008 h – 226,700 142,610 – 84,090 – 2008-2018
  5,266,246 226,700 2,236,252 92, 912 3,163,782
* Providing certain conditions have been met at the time of exercise.
The weighted average market share price for shares exercised during the year was 163p (2007: 408p).
SThree plc 5 74 SThree plc 5 75
SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
19  Share capital (continued)
(b) Share options (continued)
Employee benefit trusts (continued)
Approved executive share option scheme
a)  Options over 4 million of the ordinary shares were granted by the Board to certain employees on 27 November 2000 
at an exercise price of 1p. These options are exercisable, under normal circumstances, within 10 years from the date of 
grant. The number outstanding at 30 November 2008 was 33,891 (2007: 62,477).
b)  On 28 May 2004 options over 650,720 ordinary shares were issued at an exercise price of 1p. These options replaced 
options that had lapsed in the previous grant of options in 2000. There are no performance conditions attached and 
the options are exercisable within 10 years from the date of grant. The number of options outstanding at 30 November 
2008 was 54,054 (2007: 141,015).
c)  On 3 December 2004 options over 49,600 ordinary shares were issued at an exercise price of 1p. These options 
replaced options that had lapsed in the previous grants of options in November 2000 and May 2004. There are no 
performance conditions attached and the share options are exercisable within 10 years from the date of grant. The 
number of options outstanding at 30 November 2008 was 13,100 (2007: 29,000).
d)  Options over 5.25 million ordinary shares were granted by the Board to certain employees on 3 December 2004. These 
are exercisable within 10 years from the date of grant. These options are subject to a performance condition requiring 
that over a five year period a certain level of profits has to be achieved. If these performance targets are achieved in 
each of the relevant periods, a total of 1,050,000 options are available for allocation in each year following the target 
being achieved. The number of options outstanding at 30 November 2008 was 2,948,647 (2007: 4,963,967).
e)  On 16 November 2005 the Zero Coupon Preference Shares held by the EBT were converted into 10,244,748 ordinary 
shares. The Board decided to award 5,006,128 of the resulting ordinary shares to employees, for no consideration. In 
accordance with IFRS 2 a charge was recognised in the income statement for the year ended 30 November 2005. The 
charge was calculated as the fair value of the awards granted, which amounted to £10,012,318. The Board expected 
to make an additional gift of shares from the EBT not earlier than nine months after flotation. This additional award 
of shares was made on 26 September 2006 and amounted to 4,729,783 ordinary shares, with a charge of £15,951,193 
being recognised in the income statement for the year ended 30 November 2006. The number of shares awarded but 
not yet accepted at 30 November 2008 was nil (2007: nil). No further awards have been made during this financial year 
and therefore no income statement charges have been recognised during this financial year.
SThree plc 5 75 SThree plc 5 76
19  Share capital (continued)
(b) Share options (continued)
Employee benefit trusts (continued) Unapproved share option scheme
f)  At IPO (16 November 2005), the Board awarded 433,749 ordinary shares and issued 505,710 share options to certain 
current and former employees who were considered to have contributed to the Group’s continued success. The 
share options are exercisable immediately upon grant and expire 10 years from the date of grant. The number of 
options outstanding at 30 November 2008 was 30,000 (2007: 32,587). The Group recognised a charge in the income 
statement for the year ended 30 November 2005, in accordance with IFRS 2, amounting to £1,878,918, representing 
the fair value of the options awarded at the date of grant. There have been no awards in the current year.
g)  On 16 September 2007 the Directors made share awards over 37,200 ordinary shares to certain current employees 
who were considered to have contributed to the Group’s continued success. The share awards vest immediately. 
The Group recognised a charge in accordance with IFRS 2 amounting to nil (2007: £113,181). For the calculation of the 
charge the fair value of these share awards is based on the mid-price on the day that the award was granted to the 
employees. There are no share awards outstanding at the year end (2007: 37,200).
h)  On 15 October 2008 the Directors made share awards over 226,700 ordinary shares to certain current employees 
who were considered to have contributed to the Group’s continued success. The share awards vest either 
immediately or after two years. The Group recognised a charge in accordance with IFRS 2 amounting to £215,278. 
For the calculation of the charge the fair value of these share awards is based on the mid-price on the day that the 
award was granted to the employees. The number outstanding at the year end was 84,090.
SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
5 76 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 77
19  Share capital (continued)
(c) Share awards in subsidiary companies
As described in the Directors’ Report the Group makes awards of shares in subsidiary businesses to certain 
entrepreneurial employees who will participate in the development of those businesses.
These awards generally have the following characteristics:
–  an employee receives an award of a “tracker share” in a subsidiary business. This share gives the employee certain 
rights to income and capital growth of a “tracked” business;
–  the employee must subscribe for his award of tracker shares at fair value, as determined by an independent third party 
share valuer and taking into account the particular rights attached to the shares described in the relevant businesses’ 
Articles of Association;
–  if the employee remains in employment with the Group for a pre-agreed period, not less than three years, he may 
then offer his tracker shares for sale to SThree plc. Should SThree plc decide to buy back the tracker shares, it will do 
so at a price based on a multiple of the tracker shares’ fair value at that date and SThree plc may choose to settle this 
transaction in cash or in SThree plc shares, as it chooses.
During the year, the following awards have been made under the tracker share arrangements:
Tracker share awards made in July 2008
Number of awards Number of awards Number of awards Number of awards
outstanding as at created during bought back outstanding as at
2 December 2007 the year during the year 30 November 2008
– 941 Nil
1
 941
1
  No awards were bought back during this financial year as normally an employee cannot offer his tracker shares for purchase by SThree plc until he 
has completed a pre-agreed period of employment. For the July 2008 tracker share awards the weighted average pre-agreed period of employment 
is five years.
The fair value of the tracker share awards made during the period is nil, as employees must subscribe for the awards 
at fair value. The total net subscription proceeds received for the July 2008 tracker share awards was £127,000, with 
proceeds in respect of individual awards ranging from £253.33 to £17,634.67.
The subscription price of the tracker share awards is determined by an independent valuer, taking into account the 
expected performance of each tracked business and the likelihood of ultimate buy-back by SThree plc.
20  Results of holding company
Of the results for the financial year, a retained loss of £9.6m (2007: retained profit of £43.5m) was recorded. This is 
stated after an exceptional credit of £nil (2007: £37.4m) arising from the reversal of an impairment charge previously 
recorded against the cost of investments in the Company’s subsidiaries (note 11). The Directors have taken advantage of 
the exemption available under Section 230 (3) of the Companies Act 1985 and do not present an income statement for the 
Company alone. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 78
21  Commitments
Group
Operating leases
At the balance sheet date the Group had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as set out below:
    Motor vehicles  Land and buildings
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
T otal minimum operating lease payments due:
Within one year  1,948 1,789 11,368 7,047
One to five years  1,582 1,787 34,606 27,188
After 5 years  – – 15,902 10,761
  3,530 3,576 61,876 44,996
Capital commitments
The Group had contractual commitments of £0.4m (2007: £0.6m) relating to property, plant and equipment at the balance 
sheet date.
VAT group registration
As a result of the group registration for VAT purposes, the Company is contingently liable for VAT liabilities arising in other 
companies within the VAT group. The total VAT liability as at 30 November 2008 amounted to £4.2m (2007: £4.7m).
Guarantees
The Group issued bank guarantees for commitments which amounted to £1.9m (2007: £0.3m).
Company
The Company held no outstanding lease or capital commitments at the year end (2007: nil). SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 79
22  Cash and cash equivalents
 Group Company
    30 November 2 December 30 November 2 December
  2008 2007 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash in hand and at bank  24,584 4,771 – 143
Bank overdraft  – (267) (1,167) (1,809)
  24,584 4,504 (1,167) (1,666)
Due to the Group pooling arrangement, an overdraft amount of £1.2m (2007: £1.8m) in SThree plc is netted out against 
cash balances in Group Companies.
23  Related party transactions
Group
The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (note 11), with its Directors and with members of the 
Executive Board. Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
Key management personnel
The key management under IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosure’ is defined as those persons who have authority and 
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the entity’s activities, directly or indirectly. The Group’s key 
management comprises of the Executive Directors, Executive Committee and other key managers who are deemed to 
influence the day to day activities. Details of Directors’ remuneration are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The 
remuneration of the Directors is determined by the SThree plc  Remuneration Committee in accordance with its stated 
policy. T otal remuneration for members of key management is detailed below.
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Salaries and other short-term benefits    3,471 2,790
Fair value of share awards granted    455 253
Post-employment benefits    78 69
T ermination benefits    438 –
    4,442 3,112 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 80
23  Related party transactions (continued)
Company
The Company has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (note 11) and with members of the Executive Board. 
The Directors receive remuneration from the Company, which is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The 
Company did not have any transactions other than those disclosed in the Remuneration Report with the Directors during 
the financial year. Details of transactions between the Company and other related parties are disclosed below.
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
 Loans and advances given to and dividends received from subsidiaries
Loans and advances given to subsidiaries    57,740 25,136
Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans and advances   666 335
Dividend income received    197 10,250
Loans and advances received from subsidiaries
Loans and advances received    – (24,701)
Interest expense paid in respect of interest bearing loans and advances   6,435 350
Year end balances arising from transactions with subsidiaries
      30 November 2 December
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Amounts payable to subsidiary companies    63,791 6,051
24  Subsequent events
The Group does not have any post balance sheet events that require disclosure as at 30 January 2009. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 81
25  Financial instruments and financial risk factors
Financial risk factors
The Group operates a centralised treasury function to manage the Group’s funding requirements and financial risks in line 
with Board approved treasury policies and procedures. The Group’s financial instruments comprise borrowings, cash and 
liquid resources and various items, such as trade debtors and trade creditors, that arise directly from its operations.
In previous years, Group T reasury also entered into derivative transactions, principally currency swaps and forward 
currency contracts. The purpose of these transactions was to manage the currency risks arising from the Group’s 
operations and financing. This year, a series of equal and opposite positions were taken in order to reduce the Group’s total 
exposure to financial instruments transactions to nil. The Board has undertaken a review of its currency hedging strategy 
to ensure that it is appropriate and currently the Group does not actively manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk 
by the use of financial instruments. Group policy is not to hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. The 
treasury function is managed as a cost centre and thus not engaged in speculative trading.
The Group has 46 derivative financial instruments open at the year end, being the prior year derivative financial 
instruments and the current year neutralising positions.
The Group is exposed to a number of different financial risks including foreign currency exchange rates, liquidity, interest 
rates, and credit risk. The Group’s objective and strategy in responding to these risks is set out below.
(a) Foreign currency exchange risk
  The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in sterling and conducts business in a number of other 
currencies principally the euro. Consequently the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk due to exchange rate 
movements which affect the Group‘s transactional revenues, cost of sales, the translation of the earnings and net 
assets of its overseas operations.
  The Group does not hedge either the translation of those profits or losses earned by its overseas operations or foreign 
exchange resulting from transactional exposure.
  The Group’s businesses generally raise invoices and incur expenses in their local currencies. Local currency cash 
generated is remitted via intercompany transfers to the United Kingdom. The Group generally converts foreign 
currency balances into Sterling to manage its cash flows.
  The anticipated impact on the Group‘s results if the Euro strengthened by a movement of more than 10% in terms of 
translational exposure amounts to an increase in profit before tax by £3.1m (2007: £1.5m). If the Euro weakened against 
sterling by more than 10% this would result in a decrease in profit before tax of £3.1m (2007: £1.5m). The effect to 
equity would result in a movement of £3.7m.
  Where the Group needs to transfer cash to and from other Group companies with different reporting currencies, it may 
use foreign exchange swap derivative financial instruments to manage the currency exposure that arises on these 
loans. It is the Group’s policy not to seek to designate these derivatives as hedges. No such derivatives were held at the 
year-end. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 82
25  Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
i)  The table below provides exchange rates used by the Group for translation of the earnings and net assets of its 
overseas operations.
 Weighted average rate Closing rate
  2008 2007 2008 2007
Euro 0.7755 0.6784 0.8268 0.7116
US dollar 0.5198 0.5016 0.6518 0.4864
Hong Kong dollar 0.0667 0.0645 0.0841 0.0625
Australian dollar 0.4561 0.4467 0.4265 0.4296
Singapore dollar 0.3690 0.3283 0.4306 0.3359
(b) Liquidity risk
  The Group actively maintains committed facilities to enable it to finance its day-to-day operations, based on cash flow 
projections. The Group invests surplus cash in floating rate interest-earning deposit accounts with UK and European 
banks (note 16).
  The Group’s treasury function centrally co-ordinates relationships with banks, borrowing requirements, foreign 
exchange requirements and cash management. The Group believes it has access to sufficient funding through an 
invoice financing arrangement that provides a borrowing facility of £50m of which £20m is committed. The Group also 
has an uncommitted gross overdraft facility to meet day to day working capital requirements.
  The table below shows the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on the contractual amounts 
payable on the date of repayment:
 Trade and other payables Financial liabilities
 Group Company Group Company
At 30 November 2008  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year  (81,246) (66,376) – (1,167)
At 2 December 2007
Within one year  (73,180) (10,218) (1,267) (2,809) SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 83
25  Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(c) Interest rate risk
  The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash 
flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally financial liabilities. The Group finances its operations 
through a mixture of retained profit, the invoice discounting facility and, when required, bank overdrafts.
 The Group does not hedge the exposure to variations in interest rates presented by the above instruments.
  Based on the composition of the net debt as at 30 November 2008, and taking into consideration all variable rate 
borrowings and cash in place, if the interest rate payable or receivable moved by a 100 basis points in either direction 
then the effect to the Group would be minimal.
  The sensitivity is lower in 2008 than in 2007 because of reduction in outstanding borrowings that has occurred as the 
entity’s debt has matured.
(d) Credit Risk
  In the normal course of business, the Group participates in cash pooling arrangements with its counterparty bank. The 
maximum exposure with a single bank for deposits is £24.4m (2007: £1.0m).
  T rade and other receivables of the Group are analysed in the table below (e). With respect to the trade and other 
receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors 
will not meet their payment obligations.
  The Group mitigates its credit risk by using a credit rating agency to assess new clients and payment history to 
assess further credit extensions to existing clients. In addition, the strong SME client base (circa 7,000 clients) help to 
mitigate the risk of a client failure having a material impact on the Group.
  The Group does not typically renegotiate the terms of trade receivables, hence the outstanding balance is included 
in the analysis based on the original payment terms. There were no significant renegotiated balances outstanding at 
year end. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 84
25  Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(e) Interest rate profile of financial assets and liabilities
The following tables set out the exposure of financial assets and liabilities to either fixed interest rates, floating interest 
rates or no interest rates. The maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities exposed to interest rate risk in the table 
below indicates the contractual repricing and maturity dates of these instruments.
 Group Company Group Company
   2008  2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Neither impaired nor past due  105,288 2,373 102,249 2,024
Impaired (net of valuation allowance)  3,600 – 11,648 –
Not impaired and past due in the following periods
within 30 days  21,647 – 22,328 –
31 to 90 days  7,163 – 9,987 –
61 to 90 days  2,239 – 4,873 –
over 90 days  – – – –
Total  139,937 2,373 151,085 2,024
(f) Price risk
  As part of the presentation of the market risks, IFRS 7 requires disclosure on how hypothetical changes in risk variables 
affect the price of financial instruments. Important risk variables are stock exchange prices or indices. As of 30 November 
2008, the entity did not hold any material investments to be classified as ‘available for sale’ or as ‘held for trading’. 
Therefore there are no financial instruments which would be materially impacted by risk variables affecting the price of 
financial instruments. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 85
25  Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(g)  Currency profile of financial assets/(liabilities)
 Net foreign currency monetary assets
Functional currency of Group operations:
    Other
 Sterling Euro US Dollars Currencies Total
At 30 November 2008 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling – 6,225 624 802 7,651
Euro 56 – – – 56
Total 56 6,225 624 802 7,707
At 2 December 2007
Sterling – 446 58 85 589
Euro 50 – – – 50
Total 50 446 58 85 639
The Company does not have any exposure to other currencies other than its functional currency of sterling.
Other foreign currencies held by the Group include the following: Swiss Francs, United Arab Emirates Dirhams, Australian 
Dollars and Hong Kong Dollars. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 86
25  Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(h) Currency profile of financial assets/(liabilities)
Financial derivatives
Group and Company
The table below sets out the net principal amount and fair value of derivative contracts held by the Group and the 
Company.
  
 Notional amounts of the 
 derivative  instrument Fair value
Currency and interest related instruments:
   Assets Liabilities Net fair value
At 30 November 2008  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Foreign currency swaps  – – – –
Other foreign exchange derivative instruments  24,567 – – –
T otal financial derivatives  24,567 – – –
At 2 December 2007  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Foreign currency swaps  2,406 50 – 50
Other foreign exchange derivative instruments  30,552 4,883 (3,934) 949
T otal financial derivatives  32,958 4,933 (3,934) 999
  In previous years the Group entered into a variety of complex derivative transactions with notional values of £33.0m. 
These included foreign currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts with extension options and forward 
foreign exchange contracts with options based on foreign exchange rate movements. Although these were not 
designated as hedges under the definitions as set out by IAS 39, they acted as economic hedges of the Group’s foreign 
currency exposures and were accounted for at fair value through the income statement.
  On 1 February 2008, the Group closed out these positions early, crystallising a £2.0m exceptional charge. T o close out 
these positions, exactly equal and opposite transactions were entered into, the last of which matures on 28 September 
2009. These resulted in a notional value of £24.6m. These transactions are net settled.
(i) Hedges
  The foreign currency swaps and other foreign exchange derivative instruments outstanding at the prior year end 
are not part of a designated hedging relationship as defined by IAS 39 but are designed to act as economic hedges 
of foreign currency exposures. There were no other unrecognised or deferred gains or losses in respect of hedging 
instruments at the balance sheet date. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 November 2008
SThree plc 5 87
25  Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(j) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
 The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities are equal to their fair values.
  Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between 
informed and willing parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale, and excludes accrued interest.
  Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values. Where market values are not available, fair 
values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end 
exchange rates. A summary of the assumptions used for each category of financial instrument is set out below.
Summary of methods and assumptions
Short-term deposits and borrowings  Approximates to the carrying amount because of the short 
maturity of these instruments.
Cash and cash equivalents Approximates to the carrying amount.
Receivables and payables  Approximates to the carrying amount for current balances; 
there are no material longer term balances.
Financial instruments Market valuations at the balance sheet date. SThree plc 5 88
SThree plc
Five Year Financial Summary
 30 November 2 December 30 November 30 November 30 November
 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
 IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Turnover
Geographic analysis
– by location of client
United Kingdom 386.9 369.7 295.7 243.6 184.4
Europe and Rest of World 244.6 153.0 97.6 71.5 58.0
  631.5 522.7 393.3 315.1 242.4
– by location of operating company
United Kingdom 486.9 479.5 372.6 299.0 227.9
Europe and Rest of World 144.6 43.2 20.7 16.1 14.5
  631.5 522.7 393.3 315.1 242.4
Gross profit
Geographic analysis
– by location of client
United Kingdom 121.6 123.3 98.9 79.5 56.5
Europe and Rest of World 97.4 59.4 36.6 25.0 19.4
  219.0 182.7 135.5 104.5 75.9
– by location of operating company
United Kingdom 145.0 147.5 118.6 92.2 66.5
Europe and Rest of World 74.0 35.2 16.9 12.3 9.4
  219.0 182.7 135.5 104.5 75.9
Operating profit
Before exceptional items 56.8 52.3 41.0 29.5 17.4
Key performance indicators
 numbers numbers numbers numbers numbers
Average headcount 2,157 1,786 1,288 1,037 808
Permanent placements in financial year 10,236 9,568 7,685 6,023 4,460
Active contractors at year end 5,745 5,662 4,719 4,365 3,735
 £ £ £ £ £
Average placement fee — permanent 10,355 9,780 8,563 7,972 7,407
Average gross profit per day — contractors 78.30 71.42 64.90 58.40 51.10
The comparative figures for 2004 have not been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS which was adopted from 
1 December 2004. SThree plc 5 89
SThree plc
Notes SThree plc 5 90
SThree plc
Notes SThree plc 5 91
SThree plc
Notes Shareholder Information
Shareholders Enquiries and Electronic 
Communications – www.capitaregistrars.com
Shareholders with enquiries relating to their shareholding 
should contact Capita Registrars. Alternatively, you may 
access your account via www.capitaregistrars.com, but will 
need to have your shareholder reference available when you 
first log in, which may be found on your dividend voucher, 
share certificate or form of proxy. The online facility also allows 
shareholders to view their holding details, find out how to 
register a change of name or what to do if a share certificate 
is lost, as well as download forms in respect of changes of 
address, dividend mandates and share transfers.
Shareholders who would prefer to view documentation 
electronically can elect to receive automatic notification by 
e-mail each time the Company distributes documents, instead 
of receiving a paper version of such documents, by registering 
a request via the Registrar by calling 0871 664 0391 (from UK 
– calls cost 10p per min plus network extras) or + 44 208 639 
3367 (Non UK) or by registering online at:
http://www.capitaregistrars.com/shareholders/products/
ecommunications.asp
There is no fee for using this service and you will automatically 
receive confirmation that a request has been registered. 
Should you wish to change your mind or request a paper 
version of any document in the future, you may do so by 
contacting the Registrar.
Potential targeting of shareholders
Companies have become aware that their shareholders have 
received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning 
investment matters. These are typically from overseas based 
brokers’ who target UK shareholders offering to sell them 
what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US 
or UK investments. They can be very persistent and extremely 
persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) has reported that the average amount lost by 
investors is around £20,000. It is not just the novice investor 
that has been duped in this way; many of the victims had been 
successfully investing for several years. Shareholders are 
advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy 
shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
Make sure you get the correct name of the person and • 
organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before • 
getting involved. You can check at  
www.fsa.gov.uk/register
The FSA also maintains on its website a list of • 
unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or 
have targeted, UK investors and any approach from 
such organisations should be reported to the FSA 
so that this list can be kept up to date and any other 
appropriate action can be considered. If you deal with an 
unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive 
payment under the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an 
online form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/
law/alerts/overseas.shtml
Inform the Registrar as shown above. • 
Details of share dealing facilities that the Company endorses 
will only be included in mailings direct from the Company. 
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be 
found on the FSA website www.fsa.gov.uk/consumer/
ADR information
For US investors, the Company has set up a Level One ADR 
facility, under the ticker symbol ‘SERTY’.The Bank of New 
York (BNY) act as both ADR depositary bank & registrar for 
this facility. For further information, please visit BNY’s website 
at www.adrbny.com and search for the SThree profile page. 
Holders can also access their account with BNY, using the 
following contact details:
The Bank of New York
Investor Services
P .O. Box 11258
Church Street Station
New York, NY 10286-1258
T oll Free T el # for US domestic callers:
1-888-BNY-ADRs
International callers: 212-815-3700
For the issuance of ADRs please contact:
Jason Paltrowitz 
T el: +1 212 815 2077 
Fax: +1 212 571 3050 
E-mail: jpaltrowitz@bankofny.com
Email: shareowners@bankofny.com
Websites: http://www.stockbny.com
Share price information
Information on the Company’s share price can be found on 
www.sthree.com, or via the FT Cityline Service, telephone 
0906 003 0000 (code 3912). Calls are charged at 60p per 
minute from a BT landline, and charges from other telephone 
networks may vary.
Share dealing service
A share dealing service for the purchase or sale of shares in 
SThree plc is available through:
Hargreave Hale Limited
Accurist House, 44 Baker Street,
London W1U 7AL
T el: 0207 0094900
Fax: 0207 0094999
Att: Mark Chadwick (mc@hargreave.com)
Dividend Re-investment Plan (DRIP)  
(non sponsored)
For any shareholders who wish to re-invest dividend payments 
in additional shares of the Company, a facility is provided by 
Capita IRG T rustees Ltd in conjunction with Capita Registrars. 
Under this facility, accrued dividends are used to purchase 
additional shares at the then market price. Any shareholder 
requiring further information on this should contact Capita on 
(UK) 0871 664 0381* or (Non-UK) +44 208 639 3402 or should 
e-mail: shares@capitaregistrars.com.
* Calls at 10p per minute plus network extras
ShareGift
ShareGift (registered charity no. 1052686) operates a charity 
share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of 
shares whose value may make it uneconomic to sell. Details of 
the scheme are available from:
ShareGift at www.sharegift.org
T elephone 0207 930 3737
Financial Calendar 2008/9
Financial year-end – 30 November 2008
Results announced – 2 February 2009
Annual General Meeting – 24 April 2009
Ex-div date for final dividend – 29 April 2009
Record date for final dividend – 1 May 2009
Final dividend paid – 8 June 2009
Interim results announced – mid July 2009
Interim dividend paid – early December 2009
