 Report & Financial Statements 2010 Executive Directors
Russell Clements, Chief Executive Officer
Gary Elden, Chief Development Officer
Alex Smith, Chief Financial Officer
Non-Executive Directors
Clay Brendish, Non Executive Chairman
Paul Bowtell, Non Executive
Alicja Lesniak, Non Executive
T ony Ward, Non Executive (SID)
Nadhim Zahawi, Non Executive
Group Company Secretary & Registered Office
Steve Hornbuckle, Group Company Secretary
5th Floor, GPS House
215-227 Great Portland Street
London W1W 5PN
Company number
3805979
Contact details
T el: 0207 268 6000
Fax: 0207 268 6001
Email: enquiries@sthree.com
Web: www.sthree.com
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London
WC2N 6RH
Registrars (ordinary shares)
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
HD8 0GA
T el: (UK) 0871 664 0300*
T el: (Non UK) +44 208 639 3399
Email: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
Web: www.capitaregistrars.com
* Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are 
open 8.30am-5.30pm Mon-Fri
Financial Advisers & Stockbrokers
UBS Investment Bank
1 Finsbury Avenue
London
EC2M 2PP
Investec Investment Banking
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Financial PR
Citigate Dewe Rogerson
3 London Wall Buildings
London Wall
London EC2M 5SY
SThree plc
Company Information and Corporate Advisers Inside Front Cover Company Information and Corporate Advisers
 1 Board of Directors and Secretary
 3 Chairman’s Statement
 5 Financial Highlights
 6 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
 9 Chief Financial Officer’s Review
11 Group Strategic Development Review
13 Directors’ Report
21 Directors’ Remuneration Report
29 Corporate Governance Report
40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
44 Independent Auditors’ Report
46 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
47 Statement of Financial Position (Consolidated and Company)
48 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
49 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
50 Statement of Cash Flows (Consolidated and Company)
51 Notes to the Financial Statements
96 Five Year Financial Summary
Inside Back Cover Shareholder Information
SThree plc
Contents SThree plc 1
Board of Directors and Secretary
Report & Financial Statements 2010
The Board brings together a wealth of experience across differing sectors and businesses on an international basis. Most 
importantly they share a passion for the business and the outstanding opportunities ahead.
Chairman
Clay Brendish, CBE joined the SThree Board in May 2010 as Non Executive Chairman. Clay is currently Non Executive Chairman of Anite Group plc 
and Echo Research Limited. Clay’s other Non Executive Directorships are BT Group plc and Herald Investment T rust plc. He is a trustee of Economist 
Newspapers Limited and Director of The T est and Itchen Association Limited. In May 2001 Clay retired as Deputy Chairman of CMG plc, a European ICT 
company that was established in 1964. Clay’s appointment as Deputy Chairman followed CMG’s merger with Admiral plc in June 2000. Prior to the 
merger Clay was Executive Chairman of Admiral plc that he co-founded in 1979. Admiral plc employed over 2500 people in 8 countries. As Chairman, 
Clay had primary responsibility for the strategic direction of Admiral, investor relations and acquisitions.
Chief Executive Officer
Russell Clements has served as SThree’s Chief Executive Officer since 2004 having previously held the position of Deputy Chief Executive Officer 
since 2001. He worked for VNU Business Publications, before joining Computer Futures in 1986 shortly after its inception as the group’s second 
employee. He subsequently served as Sales Director and Managing Director of Computer Futures. Russell holds a degree in Government from the 
University of Essex and is also a graduate of the Advanced Management Program at the Wharton Business School, University of Pennsylvania. He is 
former Chairman of the Association of Professional Staffing Companies (APSCo).
Chief Financial Officer
Alex Smith joined SThree in May 2008, having held a number of senior financial and operational roles in the leisure and retail sectors. Most recently 
he held the position of Integration Finance Director at TUI T ravel PLC. Prior to this he was Finance Director of First Choice’s UK Mainstream business, 
at WH Smith plc, as Managing Director of its T ravel Retail business and held senior financial roles at T ravelodge and Forte PLC. Alex has a degree in 
Economics from Durham University and is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Non Executive Director (Senior Independent Non Executive Director)
Tony Ward, OBE was appointed to the SThree Board in August 2006 and to the SThree Remuneration and Nomination Committees in October 
2006. T ony currently chairs the Remuneration Committee and has over thirty years experience in a variety of senior executive roles with blue chip 
companies, including BAA plc, Kingfisher plc and Grand Metropolitan Group plc. He joined BAA in 1997 as Group HR Director and was Services Director 
from 1999 until March 2007, being responsible for activities including IT , Security, Rail and Airside Operations. T ony was a board director of BAA plc 
between November 1999 and July 2006. T ony is a Non Executive Director of the OCS Group Limited, and an advisor to Manchester Square Partners 
LLP; a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development; a former Deputy Chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality; and a graduate 
of the University of Leeds.
Clay Brendish
 
Russell Clements 
Alex Smith  
Tony Ward
 
Chief Development Officer
Gary Elden was appointed to the Board in July 2008, having been with the Group since 1990, when he joined Computer Futures. He has held a 
number of senior positions, including that of founding Managing Director of Huxley Associates. In his role as Chief Development Officer, he has 
special responsibility for the expansion of the Group’s international operations and non-ICT disciplines.
Gary Elden  SThree plc 2
Board of Directors and Secretary
Report & Financial Statements 2010 (continued)
Non Executive Director
Paul Bowtell was appointed to the SThree Board and as Chairman of the SThree Audit Committee, in November 2007 and Nomination Committee in 
April 2008 and is currently a Non Executive Director of Capita Group plc. Paul has extensive experience gained from senior finance roles in a variety of 
companies including most recently as Chief Financial Officer of TUI T ravel PLC, but also with First Choice Holidays PLC and British Gas, a subsidiary 
of Centrica plc, where he was appointed Finance Director in 2002. Prior to that, Paul was with WH Smith plc, where he held a number of corporate 
centre roles before becoming Finance Director of the UK Retail business, as well as senior tax roles at Forte and Arthur Andersen. Paul is an Associate 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Paul Bowtell
Non Executive Director
Alicja Lesniak was appointed to the SThree Board in May 2006, to the SThree Audit Committee in July 2006, the Remuneration Committee in 
February 2008 and the Nomination Committee in April 2008. Alicja is currently a Non Executive Director of DTZ Holdings plc and Channel 4 and was, 
until 30 September 2009, CFO of Aegis plc and has over thirty years experience in fast moving service businesses, in the latter twenty years holding 
senior financial and managerial roles within the advertising/media sector, including seven years with BBDO Worldwide, latterly as Chief Financial 
Officer for BBDO EMEA, and seven years at WPP Group plc, where she held positions as Chief Financial Officer for Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide 
and Managing Director of J Walter Thompson in the UK. Prior to joining the advertising sector she held senior management positions with Arthur 
Andersen & Co, having originally qualified as a Chartered Accountant with them in 1976. Alicja is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in 
England & Wales and holds a degree in Mathematics from Imperial College.
Alicja Lesniak
Non Executive Director
Nadhim Zahawi, MP was appointed to the SThree Board and to the Remuneration and Audit Committees in May 2008. Nadhim is former CEO 
and co-founder of YouGov plc, a leading international online market research agency and became MP for Stratford on Avon in May 2010. He was 
previously European marketing director at Smith & Brooks, with responsibility for marketing brands such as Warner Bros, Disney and Barbie, 
after stepping down as a councillor for the London Borough of Wandsworth, a post he had held since 1994, in which he worked on public-sector 
consultation, planning, social services and research within local government. Nadhim was previously a director at Allen Hinckley, the property rights 
licensing group and Marketing Director at Global Inc, a supplier to major retailers. Nadhim is a patron of the Genesis Initiative and Peace One Day and 
holds a degree in Chemical Engineering from UCL.
Nadhim Zahawi
Group Company Secretary
Steve Hornbuckle was appointed to the role in October 2006. Steve has over twenty years’ company secretarial experience, having held Deputy 
and Assistant Secretary positions within a variety of listed companies, including Intertek Group plc, BPB plc, Kidde plc, Railtrack Group plc, London 
& Manchester Group plc and English China Clays plc. Steve is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and sits on the ICSA Company 
Secretaries’ Forum and the Investor Relations Society Policy Committee.
Steve Hornbuckle  SThree plc 3
In my first statement as SThree 
Chairman, I am very pleased to 
report that despite the economic 
uncertainty which continued as we 
moved into 2010, the Group was still 
able to achieve an excellent set of 
results. Despite some very challenging 
market conditions, we expanded the 
business globally, the Group having 
been re-organised under regional 
MDs in early 2010. At the time of 
writing, we are also now seeing signs 
that our share price is moving in the 
right direction, benefitting those 
shareholders who invested at IPO or 
shortly thereafter and who have stuck 
with the Company through the more 
recent difficult times. It should not 
be forgotten that many in the latter 
category are our valued employees.
During the year we opened new 
offices in Perth, Delhi, Houston, San 
Francisco, Munich and Düsseldorf, 
with further offices in Doha, Sao 
Paulo, Antwerp and Abu Dhabi due 
to open in H1 2011. As a result, we 
now have an even more diversified 
business, both in terms of geographic 
and sector spread, this will enable us 
to optimise our performance as the 
market further improves. Our non 
UK gross profit now represents 60% 
of the Group’s gross profit (2009: 
55%). As always, we remain open-
minded with regard to the launch 
of new ventures, continuing to back 
home-grown entrepreneurial talent 
and utilise the established tracker 
share (minority-stakes) model where 
appropriate, in order to expand beyond 
our existing bases.
A detailed review of our trading and 
results is provided within the Chief 
Executive Officer’s, Chief Financial 
Officer’s Reviews and other sections 
of this Annual Report. During the year, 
we have also continued to improve 
our reporting on Remuneration, 
Governance and Corporate Social 
Responsibility (‘CSR’) issues, wherever 
we can, to accommodate best practice 
and investor requirements and we will 
continue to expand these areas as the 
business moves forward.
We continued to roll out our Enterprise 
Risk Management (‘ERM’) processes, 
formalising both Group and local risk 
appetite parameters under new KPIs, 
all of which are now firmly embedded 
within the business and underpinned 
by our Group Risk Management Policy. 
Along with early consideration of the 
new UK Corporate Governance Code 
(‘the Code’), these measures are a 
further demonstration of our solid 
stewardship and strong approach to 
corporate governance.
Our tried and tested strategy remains 
primarily focused on pursuing 
organic growth, through continued 
development of the Group’s well-
established UK business, whilst 
at the same time also increasing 
the Group’s revenues from other 
sectors and countries. Our business 
model continues to prioritise high 
quality over high volume and seeks 
to optimise the superior margins 
we consistently achieve as a 
consequence of this approach. The 
multi-brand strategy we operate and 
our highly diversified client base will, 
as ever, be crucial in achieving this 
goal and we believe that all SThree 
businesses, irrespective of their 
relative maturity, have scope for 
significant further growth.
The Directors recommend a final 
dividend of 8.0p (second interim 2009: 
8.0p) per share for the year ended 
28 November 2010, to be paid on 
6 June 2011, to those on the register as 
at 6 May 2011. This follows the interim 
dividend of 4.0p (2009: 4.0p) per 
share declared earlier in the year and 
paid on 3 December 2010.
The SThree business is built on an 
absolute focus on delivering high 
quality and timely permanent and 
contract specialist staffing services 
to our clients. It remains therefore, 
first and foremost a people business 
and it is only as a direct result of the 
talent and dedication of our people 
that we are able to continue to post 
such resilient results. At the year 
end the Group employed a total of 
1,863 people worldwide, an increase 
from 1,597 at the prior year end and 
we have a clear strategy to grow 
this further over the next five years, 
particularly in our newer geographies, 
whilst also launching initiatives 
Chairman’s Statement
for the year ended 28 November 2010 SThree plc 4
which will improve the way we work. 
Chief amongst these is our ‘Values’ 
initiative which looks to ensure that 
the SThree core values of Respect, 
Rapport, Energy and Reward are at the 
forefront of everything that we do.
We are applying early the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and, as such, all Directors will retire at 
the 2011 AGM and submit themselves 
for re-election. Further information on 
this is contained within the Notice of 
Meeting.
Under the Code, as Chairman, I 
am required to oversee the annual 
performance evaluation process 
conducted in respect of the Board, 
Committees and individual Directors 
and to hold regular development 
meetings with Directors in respect 
of any issues identified. I am very 
pleased to say that the evaluation 
concluded that, overall and 
individually, the performance of the 
Board, each Committee and each 
Director was and is effective and 
that all Directors demonstrate full 
commitment in their respective roles.
During the year we said goodbye to 
both Sir Anthony Cleaver and Sunil 
Wickremeratne. T ony retired at the 
AGM in April 2010 and his significant 
influence helped create the blueprint 
of the highly successful plc we are 
today, whilst Sunil retired at the end 
of November 2010, having been with 
the Group some 22 years. He was 
instrumental in creating a number 
of SThree’s key brands and without 
him the Group would certainly not be 
what it is today and he will be sorely 
missed as both a friend and colleague 
by many.
I would also like to take this 
opportunity to thank all our continuing 
employees across the world once 
again for their contribution during 
the year, many of whom have been 
with the Group for all or most of their 
careers. Some of these individuals 
are featured in the front half of 
this Annual Report, which shows 
highlights from the Group’s annual 
management conference and 
corporate HQ.
We believe that our prospects for 
further growth and success remain 
excellent and whilst our business 
will ultimately depend on the overall 
strength of the worldwide economy, 
we are confident of a bright future.
Clay Brendish
CHAIRMAN
28 January 2011
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
for the year ended 28 November 2010 SThree plc 5
Financial Highlights 
for the year ended 28 November 2010
“SThree delivered a strong result in 2010 in a market which was still some way 
from fully recovered. Sentiment improved steadily and we ended the year with all 
our markets and territories in growth. We were also pleased with the increasing 
momentum in our longer established businesses building towards the end of the 
year. Looking ahead, we remain well positioned to make further progress through 
a combination of expansion in existing markets and further investment in new 
geographies with their substantial structural growth potential.”
  2010 2009 Change
Revenue £474.5m £519.4m –8.6%
Gross Profit £166.4m £171.2m –2.8%
Operating profit* £21.2m £18.0m +17.8%
Profit before taxation* £21.6m £18.0m +20.0%
Statutory profit before taxation £21.6m £8.9m +142.7%
Basic earnings per share* 11.9p 9.5p +25.3%
Statutory basic earnings per share 11.9p 4.0p +197.5%
Proposed dividend 8.0p 8.0p –
T otal dividend 12.0p 12.0p –
*  Prior year operating profit, profit before taxation and EPS are shown before exceptional charges of £9.1m before tax, 
£6.5m after tax relating to a Group restructuring.
Operational Highlights
•
  A strong performance given the changing market sentiment during the year;
•
  Non-UK share of gross profit increased significantly to 60% (2009: 55%), with trend expected to continue as the Group 
becomes ever more international;
•
  New offices opened in Perth, Delhi, Houston, San Francisco, Munich and Düsseldorf, bringing the total to 52. Doha, Sao 
Paulo, Antwerp and Abu Dhabi due to open in H1 2011;
•
  Permanent placements increased by 8.1% to 6,551 (2009: 6,060), with average fees remaining strong;
•
  Number of active contractors at year end increased by 4.9% to 4,359 (2009: 4,157), with average gross profit per day 
rates remaining strong;
•
  Contract versus Permanent mix of gross profit 51:49 in favour of Contract (2009: 58:42);
•
  Continued sector diversification, with non-ICT
(1)
 disciplines now representing 38% of total gross profit (2009: 28%);
•
  76% of gross profit now derived from outside of the UK ICT market (2009: 69%);
•
  T otal Group headcount at year end increased by 16.7% to 1,863 (2009: 1,597), with a significant further increase planned 
for 2011;
•
  Year end net cash and term investments of £55.2m (2009: £48.5m) reflecting continued strong cash generation;
•
  Entered 2011 with all markets in growth.
(1)
  Non ICT sectors primarily comprise Engineering & Energy, Banking, Accountancy & Finance and Pharmaceuticals  
& Biotechnology SThree plc 6
Overview
2010 saw a substantially improved 
market when compared to 
the exceptionally challenging 
environment of 2009. That said, it 
would be misleading to suggest that 
the overall level of demand for our 
services during 2010 was universally 
consistent with a fully recovered 
marketplace. Whilst some parts of our 
business equalled or surpassed pre-
downturn levels of performance and 
all our markets were in growth by the 
last quarter, most were yet to return to 
the very buoyant conditions that we 
would associate with “normality” in 
the specialist staffing market.
Given this specific context it is 
pleasing to report a strong 2010 
performance. The Group delivered a 
substantial improvement in overall 
profitability and a further increase in 
our cash balances whilst at the same 
time continuing to invest in the future 
of the business.
In addition to increasing sales 
headcount substantially, we also 
opened a further six offices, bringing 
the overall total to 52, of which 30 
are outside the UK. Given this strong 
trading platform coupled with steadily 
improving market conditions, we 
believe we are in an excellent position 
to make 2011 another year of progress. 
On this basis the Group intends to 
further grow sales headcount and 
continue the international office roll 
out throughout 2011.
Financial Outcome
During the year the Group saw a 
modest reduction in Gross Profit (GP) 
with the 2010 figure of £166.4m down 
2.8% (2009: £171.2m), largely due to 
the relative weakness of the contract 
marketplace during most of the year. 
However, this converted to a Profit 
Before T ax (PBT) of £21.6m, up some 
20% before prior year exceptional 
items (2009: £18.0m), reflecting a 
continued tight control of costs.
Notwithstanding the fact that 2010 
was a year of investment, the Group 
had another strong performance 
in terms of cash generation. At the 
end of 2010 net cash (including term 
investments) had increased to £55.2m 
(2009: £48.5m).
The strong cash performance, 
combined with steadily improving 
market conditions, support the 
Board’s decision to maintain the total 
2010 dividend at 12.0p (2009: 12.0p) 
which is comfortably underpinned by 
the cash available to the Group.
Geographical Expansion
The Group continued its well 
established strategy of geographical 
expansion opening six international 
offices in the year. In addition 
to further offices in Munich and 
Düsseldorf, we rolled out offices 
in Perth, Delhi, Houston and San 
Francisco, bringing the overall total  
to 52 offices in 12 countries.
In aggregate, Group GP generated 
from outside of the UK was £99.5m 
(2009: £94.2m), up 5.6%. Given the 
more mature nature of the UK staffing 
market and in particular the continued 
relatively subdued demand for 
contract staff, UK GP of £66.8m  
was down 13.1% on the prior year 
(2009: £76.9m).
As a consequence of this difference 
in relative performance, the overall 
non UK/UK business mix underwent 
a marked change. For 2010 the ratio 
was 60:40 in favour of non UK GP 
compared with 55:45 in 2009. It is 
likely that this shift will represent an 
ongoing trend as the Group becomes 
ever more international. However, 
the fact remains that the UK has 
consistently demonstrated very 
robust growth in more typical market 
conditions and we are confident that 
the UK will show a significant bounce 
back as confidence levels build.
There is now ample evidence to 
indicate a rapidly growing opportunity 
to take the proven SThree model into 
an ever wider range of international 
markets, most of which are 
substantially less mature than the 
UK. In the first half of 2011 we expect 
to open offices in Doha, Sao Paulo, 
Abu Dhabi and Antwerp and it is likely 
that the total number of new offices 
opened during 2011 will be similar to 
the six that came on stream each  
year during 2010 and 2009. That 
being said, during 2011 we expect the 
large majority of our new hires to  
be into established SThree locations, 
thereby de-risking the expansion 
programme.
Sector Diversification
In parallel with its greater 
geographical diversity, in recent 
years the Group has made significant 
progress in developing markets 
outside of its historic ICT franchise. 
The ICT market has attractive 
characteristics, not least of all in 
terms of highly paid candidates 
and a structural skills shortage 
in most technical areas, albeit in 
some territories the ICT market is 
particularly competitive.
Over a period of years the Group 
has demonstrated its expertise in 
moving into adjacent specialist 
staffing sectors, many of which are 
both substantially less competitive 
than the ICT market and are also 
characterised by candidates who can 
command rates which are at least 
equal to and in many cases above 
those achieved in ICT.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
for the year ended 28 November 2010 SThree plc 7
The result of this sectoral 
diversification is that non ICT 
franchises accounted for 38.3% of 
total GP . This figure of £63.8m was 
up 31.5% on the previous year (2009: 
£48.5m). The major non ICT segments 
for the Group are Banking, Engineering 
& Energy, Accountancy & Finance 
and Pharmaceuticals; the Group also 
has (a relatively modest) presence in 
each of HR and Sales & Marketing.
The ICT franchise performed 
somewhat less robustly than the 
other sectors with 2010 GP of 
£102.6m (2009: £122.6m), down 
16.3% on the prior year. The Group’s 
ICT performance was impacted by 
a number of factors: the relatively 
subdued contract market which is 
disproportionately ICT based; the 
decline in public sector hiring – 
another ICT biased market; and the 
weakness of the Benelux territories, 
our largest ICT franchise outside  
the UK.
It is worth noting that the GP 
breakdowns given above are 
measured by the skill set of the 
candidate rather than the nature of 
the business of the client company. 
By the latter metric, rather than a 
62% exposure to the ICT market, the 
Group has in fact only a 19% exposure 
(2009: 21%) to ICT customers per se 
and hence benefits from a broad client 
base in terms of industry sectors.
“High Margin High Value”
The Group has a stated strategy 
which is focused on the quality of the 
business transacted. We do not buy 
market share or swap value for volume 
as we believe both to be inappropriate 
given the highly fragmented nature 
of the specialist staffing market. We 
are highly selective in terms of the 
type of clients with which we engage 
and avoid the lower margin business 
which is often a condition of dealing 
with many larger employers in more 
mature markets.
In addition, we look to go “up the 
food chain” and place more highly 
remunerated candidates, either 
as a result of increasing the level 
of seniority of the placements we 
make, or by identifying more highly 
paid niche markets. The benefits 
of this approach can be seen in the 
robustness of our fees and contract 
rates, even in a market which 
remained somewhat more price 
sensitive than normal and which  
was not characterised by the level 
of wage inflation typical of a more 
normal market.
The Group’s overall contract margin 
remained broadly flat at 21.6% 
(2009: 22.1%) despite a substantial 
reduction in the number of public 
sector contractors, which were 
typically higher than the average 
margin. Moreover, in absolute terms 
the average gross profit per day rate 
(GPDR) improved somewhat, up 
1.1 % to £85.65 (2009: £84.69) on a 
constant currency basis. Pro rated to 
an annual permanent salary the GPDR 
is the equivalent of £90k (2009: £88k).
A similar but more pronounced 
value theme was seen in the Group’s 
permanent business. The average 
fee recorded in 2010 was £12,340 
(2009: £11,930) up 3.4% on a constant 
currency basis.
Contract/Permanent  
Business Mix
Unlike the early recovery phase of 
previous upturns, the contract market 
did not outperform the permanent 
market in 2010. On the contrary (and 
in common with the peer group), 
our permanent performance was 
markedly ahead of contract. During 
the year the Group made a total of 
6,551 permanent placements (2009: 
6,060) an increase of 8.1%. The 
number of contract runners at the 
end of 2010 had improved to 4,359 
(2009: 4,157) representing an increase 
of 4.9%.
The relative weakness of the contract 
market was exacerbated by the fact 
that the market in Benelux was weak 
through most of the year and after 
the UK this territory is the Group’s 
largest in terms of contract exposure. 
On a similar note GP derived from the 
Public Sector declined by around 50% 
during the year and this is largely a 
contract market. By contrast, some 
of the strongest performing markets 
(e.g. the Far East, Banking, Oil & Gas 
etc.) are for us, disproportionately 
permanent franchises.
The net effect of the above was that 
permanent GP represented 49% of 
the Group’s total in 2010 compared 
with 42% of GP for 2009. Going 
forward into 2011 and beyond, we 
would expect a further increase in 
terms of the permanent share of 
GP as the economic cycle enters a 
more positive phase and the Group 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
for the year ended 28 November 2010   (continued) SThree plc 8
becomes increasingly exposed to 
territories and markets in which the 
prime opportunity is in permanent 
recruitment.
Headcount
The improved market conditions 
allowed us to continue with the 
sales headcount growth plan that we 
initiated in the second half of 2009. 
As a result the Group ended 2010 with 
a total of 1,863 staff (2009: 1,597) an 
increase of 16.7% on the prior year. 
The sales headcount growth was 
primarily focused on Rest of World,  
up 76%, and Europe, up 11%, with the 
UK up 6%.
Our 2010 closing headcount of 1,863 
is still 18% below our previous peak of 
2,274 heads in November 2008 and 
given our expansion plans for the year 
ahead it is likely that this historic peak 
will be surpassed during 2011.
Outlook
Ultimately, the global economic 
backdrop will to some extent influence 
the scale of our market opportunity in 
the coming year. However, it is worth 
remembering that the history of the 
Group specifically, and the specialist 
staffing market more generally, 
demonstrates that we do not need 
exceptionally strong economic 
tailwinds as a precondition for strong 
performance. Indeed, it is candidate 
confidence as much as any other 
major factor which drives demand and 
our experience shows that a healthy 
level of candidate confidence is  
not predicated on above-trend 
economic growth.
In addition, we are more exposed than 
ever before to markets with strong 
structural growth characteristics. 
Recent experience in territories 
such as Germany suggest that the 
underlying growth of the specialist 
staffing market can act as a powerful 
counter-balance even when economic 
conditions are dire. Given that the 
balance of opinion suggests at least 
a benign global economic scenario 
for 2011, markets such as these have 
particularly strong potential. At the 
same time our longer established 
franchises had all returned to growth 
by the end of 2010 and we have no 
reason to believe that this is a trend 
which will not continue.
T aking all the available indicators 
into consideration, we feel there are 
justifiable reasons to remain opti-
mistic about the forthcoming year. 
As always, we take confidence that 
our twenty five year track record, 
seasoned management team and well 
established brands to provide us with 
an excellent platform to make the 
most of whatever the market has to 
offer us.
Russell Clements
Chief Executive Officer
28 January 2011
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued) SThree plc 9
Chief Financial Officer’s Review 
for the year ended 28 November 2010
Revenue for the year decreased by 
8.6% to £474.5m (2009: £519.4m). 
Gross profit for the year decreased 
by 2.8% to £166.4m (2009: £171.2m), 
representing a Group gross profit 
margin of 35.1% (2009: 33.0%). 
The Group gross profit margin 
increased as a result of the remix 
in business towards permanent, 
which represented 49% of gross 
profit in 2010, up from 42% in 2009. 
Permanent revenues are accounted 
for at 100% gross margin, whereas 
contract gross profit is shown after 
the associated cost of sale.
Administrative expenses before prior 
year exceptional items decreased 
by 5.2% to £145.2m (2009: £153.2m), 
as the Group benefitted from close 
monitoring of costs and made 
efficiency savings on advertising 
spend, professional fees, motor 
vehicle costs, bank charges and a 
number of other such costs. As a 
result, the Group’s conversion ratio 
grew to 12.8% (2009: 10.5%).
Group headcount was 1,863 at 28 
November 2010, up 16.7% on the 
opening headcount at 29 November 
2009 of 1,597. Average total 
headcount for the year was 1,772 
down 3.7% year on year (2009: 1,841).
Profit Before T ax increased by 20.0% to 
£21.6m (2009: £18.0m) before prior year 
exceptional items are taken into account 
and by 142.7% to £21.6m (2009: £8.9m) 
after prior year exceptional items.
T axation on profit before exceptional 
items was £7.4m (2009: £5.5m), 
representing an effective tax rate 
of 34% (2009: 31%). The increase 
in the effective tax rate was driven 
by a remix of the business towards 
jurisdictions with higher tax rates. 
Based on the current structure of the 
Group and existing local taxation rates 
and legislation, it is expected that 
the underlying effective tax rate will 
remain at around this level.
Basic earnings per share before 
exceptional items were 11.9p (2009: 
9.5p), up 25.3%. This was driven by an 
increase in profit before tax of 20.0%, 
partially offset by a higher effective 
tax rate of 34% (2009: 31%), and 
enhanced by a reduction in the profit 
attributable to non-controlling interest 
holders (minority interest participants) 
to £0.1m (2009: £1.2m), which is 
explained further below. The weighted 
average number of shares increased 
slightly to 119.9m (2009: 118.7m). Fully 
diluted earnings per share before prior 
year exceptional restructuring items 
were 11.5p (2009: 9.2p), up 25.0%. 
Basic earnings per share after prior 
year exceptional restructuring items 
were 11.9p (2009: 4.0p), up 197.5%. 
Fully diluted earnings per share  
after prior year exceptional 
restructuring items were 11.5p  
(2009: 3.9p), up 194.9%.
During the second half of the year, 
the Group migrated certain entity-
based minority interests to tracker 
share arrangements, which fall within 
the scope of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based 
Payment’. Looking forwards, the profit 
attributable to non controlling interests 
(minority interest participants) will be 
nil, as all significant minority interest 
arrangements have moved to tracker 
arrangements. The subscription 
price methodology for tracker share 
arrangements is fair market value 
as determined by an independent 
valuation expert, and shares may 
be equity or cash settled. As the 
participant subscribes at fair market 
value for the award, the fair value of the 
award is reduced to nil and therefore 
no IFRS 2 accounting charge arises.
The Board previously declared an 
interim dividend of 4.0p per share 
(2009: 4.0p). The Board has declared 
a final dividend of 8.0p per share, 
bringing the total dividend for the year 
to 12.0p per share (2009: 12.0p). The 
final dividend will be paid on 6 June 
2011 to those shareholders on the 
register as at 6 May 2011.
Balance Sheet
The Group had net assets of £81.9m 
at 28 November 2010 (2009: £84.8m). 
Net cash including term investments 
amounted to £55.2m (2009: £48.5m), 
the improvement in our cash position 
reflecting the net impact of the 
profitability of the Group and the 
improved management of working 
capital during the year.
T angible fixed asset capital 
expenditure amounted to £2.8m 
(2009: £2.7m), relating to investment 
in IT hardware and the fit out of new 
offices. Intangible asset additions, 
primarily relating to IT software 
purchases and development costs, 
increased to £2.9m (2009: £2.1m). 
T otal capital expenditure is planned 
to be slightly ahead of these levels 
in 2011, as the business continues 
its office opening programme and 
invests further in establishing 
an infrastructure to support the 
globalising business.
Financial Review
2010 2009
Revenue Gross Profit Revenue Gross Profit
Permanent £81.7m £81.4m £72.4m £98.8m
Contract £392.8m £85.0m £447.0m £72.4m
Total £474.5m £166.4m £519.4m £171.2m SThree plc 10
Chief Financial Officer’s Review 
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
As a result of the Group gross profit 
growing in H2 by 18.4% year on year 
to £92.2m (2009 H2: £77.9m), net 
trade debtors increased by £4.8m to 
£63.1m (2009: £58.3m) representing 
DSO’s of 37 days (2009: 37 days) 
and total trade and other payables 
increased from £76.1m to £86.2m.
Cash Flow
At the start of the year the Group had 
net cash of £48.5m (including assets 
held to maturity of £3.2m). During 
the year, the Group generated cash 
from operating activities of £31.8m 
(2009: £63.7m). In 2009, the Group 
benefitted from a reduction in the 
working capital funding of the reduced 
contractor book. This is now partially 
reversing, as our contractor book 
grows. Income taxes paid reduced to 
£6.0m (2009: £18.3m).
During the year, the Group paid 
ordinary dividends of £14.4m (2009: 
£14.4m) and dividends to Minority 
Interest participants of £1.0m (2009: 
£0.1m). The Group also invested £3.5m 
in an A rated Unbreakable Enhanced 
Fixed Rate Deposit with a maturity of 
less than 6 months at year end.
At 28 November 2010 the Group had 
net cash of £55.2m (including assets 
held to maturity of £3.5m).
The Group has a committed invoice 
discounting facility of £20m with 
Royal Bank of Scotland Invoice 
Finance (“RBS”) which expires in 
April 2012. The Group is not currently 
drawing down against this facility.
Treasury Management and 
Currency Risk
The main functional currencies of 
the Group are Sterling and the Euro. 
The Group has significant operations 
outside the United Kingdom and as 
such is exposed to movements in 
exchange rates.
The Board has undertaken a review 
of its currency hedging strategy 
to ensure that it is appropriate 
and currently the Group does not 
actively manage its exposure to 
foreign exchange risk by the use of 
financial instruments. The impact of 
foreign exchange will become a more 
significant issue for the Group as we 
expect the business mix to move 
further towards International, with 
the International business accounting 
for 60% of gross profit in 2010 (2009: 
55%). The Group will continue to 
monitor its policies in this area.
Other Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties affecting the 
Business
Other principal risks and uncertainties 
affecting the business activities of the 
Group are detailed within the Directors’ 
Report. In terms of macro economic 
environment risks, as previously 
stated, our strategy is to continue 
to grow the size of our international 
business in both financial terms and 
geographic coverage in order to reduce 
the Group’s exposure or dependence 
on any one specific economy, although 
a downturn in a particular market 
could adversely impact the Group’s 
business. In the view of the Board, 
there is no material change expected 
to the Group’s key risk factors in the 
foreseeable future.
Our strong balance sheet and net cash 
give us the confidence to maximise 
the opportunities that lie ahead.
Alex Smith
Chief Financial Officer
28 January 2011 SThree plc 11
Group Strategic Development 
Review 
for the year ended 28 November 2010
In my first statement as SThree 
Chief Development Officer, I am very 
pleased to report that the Group 
was able to significantly expand its 
business globally, under our regionally 
focused MD structure, which was 
created in early 2010.
During the year the Group was able 
to open new offices in Perth, Delhi, 
Houston, San Francisco, Munich 
and Düsseldorf, with further offices 
in Doha, Sao Paulo, Antwerp and 
Abu Dhabi due to open in H1 2011. In 
addition, a number of re-branding, 
consolidation and other initiatives 
were undertaken and all of this 
was only made possible by the 
strengthening of the strategic 
development team and creation 
of a cross functional ‘Strategic 
Implementation Group’ (‘SIG’), 
consisting of Group-wide experts 
in order to share and evolve best 
practice, which is essential as 
we move into newer regions and 
sectors. This was underpinned by our 
thorough new venture risk evaluation 
processes, which are core to  
expanding using our business model.
New venture risk evaluation 
processes
As part of an evolving strategic 
planning and implementation five 
year plan, each new venture is firstly 
risk categorised by colour coding 
according to the degree of associated 
risk and this is used to develop 
detailed review and implementation 
processes which are appropriate to 
the new venture being proposed, 
with stages typically including: 
early warning, research planning, 
implementation, evaluation, and post 
implementation evaluation. T ypical 
risk categories for monitoring and 
reporting include the following:
Complex ventures operationally; will definitely require external resources
Ventures in new territory; in some cases external resources may aid us
Ventures where SThree has some experience in the country, but the venture 
incurs a higher operational risk than Amber ventures; i.e. complex regulation, 
a European country which we have extensively tested but have no physical 
presence
Ventures where SThree has a presence in the country but not in the city
Ventures where SThree already has a presence in the city
A brand expanding into a new sector
I
n
c
r
e
a
s
i
n
g
r
i
s
k
This ensures that we are able to 
identify the success factors which 
are critical to ensure successful 
expansion into our new sectors and 
emerging markets and in doing so:
  drive our organisational culture into 
new territories;
  prioritise a risk perspective for 
ethical and other relevant issues 
as part of our regular Internal Audit 
reviews; and
  ensure careful analysis of 
performance, recognising that high 
profit and growth may sometimes 
be a ‘no go’.
As a result, the Group now has an even 
more diversified business, both in 
terms of geographic and sector spread 
and, with each passing year, our non 
UK gross profit represents an ever 
increasing share of the Group’s overall 
gross profit. However, whilst our tried 
and tested strategy remains primarily  SThree plc 12
Group Strategic Development 
Review (continued) 
for the year ended 28 November 2010
focused on pursuing organic growth, 
we remain open to and are continually 
assessing, other market opportunities 
as they arise.
Our processes are built on tried and 
tested risk governance procedures, 
incorporating the below key elements 
within each country-specific risk 
assessment.
In my role as Chief Development 
Officer, I am excited by the 
opportunities available and look 
forward to creating an even more 
diversified Group in 2011.
 
Gary Elden 
Chief Development Officer 
28 January 2011
Risk/Governance 
Landscape
Governance
Oversight
Anti-Fraud 
Strategy 
& Policies
Hiring & 
Promotion
Crisis Response
Misappropriation
& Reporting
Financial 
Reporting Risks
General Risks
Controls & 
Evalution
Management
Information 
Systems
Communication
Awareness & 
Training
Gatekeeper
Role
Management 
Oversight
Governance Oversight
Clear responsibilities in place for the Board and its Committees in 
respect of oversight of risks, controls and ongoing effectiveness
Anti-Fraud Strategy & Policies
A clear strategy around fraud policies to 
co-ordinate on-going activity for the 
prevention and detection of bribery and fraud
Hiring & Promotion
Performance of rigorous 
background checks on new 
employees and those being 
promoted into a position of trust, 
including verification of the 
content of an applicants CV
Crisis Response
Documented procedures and 
controlled response plan 
established for recording, 
tracking and responding to 
potentially harmful allegations
Misappropriation & 
Reporting
Regular review of attitudes, 
incentives or pressures and 
opportunities to breach the control 
environment and assessment of 
the potential exposure arising from 
each of the categories of financial 
or other risk across the 
organisation
General Risks
Consideration of the total risk landscape, including corruption, 
price fixing, money laundering, bribery and other risks
Controls & Evaluation
Regular assessment of whether identified risks, including 
fraud risks, are mitigated by existing controls and the 
operating effectiveness of these controls
Management Information 
Systems
Establishing effective channels 
to promote the flow of quality 
information up, down and across 
the organisation
Communication, 
Awareness & Training
Providing fraud awareness 
training for employees, for 
example, as part of the 
induction programme and 
ensuring that this is regularly 
updated in line with bribery 
and other legislation
Gatekeeper Role
Ensuring that the Internal 
Audit plan addresses fraud 
risk and the controls 
designed to mitigate this, 
with Internal Audit reporting 
to the Audit Committee on a 
regular basis
Management Oversight
Adequate procedures established to ensure that, on a 
regular and continuing basis, senior management 
consider the effectiveness of the control environment 
and whether the risk assessment, and therefore the 
mitigating controls, requires amendment or update
Financial Reporting Risks
Compliance with accounting standards and best 
practice in our financial reporting SThree plc 13
Directors’ Report 
for the year ended 28 November 2010
The Directors present their Annual 
Report on the activities of the Group, 
together with the financial statements 
and auditors’ report for the year ended 
28 November 2010.
Group business review, 
principal activities and risks 
facing the business
The Chairman’s Statement, Chief 
Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial 
Officer’s Reviews and the Group 
Strategic Development Review, taken 
together with this Directors’ Report, 
provide information relating to the 
Group’s activities, its business and 
strategy and principal risks and 
uncertainties faced by the business, 
including analysis using financial 
and other KPIs where necessary. 
These, together with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, Corporate 
Governance and Corporate Social 
Responsibility Reports, provide an 
overview of the Group, including 
environmental and employee 
matters and give an indication of 
future developments in the Group’s 
business. This provides a balanced 
and understandable assessment of 
the Group’s position and prospects, in 
accordance with the Business Review 
requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006. SThree is a specialist 
permanent and contract staffing 
business, currently comprised 
of four main operating brands, 
Computer Futures, Huxley Associates, 
Progressive and Real Staffing Group, 
all of which operate under a well 
established multi-brand strategy. 
The first office, as Computer Futures, 
opened in London in 1986, whilst 
international expansion started in 
1998 with the launch of an office in 
Brussels. Each brand shares common 
services such as finance, information 
services, human resources and legal. 
The Group has grown organically 
and has a diverse client base of over 
7,000 clients. Offices are currently 
located in Europe, USA, Asia-Pacific 
and Middle East, with further offices 
planned to be opened in 2011. From our 
well-established position in the ICT 
sector, the Group has broadened its 
operations by building fast-growing 
businesses serving the Engineering 
& Energy, Banking, Accountancy 
& Finance, Pharmaceuticals and 
job board sectors. The Group began 
trading on the London Stock Exchange 
in November 2005 and in 2007 
launched a US Level One ADR facility. 
SThree has a selective approach to 
clients and focuses on high margin 
opportunities, predominantly within 
the small to medium-sized enterprises 
(‘SMEs’) market and, from its inception, 
the Group has avoided the high 
volume, low margin business model 
in favour of a focus on high quality 
business.
The Group’s main subsidiary 
undertakings are disclosed in the 
notes to the financial statements. 
During the year the Group initiated 
a corporate simplification project 
and, as a result, ended 2010 with a 
much reduced number of subsidiary 
companies. This project will continue 
into 2011.
Business model
SThree specialises in placing both 
permanent and contract staff in niche 
segments of the staffing market, 
with the ultimate aim of being the 
most respected and highly valued 
international, specialist staffing 
services business. Our highly 
successful business model is built 
around the following key factors:
•
  The Group’s medium to long term 
strategy is to roll out the SThree 
model to an increasing number of 
geographies and across a range of 
specialist staffing disciplines. At 
the same time the Group does not 
neglect the importance of its longer 
established franchises;
•
  Our default assumption is that the 
strategy will be based on organic 
growth;
•
  A key element of our strategy is 
that we remain highly selective 
regarding the quality of the 
business we undertake, focusing 
on high margin business;
•
  Our customer base is wide and 
varied, with a high percentage 
of SMEs (small and medium 
enterprises) particularly in the UK;
•
  Our multi-brand approach allows 
us to segment the market around 
specific niches. This allows us 
to credibly position ourselves as 
market experts, which in turn 
justifies a premium pricing position;
•
  Our entrepreneurial culture is 
reinforced by our ‘T racker Share’ 
(Minority Interest) model which is 
both a significant retention tool 
as well as a unique proposition to 
attract the brightest and best talent 
into the Group.
Key Performance Indicators 
(“KPIs”)
Both financial and non-financial Key 
Performance indicators (KPIs) are 
used throughout the Group to monitor 
progress, with the principal indicators 
listed in the table following. Where 
these relate to a strategic or Group 
level, appropriate analysis is provided 
within the Chief Executive Officer’s and  SThree plc 14
Directors’ Report (continued) 
for the year ended 28 November 2010
KPIs (financial) 2010 2009 Definition and method of calculation
Revenue £474.5m £519.4m T otal fees earned by the Group, before any cost deductions.
Gross Profit £166.4m £171.2m Revenue less cost of sales. Also known as Net Fee Income.
Profit Before T ax £21.6m £18.0m  Gross profit, less administration expenses and finance income/costs before 
exceptional items.
Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) 16% 105%  TSR is defined as share price growth plus dividends attributable to shareholders 
over a specific period. This measure is also used for the Group’s L TIP , over a three 
year period.
Adjusted Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) 11.9p 9.5p  Adjusted EPS is defined as profit before exceptional items for the year 
attributable to the Group’s equity shareholders divided by the weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the year. This measure is also used for the 
Group’s L TIP , over a three year period.
Group Gross margin 35.1% 33.0%  Gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
Contract margin 21.6% 22.1%  Contract gross profit as a percentage of contract revenue.
Gross Profit per Day Rate £85.70 £84.69  Contract gross profit per average number of working days.
Permanent fees £12.3k £11.9k  Average fees of permanent placements that started during the period.
Geographical diversification – 60% 55% Split of gross profit by location of client.
international mix
Sectoral diversification – non ICT 38% 28%  Split of gross profit by candidate skill set.
Contract/Perm mix 51%/49% 58%/42%  Proportion of gross profit attributable to contract and permanent placements.
Conversion ratio 12.8% 10.5%  The conversion ratio is the operating profit stated as a percentage of gross profit 
and measures how effective the Group is at controlling the costs and expenses 
associated with its normal operations and its level of investment for the future.
Cash Conversion 123% 326%  Cash conversion is calculated as the cash flows from operating activities for the 
year after deducting net normal capex stated as a percentage of operating profit 
before exceptional items and is a measure of the Group’s ability to convert profit 
into cash.
Debtor days (‘DSOs’) 37 37  Represents the length of time it takes the Company to receive payments from its 
debtors. It is calculated by comparing how many days’ billings it takes to cover 
the debtor balance.
KPIs (non financial)
Risk Management  As detailed within the Corporate Governance Report, the Group has continued to roll out its ERM 
framework throughout the business and has consequently further developed and enhanced its 
risk evaluation and ERM reporting mechanism, using an EBITDA measurement scale.
  During 2010, key Executive job descriptions were re-drafted to include reference to risk 
responsibility, with annual bonus also linked to up to 20% of the bonus opportunity and relating 
directly to progress towards the Company’s strategic objectives, in support of managing any 
related business risk and including meaningful compliance elements for all senior individuals.
Headcount/Churn  This is the measure of employee retention. Lower churn and higher headcount retention generally 
means increased productivity. It is also an indicator of morale.
Environmental  In late 2008, a strategic decision was made to conduct a Company-wide initiative to measure our 
carbon footprint and reduce energy consumption whilst taking steps to increase recycling by 50%, 
as detailed within the CSR report.
Interviews Number of interviews conducted by consultants per period.
Credit Risk Assessment  During 2010 the Group developed a Credit Policy, which sets out certain minimum requirements in 
order to do business with a potential customer/client.
Strategic Development Strategy  During 2010, the Group significantly enhanced its strategic development capabilities, to fully 
assess emerging market risks, off strategy risks, development pipeline and agreed other new 
venture minimum KPIs.
Compliance  Minimum contractor compliance standards in respect of client/contractor terms and rates/
duration/types and ID collection. Zero tolerance on Code of Conduct breaches or fines. SThree plc 15
Chief Financial Officer’s reviews. For 
financial KPIs, comparison figures are 
shown for both the current and prior 
year, whereas, for non-financial KPIs, 
no figures are generally applicable. The 
actual KPIs used will generally depend 
on the split of business, e.g. whether 
it is contract or permanent, as well as 
specific sector or geography. Annual 
bonuses are linked to a mixture of 
these KPIs, as well as other measures, 
depending on the specific role of the 
individual concerned.
Principal risks and 
uncertainties
The principal risks facing the business 
include the following:
Macro-economic environment/
cyclicality – The performance of 
the Group has a relationship and 
dependence on the underlying 
growth of the economies of the 
countries in which it operates in so 
far as it impacts client and candidate 
confidence. 2010 saw an improving 
picture across all markets, although 
still not fully recovered by historical 
standards. This is mitigated in part by 
maintaining:
•
  a balance of temporary and 
permanent recruitment;
•
  a broad exposure across 
geographies and sectors;
•
  a flexible cost base that enables 
us to react swiftly to changes in 
market conditions by increasing or 
reducing costs as appropriate; and
•
  a strong balance sheet with 
manageable debt levels.
A key part of the Group’s strategy 
is to continue to grow the size of its 
international businesses to reduce the 
Group’s reliance on any one specific 
economy, geography or sector.
Competitive environment – The Group 
continues to face competitor risk 
in the markets where the provision 
of permanent and temporary 
recruitment is most competitive 
and fragmented, being generally 
the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands. 
There is strong competition for 
clients and candidates, although we 
generally resist pricing and margin 
pressures across our major specialist 
activities. The Group’s strategy is to 
continue to grow its international 
businesses more aggressively in other 
geographies and sectors, including 
the less-developed markets of Asia 
Pacific and Rest of the World, to 
focus on more specialist niches, 
which tend to be less competitive, 
whilst also improving the efficiency 
and operations of our businesses 
throughout the organisation.
In Continental Europe and many 
parts of the world, the markets for 
the provision of recruitment services 
are somewhat less developed and 
the market place is also fragmented. 
Where these markets are still in a 
development phase, pricing pressure 
is less of a risk and our strategy is to 
rapidly grow our businesses in these 
territories.
Competitors in our markets are 
typically small, boutique, privately 
owned businesses. In all of our 
markets we are continually subject 
to both existing and new competitors 
entering into the markets in which 
we operate, in terms of geographic 
region and specialist activity. The 
competitive threat is from both 
small start-up operations and large 
multi-nationals attempting to enter 
the specialist market, as the costs 
of entry into specialist recruitment 
can be relatively low, although these 
costs have risen with increased levels 
of compliance required from local 
regulators and clients.
Commercial relationships/customer 
credit risk – The Group benefits from 
close commercial relationships with 
key clients in both the private and, 
to a much lesser extent, the public 
sectors, although it is not dependent 
on any single key client. However, 
like most companies, the Group is 
always subject to the risk that some 
customers might be unable to fulfil 
obligations, which could impact 
results.
Availability of candidates – The 
availability of highly skilled/quality 
candidates is essential to operating 
in niche/high margin areas. Changes 
in the other risk areas can affect 
candidate supply.
Contractual risk – Clients increasingly 
require more complex levels of 
compliance in their contractual 
arrangements. The Group takes 
these responsibilities seriously 
and contracts are therefore closely 
controlled via the Group’s centralised 
Legal and Business Administration 
functions and subject to regular audit 
by the Internal Audit function in order 
to reduce the risk of non-compliance. 
The Group also has clear guidance 
on the approval of contractual 
terms and monitors the application 
thereof, especially any exceptions 
to our standard liability position and 
insurance protection, which require 
the approval via the Legal Department 
and Group Company Secretary. 
The placing of temporary workers 
generally represents greater risk for 
the organisation than permanent 
placements. Wherever possible, 
contracts include clauses which place 
the responsibility for supervision and 
control of each contractor directly 
with the client, excluding any 
consequential loss and limiting the 
Group’s aggregate liability under the 
contract.
Directors’ Report (continued) 
for the year ended 28 November 2010 SThree plc 16
People – The Group is heavily reliant on 
the ability to recruit, train and develop 
people to meet its growth strategy. 
At the same time, the Group’s 
business model demands flexibility 
to expand or consolidate, depending 
on the economic environment. In 
response to this, the Group is focused 
on engaging with and developing 
its key managers in each sector/ 
geography and is committed to 
ensuring it has competitive pay and 
benefits structures, clearly linked 
to performance, combined with 
a succession planning process. 
Through training and development, 
it seeks to provide individuals with 
the leadership, sales, key customer 
management and general business 
skills that support the Group’s 
expansion needs, whilst providing a 
rewarding and challenging career. 
Regional and Country managers 
are also focused on allocating 
resources in respect of the best 
Group opportunities available.
Information T echnology – The Group 
is reliant on delivering its service 
to clients through a number of 
technology systems. These are 
housed in various locations and the 
Group has capacity to cope with 
a data or system loss as a result 
of a significant event through the 
establishment of disaster recovery 
sites that are physically based in 
separate locations to the ongoing 
operations. The Group is also reliant 
upon a number of important suppliers 
that provide critical information 
technology infrastructure. It 
continually monitors the performance 
and robustness of these suppliers to 
ensure business-critical processes are 
safeguarded as far as is practicably 
possible. Whilst the Group replaced its 
financial systems in 2006, these are 
periodically reviewed to ensure they 
are fully utilised and remain effective. 
In order to reduce any risks associated 
in upgrading key operational 
and financial systems, project 
management teams are appointed, 
including specialist IT , operational 
and external resource, utilising 
robust management tools which 
monitor progress across the life of any 
project. The business also continues 
to review and enhance its ability to 
cope with a significant data or other 
loss via its Business Continuity Plan 
arrangements.
Regulatory environment and legislative 
changes – The specialist recruitment 
industry is governed by increasing 
levels of compliance, which vary 
from country to country and market 
to market. The Group is committed 
to meeting all of its regulatory 
responsibilities and continues to 
strengthen its internal controls 
and processes with respect to legal 
and contractual obligations. As 
employment laws are changed and 
harmonised in certain geographies, 
this creates new risks and 
opportunities. The contract market is 
more heavily regulated and changes 
in legislation (such as changes in 
managed service company legislation 
or to contract worker rights) may 
impact the Group. The Group 
ensures that its policies, processes 
and systems reflect best practice, 
wherever possible in order to meet the 
legal requirements of the markets in 
which it operates.
Foreign exchange – The Group has 
significant operations outside the 
United Kingdom and is therefore 
exposed to movements in exchange 
rates. As profits from the Euro-based 
markets increase in proportion to 
the Group’s total profits, the foreign 
exchange risk also increases. The 
Board has undertaken a review of 
its currency hedging strategy to 
ensure that it is appropriate and 
currently the Group does not actively 
manage its exposure to foreign 
exchange risk by the use of financial 
instruments. However, the impact of 
foreign exchange will become a more 
significant issue as the business mix 
moves further towards international 
and the Group will therefore continue 
to monitor its policies in this area via 
its T reasury function.
Post balance sheet events
There have been no significant events 
since the balance sheet date.
Results and dividends
Information in respect of the Group’s 
profits, dividends and other key 
financial information is contained 
within the Chairman’s Statement, the 
Chief Executive Officer’s and Chief 
Financial Officer’s Reviews.
Directors and their interests
The current Directors of the 
Company, including biographies, are 
shown within the section ‘Board of 
Directors and Secretary’, as set out 
earlier in this Annual Report, with 
further details of Board Committee 
membership being set out within 
the Corporate Governance Report. 
All Directors served throughout the 
financial year, except Clay Brendish, 
who was appointed as Chairman on 
1 May 2010, succeeding Sir Anthony 
Cleaver who retired as Chairman at 
the Annual General Meeting on 23 April 
Directors’ Report (continued)
for the year ended 28 November 2010 SThree plc 17
Directors’ Report (continued) 
for the year ended 28 November 2010
2010. Sunil Wickremeratne also retired 
as a Director on 30 November 2010. 
Although not yet formally required, 
in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, all Directors will 
retire at the 2011 AGM and submit 
themselves for re-election. Further 
information is contained in the Notice 
of Meeting.
Other than employment contracts and 
Minority Interest loans to Gary Elden, 
none of the Directors of the Company 
had a material interest in any contract 
with the Company or its subsidiary 
undertakings. The key terms of the 
Directors’ service contracts, the 
Directors’ interests in the shares and 
options of the Company and Minority 
Interest loans to Gary Elden (in respect 
of Minority Interests approved prior 
to him becoming an SThree plc 
director) are disclosed in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
Supplier payment policy, 
essential contractors and 
change of control
It is the Group’s policy to comply with 
terms of payment negotiated with 
suppliers. Where payment terms are 
not negotiated, the Group endeavours 
to adhere to the suppliers’ standard 
terms. SThree plc acts as a holding 
company for the Group and does not 
trade and consequently does not 
have an average creditors’ payment 
period. T rade creditors of the Group at 
28 November 2010 were equivalent to 
24 days’ purchases (2009: 21 days). 
The Group has business relationships 
with a number of contractors but is 
not reliant on any single one.
There are no significant agreements 
to which the Company is party that 
take effect, alter or terminate upon 
a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover offer, with the 
exception of the RBS Invoice Finance 
agreement regarding the Group’s 
invoice discounting facility, dated 
8 October 2009.
The Company does not have 
agreements with any Director 
or employee that would provide 
compensation for loss of office 
or employment resulting from a 
takeover, except that provisions of the 
Group’s share plans and tracker share 
(‘Minority Interest’) arrangements, 
may cause options, awards or 
minority shareholdings to vest on a 
takeover.
Share capital
The authorised and issued share 
capital of the Company, together 
with details of the movements in the 
Company’s issued share capital during 
the year, are shown in the notes to the 
financial statements.
‘Tracker Share’ arrangements 
(formerly Minority Interests 
(‘MI’) model)
Since flotation, the Group has 
regarded its T racker Share 
arrangements (or Minority Stakes) 
model as a key factor in its success 
and it is planned to create more of 
these this year, on similar terms to 
those previously created, subject to 
shareholder approval at the AGM in 
April 2011.
Entrepreneurial employees within 
the Group often create ideas for 
new business opportunities, which 
the Group may elect to pursue and 
develop. Historically the Group has 
engaged with such key employees in 
setting up new brands for the purpose 
of pursuing these new ideas, which 
have typically evolved organically 
out of one of the existing SThree 
businesses, for example, JP Gray was 
established as a result of an idea 
presented to the Directors by certain 
senior managers of Computer Futures, 
who were then given the opportunity 
to manage and develop that new 
brand. T ypically, those managers of 
the new SThree brand will be able to 
invest, at the Company’s discretion, 
in the new venture and share in its 
success as well as the risk of failure.
As in prior years, only the Group’s key 
entrepreneurial employees may be 
invited to invest in the creation of any 
new tracker share business. In order 
to receive equity ownership such 
employees must invest in any stake at 
fair value and be actively engaged in 
that business for a minimum term of 
between three and five years. Should 
the employee wish to dispose of their 
stake the Company retains pre-
emption rights.
The minimum term for each new 
tracker share stake will be set at the 
outset and will normally be five years, 
but will never be less than three years, 
in order to allow the Group flexibility 
to adapt to the individual needs of its 
brands and businesses and differing 
rates of growth. SThree plc 18
Directors’ Report (continued)
for the year ended 28 November 2010
Although there are a number of 
different businesses in which 
key employees will be invited to 
invest, each invitation will be on 
generally similar terms to that used 
previously and it is normally therefore 
appropriate to put only one resolution 
to shareholders each year.
Also note that, for all prior 
shareholder authorities granted, 
the five year period available to the 
Company to make such offers to 
employees is to be renewed from the 
date of each Annual General Meeting, 
or any adjournment thereof.
The proposed resolution, together 
with the standard terms upon which 
the tracker shares are normally 
based, are outlined within the Notice 
of Meeting.
Authority to make purchases 
of own shares
The Company is, until the date of the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, 
generally and unconditionally 
authorised to buy back a proportion 
of its own ordinary shares. During 
the year no purchases were made, 
although the Directors will seek to 
renew the authority for up to 10% of 
the Company’s issued share capital at 
the Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ indemnities, 
insurance and conflicts of 
interest
Section 236 of the Companies Act 
2006 allows companies the power 
to extend indemnities to Directors 
against liability to third parties 
(excluding criminal and regulatory 
penalties) and also to pay Directors’ 
legal costs in advance, provided that 
these are reimbursed to the Company 
should the individual Director be 
convicted or, in an action brought 
by the Company, where judgement 
is given against the Director. The 
Company currently has a Directors’ 
and Officers’ insurance policy in place 
which provides this cover.
The Board also confirms that there 
are appropriate procedures in place 
to ensure that its powers to authorise 
any Directors’ conflicts of interest 
operated effectively during the year.
Corporate Governance
Please refer to the separate Corporate 
Governance Report.
Financial instruments
Information in respect of financial 
instruments is set out in the notes to 
the financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings
As at the date of this Report, the Group had been notified, in accordance with the Companies Act, of the following 
significant interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company although note that any interests of Directors which 
amount to over 3%, are shown in the Directors’ interests table within the Directors’ Remuneration Report:
Name of holder Number of shares Percentage shareholding
AXA 5,153,356 4.23%
Simon Peter Arber 3,392,047 2.79%
Blackrock 6,212,461 5.10%
William Frederick Bottriell 9,327,764 7.66%
Fidelity 6,028,475 4.95%
HBOS plc 6,983,314 5.21%
JP Morgan Asset Management (UK) Limited 7,021,061 5.07%
Legal & General Group plc 4,841,179 3.97%
Martin Currie Investment Management Limited 4,314,627 3.12%
Standard Life Investments Limited 10,977,355 9.02% SThree plc 19
Corporate and Social 
Responsibility
The Board recognises its 
environmental, health and safety 
and employment responsibilities 
and devotes appropriate resources 
towards monitoring compliance with 
and improving existing standards. 
The Chief Executive Officer has 
responsibility for these areas at 
Board level, ensuring that the Group’s 
policies are upheld and providing 
the necessary resources. Further 
information is contained in the 
Corporate Social Responsibility  
Report section.
Health and safety – The Group is 
committed to providing for the health, 
safety and welfare of all its employees. 
Every effort is made to ensure that 
the requirements of the Health and 
Safety at Work etc Act 1974 and all 
other relevant regulations and codes 
of practice are complied with.
Employees – The Group has 
continued its policy of informing all 
employees of matters of concern 
to them as employees, both in their 
immediate work situation and in the 
wider context of the Group’s well 
being. It encourages participation 
and involvement in matters which 
affect their interests as employees. 
Communication with employees 
is effected through the Group’s 
management briefings structure, 
Board Committees, formal and 
informal meetings and through the 
Group’s information systems. Informal 
communication is facilitated by emails 
to all Group companies.
The Group is also committed to 
achieving equal opportunities and to 
complying with anti-discrimination 
legislation. In addition, employees 
are encouraged to train and develop 
their careers. It is established Group 
policy to offer employees and job 
applicants the opportunity to benefit 
from fair employment, without regard 
to their sex, sexual orientation, marital 
status, race, religion or belief, age or 
disability.
The Group gives full and fair 
consideration to the employment of 
disabled persons for suitable jobs. 
In the event of members of staff 
becoming disabled every effort is made 
to ensure that their employment within 
the Group continues either in the job or 
in a suitable alternative. It is the Group’s 
policy to support disabled employees 
in all aspects of their training, 
development and promotion where it 
benefits the employee and the Group.
Information on employee share plans 
and share ownership is contained in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The Community – The Group is 
committed to providing support to 
the community and society through a 
number of charitable activities. During 
the period the Group made charitable 
donations of £64,957 (2009: £51,000). 
The Group made no donations for 
political purposes either in the UK or 
overseas during the year.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the 
Company will be held on 21 April 2011, 
at the Westbury Hotel, Bond Street, 
Mayfair, London W1S 2YF . A separate 
formal Notice of Meeting details all 
business to be transacted.
Auditors
As required by Section 418(2) of the 
Companies Act 2006, each Director 
in office, at the date of this Report, 
hereby confirms that:
•
  so far as the Director is aware, 
there is no relevant audit 
information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; 
and
•
  he/she has taken all steps that 
he/she ought to have taken as 
a Director in order to make him/
herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that 
the Company’s Auditors are aware 
of such information.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have 
indicated their willingness to continue 
in office. Accordingly, a resolution 
will be put to the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting proposing their 
re-appointment as auditors for the 
ensuing year.
Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Directors’ Report (continued) 
for the year ended 28 November 2010 SThree plc 20
Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law 
the Directors have prepared the 
Consolidated Group and Company 
financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. Under company 
law the Directors must not approve 
the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Consolidated Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of 
the Company and Consolidated Group 
for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
•
  select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently;
•
  make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
•
  state whether applicable IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union 
have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial 
statements;
•
  prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for 
keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of 
the Company and the Consolidated 
Group and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements and 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Consolidated 
Group financial statements, Article 
4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and 
the Consolidated Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in 
the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names 
and functions are listed above confirm 
that, to the best of their knowledge:
•
  the Consolidated Group and 
Company financial statements, 
which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and 
profit of the Consolidated Group 
and Company; and
•
  the Directors’ report, together 
with the Chairman’s Statement, 
the Chief Executive Officer’s and 
Chief Financial Officer’s Reviews, 
contained in the Annual Report 
includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of 
the business and the position of the 
Consolidated Group and Company, 
together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
By order of the Board 
Steve Hornbuckle
Group Company Secretary
28 January 2011
Registered Office: 
5th Floor, 
215-227, Great Portland Street, 
London, W1W 5PN
Directors’ Report (continued)
for the year ended 28 November 2010 SThree plc 21
Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the year ended 28 November 2010
Introduction
This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006 and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Regulations 2002, 
relevant provisions of the Listing 
Rules and (although not yet 
formally required) the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
The Regulations require the 
auditors to report to the Company’s 
shareholders on the ‘auditable part’ of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and to state whether in their opinion 
this part of the report has been 
properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006 (as amended 
by the Regulations). The report has 
therefore been divided into separate 
sections for unaudited and audited 
information and, as required by the 
Regulations, a resolution to approve 
the report will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Year in focus – summary
•
 No base salary increases 
awarded during the year ended 
28 November 2010, having regard 
to the economic background 
which existed at the time of the 
annual review and the associated 
impact on the majority of the 
Group’s employees;
•
 L TIP EPS performance targets for 
2010 reviewed and toughened;
•
 Up to 20% of bonus opportunity 
now relates to strategic 
objectives, in support of future 
profitability and managing 
business risk, including 
meaningful compliance elements 
for all senior individuals;
•
 Continued offering of two UK all 
employee share schemes (SAYE 
and SIP), with other countries 
being added, to deliver the 
policy of significant employee 
shareholder participation.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee 
(the ‘Committee’) determines 
the remuneration policy and the 
individual remuneration packages 
of the Chairman, the Executive 
Directors, the Group Company 
Secretary and certain key senior 
management posts. The Committee’s 
T erms of Reference were updated 
during 2010, particularly in the light 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and ICSA best practice guidelines, and 
are available at www.sthree.com.
During the year the Committee 
comprised only independent Non 
Executive Directors, being T ony 
Ward (Chairman), Alicja Lesniak 
and Nadhim Zahawi. The Chief 
Executive Officer, Group HR Director 
and remuneration advisors regularly 
attend meetings by invitation, except 
for matters related to their own 
remuneration. The Committee met 
four times during the year and no 
member of the Committee has any 
personal financial interest (other 
than as a shareholder) in the matters 
decided.
T o help achieve its objectives, 
following a review of various providers 
undertaken in 2007, the Committee 
appointed Deloitte LLP (‘Deloitte’) as 
its remuneration advisor. During the 
year the Committee took independent 
advice from Deloitte in relation 
to remuneration matters and on 
share incentive arrangements/tax 
efficiencies, for which it paid £41,500 
(2009: £44,825), excluding VAT. 
Deloitte have also undertaken tax 
services for the Company.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy has been 
designed to ensure that the Group 
has the capability to attract and 
retain Directors and senior managers 
of a high calibre, to align the interests 
of senior management with those 
of shareholders and be compliant 
with recommended practice. 
Individual pay levels are determined 
by reference to comparative 
market conditions, performance, 
experience and potential. In setting 
the policy the Committee considers, 
for benchmarking purposes, the 
remuneration of relevant senior 
management in comparable quoted 
or similar companies.
There are three main elements of the 
remuneration package for Executive 
Directors:
•
 fixed pay – basic annual 
salary and benefits, including 
company car allowance, pension 
contributions, and health 
insurance cover;
•
 variable annual pay – cash/share 
based bonus payments; and
•
 variable long term pay – share-
based long-term incentives.
In setting the policy on total 
remuneration, the Group’s policy 
is to position the base salaries of 
Directors and senior management 
at between lower quartile and 
median for the relevant comparative 
market, with a higher than average 
proportion of their remuneration  SThree plc 22
Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
being performance related. This policy 
was examined by Deloitte during the 
last benchmarking exercise and will 
continue to be reviewed to ensure that 
it remains appropriate.
Executive Directors’ 
basic salary and pension 
arrangements
The basic annual salaries of the 
Executive Directors for the year ended 
28 November 2010 were Russell 
Clements, £317,000; Gary Elden, 
£241,500; Alex Smith, £235,400; 
and Sunil Wickremeratne, £266,500. 
Salaries are normally reviewed in 
December each year and during 
2010 the Committee undertook a 
benchmarking of total compensation 
with the support of Deloitte. The 
Committee concluded from the 
available market data and also having 
considered the latest proposals for 
salary and benefits increases within 
the Group, that the base salary 
level for Russell Clements remained 
significantly below the comparable 
market level, whilst Alex Smith has 
now firmly established himself within 
his role as a fully competent CFO for a 
FTSE 250 size business, but was also 
behind the comparable market level.  
In addition, Sunil Wickremeratne, 
COO, left the business at the end 
of November 2010 and is not to 
be replaced at Board level for the 
foreseeable future.
The Committee indicated within the 
2008 and 2009 Annual Reports that it 
would look to make salary increases 
of no more than 10% per year in order 
to attain the required level. However, 
for 2010 the Committee decided to 
freeze salaries at their existing levels, 
with the proviso that it would resume 
its policy of making sure that salaries 
were adjusted to a level between the 
lower quartile and the median of the 
data when it was appropriate to do so.
Given the above circumstances, 
benchmark differentials have 
increased to the extent that they are 
currently in the region of 27% for 
Russell Clements and 11% for Alex 
Smith. Therefore, the Committee 
feels that a salary increase of 9.9% 
is appropriate for both in recognition 
of the benchmark comparisons, 
personal performance and experience 
accumulated in their respective roles, 
with a 9.9% increase also appropriate 
for Gary Elden in view of his additional 
Board responsibilities following the 
departure of the COO. All of these 
increases are to be applied from 
1 December 2010.
Executive Directors also receive 
an employer’s contribution to their 
personal pension schemes equivalent 
to 10% of their basic salaries, subject 
to each Executive Director making 5% 
personal contributions. Bonuses and 
benefits are not pensionable.
Annual Bonus Scheme
Executives receive annual bonus 
payments based on the achievement 
of Group targets for profit, cash and 
specific Group objectives, agreed by 
the Committee, with up to 20% of the 
bonus opportunity relating directly 
to progress towards the Company’s 
strategic objectives, in support of 
managing any related business risk. 
The maximum bonus opportunity for 
Executive Directors is 120% of salary, 
although for individuals below Board 
level this is uncapped, with deferral 
into shares for any achievement 
over 100% of salary, vesting in equal 
tranches over two years, provided 
the Executive remains employed 
with the Group. Where agreed targets 
are achieved, 50% of salary is paid, 
with maximum bonus payable for 
achieving 110% of target and with 
pro rata payment for achievement 
between 90% and 110% of target. No 
bonus is paid for achievement below 
90% of target.
Based on the Committee’s 
assessment of the performance 
during the year against the profit, 
cash and strategic targets for 
growth and international expansion, 
mostly in continuing difficult market 
conditions, an average bonus equal to 
113.26% of salary was accrued for all 
Executive Directors. The Committee 
considers overall performance, 
including risk management, as well as 
environmental, social and governance 
(‘ESG’) issues, when calibrating the 
remuneration of Executives, to ensure 
that the incentive structure for senior 
management does not inadvertently 
encourage irresponsible behaviour.
Long Term Incentive Plan
In November 2006, shareholders 
approved a share-based L TIP for 
Executive Directors and other 
members of the senior management 
team to provide an incentive to 
increase shareholder value and 
support alignment with shareholder 
interests through building a stake 
in SThree shares. No further awards 
are planned to be made under the 
Executive Share Option Scheme 
operated by the Company before 
flotation.
During 2009, the Committee 
commissioned Deloitte to review 
the Long T erm Incentive Plan (‘L TIP’) 
performance criteria and concluded 
that, in addition to the relative 
T otal Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) 
measure, an Earnings Per Share 
(‘EPS’) growth measure should be 
introduced to ensure that Executives 
are appropriately incentivised 
and rewarded, with each separate 
measure applying to 50% of the total 
L TIP award.
L TIP awards made in February 2010 
were granted with EPS targets of RPI 
plus 5% pa (minimum vesting) and 
RPI plus 10% pa (maximum vesting). 
U10224_pp21-28.indd   22 2/2/11   14:29:39 SThree plc 23
Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
 Company’s TSR ranking against  
Percentage of award that comparator group over performance  Company’s EPS growth over 
vests period performance period
None Below median Below RPI plus 6% pa
30% Median RPI plus 6% pa
80% N/A RPI plus 13% pa or better
100% Upper quartile or better RPI plus 15% pa or better
Pro rata on a straight line  Between median and upper quartile Between RPI plus 6% pa and 
between 30% and 100%  RPI plus 13% pa and between
(TSR) and 30% and 80% and  RPI plus 13% pa and RPI plus
80% and 100% (EPS)  15% pa
However, in the light of the steadily 
improving economic conditions and 
having taken into account the views 
of major shareholders, these targets 
were toughened to RPI plus 6% pa 
(minimum vesting) and RPI plus 13% 
pa (maximum vesting). T argets are 
reviewed annually by the Committee 
in the light of the current trading 
environment and, for awards to be 
granted in February 2011, EPS targets 
of RPI plus 6% pa (minimum vesting), 
RPI plus 13% pa (80% vesting) and RPI 
plus 15% pa (maximum vesting) have 
been approved.
The main features of the L TIP are as 
follows:
•
 Awards of shares can be made, 
each year, to Executive Directors 
and other Senior Executives in the 
form of forfeitable shares or share 
options (nil-cost or market value);
•
 The maximum annual face value 
of awards which may be made 
to Executive Directors is 175% of 
salary, whilst over a three-year 
period the Committee intends that 
no Executive Director will receive 
aggregate awards in excess of a 
face value of 450% of salary;
•
 All Executive Directors’ awards 
must be subject to a performance 
condition, assessed over the 
three years following the date 
of grant, with no facility to 
re-test performance. For other 
participants, the Committee has 
discretion to decide whether 
or not a performance condition 
should apply to grants;
•
 The current TSR peer group 
consists of some 40 UK-listed 
companies, all being recruitment 
or service companies from the 
FTSE Support Services, AIM or 
Fledgling indices, as follows: 
Empresaria Group plc, Experian 
plc, Garner plc, Harvey Nash Group 
plc, Hays plc, Healthcare Locums 
plc, Hexagon Human Capital 
plc, Highams Systems Services 
Group plc, Hyder Consulting plc, 
Hydrogen Group plc, Impeilam 
Group plc, Interquest Group plc, 
Kellan Group plc, Management 
Consulting Group plc, Matchtech 
Group plc, Michael Page 
International plc, Mitie Group plc, 
Morson Group plc, Mouchel Group 
plc, Network Group Holdings plc, 
Networkers International plc, 
Office2office plc, Penna Consulting 
plc, Pinnacle Staffing Group plc, 
Prime People plc, Regus plc, 
Rethink Group plc, Ricardo plc, 
Robert Walters plc, RPS Group plc, 
RTC Group plc, Saville Group plc, 
Servoca plc, Staffline Group plc, 
T ribal Group plc, Waterman Group 
plc, White Young plc, Work Group 
plc, World Careers Network plc and 
WS Atkins plc. This list is reviewed 
annually;
•
 The preferred EPS growth 
measure is to be Compound 
Average Growth Rate (‘CAGR’), 
as it rewards value creation 
equally over the period covered 
by the incentive. Pre-exceptional, 
undiluted EPS, is to be used as 
the basis for awards, so that any 
material abnormal influences 
are excluded and any abnormal 
influences which are not  
material but still significant are 
highlighted to the Committee for 
consideration as to treatment;
•
 Both the TSR and EPS measures 
being used for awards in 2011 are 
summarised below. For the EPS 
measure the Committee takes 
into consideration both internal 
and external forecasts in setting 
targets, as well as the guidelines 
of key investor bodies. The TSR 
measure remains as previously 
approved by shareholders.
Employee Benefit Trusts and 
Share Plans generally
The Group has a culture that 
encourages tax efficient share 
participation at all levels. T wo 
Employee Benefit T rusts (‘EBT s’), 
which were funded by gifts from  
some of the current and former 
Directors, hold assets comprising 
shares in the Company. Shares in 
the EBT s are mainly held for awards 
and grants under share option and  SThree plc 24
Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
share award schemes introduced 
prior to flotation, in which a number 
of employees still participate. In 
2009, shareholders approved the 
introduction of a Savings-Related 
Share Option Scheme (‘SAYE Scheme’) 
and a Savings & Investment Plan 
(‘SIP’), so that those UK employees 
who joined the Group after 2004 
and who could not benefit from the 
earlier share schemes could then 
have access to such all employee 
schemes. The Company intends to 
make available similar arrangements 
in other jurisdictions, subject to 
local laws, etc, where commercially 
justifiable and has set the critical 
mass of headcount for roll out in 
each country at 100 employees. Roll 
out will continue in 2011 for those 
countries which have already met 
this criteria, with new countries to be 
progressively added each year in line 
with the agreed headcount threshold, 
in normal circumstances.
In respect of those share plans and 
related T rusts introduced prior to 
flotation these comprise an Executive 
Share Option Scheme, the Forfeitable 
Share Plan, the Share Gift Plan, and 
the No.1 ESOP and No.2 ESOP . In 
respect of the No.2 ESOP , this had 
adopted a T rust Option Plan and had 
agreed to satisfy the majority of 
options granted under the Executive 
Share Option Scheme, and all awards 
under the Forfeitable Share Plan, with 
shares existing in the T rust. Under the 
terms of the T rust Deed constituting 
the No.2 ESOP , the T rustees have 
undertaken to waive all dividend 
rights on ordinary shares comprised in 
the trust fund. The Executive Directors 
do not currently participate in any of 
these arrangements.
Generally, in the event of a takeover, or 
similar, under the Group’s share plans, 
shares may generally be released 
or options exercised early, with the 
Committee normally taking into 
account the length of time between 
the start of any holding period and 
the triggering event, as well as the 
level of any performance criteria, up to 
the date of the triggering event. The 
Committee may also alter the rules 
of any share plan provided that this is 
not to the advantage of participants, 
in which case prior approval of the 
Company in general meeting must be 
obtained, whilst any amendment that 
is to the disadvantage of participants 
requires the consent of a majority 
of them. Under the SIP , shares are 
purchased on a monthly basis, at 
the then market price and matching 
shares are awarded on a 1:1 basis, 
provided that participants do not 
sell their purchased shares and also 
remain in employment within the 
Group for at least one year.
In terms of dilution, the Committee 
intends that awards under the L TIP , 
EBT s and other share plans should be 
satisfied by a combination of existing 
EBT shares, market purchases and 
new issue shares. Where new issue 
shares are used, this will be done 
in accordance with the guidelines 
provided by the Association of British 
Insurers. Expected value calculations 
of share incentives are not disclosed 
as these are not considered 
meaningful.
Executive Directors’ service 
contracts
It is the Company’s policy that 
Executive Directors should have 
contracts with a rolling term providing 
for a maximum of 12 months’ notice. 
Consequently, in the event of an early 
termination, the contractual right is to 
12 months’ basic salary and benefits, 
with mitigation being generally 
required to reduce any compensation 
payable to a departing Director.
The Executive Directors were employed 
on service contracts with the Group 
which commenced on 11 November 
2005 (both Russell Clements and Sunil 
Wickremeratne), 14 April 2008 (Gary 
Elden) and 7 May 2008 (Alex Smith). 
Each of these contracts provides 
an entitlement to a basic annual 
salary, performance bonus scheme 
participation, a company car allowance, 
pension contributions as well as health 
insurance cover and is terminable by 12 
months’ notice given by either party.
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors have 
specific letters of appointment, 
available upon request, and their 
remuneration is determined by the 
Board within the limits set by the 
Articles of Association and normally 
based on independent surveys of fees 
paid to Non-Executive Directors of 
similar companies. Remuneration is 
set taking account of the commitment 
and responsibilities of the relevant 
role. The Non-Executive Directors 
do not have service contracts. In 
2009, the Committee undertook a 
benchmarking review of fees payable 
to the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors with the support of Deloitte 
and the resulting proposal, that there 
should be no fee increase, was agreed 
with the Board.
Clay Brendish has a letter of 
appointment dated 1 May 2010, with 
his current annual fee being £125,000, 
whilst Alicja Lesniak, T ony Ward, Paul 
Bowtell and Nadhim Zahawi were 
appointed Non-Executive Directors 
on 3 May 2006, 14 August 2006, 
5 November 2007 and 1 May 2008, 
respectively, and receive annual fees 
of £35,000 each.
Clay Brendish is Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee, but receives 
no additional fee. Paul Bowtell is 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
for which he receives an additional 
fee of £5,000 pa, whilst T ony Ward  SThree plc 25
Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (‘TSR’)
The graph below shows the T otal Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) of the Company since flotation on 16 November 2005, for the 
Group and the FTSE Support Services index, which is considered the most illustrative comparator index for investors, as the 
Company is a constituent of this index and its constituents are also used for comparing pay and benefit levels.
also receives an additional fee 
of £5,000 pa as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. Non-
Executive Directors are appointed 
for an initial term of three years, 
terminable by either the Company 
or the Non-Executive Director at will, 
and, in normal circumstances, subject 
to performance and re-election at 
Annual General Meetings, they would 
be expected to serve for a second 
three-year term. Non-Executive 
Directors may be requested to serve 
for a further (third) three-year term 
subject to rigorous review at the 
relevant time and their agreement. 
Upon termination or resignation, Non-
Executive Directors are not entitled to 
compensation and no fee is payable in 
respect of the unexpired portion of the 
term of appointment. Non-Executive 
Directors cannot participate in any 
Company incentive scheme.
50
0
100
150
200
250
300
FTSE All Share Support Services SThree
16-Nov 05 16-Nov 06 16-May 07 16-Nov 07 16-May 08 16-Nov 08 16-May 06 16-May 09 16-Nov 09 16-May 10 16-Nov 10
T otal shareholder returns (rebased to 100)
Source: Datastream SThree plc 26
Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ remuneration
The table below summarises all Directors’ emoluments and pension contributions for the current and the prior year for 
comparison. No other awards were made to any Director during the year to 28 November 2010.
       2010 2009
   Salary Pension    
Name of Director  and fees contributions Benefits Bonuses Total Total 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors
Russell Clements  317.0 31.7 10.5 359.0 718.2 517.7
Gary Elden   241.5 24.2 10.5 273.5 549.7 389.1
Alex Smith   235.4 23.5 10.5 266.6 536.0 387.1
Sunil Wickremeratne (retired on 30 November 2010) 266.5 26.7 10.5 301.8 605.5 436.9
Non-Executive Directors
Clay Brendish (appointed on 1 May 2010)  72.9 – – – 72.9 –
Paul Bowtell   40 – – – 40 40
Alicja Lesniak  35 – – – 35 35
T ony Ward   40 – – – 40 40
Nadhim Zahawi  35 – – – 35 35
Sir Anthony Cleaver (retired on 23 April 2010)  41.6 – – – 41.6 100
Aggregate emoluments  1,324.9 106.1 42.0 1,200.9 2,673.9 1,980.8
Benefits in kind may include a company car, medical and life insurance, but are not included above unless paid as a 
cash allowance. Gary Elden received a reduction in salary between 1 March and 30 September 2009, due to him taking a 
pension salary sacrifice.
As mentioned earlier, Sunil Wickremeratne gave notice of his intention to retire as a Director of the Company in May 2010 
and retired on 30 November 2010 by mutual agreement. He worked six months’ notice and in line with his contractual 
entitlement, he will receive a payment in lieu of base salary for a further six months together with a payment in lieu of 
normal benefits for the six months outstanding notice period. He will receive his bonus for the year ended 28 November 
2010, subject to the Committee’s approval, in early 2011. He is also receiving the sum of £102,000 in consideration for 
covenants provided to the Company and in lieu of his bonus for 2011, on a pro rata basis.
In addition, Sunil will receive a payment of £5,000 per annum under the terms of a separate arrangement, similar to that 
which exists for William Bottriell, a former Director, who resigned in 2005 and who receive £5,000 per annum for services 
provided from time to time.
U10224_pp21-28.indd   26 2/2/11   14:29:53 SThree plc 27
Long Term Incentive Plan, Minority Stakes and other share options or awards
LTIP
The Committee has made the following awards to Executive Directors of forfeitable and deferred shares and options under 
the L TIP , with awards being subject to the Company’s TSR performance relative to peer group, as well as EPS, as detailed 
above. The next awards are to be made in February 2011.
      Shares 
LTIP – Date of Market/option price  Shares Shares Vesting outstanding as 
Name of Director grant/award at grant/award awarded lapsed date at 28 Nov 2010
Russell Clements 6/2/2008 196.75p 175,959 – 6/2/2011 175,959
Russell Clements 3/2/2009 154.50p 246,213 – 2/2/2012 246,213
Russell Clements 11/2/2010 299.40p 158,817 – 10/2/2013 158,817
Gary Elden 6/2/2008 196.75p 108,476 – 6/2/2011 108,476
Gary Elden 3/2/2009 154.50p 187,572 – 2/2/2012 187,572
Gary Elden 11/2/2010 299.40p 120,991 – 10/2/2013 120,991
Alex Smith 8/5/2008 183.5p 143,869 – 8/5/2011 143,869
Alex Smith 3/2/2009 154.50p 182,834 – 2/2/2012 182,834
Alex Smith 11/2/2010 299.40p 117,935 – 10/2/2013 117,935
Sunil Wickremeratne 6/2/2008 196.75p 147,903 (12,325) 6/2/2011 135,578
Sunil Wickremeratne 3/2/2009 154.50p 206,990 (86,246) 2/2/2012 120,744
Sunil Wickremeratne 11/2/2010 299.40p 133,517 (100,138) 10/2/2013 33,379
After performance testing of the L TIP awards granted in February 2007, 44% of the awards vested, with the remainder of 
the awards lapsing in accordance with the L TIP rules.
Under the L TIP rules, the awards of Sunil Wickremeratne were time apportioned at the date of leaving, therefore a number 
of shares lapsed, as detailed above.
In February 2010, awards for all L TIP participants were structured to include tax approved options, with funding awards also 
being granted at an option price of £1 in respect of the total award.
On 19 October 2010, the company introduced a Joint Ownership Plan (‘JOP’) in respect of the unapproved L TIP awards made 
in February 2010. JOP options over existing L TIP awards were granted to participants at 60p per share and apply to all of the 
Directors. Prior to the introduction of the JOP the Committee conducted modelling to ensure that there was no potentially 
significant cost to either the Company or participants.
Save As You Earn (‘SAYE’)
The following SAYE awards are held, each being exercisable three years from the date of grant, for a period of six months, 
at the option price.
      Shares 
SAYE – Date of Option price  Shares Shares Vesting outstanding as 
Name of Director grant/award at grant/award awarded lapsed date at 28 Nov 2010
Russell Clements 26/6/2009 158.40p 5,729 – 01/11/2012 5,729
Gary Elden 26/6/2009 158.40p 5,729 – 01/11/2012 5,729
Alex Smith 26/6/2009 158.40p 5,729 – 01/11/2012 5,729
Sunil Wickremeratne 26/6/2009 158.40p 5,729 3,010 01/11/2012 2,719
Under the SAYE rules, the shares of Sunil Wickremeratne were time apportioned at the date of leaving, therefore some 
awards lapsed, as stated above.
Gary Elden also holds small percentage shareholdings in a number of SThree businesses under the Group’s tracker 
share (minority stake) arrangements. The earliest of these was created in November 2006 and in some cases loans were 
provided by the Group to enable all senior individuals to acquire their shares. In Gary Elden’s case, loans totalling £305,216 
were granted under normal commercial terms on 30 November 2006 and 6 February 2007. All loans outstanding are 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued) SThree plc 28
expected to be repaid in full and details of the individual arrangements are also disclosed in the statutory accounts of 
the relevant businesses concerned. As an Executive Director, Gary cannot participate in any Minority Stake arrangement 
approved by shareholders after his appointment to the Board. However, at the AGM in April 2009, shareholders ratified his 
participation in the 2008 arrangements, as these were approved at the AGM in April 2008, but not actually created until 
after his Board appointment in July 2008.
No other awards or share options are held by the Executive Directors.
Directors’ interests in shares
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company at 28 November 2010 are 
shown below and there have been no changes to this information as at the date of this report. No Director had any other 
interest in the share capital of the Company or its subsidiaries, or exercised any share options, during the year, other than 
as already disclosed.
 Ordinary shares held at  Ordinary shares held at Percentage of 
Name of Director 30 Nov 2009 Changes in year  28 Nov 2010 Share Capital
Russell Clements 4,738,549 (975,788) 3,762,761 3.09%
Gary Elden 3,385,018 1,020 3,386,038 2.78%
Alex Smith 398 1,230 1,628 Below 0.1%
Sunil Wickremeratne  
(retired on 30 November 2010) 10,671,373 20,501 10,691,874 8.78%
Clay Brendish (appointed on 1 May 2010) – 13,500 13,500 0.01%
Paul Bowtell 10,000 – 10,000 0.01%
Alicja Lesniak 4,245 – 4,245 0.01%
T ony Ward 12,063 – 12,063 0.01%
Nadhim Zahawi 14,720 – 14,720 0.01%
Sir Anthony Cleaver (retired on 23 April 2010) 152,446 – 152,446 0.13%
Interests in shares relate only to ordinary shares of 1 pence each, but may include partnership and matching shares held 
in trust under the SIP , which are subject to forfeiture conditions in certain circumstances. SIP participants may also 
reinvest dividends by way of a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (‘DRIP’) and any shares resulting from the DRIP are included in 
the above totals.
The Company has in place formal shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors. As such, all Executive Directors 
must attain a level of shares equivalent to at least 100% base salary within five years of 1 December 2008, or their date 
of appointment. Although there is no formal shareholding requirement below Executive Director level, most Executive 
Committee members already hold shareholdings well in excess of this level in line with the Group’s culture of encouraging 
share participation at all levels. In particular, it is currently estimated that, in total, over 30% of the Company’s share 
capital is held by Directors, Founders, the Employee Benefit T rusts, senior management and other employees.
On 26 November 2010, the last dealing day before the year end, the closing market price of SThree plc ordinary shares 
was 278.8p. The highest and lowest closing prices of these shares during the year, was 380.5p and 231.1p respectively, 
based on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Approval
This report was approved by the Committee, on behalf of the Board, on the date shown below and signed on its behalf by:
Tony Ward, OBE
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
28 January 2011
Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued) SThree plc 29
The Board believes that high 
standards of corporate governance are 
intrinsic to the Company’s culture and 
values. In particular:
•  They are central to its core values 
and strategy, including integrity, 
professional excellence and 
sustainability, as stated in this 
Annual Report;
•  They underpin the objectivity 
of such processes as balance 
sheet and cash management, 
risk management, the design 
and operation of Executive 
remuneration and succession 
planning;
•  They are the basis for the 
accountability of Executive 
management to the Board and 
of the Board to Company’s 
shareholders.
This report outlines how the Company 
has complied with the Main Principles 
of the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance, revised by the Financial 
Reporting Council in June 2008 (‘the 
Combined Code’).The Board considers 
that it complied with all key provisions 
of section 1 (Companies) of the 
Combined Code.
The Board has also taken account of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in May 2010 (‘the Code’). 
Although compliance with the Code 
is not yet formally required, the table 
below summarises how the Company 
has applied the main/supporting 
principles and provisions of the Code 
since its publication.
Corporate Governance Report 
for the year ended 28 November 2010
Relevant section of the Code Commentary (including relevant Code provision)
A. Leadership
A.1 The Role of the Board  The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership and overall control of the Group, setting a 
framework of prudent and effective controls to enable risks to be properly assessed and 
managed. Its primary role is to create value for stakeholders, to agree and approve the 
Group’s long-term strategic objectives and to develop robust corporate governance and risk 
management practices, whilst ensuring that the necessary financial and other resources 
are in place to enable those objectives to be met. In undertaking this, the Board also reviews 
management performance and sets the Company’s values and standards, with all Directors 
acting in what they consider to be the best interests of the Company, consistent with their 
statutory duties.
  Certain powers are delegated to the Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and 
Nomination Committees, with details of the roles and responsibilities of these Committees 
being set out under the relevant section below. In addition, the Board has agreed T erms 
of Reference for its other formal committees in order to facilitate more efficient working 
practices and these include the Executive Committee, the Investment Committee, a 
Routine Business Committee, a Disclosure Committee and CSR Committee, to provide a 
clear framework of delegated and other authorities. During 2010, all Committees’ terms of 
reference were updated, particularly in the light of the UK Corporate Governance Code and 
ICSA best practice guidelines.
  A.1.1 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and 
has identified key financial and operational areas that require regular reporting and which 
enable the performance of Executive management to be reviewed and monitored. These 
are set out in a schedule of matters reserved to the Board, which is reviewed and kept 
updated on a regular basis. The schedule outlines all matters requiring specific consent of 
the Board, which include, inter-alia, the approval of Group strategy and operating plans, the 
annual budget, the Annual Report, the Interim Report and related announcements, major 
divestments and capital expenditure, large acquisitions and disposals, the recommendation 
of dividends and the approval of treasury and risk management policies. The schedule 
therefore facilitates structured delegation, subject to certain financial limits and provides  SThree plc 30
Corporate Governance Report  
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
a practical framework for executive management/reporting, which seeks to achieve the 
objectives of maintaining effective financial and operational controls, while providing 
sufficient flexibility to manage the business. The current schedule of matters reserved to 
the Board is available on the Company’s website, www.sthree.com.
  A.1.2 The current Directors of the Company, including biographies, are shown within the 
section ‘Board of Directors and Secretary’, as set out earlier in this Annual Report, with 
further details of Board Committee membership being set out below. The number of, and 
attendance at, Board and Committee meetings during the year, is also shown in a table 
below. Almost all meetings were fully attended and, outside these, there was frequent 
contact between Directors to discuss the Company’s affairs and develop its business.
  A.1.3 Appropriate insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action against the Directors.
A.2 Division of A.2.1 There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief 
Responsibilities  Executive Officer and they have been set out in writing and approved by the Board so that no 
one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
A.3 The Chairman  The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy and in the achievement 
of its objectives and is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its 
effectiveness, timing, and setting its agenda but has no involvement in the day-to-day 
business of the Group. The Chairman allows adequate debate by all, whilst facilitating the 
effective contribution of the NEDs, including Board induction and evaluation, ensuring 
constructive relations between Executive and NEDs and that the Directors receive accurate, 
timely and clear information, to facilitate effective communication with shareholders.
  The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and overall 
responsibility to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group, under 
a job description which clearly sets out these responsibilities.
  A.3.1. As stated below, the Chairman met on appointment and continues to meet the 
independence criteria set out under the Code.
A.4 Non Executive A.4.1 T ony Ward is appointed as the Senior Independent NED and is available to 
Directors  shareholders to discuss strategy or governance issues or should there be matters of 
concern that have not, or cannot, be addressed through the normal channels.
  A.4.2 The Chairman meets with the Non Executive Directors (‘NEDs’) without the Executive 
Directors being present, either before or after each Board meeting and this is formally 
minuted, whilst the Senior Independent Non Executive Director (‘SID’) holds annual 
discussions with the other NEDs without the Chairman being present and also with the 
Executives, in order to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
  A.4.3 Each Director ensures that if he/she has any concerns which cannot be resolved, 
about the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes, 
whilst upon resignation, Non-Executives are invited to provide a written statement to the 
Chairman for circulation to the Board, should they have any concerns. SThree plc 31
Corporate Governance Report  
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
B. Effectiveness
B.1 Composition of The Board comprises a balance of Executive and NEDs who bring a wide range of skills,
the Board  experience and knowledge to its deliberations. The NEDs fulfil a vital role in corporate 
accountability and have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by 
the Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best long-
term interests of shareholders, but also to take proper account of the interests of customers, 
employees and other stakeholders. The NEDs are all experienced and influential individuals 
and through their mix of skills and business experience they contribute significantly to 
the effective functioning of the Board and its Committees, ensuring that matters are fully 
debated and that no one individual or small group dominates the decision making process.
  Directors have a wide range of experience of various industry sectors relevant to the Group’s 
business and each member brings independent judgement to bear in the interests of the 
Company on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct. The 
Board is of sufficient size to match business requirements, whilst accommodating any 
changes, and members have an appropriate and varied range of skills, vital to the success of 
the Group.
  The composition of the Board and its various Committees is reviewed and evaluated so as 
to reflect the Board’s and the Committees’ balance of skills, expected time commitment, 
knowledge and experience. The Directors’ aim is to ensure that the balance of the Board 
and its Committees reflects the changing needs of the Group’s business and therefore 
composition, balance and skills are all regularly monitored and refreshed as necessary.
  B.1.1 Excluding the Chairman, the other NEDs have been determined by the Board 
throughout the year as being independent in character and judgement with no relationships 
or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Director’s 
judgement.
  B.1.2 The Board comprises the Non Executive Chairman, who is not classed as independent 
because of his position but who met the independence criteria set out in the Code on 
appointment, three Executive Directors and four independent NEDs. This is in compliance 
with the Code, which requires at least half of the Board to consist of independent NEDs.
B.2 Appointments Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board, upon the 
to the Board  recommendation of the Nomination Committee and after appropriate external consultation, 
bearing in mind the Board’s existing balance of skills and experience, the specific role 
needs identified, and with due regard for diversity, including gender. Succession planning 
aspects are regularly reviewed by the Committee, in order to ensure an orderly progression/
refreshment of senior management/Board members and maintain an appropriate balance of 
skills, experience and diversity both within the Company and on the Board.
  B.2.1/2 Under the direction of the Nomination Committee, each formal selection process 
is conducted, using external advisors, consisting of a series of interview stages, involving 
Directors and other senior Executives, each being set against a specific role definition and 
objective criteria. Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are 
set out under the relevant section below.
  B.2.3 NEDs are appointed for specified three year terms, with all Directors being subject to 
annual re-election. The Company’s Articles of Association set out clear powers of removal, 
appointment, election and re-election of Directors. SThree plc 32
Corporate Governance Report  
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
B.3 Commitment  B.3.1 During 2009, when the Nomination Committee last initiated the search for a new 
Director, a detailed job specification was prepared, setting out an assessment of the time 
commitment expected. All potential Director candidates are required to disclose any 
significant outside commitments prior to appointment and must undertake that they have 
sufficient time to meet these, in addition to Company business, particularly in the event of a 
crisis.
  B.3.2 Upon joining the Board, each NED receives a formal appointment letter which identifies 
their formal responsibilities and expected minimum time commitment, being typically two 
days per month. These letters are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office.
B.4 Development  At scheduled Board and Committee meetings, Directors receive detailed reports from 
executive management on the performance of the Group, with managers giving regular 
presentations on their areas of responsibility. NEDs are invited to attend the Group’s 
annual conference in order to join senior management from each geographic area, to 
discuss current initiatives and Board meetings are also scheduled at office locations 
spread throughout the globe, in order to allow all Directors to meet local managers and 
improve international understanding. Directors are provided with written materials on their 
responsibilities as Directors of a public company and on other relevant regulatory, legal, 
governance and accounting matters. Regular updates are provided on a range of  
other relevant topics, as required, and Directors are also encouraged to attend external 
seminars on areas of relevance to their role in order to facilitate their professional 
development.
  These measures help to ensure that the Directors continue to develop their knowledge of 
the Group’s business and get to know its senior management, as well as being aware of their 
general responsibilities. In addition, the Board encourages Executive Directors to accept 
external appointments in order to broaden their experience, although currently no such 
positions are held.
  B.4.1 An induction programme is available for new appointments and this is tailored to each 
individual to ensure that it is appropriate for their role and level of previous experience. 
Directors and other senior Executives attend analysts’ briefing sessions and major 
shareholders may, upon appropriate request, meet new NEDs.
  B.4.2 As part of the annual Board evaluation process, the Chairman assesses and agrees 
any training and development needs in respect of individual Directors, including on 
environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) matters, where appropriate. Following the 2010 
evaluation exercise, specific training needs were identified for all Executive Directors.
B.5 Information and Board and Committee meeting papers are circulated well in advance of the relevant 
Support  meeting and where a Director is unable to attend he/she is provided with a copy of the 
papers and has the opportunity to comment on the matters under discussion. Minutes 
of all Committee meetings are circulated to all the Directors, irrespective of Committee 
membership.
  The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows between 
the Board/Committees and senior individuals/NEDs, as well as assisting in other areas 
and has primary responsibility for advising the Board, via the Chairman, on all governance 
matters. SThree plc 33
Corporate Governance Report  
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
  B.5.1 Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, at the Company’s 
expense, in the performance of their duties as Directors and no such advice was sought 
during the year. All Committees are serviced by the Group Company Secretary’s team and 
are appropriately resourced.
  B.5.2 Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who 
is responsible to the Board for ensuring that its procedures are complied with and to assist in 
arranging any additional information as required. The appointment and removal of the Group 
Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole and the last appointment 
was made in October 2006.
B.6 Evaluation  An annual performance evaluation process, led by the Chairman, is in place to evaluate 
the Board, Committees and individual Directors. Questions are designed to ensure that 
the performance of each individual Director and the functioning, constitution and work 
of the Board and each Committee are properly assessed. The Chairman also discusses 
the individual performance of Directors, in consultation with other Directors. These 
assessments concluded that, overall and individually, the performance of the Board, each 
Committee and each Director was and is effective and that Directors demonstrate full 
commitment in their respective roles.
  B.6.1 The evaluation process is considered to be both formal and rigorous and takes the 
form of a questionnaire completed by each Director, giving his/her assessment of both  
collective and individual performances, with the results being reviewed and debated at 
both Board and Committee level as well as with the individual Director concerned, where 
appropriate. As a result of the action points arising from the 2010 evaluation, a number of 
improvements have been made in areas such as risk management information flows to 
the Board, length of meetings, NED mentoring, succession planning scope and Executive 
development initiatives.
  B.6.2 The Board will continue to develop its evaluation processes, as necessary, in order 
to take into account evolving best practice with regard to external facilitation, although no 
external provider has yet been appointed.
  B.6.3 The SID holds annual discussions with the other NEDs without the Chairman being 
present and also with the Executives, in order to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
B.7 Re-election  B.7.1 The Company’s Articles of Association state that a Director appointed by the Board 
shall hold office only until the next AGM, unless re-elected during that meeting. Additionally, 
each Director must retire at the AGM held in the third calendar year following the year in 
which he/she was elected or last re-elected, but shall be eligible for re-election. However, as 
recommended by the Code, all Directors will retire and seek re-election at the AGM annually.
  B.7.2 Reference to performance and commitment of Directors, as well as an explanation of 
the reason why each retiring Director should be re-elected, are all provided in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). The Company also complies fully with the Code in respect of 
its AGM voting arrangements and RNS disclosure.
C. Accountability
C.1 Financial and The Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial Officer’s Reviews,
Business Reporting  taken together with this Directors’ Report, provide information relating to the Group’s 
activities, its business and strategy and principal risks and uncertainties faced by the  SThree plc 34
Corporate Governance Report  
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
business, including analysis using financial and other KPIs where necessary. These, 
together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report, Corporate Governance and Corporate 
Social Responsibility Reports, provide an overview of the Group, including environmental 
and employee matters and give an indication of future developments in the Group’s 
business. This provides a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s position 
and prospects, in accordance with the Code.
  C.1.1 The Directors’ responsibility for preparing the accounts and statement by the auditors 
about their reporting responsibilities are set out in the Directors’ Report and Independent 
Auditors’ Report, respectively.
  C.1.2 An explanation of the business model and the strategy for delivering the objectives of 
the Group is included as part of the Chief Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial Officer’s 
Reviews.
  C.1.3 A ‘going concern’ statement is included in the Directors’ report.
C.2 Risk Management C.2.1 The Board’s statement regarding its review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk
and Internal Control management and internal control systems is set out below and this is reviewed annually.
C.3 Audit Committee  Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under 
and Auditors the relevant section below.
D. Remuneration
D.1 Level and Components  The Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out in full, the policies and practices which 
demonstrate the Company’s implementation of this Code principle and provisions.
D.2 Procedure  Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under the 
relevant section below and in the Directors’ Remuneration report.
E. Relations with Shareholders
E.1 Dialogue with Communications with shareholders are given a high priority. The Company produces 
Shareholders  Annual and Interim Reports which are published for all shareholders and the Company’s 
website contains up-to-date information on the Group’s activities, investor presentations 
and published financial results. Shareholders can also subscribe for e-mail alerts of 
important announcements made.
  There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, whilst ensuring that price sensitive 
information is released at the same time to all, in accordance with the requirements of the 
UK Listing Authority. Presentations are made after the Company has published its full and 
half year results and there is also dialogue on specific issues, such as the appointment of a 
new Chairman, Minority Interests, introduction of and changes to the Long T erm Incentive 
Plan and on other key remuneration issues.
  E.1.1 The Chairman, Senior Independent and other NEDs are available to shareholders to 
discuss governance or strategy issues or should there be matters of concern that have 
not, or cannot, be addressed through the Executive Directors. During the year, both the 
Chairman and SID conversed with shareholders, with appropriate feedback being provided to 
the Board at its next following meeting. SThree plc 35
Corporate Governance Report  
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
  E.1.2 Views of analysts, brokers and institutional investors are sought on a non-attributed basis 
via periodic sentiment surveys and these, as well as regular analyst and broker publications, 
are circulated to all Directors to ensure that all can develop an understanding of the views of 
major shareholders. Any issues or concerns are raised at the Board and Directors routinely 
receive regular reports on share price, trading activity and sector updates.
E.2 Constructive The Board views the AGM as a valuable opportunity to communicate with private and 
use of AGM institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
  E.2.1 The Company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and 
the proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide shareholders with the option to 
direct their proxy to vote either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
  E.2.2 The Company’s registrars ensure that all valid proxy appointments received for the 
AGM are properly recorded and counted and a schedule of proxy votes cast is made available 
to all shareholders attending the meeting. There is full disclosure of the voting result via 
RNS and on the Company’s website as soon as practicable after the AGM has concluded.
  E.2.3 All Board members are encouraged to attend the AGM and in particular, the Chairmen 
of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
  E.2.4 The Notice of AGM is posted at least twenty working days prior to the date of the 
meeting and the Company’s website contains copies of all Notices issued.
Board and Committee Composition and Attendance (in accordance with A.1.2 of the Code)
As stated, the Board has established various Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures 
and powers. During 2010, all Committees’ terms of reference were updated, particularly in the light of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and ICSA best practice guidelines and all Committees operate in accordance with the relevant terms of 
reference, approved by the Board, with copies of these being available on request from the Group Company Secretary or 
downloadable from www.sthree.com.
In addition to the scheduled Board meetings held during the year, the Board met for an off site strategy session held over 
two days and for the AGM. The number of meetings held for the Board and each respective Committee, and attendance 
thereat, is as follows and includes the meetings held in early December 2010:
Directors Possible attendance Actual attendance
    Remun- Nom-   Remun- Nom-
  Board Audit eration ination Board Audit eration ination
Clay Brendish*  6 N/A N/A 1 5 N/A N/A 1
Russell Clements  10 N/A N/A 2 9 N/A N/A 2
Sunil Wickremeratne  9 N/A N/A N/A 9 N/A N/A N/A
Alex Smith  10 N/A N/A N/A 10 N/A N/A N/A
Gary Elden  10 N/A N/A N/A 9 N/A N/A N/A
T ony Ward  10 N/A 4 2 10 N/A 4 2
Alicja Lesniak  10 4 4 2 9 4 3 1
Paul Bowtell  10 4 N/A 2 8 4 N/A 1
Nadhim Zahawi  10 4 4 N/A 8 3 3 N/A
*Clay Brendish was appointed as Chairman on 1 May 2010 and, due to prior commitments, was unable to attend all 
meetings. The other Directors were unable to attend due to other business or parliamentary commitments, although full 
Board packs were despatched and separate discussions held on relevant points of interest in all cases. SThree plc 36
Corporate Governance Report  
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
Audit Committee (in 
accordance with C.3.1 to C.3.7 
of the Code)
The Audit Committee consists of 
Paul Bowtell (Chairman), Alicja 
Lesniak and Nadhim Zahawi, and 
accordingly comprises at least three 
independent NEDs as required by the 
Code. The Chief Executive Officer, 
the Chief Financial Officer, the Group 
Company Secretary and the external 
auditors attend all meetings at the 
request of the Committee. Paul 
Bowtell is a Chartered Accountant 
and is considered by the Board to 
have recent and relevant financial 
experience, given his recent role 
as Chief Financial Officer of TUI 
T ravel PLC.
The Committee’s principal 
responsibilities are set out in its terms 
of reference and, broadly, are: to 
monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Company and any 
formal announcements relating to 
the Company’s financial performance; 
reviewing any significant financial 
reporting issues and judgements 
contained within them; to review the 
Company’s internal financial controls, 
internal control and risk management 
systems and reporting thereon, 
including advising on risk appetite, 
tolerance and strategy, as well as risk 
exposures and assessment; advising 
on proposed strategic transactions, 
including conducting due diligence 
appraisals and focussing on 
risk aspects; assessing material 
breaches of risk limits; advising on 
risk performance and remuneration 
aspects; reviewing arrangements by 
which Group employees may raise 
concerns about possible improprieties 
in financial reporting or other such 
matters and ensuring appropriate 
follow up; assessing procedures for 
detecting fraud or preventing bribery; 
overseeing the remit of the risk 
management function; to monitor 
and review the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal audit function; to 
make recommendations to the Board, 
for it to put to the shareholders for 
their approval in general meeting, 
in relation to the appointment, 
re-appointment and removal of the 
external auditor and to approve 
the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditor; 
to annually review and monitor the 
external auditor’s independence and 
objectivity and the effectiveness 
of the audit process, taking into 
consideration relevant UK professional 
and regulatory requirements; to 
develop and implement policy on the 
engagement of the external auditor 
to supply non-audit services, taking 
into account relevant ethical and 
professional guidance regarding the 
provision of non-audit services by 
the external audit firm, reporting to 
the Board, identifying any matters 
in respect of which it considers that 
action or improvement is needed and 
making recommendations as to the 
steps to be taken and generally to 
identify and report on any business 
areas where action or improvement 
are needed and recommend actions 
to be taken.
The Committee considers 
matters relating to the 
recommendation for appointment, 
re-appointment, remuneration 
and terms of engagement of 
the Company’s external auditor, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (’PwC’). 
Both the Committee and the external 
auditors themselves have safeguards 
in place to ensure that objectivity 
and independence is maintained, 
including the periodic rotation of the 
audit partner. In addition to the annual 
appointment of the external auditors 
by the shareholders, the Committee 
regularly reviews their independence 
taking into consideration relevant 
UK professional and regulatory 
requirements. The Committee 
reviews performance and fees 
charged, including compensation 
structure and meets with the external 
auditor at least once a year without 
management present.
The Committee considers that the 
relationship with the external auditors 
is working well and remains satisfied 
with their effectiveness. Accordingly, 
to date, it has not considered it 
necessary to require PwC to re-tender 
for the audit work. The external 
auditors are required to rotate audit 
partners responsible for the Group 
audit every five years and the 
current lead audit partner has been 
in place for two years. There are no 
contractual obligations restricting the 
Group’s choice of external auditor.
In 2009, the Committee reviewed its 
policy on non audit work which may 
be undertaken by the external auditor 
and closely monitors such work. This 
policy provides that non-audit work 
may be carried out by the external 
auditor only where that work does not 
impair independence or objectivity 
and where the Committee believes 
that it is in the Group’s best interests 
to make use of the external auditor’s 
knowledge of the business, skills and 
experience. Such work has included 
detailed local statutory audits or other 
services required due to legislation, 
as well as assurance work and other 
specialist services where no internal 
resource is currently available. The 
Committee continuously monitors 
the quality and volume of this work, 
the level of fees incurred, as well 
as safeguards, in order to assess 
whether to use other accounting 
firms (or appropriately qualified 
organisations) and, as a consequence, 
has now appointed BDO LLP to 
provide general tax advice.
In accordance with APB Ethical 
Standards and FRC guidance, this 
policy clearly specifies: (i) which 
types of non audit work are excluded,  SThree plc 37
Corporate Governance Report  
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued)
for example, book-keeping; design, 
implementation and operation of 
systems; actuarial and internal 
audit/control functions; executive 
management functions and legal or 
other financial services; (ii) the types 
of work for which external auditors 
can be engaged without referral to the 
Committee, i.e. provided such services 
are specifically listed within the policy 
and fall below £50,000; and (iii) for 
which types of work a referral to the 
Committee is necessary, i.e. non listed 
services or those listed within the 
policy which are above £50,000.
Details of fees paid to the external 
auditors for both audit and non audit 
work are given in the Notes to the 
financial statements. The Committee 
has fully evaluated this work against 
its formal policy and remains 
comfortable that it is appropriate and 
the fees justified. Although the level 
of non audit fees paid out in 2010 is 
higher than the level of audit fees paid 
out, much of this work is in relation to 
key projects, including in particular 
the Group’s corporate simplification 
project, as well as for general tax 
advice. The level of non audit fees 
is expected to reduce significantly 
in 2011, given the significant 
streamlining of the Group’s structure 
which was achieved, predominantly 
in 2010, as well as the appointment 
of BDO LLP to provide tax advice, as 
mentioned above.
Following its creation, the Group has 
continued to expand its internal audit 
function, which is now at full strength. 
The Committee believes that this 
function remains effective and adds 
significant value.
The Group also has in place a 
dedicated independent whistle 
blowing hotline, as part of the 
arrangements set up and monitored 
by the Committee, so that employees 
are able to report any matters 
of concern, where this does not 
conflict with local laws or customs. 
More information is given within 
the Corporate Social Responsibility 
section.
Nomination Committee (in 
accordance with B.2.1, B.2.2 
and B.2.4 of the Code)
The Nomination Committee consists 
of Clay Brendish (Chairman), T ony 
Ward, Alicja Lesniak and Paul Bowtell 
and accordingly comprises a majority 
of independent NEDs as required by 
the Code.
The Nomination Committee’s 
terms of reference are, broadly: 
to regularly review the structure, 
size and composition (including the 
skills, knowledge and experience 
and diversity) of the Board, make 
recommendations with regard to 
any changes and to review and 
prepare relevant job descriptions 
for new appointees. The Committee 
also considers future succession 
planning for Board and other senior 
Executive roles, reviewing leadership 
and other role needs, bearing in mind 
the balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity already 
on the Board, so as to maintain an 
appropriate balance. The Committee 
engages external search consultants 
with respect to both Executive and 
Non-Executive Board appointments, 
and considers applicants from all 
backgrounds, as was the case for 
the most recent appointment, being 
Clay Brendish. In this, and in other 
cases, the Committee first conducted 
an evaluation of the balance of 
skills, knowledge and experience on 
the Board and, in the light of this, 
prepared an appropriate description of 
the role and capabilities required for 
the particular appointment, with the 
successful appointee being selected 
from candidates proposed by external 
advisors and chosen entirely on merit.
In terms of succession planning, 
the Group has continued its ‘T op 
60’ leadership initiative, bringing 
together key managers from around 
the globe at regular sessions, in order 
to identify and develop the most 
talented individuals for executive 
positions. As part of this initiative, 
Egon Zehnder International undertook 
detailed evaluations of senior key 
individuals below Board level, with 
outputs being discussed by the 
Committee, which closely monitors 
these activities to ensure that they are 
continually aligned with the Group’s 
strategy. Non Executives are also 
to be involved in the mentoring of 
selected key individuals, from time to 
time, as agreed with the Committee 
and initiatives such as ‘Women in 
Management’ have been instigated 
during the year to promote diversity.
Remuneration Committee (in 
accordance with D.2.1 and D.2.2 
of the Code)
The Remuneration Committee 
is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board on 
Group policy for the remuneration of 
the Chairman, the Executive Directors, 
the Group Company Secretary and 
certain key senior management 
posts and for the determination, 
within agreed terms of reference, of 
additional benefits for each of the 
Executive Directors, including pension 
rights and any compensation for 
loss of office. The Committee is also 
responsible for the implementation  SThree plc 38
and operation of employee share 
incentive arrangements. The 
Committee comprises a majority of 
independent NEDs as required by 
the Code. Full information on the 
composition, role and operation of 
the Remuneration Committee and 
Directors’ Remuneration is detailed in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Effectiveness of the Company’s 
risk management and internal 
control systems (in accordance 
with C.2.1 of the Code)
The Board has overall responsibility 
for monitoring the effectiveness of 
the Company’s risk management and 
internal control systems in order to 
safeguard shareholders’ investments 
and the Group’s assets. Executive 
Directors and senior management are 
responsible for the implementation 
and maintenance of the systems, 
which are subject to periodic, and at 
least annual, review by the Board, 
via the Audit Committee where 
appropriate. As explained above, in 
response to business requirements, 
the Group also created an internal 
audit function in 2008 in order to 
facilitate this process.
The Board, via the Audit Committee, 
monitors the continuous process by 
which critical risks to the business 
are identified, evaluated and managed 
and this process explicitly includes 
the risks and opportunities to enhance 
value arising from ESG matters. 
The process is consistent with the 
T urnbull Guidance on Internal Control 
and has been in operation for the 
period under review and up to the date 
of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board assesses the Company’s 
risk management and internal control 
systems, including material controls 
such as financial, operational and 
compliance controls and enterprise 
risk management (‘ERM’) systems. 
These are designed to manage, rather 
than eliminate, the risk of failure 
to achieve the Group’s objectives, 
and can only provide reasonable, 
not absolute, assurance against 
material mis-statement or loss. The 
Board considers, in assessing what 
constitutes reasonable accuracy, 
the materiality of financial and non-
financial risks and the relationship 
between the cost, or benefit, resulting 
from the risk management or internal 
control systems.
The Board regularly reviews the 
actual results compared with the 
budgeted and forecast performance 
of the Group, as well as other key 
performance indicators, which are 
detailed within the Directors’ Report.
During 2010, the Group continued 
to rationalise its brands in order 
to implement a ‘Country Director’ 
structure, under Regional MDs, and 
lines of responsibility and delegated 
authorities were reviewed, with 
policies and procedures updated and 
communicated accordingly.
Assessment of risk and 
Enterprise Risk Management 
(‘ERM’) framework
The Board, through the Audit 
Committee, has overall responsibility 
for risk management activities and 
implementing policies to ensure that 
all risks are evaluated, measured 
and kept under review by way of 
appropriate KPIs and this forms the 
basis for the Group’s ERM framework. 
Under this framework, all Executive, 
Regional and Country Directors, key 
support functions and other relevant 
parties take ownership of their related 
risks, creating specific sub-Group 
risk registers, with risks being 
categorised according to probability 
and financial impact and measured 
according to strictly defined criteria, 
as set out under the Board approved 
risk management policy. More 
significant risks are distilled to form 
the Group’s key risk register, which is 
closely monitored by the Committee 
and risks include, amongst others, 
those relevant to the processes for 
financial reporting and the preparation 
of consolidated accounts, with 
appropriate mitigation measures.
Following the ‘gap analysis’ 
undertaken by external ERM 
specialists in 2009, during 2010 
the Group continued to roll out its 
ERM framework throughout the 
business and has consequently 
further developed and enhanced its 
risk evaluation and ERM reporting 
mechanism, including holding a 
further strategic risk workshop 
involving Executive Directors, 
Regional MDs, Country Directors and 
key function heads. As a result, the 
following steps were taken during  
the year:
•
  Country Directors now own 
localised risk registers, with 
regular presentations being made 
to the Board to include progress 
on risk mitigation, with underlying 
reviews of risks/integrity also now 
undertaken regularly;
•
  Audit Committee meetings 
include regular presentations by 
MDs/Country Directors, etc, on 
their approach to business risk 
management and tracking of 
improvement areas;
•
  Annual ‘risk focussed’ leadership 
workshop scheduled, with ERM 
specialists in attendance;
Corporate Governance Report  
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued) SThree plc 39
•
  A formal risk management policy 
and procedure document have 
been approved by the Board and 
communicated Group-wide;
•
  Group risk appetite has now been 
fully defined and formalised, with 
Group and localised measures 
being rolled out to MDs/Country 
Directors via appropriate KPIs 
(some being detailed within 
the Directors’ Report), with 
remuneration also being subject to 
measurement against managing 
business risk;
•
  Remaining key Executive job 
descriptions have been re-drafted 
to include reference to their risk 
responsibility.
The Group’s ERM arrangements have 
been designed to meet, as closely as 
possible, the appropriate BSI standard 
(BS 3100) on risk management 
processes. Consequently, the Group 
has continued to reap the benefits 
of its enhanced ERM framework 
through improved strategic and 
individual region/sector focus on 
key risk areas, with greater clarity 
on risk ownership, identification of 
opportunities as well as threats, whilst 
also facilitating better monitoring 
of progress, mitigation measures 
and ensuring appropriate forward 
looking assessment, including, where 
relevant, reference to ESG matters.
Association of British Insurers 
(‘ABI’) guidelines on responsible 
investment disclosures
In respect of the Company’s 
compliance with the ABI guidelines on 
responsible investment disclosures, 
the Board confirms the following, in 
relation to its responsibilities, policies 
and procedures, with appropriate KPIs 
detailed within the Directors’ Report:
•
  As part of its ERM procedures, 
the Board takes account of the 
significance of ESG matters to 
the business of the Company. 
Adherence to these procedures 
and disclosure of relevant issues 
is monitored by the Internal Audit 
function and also reviewed by 
external ERM specialists as part of 
the overall ERM framework.
•
  The Board has reviewed but has 
not identified any significant ESG 
risks to the Company’s short and 
long-term value or opportunities to 
enhance value.
•
  The Board has received adequate 
information to make this 
assessment by way of its ERM 
procedures and, where necessary, 
has taken account of ESG matters 
in the training of Directors as well 
as ensuring inclusion in bonus 
structures.
•
  The Board has ensured that the 
Company has in place effective 
systems for managing and 
mitigating significant risks. 
Where relevant, these incorporate 
performance management 
systems and appropriate 
remuneration incentives.
•
  There are no ESG-related risks 
and opportunities that may 
significantly affect the Company’s 
short and long term value or the 
future of the business.
Going concern
The Board has reviewed the Group’s 
budget for the financial year ending 
27 November 2011 and medium term 
financial projections, for the next three 
years. After taking account of the cash 
flow projections, including proposed 
capital expenditure and considering 
the availability of borrowing facilities, 
the Board has concluded that it is 
appropriate to prepare the accounts of 
both the Group and the Company on 
the going concern basis.
Corporate Social and 
Environmental Responsibility
The Board recognises that the Group 
has a responsibility to act ethically 
in relation to the physical and social 
environment in which it operates, and 
that failure to do so could adversely 
impact on the Group’s long and short-
term value as a result of financial 
penalty and loss of customer support. 
It takes such responsibilities seriously 
paying due regard to international and 
local laws in all its dealings. Further 
details are disclosed in the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report.
Share capital
Information on the Company’s share 
capital is set out within the Directors’ 
Report.
Steve Hornbuckle
Group Company Secretary 
28 January 2011
Corporate Governance Report  
for the year ended 28 November 2010 (continued) SThree plc 40
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report
for the year ended 28 November 2010
Introduction
We believe that proper understanding 
and management of our social and 
environmental impacts are important to 
the continued success of our business. 
As we focus on long term success, our 
CSR strategy, called Giving Something 
Back, concentrates on tackling issues 
that will have a sustained effect on our 
local and international communities, 
our environment, our people – and 
ultimately, our business.
We strive to be the best company 
to work for and we cannot achieve 
this without being a socially and 
environmentally responsible business. 
Our global success will be increasingly 
reliant on the breadth and effectiveness 
of our CSR programme and we now 
have a solid base linking people, 
committees and policies to make this 
programme an integral part of how we 
run our business.
Principles
In 2007, we defined our corporate social 
responsibility ambitions that underpin 
everything we do as follows:
•  Give those in the community that 
most need it opportunity and 
aspiration;
•  Respect the environment we live 
in;
•  Give back to the people who 
work so hard to make this a great 
company.
What happened in 2010?
Giving Something Back concentrates 
on three areas: community, 
environment and workplace. The 
following details progress made against 
our CSR strategic objectives in 2010.
Community 
We want to give those that most need 
it opportunity and aspiration – this 
applies to the communities in which we 
work and beyond. We have a wealth of 
talent and energy at SThree that can 
be harnessed to benefit communities 
local to our offices and we will 
continue to partner with charities and 
community groups to facilitate this. 
Fulfilling our community commitments 
influences the way we do business 
and we hope they will contribute to our 
continued success. Our volunteering 
and fundraising policy underpins 
all the work we do for communities 
and enabled us to clearly state to 
employees how they can get involved 
with our community work.
Activities that took place in 2010 
include:
Volunteering
Our main focus for any work we do 
in the community is young people, 
especially those classified as NEET 
– Not in Education, Employment or 
T raining. T o that end, we worked hard 
with Time & T alents to find ways of 
providing support to young people to 
help them find jobs.
We continue to work closely with Time 
& T alents Westminster, a not for profit 
partnership enabling private, public and 
voluntary sector organisations to work 
together to deliver effective Employer 
Supported Volunteering (ESV). Our 
membership of this organisation 
gives us access to charities that are 
interested in employers providing 
skilled volunteers that would take a lot 
of effort and time to achieve ourselves.
Our ITJobBoard team worked with 
‘Whizz-kids’ on their high profile Blue 
Peter campaign. The Marketing team 
developed a marketing strategy for the 
campaign and have subsequently been 
involved in the roll out of it.
We engaged with the Cardinal Hume 
Centre in Westminster to develop a soft 
skills workshop for clients of the centre 
that may be long-term unemployed 
or have never been employed. The 
Cardinal Hume Centre works with 
homeless young people, refugees, 
asylum seekers and migrants by 
helping them find employment and 
break the cycle of homelessness and 
exclusion. We helped them to learn 
and develop key communication skills 
and to develop their presence which 
will help them in future interviews and 
allow them to feel more positive.
2010 also saw us working with the 
Paddington Academy (a non-selective 
school in West London for 11 to 18 year 
olds) and offering our employees the 
chance to volunteer at the academy. 
We have agreed a series of activities, 
the first being a teacher mentoring 
scheme for our senior managers.
Whilst our policy (developed in 2009) 
outlines how employees can get 
involved in volunteering supported 
by us or arranged by the individual, 
we now have online application 
forms and an approval process that 
ensures everyone can benefit from the 
experience. Each permanent employee 
at SThree is entitled to two volunteer 
days per year that can be used to 
attend a volunteering activity.
As a corporate partner of Time & 
T alents Westminster, we meet regularly 
with other corporate, community 
and third sector partners to share 
our collective experiences and work 
together to build a strong network 
that will benefit each partner and 
their stakeholders. We hosted an 
employability working group in spring 
2010 with the objective of setting the 
agenda for any volunteering done in 
this area within Westminster.
Finally, 2010 also saw us partner with 
the University of Birmingham through 
the funding of two scholarships 
focussed on raising the aspirations of 
talented students. The funding will help 
students from a background without  SThree plc 41
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report   (continued)
for the year ended 28 November 2010
experience of higher education or 
where parents are not in professional 
occupations, to experience university 
life, while rewarding them for 
achieving excellent academic 
standards.
Fundraising
Raising funds for charitable causes has 
always been important at SThree and 
we continued to fundraise for some 
great charities in 2010. Our current 
charity partner, SOS Children’s Villages, 
has benefited from major fundraising 
events – Dress Down Days and a 
prize draw at our annual Battersea 
Christmas party. SOS Children provide 
homes for orphans and abandoned 
children worldwide and were chosen at 
the end of 2008 because of their young 
person focus and international scope. 
As a growing international company, 
we wanted to have a charity partner 
that represented our network of offices 
around the world.
We are very pleased to have raised 
nearly £100,000 for SOS Children this 
year, when matched funding is taken 
into account.
In support of SOS Children’s Villages 
60th anniversary celebrations, we 
sponsored the purchase of “flip” 
cameras in support of their “Our Africa” 
project.
We are very proud of this and are 
looking forward to raising more in 2011 
with our future focus being to enable 
employees in each region to choose a 
local charity to fundraise for and to have 
an international network of community 
champions throughout the Group to 
engage employees and ensure that we 
maximise impact in this area.
  
Environment 
With 1,800 employees spread 
across the globe, managing our 
environmental impact is a challenge 
and one that we are fully committed 
to. We have started to measure and 
reduce our carbon footprint throughout 
our UK operations and implemented 
individual carbon reduction plans 
for each UK office during 2010. By 
introducing technology to allow us 
to hold meetings and conferences 
via video links and the web, we will 
continue to reduce the amount we 
travel and lessen our contribution to 
worldwide CO2 emissions.
T o measure and manage our carbon 
emissions in the UK, we continue to 
work with the energy consultancy, 
Adian Consulting. This will change the 
way we manage energy at SThree and 
will lay the foundations for becoming 
an energy efficient company in 
the future. Our carbon footprint is 
disclosed below.
Currently, less than 20% of FTSE 
companies publish this figure although 
this will undoubtedly increase with 
the introduction of the UK Carbon 
Reduction Commitment Energy 
Efficiency Scheme (CRC). Although 
we fall outside the requirements of 
CRC due to the amount of electricity 
we use, we are pleased to say that we 
were compliant with the scheme when 
it was first introduced in April 2010.
Carbon footprint and energy 
management
In late 2008, a strategic decision 
was made to conduct a Company-
wide initiative to establish our 
carbon footprint and reduce energy 
consumption whilst also taking steps 
to increase recycling by 50%. Adian 
Consulting were engaged to manage 
and deliver the project using a phased 
approach.
Phase One looked into data availability 
in relation to carbon emissions 
associated with office energy 
efficiency, business travel and our 
company car fleet. In addition, waste 
management and utilities cost 
management were singled out for 
future consideration and action. Phase 
T wo verified preliminary findings and 
identified opportunities for change. 
Adian Consulting visited and surveyed 
nineteen SThree offices in the UK 
and inspected landlords’ plant rooms, 
service equipment and installations. 
SThree employees taking part in the Dusseldorf Run4ideas SThree plc 42
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report   (continued)
for the year ended 28 November 2010
The end goal of both phases was a 
carbon footprint figure for our business 
in the UK, with the findings as follows:
•  The Company’s UK carbon 
footprint was estimated at 2,423 
tonnes for the year 2008/9;
•  85% (2,054 tonnes) was due to 
building related energy usage;
•  15% (369 tonnes) was due to 
business travel excluding car 
journeys.
Phase three of our carbon emissions 
project ran throughout most of 2010 
and saw the implementation of 
several energy saving and energy 
management initiatives across UK 
offices. The project will also see us 
implement systems and processes to 
enable the in-house measurement of 
our carbon footprint in future years. 
As we make efforts to reduce our 
carbon emissions as a Group, we are 
committed to offsetting our footprint 
every year by investing in carbon 
reduction projects across the globe.
As we open more and more offices 
globally, we will look to decrease the 
environmental impact of each new 
office and will provide guidance to 
employees on how they can take 
personal ownership of environmental 
issues while at work.
Offsetting
As a result of the carbon footprint 
project, we have started to implement 
ways of managing our energy and 
reducing our carbon emissions in the 
future. T o add to our commitment to 
respecting the environment, we will 
invest in carbon reduction projects 
through ClimateCare to offset our 
annual carbon footprint. This means 
that we will have invested around 
£22,000 in projects in 2010.
We have taken a number of steps to 
reduce the amount of business travel 
our employees make over the last 
two years, although we are conscious 
that this area still represents over 
10% of our carbon footprint figure. T o 
minimise the impact of this travel on 
the environment, we will be offsetting 
all incentive-related travel through 
ClimateCare.
Workplace, Values & Ethics
We want our people to thrive in 
the workplace and consider it our 
responsibility to provide an engaging, 
supportive and safe environment that 
encourages them to make the best 
use of their talents and personalities. 
We welcome anyone with the skills 
and abilities to succeed and are 
committed to offering our employees a 
balance of professional development, 
benefits and rewards. By not putting 
any restrictions on the type of people 
we recruit and by treating everyone 
equally, we have established a truly 
diverse workforce. We regularly  
review our working practices to  
ensure that they meet the needs of 
our employees and the cultures we 
operate in.
Understanding our employees and 
having highly engaged individuals 
who want to be part of our future is 
critical to achieving our goals. T o this 
end, September 2010 saw the launch 
of the SThree Rapport Survey, our first 
employee engagement survey. The 
survey objectives were to understand 
employee perceptions about working 
for SThree, identify levels of employee 
engagement, highlight areas for 
improvement in order to inform action 
planning and to use the survey data to 
drive change in the business. In total, 
82% of our people participated, an 
excellent response rate!
The survey focused on 14 dimensions 
including External Customer Focus, 
Leadership, Culture, Performance 
Management, Reward and Recognition 
and Employee Engagement. Managers 
across the Group have shared the 
results with their teams and action 
plans have been created, with the next 
survey scheduled for September 2011.
Previously being awarded diversity 
accreditation was an important step for 
the Group and we want to build on that 
success in 2011. We will be piloting a 
‘Woman in Management’ programme 
with the aim of increasing the number 
of female employees moving into 
management roles and the number 
of female managers being promoted 
to senior roles. Focus will also be on 
the implementation of a consistent 
method of measuring and monitoring 
our diversity footprint.
We will continue the roll out of the 
health and safety project established 
in the UK in 2009 to all international 
offices as well as further developing 
our online learning portal to deliver 
worldwide training programmes.
This year the Group redefined its 
ambition and rolled out a ‘Values’ 
programme designed to achieve it. 
The programme will systematically 
embed the values into every aspect 
of the business and successful 
implementation of these values will 
help the Group attract, and retain, high 
quality candidates, whilst driving high 
performance across both sales and 
support staff.
The Group’s ‘Ambition’, ‘Single 
Organising Thought’ and ‘Values’ are 
listed below:
Ambition: Our ambition is to be the 
most respected and highly valued 
international, specialised staffing 
services business.
Single organising thought: 
Recognising and developing talent. SThree plc 43
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report   (continued)
for the year ended 28 November 2010
Our values:
•  RESPECT: Respect for yourself, 
team, company and clients
•  ENERGY: Our relentless desire to 
succeed
•  RAPPORT: Our ability to build 
trusted relationships with people
•  REWARD: The joy of reaching our 
goals and achieving success
The comprehensive programme will 
consist of training for all employees; 
office branding; a new reward scheme; 
updated HR policies; and an extensive 
communications campaign, all 
continuing into 2011.
In line with the above, the Group 
takes ethics extremely seriously and 
already has in place a Code of Business 
Conduct and Fraud Response Policy, 
with work also well underway to 
evaluate how best to comply with the 
new UK Bribery Act. As part of this, the 
Group already has in place a dedicated 
independent whistle blowing hotline, 
as part of the arrangements set up and 
monitored by the Audit Committee, so 
that employees are able to report any 
matters of concern, where this does 
not conflict with local laws or customs. 
Alternatively matters may be reported 
via the Group HR Director or Group 
Company Secretary.
Summary
We are well on track with our CSR 
programme and fully expect to make 
even greater progress during 2011.
Russell Clements
Chief Executive Officer
28 January 2011
Employees from the SThree Singapore office at an incentive event
Children in the SOS Aleppo village, Syria, where an SThree employee 
completed a charity motorcycle ride SThree plc 44
Independent Auditors’ Report 
for the year ended 28 November 2010
Independent Auditors’ 
Report to the Members of 
SThree plc
We have audited the financial 
statements of SThree plc for the 
year ended 28 November 2010 
which comprise the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income, 
the Consolidated and Company 
Statements of Financial Position, 
the Consolidated and Company 
Statements of Changes in Equity, 
the Consolidated and Company 
Cash Flow Statements and the 
related notes. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and, as regards 
the Company financial statements, 
as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 
2006.
Respective responsibilities of 
Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
set out earlier, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit the 
financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, 
has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 
16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for 
no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this 
report is shown or into whose hands 
it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the 
financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence 
about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient 
to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from 
material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Consolidated Group’s and 
the Company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and the overall presentation 
of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion:
• 
the financial statements give a 
true and fair view of the state 
of the Consolidated Group’s 
and of the Company’s affairs 
as at 28 November 2010 and of 
the Consolidated Group’s profit 
and Consolidated Group’s and 
Company’s cash flows for the year 
then ended;
• 
the Consolidated Group financial 
statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union;
• 
the Company financial statements 
have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union and as 
applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 
2006; and
• 
the financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Consolidated Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the lAS 
Regulation.
Opinion on other matters 
prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 
In our opinion:
• 
the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006;
• 
the information given in the 
Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial 
statements; and
• 
the information given in the 
Corporate Governance Statement 
set out earlier with respect 
to internal control and risk 
management systems and 
about share capital structures 
is consistent with the financial 
statements.
Matters on which we are 
required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect 
of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we 
are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
• 
adequate accounting records have 
not been kept by the Company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or SThree plc 45
Independent Auditors’ Report  (continued) 
for the year ended 28 November 2010
• 
the Company financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited 
are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
• 
certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
• 
we have not received all the 
information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
• 
a corporate governance statement 
has not been prepared by the 
parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are 
required to review:
• 
the Directors’ statement, set out 
earlier, in relation to going concern; 
and
• 
the parts of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating to 
the Company’s compliance with 
the nine provisions of the June 
2008 Combined Code specified for 
our review.
Julian Jenkins  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
For and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and  
Statutory Auditors
London
28 January 2011 SThree plc
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Year ended 28 November 2010
 28 November 29 November
 2010 2009
 Note £’000 £’000
Revenue 2 474,451 519,372
Cost of sales  (308,083) (348,217)
Gross profit 2 166,368 171,155
Administrative expenses 3 (145,152) (162,209)
Operating profit  21,216 8,946
Finance income 5 451 359
Finance cost 5 (18) (378)
Profit before taxation  21,649 8,927
Analysed as:
Underlying profit before exceptional items  21,649 17,977
One-off exceptional items 3(a) – (9,050)
  21,649 8,927
T axation 6 (7,366) (2,965)
Profit for the year  14,283 5,962
Other comprehensive income
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations  (3,603) 243
Deferred tax on employee share options  258 620
Current tax on employee share options  155 1,042
Employee share awards  1,347 1,630
Other comprehensive income for the period (net of tax)  (1,843) 3,535
Total comprehensive income for the period  12,440 9,497
Profit for the year attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company  14,216 4,798
Non-controlling interest  67 1,164
  14,283 5,962
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent  12,299 9,339
Non-controlling interest  141 158
  12,440 9,497
Earnings per share 8 pence pence
Basic before exceptional items  11.9 9.5
Diluted before exceptional items  11.5 9.2
Basic after exceptional items  11.9 4.0
Diluted after exceptional items  11.5 3.9
The accompanying notes on pages 51 to 95 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
All amounts relate to continuing operations.
SThree plc 5 46 SThree plc
Statement of financial position
As at 28 November 2010
 Consolidated Company
  28 November 29 November 28 November 29 November
  2010 2009 2010 2009
 Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment   9 5,447 5,398 – –
Intangible assets   10 10,161 10,899 – –
Investments in subsidiaries   11 – – 245,652 238,543
Deferred tax assets   18 8,670 5,515 1,300 1,157
    24,278 21,812 246,952 239,700
Current assets
T rade and other receivables   12 97,935 93,229 157 2,536
Current tax assets   14 – 3,309 – –
Cash and cash equivalents   22 51,718 45,272 – 150
Assets classified as held-to-maturity  13 3,500 3,203 – –
    153,153 145,013 157 2,686
Total assets    177,431 166,825 247,109 242,386
EqUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent
Share capital   19 1,218 1,218 1,218 1,218
Share premium    2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925
Capital redemption reserve   19 168 168 168 168
Capital reserve   19 878 878 878 878
Currency translation reserve    (1,328) 2,416 – –
Retained earnings    78,057 72,562 174,472 183,506
    81,918 80,167 179,661 188,695
Non-controlling interest    – 4,650 – –
Total equity    81,918 84,817 179,661 188,695
Non-current liabilities
Provisions for liabilities and charges  17 1,354 2,889 – –
    1,354 2,889 – –
Current liabilities
Provisions for liabilities and charges  17 4,237 3,063 – –
T rade and other payables   15 86,150 76,056 67,003 53,194
Financial liabilities   16, 22 – – 445 –
Current tax liabilities   14 3,772 – – 497
    94,159 79,119 67,448 53,691
Total liabilities    95,513 82,008 67,448 53,691
Total equity and liabilities    177,431 166,825 247,109 242,386
The accompanying notes on pages 51 to 95 are an integral part of these financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 January 2011.
On behalf of the Board of Directors.
Clay Brendish   Alex Smith
Chairman   Chief Financial Officer
SThree plc 5 47        Attributable
   Capital  Currency  to owners Non-
 Share Share redemption Capital translation Retained of the controlling Total
 capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings parent interest equity
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 30 November 2008 1,218 2,925 168 878 2,331 78,906 86,426 4,147 90,573
Exchange differences on retranslation of  
foreign operations – – – – 85 – 85 158 243
Deferred tax on employee share options – – – – – 620 620 – 620
Current tax on employee share options – – – – – 1,042 1,042 – 1,042
Net income recognised directly in equity – – – – 85 1,662 1,747 158 1,905
T otal comprehensive income for the year to  
29 November 2009 – – – – – 4,798 4,798 1,164 5,962
T otal recognised income and expense for the period – – – – 85 6,460 6,545 1,322 7,867
Issue of share capital to non-controlling interest – – – – – – – 160 160
Repurchase of non-controlling interest – – – – – – – (898) (898)
Dividends paid to equity holders – – – – – (14,434) (14,434) – (14,434)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest – – – – – – – (81) (81)
Employee share awards – – – – – 1,630 1,630 – 1,630
T otal movements in equity – – – – 85 (6,344) (6,259) 503 (5,756)
Balance at 29 November 2009 1,218 2,925 168 878 2,416 72,562 80,167 4,650 84,817
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations – – – – (3,744) – (3,744) 141 (3,603)
Deferred tax on employee share options – – – – – 258 258 – 258
Current tax on employee share options – – – – – 155 155 – 155
Net income recognised directly in equity – – – – (3,744) 413 (3,331) 141 (3,190)
T otal comprehensive income for the year  
28 November 2010 – – – – – 14,216 14,216 67 14,283
T otal recognised income and expense for the period – – – – (3,744) 14,629 10,885 208 11,093
Dividends paid to equity holders – – – – – (14,369) (14,369) – (14,369)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest – – – – – – – (970) (970)
Employee share awards – – – – – 1,347 1,347 – 1,347
Loss on disposal of non-controlling interest net assets – – – – – (52) (52) 52 –
T ransfer to reserves non-controlling interest net assets – – – – – 3,940 3,940 (3,940) –
T otal movements in equity – – – – (3,744) 5,495 1,751 (4,650) (2,899)
Balance at 28 November 2010 1,218 2,925 168 878 (1,328) 78,057 81,918 – 81,918
The accompanying notes on pages 51 to 95 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
SThree plc 5 48
SThree plc
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Year ended 28 November 2010       Capital   Attributable
    Share Share redemption Capital Retained to Company
    Capital premium reserve reserve earnings shareholders
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 30 November 2008    1,218 2,925 168 878 166,985 172,174
Deferred tax on employee share options    – – – – 762 762
Expenses recognised directly in equity    – – – – 762 762
T otal comprehensive income for the year to 29 November 2009 (note 20)   – – – – 28,745 28,745
T otal recognised income and expense for the period    – – – – 29,507 29,507
Employee share award and option credit    – – – – 1,448 1,448
Dividends paid to equity holders (note 7)    – – – – (14,434) (14,434)
T otal movements in equity    – – – – 16,521 16,521
Balance at 29 November 2009    1,218 2,925 168 878 183,506 188,695
Deferred tax on employee share options    – – – – 116 116
Expenses recognised directly in equity    – – – – 116 116
T otal comprehensive income for the year to 28 November 2010 (Note 20)   – – – – 4,879 4,879
T otal recognised income and expense for the period    – – – – 4,995 4,995
Employee share award and option credit    – – – – 340 340
Dividends paid to equity holders (note 7)    – – – – (14,369) (14,369)
T otal movements in equity    – – – – (9,034) (9,034)
Balance at 28 November 2010    1,218 2,925 168 878 174,472 179,661
Of the above reserves only the retained profit of £174,472,000 (2009: £183,506,000) is distributable.
The accompanying notes on pages 51 to 95 are an integral part of these financial statements.
SThree plc 5 49
SThree plc
Company statement of changes in equity
Year ended 28 November 2010 SThree plc 5 50
 Consolidated Company
  28 November 29 November 28 November 29 November
  2010 2009 2010 2009
 Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation  21,649 8,927 8,123 27,003
Depreciation and amortisation charge  6,313 6,128 – –
Goodwill recognised in the statement of  
comprehensive income  – (237) – –
Loss on disposal of investments  – 478 – 632
Finance income 5 (451) (359) (70) (162)
Finance cost 5 18 378 976 1,674
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  110 1,107 – –
Loss on disposal of intangible assets  1 355 – –
Non-cash charge for employee share options 
and awards  1,656 1,448 340 511
Operating cashflow before changes in  
working capital and provisions  29,296 18,225 9,369 29,658
(Increase)/decrease in receivables  (3,652) 50,952 2,379 (162)
Increase/(decrease) in payables  9,746 (7,704) 11,375 (10,563)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions  (3,625) 2,011 – –
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operating activities  31,765 63,484 23,123 18,933
Income tax (paid)/received  (5,958) (18,267) (2,200) (351)
Net cash generated from operating activities  25,807 45,217 20,923 18,582
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 9 (2,836) (2,726) – –
Purchase of intangible assets 10 (2,922) (2,128) – –
Sale of held-to-maturity investment 13 3,203 – – –
Purchase of held-to-maturity investment 13 (3,500) (3,203) – –
Proceeds from disposal of investments  – 40 – 30
Net cash used in investing activities  (6,055) (8,017) – 30
Cash flows from financing activities
Finance income 5 451 359 70 162
Finance cost 5 (18) (378) (976) (1,674)
Employee subscription for share awards  435 182 – –
Issue of share capital of subsidiary companies to  
non-controlling interest  34 10 – –
Recapitalisation of subsidiary company  – – (6,000) –
Repurchase of non-controlling interest  – (1,371) (243) (1,349)
Dividends paid to equity holders 7 (14,369) (14,434) (14,369) (14,434)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest  (970) (81) – –
Net cash used in financing activities  (14,437) (15,713) (21,518) (17,295)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  5,315 21,487 (595) 1,317
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  45,272 24,584 150 (1,167)
Effect of exchange rate changes  1,131 (799) – –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 22 51,718 45,272 (445) 150
The accompanying notes on pages 51 to 95 are an integral part of these financial statements.
SThree plc
Statement of cash flows
Year ended 28 November 2010 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 51
1 Accounting policies
The Company (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘the Group’) operate predominantly in the United Kingdom and 
Continental Europe. The Group’s activities and business are set out in the Directors’ Report.
The Company is a public limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and the Company is 
listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is 5th Floor, GPS House, 215-227 Great Portland 
Street, London W1W 5PN.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) 
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’), International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (‘IFRIC’) interpretations and Standing Interpretations Committee (‘SIC’) interpretations as adopted and endorsed 
by the European Union (‘EU’) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under 
IFRS. Therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards 
Regulation.
The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by 
the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through the statement of comprehensive income. 
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared on the same basis and as permitted by Section 408 of the 
Companies Act 2006, no statement of comprehensive income is presented for the Company.
The financial year of the Group comprises 52 weeks and not a calendar year.
The Group’s accounting policies, as set out below, have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless 
otherwise stated.
The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS since 1 December 2004. The 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. 
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. 
Management consider that the areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions 
and estimates affect the consolidated financial statements, do not substantially impact the results.
The Group has adopted the following IFRS, IFRIC and amendments with effect from 30 November 2009. Apart from 
presentational changes and revised disclosures, they did not have a material effect on the results or net assets of the 
Group:
Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 
2009). The revised standard affects the presentation of other changes in equity and introduces a statement of 
comprehensive income. The Group have the option of presenting items of income and expense and components of 
other comprehensive income either in a single statement of comprehensive income with subtotals, or in two separate 
statements (a separate income statement followed by a statement of other comprehensive income).
Amendments to IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009) eliminates 
the option to recognise all borrowing costs immediately as an expense. T o the extent that borrowing costs relate to the 
acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, the revised Standard requires that they be capitalised as 
part of the cost of that asset. All other borrowing costs should be expensed as incurred. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 52
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Amendments to IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ and IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ are 
effective from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009. The amendments relate primarily to accounting for 
non-controlling interest and the losses of control of a subsidiary. They also address the guidance for applying the 
acquisition method of accounting.
Amendments to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ in respect of eligible hedged items. 
Effective from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009, it provides clarification on identifying inflation as a hedged 
risk or portion and hedging with options.
Amendments to IFRS 2 ‘Share-Based Payment’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009) 
clarifies terms ‘vesting conditions’ and ‘cancellations’ with proposed recognition and measurement criteria.
Effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009, the amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures’ require enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements and liquidity risk in the wake of the recent 
financial crisis.
IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009) sets out requirements for 
disclosure of information about an entity’s operating segments and also about the entity’s products and services, the 
geographical areas in which it operates, and its major customers. This standard replaces IAS 14 ‘Segment Reporting’ 
and requires a change in the disclosure of segmental information.
IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009) 
provides guidance on the appropriate accounting treatment when an entity distributes assets other than cash as 
dividends to its shareholders.
As at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations were in issue but 
not yet effective. The Group has not applied these standards and interpretations in the preparation of financial statements.
The revised Standard IAS 24 ‘Related Parties Disclosure’ is effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 
2011. The standard revises the definition of a related party and clarifies that disclosure is required of any commitments 
of a related party to do something if a particular event occurs or does not occur in the future, including executory 
contracts (recognised and unrecognised).
Amended IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ addresses the accounting for rights issues (rights, options or 
warrants) that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer. It requires that rights, 
options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of an entity’s own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency 
are equity instruments (regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated) if the entity offers 
the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity 
instruments. The amendment is effective from periods commencing on or after 1 February 2010.
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ will establish principles for the financial reporting of financial assets that will present 
relevant and useful information to users of financial statements for their assessment of the amounts, timing and 
uncertainty of the entity’s future cash flows. The standard is applicable for periods commencing on or after 1 January 
2013.
IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 
1 July 2010) addresses the accounting by an entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in 
the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor of the entity to extinguish all or part of the financial liability. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 53
1 Accounting policies (continued)
The impact on the Group’s financial statements of the future adoption of these standards and interpretations is still under 
review, but the Group does not expect any of these changes to have a material effect on the results or net assets of the 
Group.
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and of its subsidiaries. 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, 
generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from 
the date on which control is transferred to the Group; they are de-consolidated from the date when control ceases.
Disposals of non-controlling interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the statement of 
changes in equity. Purchases from non-controlling interests are accounted for using the parent company method. 
Goodwill is calculated as being the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the 
carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary.
Foreign currencies
(i) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which that subsidiary operates (its ‘functional currency’). The consolidated financial 
statements of the Group are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the Group’s functional and presentation currency.
(ii) T ransactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
(iii) Group companies
The results and financial position of all of the Group’s subsidiaries (none of which has the currency of a hyper-
inflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the Group’s presentational currency are 
translated into the presentational currency as follows:
–  assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented are translated at the rate ruling at the end 
of the reporting period;
–  income and expenses for each statement of comprehensive income are translated using the average rate of 
exchange (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on 
the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions);
–  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The Group treats specific inter-company loan balances, which are not intended to be settled for the foreseeable future, as 
part of its net investment in the relevant subsidiaries. On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation 
of the net investment in foreign entities and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such 
investments, are taken to shareholders’ equity. When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are removed 
from equity and recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as part of the gain or loss on sale. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 54
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Revenue and revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the provision of services provided in the 
ordinary course of the Group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value added tax and other sales taxes, returns, rebates 
and discounts and after elimination of sales within the Group.
Contract revenue for the supply of professional services is recognised based on the number of hours worked by a 
contractor.
Revenue for permanent placements is recognised when candidates commence employment. A provision is established for 
non-fulfilment of permanent placement obligations.
Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Segment reporting
The Group operates in one business segment being that of recruitment services. The Group operates in three geographic 
segments being the United Kingdom, Continental Europe and the Rest of the World.
Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements at the time they are paid. The final dividends declared to the 
Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Company’s and Group’s financial statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
The Company recognises dividends from subsidiaries at the time that they are received.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Historical cost includes 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the depreciable value of property, plant and 
equipment to the statement of comprehensive income over their useful economic lives as follows:
 Computer equipment 33.33% per annum
 Leasehold improvement 20% per annum
 Fixtures and fittings 20% per annum
 Motor vehicles 33.33% per annum
Assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at the end of the reporting period.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when 
it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be 
measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the statement of comprehensive income during the 
financial period in which they are incurred.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts. These are included in the 
statement of comprehensive income. An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if 
the assets carrying value is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 55
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable 
assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries is included in 
intangible assets. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income and is not subsequently reversed. 
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Assets under construction
Purchased fixed assets or internally generated intangible assets that are still under development are classified as ‘Assets 
under construction’. These assets are reclassified over the phased completion dates and are amortised from the date they 
are reclassified.
Computer software
The cost of acquired computer software licenses is capitalised. These costs are amortised over their estimated useful 
lives (up to three years).
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense to the statement of 
comprehensive income when incurred.
Software and system development costs
Costs incurred on development projects (relating to the design or improvement of systems) are recognised as intangible 
assets when the IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ recognition criteria are met. Capitalised software and system development 
costs are amortised from the date the system is available for use over their expected useful lives (not exceeding five 
years).
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense to the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
Trademarks
T rademarks are initially recognised at cost. They have a definite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of trademarks over their 
estimated useful lives (up to twelve years).
Impairment of assets
Assets that are not subject to amortisation are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, by analysing individual assets or classes of assets that naturally 
belong together. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value 
in use is measured based on the expected future discounted cash flows (‘DCF’ model) attributable to the asset. For the 
purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash 
flows (cash generating units). SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 56
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Significant judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use 
of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates 
are based on the Directors’ best knowledge of the amounts, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates. 
The ‘critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty’ made by the Directors in these financial 
statements are set out below.
A number of significant assumptions and estimates are involved in using DCF models to forecast operating cash flows, 
e.g. with respect to factors such as market growth rates, revenue volumes, market prices for services and working capital 
requirements. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on best estimates of future revenues and operating expenses 
using historical trends, general market conditions, industry trends and forecasts and other available information. These 
assumptions are subject to review by management and the Board of Directors. The cash flow forecasts are adjusted by an 
appropriate pre-tax discount rate derived from the Group’s cost of capital.
(i)  The determination of the carrying amount of capitalised software and systems development costs and assets under 
construction with the related amortisation, estimation of useful economic life and recoverability of such assets is 
deemed to be judgemental.
(ii)  The Group follows the guidance of IAS 39 to determine when trade and other receivables are impaired. This determination 
requires significant judgement. In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, amongst other factors, the duration and 
extent to which the carrying values of a receivable is less than its cost, the risk profile of the client and other credit rating 
factors, the financial health, historical experience of and near-term business outlook for the client.
(iii)  Revenue is recognised when the supply of professional services has been rendered, it also includes an assessment 
of professional services received by the client for the placement of temporary services between the date of the last 
received timesheet and the year end. Unsubmitted timesheets are estimated to the extent that an open contract has 
not expired during the period under assessment. Management apply judgement to several factors in estimating the 
revenue and cost of sales accruals; any difference compared to actual experience would result in the amount payable 
to the contractor and receivable from the client being adjusted in the next financial year. The judgement applied, 
and the assumptions underlying these judgements are considered to be appropriate. However, a change in these 
assumptions would impact upon both the amount of revenue and cost of sales recognised.
(iv)  The Group recognised a net deferred tax asset of £8.7m (2009:£5.5m), of which £7.1m (2009:£4.4m) related to trading 
losses that are to be carried forward and relieved against profits arising in future periods. The judgement to recognise 
the deferred tax asset is dependent upon the Group’s expectations regarding future profitability based upon subsidiary 
revenue and cost forecasts for future years which contain a degree of inherent uncertainty.
(v)  The fair value of equity settled share-based payments is partly derived from estimates of factors such as lapse rates 
and achievement of performance criteria. It is also derived from assumptions such as the future volatility of the 
Company’s share price, expected dividend yields and risk-free interest rates.
(vi)  Goodwill and investments are tested for impairment on an annual basis. In performing these tests, assumptions are made in 
respect of future growth rates and the discount rate to be applied to the future cash flows of cash generating units.
Investments
The Company’s investments in shares in Group companies are stated at cost less provisions for impairment. Any 
impairment is charged to the statement of comprehensive income as it arises. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 57
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Where share-based payments are granted to the employees of subsidiary undertakings by the parent company, they 
are treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary and the Company’s investment in the subsidiary is increased 
accordingly.
Financial assets
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as either ‘held to maturity’ or ‘loans and receivables’. The classification 
depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Held to maturity financial assets
Held-to-maturity financial assets comprises investments with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity for 
which there is a positive intention and ability to hold to maturity and which have not been designated at fair value through 
the statement of comprehensive income or as available for sale.
Held-to-maturity financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in 
an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the 
reporting period. These are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade and other 
receivables’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the statement of financial position.
Trade and other receivables
T rade accounts receivable are recorded at net realisable value after deducting an allowance for doubtful accounts. The 
Group makes judgements on an entity by entity basis as to its ability to collect outstanding receivables and provides an 
allowance for doubtful accounts based on a specific review of significant outstanding invoices. For those invoices not 
specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at differing percentages based on the age of the receivable. In determining 
these percentages, the Group analyses its historical collection experience and current economic trends. T rade receivable 
balances are written off when the Group determines that it is unlikely that future remittances will be received.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
current financial liabilities on the statement of financial position unless they form part of a cash pooling arrangement in 
which case they are reported net of related cash balances.
Financial liabilities
All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as ‘other financial liabilities’ and are initially measured at fair value, net 
of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the ‘effective interest 
rate’ method. Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the end of the reporting period.
Net investment hedging
Financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the Group’s net investment in an 
overseas operation. The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative 
instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income. Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in 
the Group statement of comprehensive income. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 58
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Leases
Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of assets remain with the lessor are accounted for as 
operating leases. Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the 
statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the lease periods.
Trade and other payables
T rade and other payables are stated at cost.
Short term financial liabilities and overdrafts
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Financial liabilities are 
subsequently stated at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the 
redemption value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the 
effective interest method.
Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of 
the liability for at least 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is more 
likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably 
estimated.
Provisions are recognised as the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. No 
provision is recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined 
by considering the class of obligation as a whole. A provision may be recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with 
respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
T axation
Corporation tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profits for the period. T axable profit differs from profit as reported in the 
statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible 
in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is 
calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of 
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax is determined 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to 
apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 59
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are 
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Employee benefits
Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the period in 
which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
Pension obligations — the Group has defined contribution plans and pays contributions to privately administered 
pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the 
contributions have been paid.
Bonus plans — The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based on the Directors’ best estimate of the 
amounts due. The Group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice of payments 
that has created a constructive obligation.
T ermination benefits — T ermination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement 
date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for those benefits. The Group recognises 
termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees 
according to a detailed formal plan without the possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benefits as a result of an 
offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Employee Benefit Trusts
The Employee Benefit T rusts (‘EBT’) were funded by gifts from certain of the Company’s shareholders and Directors. The 
assets and liabilities of the EBT are consolidated into the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
The EBT’s main assets are the ordinary shares in the Group which were gifted and hence no cost is attributed to 
those shares and no amounts are shown in the Group’s financial statements. The EBT also holds shares which were 
subsequently newly issued in order to satisfy awards under the share option schemes and Long T erm Incentive Plan 
(‘L TIP’).
The shares in the EBT are held for awards and grants under the employee share award, share option schemes and L TIP .
Share-based compensation
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which 
equity instruments are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which 
the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. Fair value is determined by using an appropriate valuation 
model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a 
market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided 
that all other performance conditions are satisfied. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 60
1 Accounting policies (continued)
At the end of the reporting period before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to 
which the vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market 
conditions and the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a 
market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous end 
of the reporting period is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, with a corresponding entry in equity.
For certain share based payment settlements there exists an obligation on the Group to repay amounts if the employee 
leaves the employment of the Group before the settlement vests. In these circumstances a provision is established in 
relation to this obligation.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled 
award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, 
an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, 
based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as 
measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet 
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid, 
up to the fair value of the award, at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair 
value being treated as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income.
Exceptional items
Items which are of a non-recurring nature and material, when considering both size and nature, have been disclosed 
separately to give a clearer presentation of the Group‘s results. These items are shown as “exceptional items” on the face 
of the statement of comprehensive income.
Restructuring costs
Provision is made for restructuring costs, including the costs of redundancy, when the Group has an actual or 
constructive obligation to pay amounts to third parties. An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal plan for 
the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation of those affected by starting to implement the plan or announcing its 
main features. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 61
2 Segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires management to apply the ‘management approach’ to segmental reporting. This requires management to 
determine those segments whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the entity’s chief operating decision maker 
to make strategic decisions and assess sector performance.
Revenue and Gross Profit by reportable segment
Management has determined the chief operating decision maker to be the Executive Committee made up of the Chief 
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Development Officer, the Chief Information Officer, the Director of 
Strategic Planning, the Managing Directors and key function heads. Operating segments have been identified based on 
reports reviewed by the Executive Committee, which considers the business primarily from the geographic perspective.
The Group’s management reporting and controlling systems use accounting polices that are the same as those described 
in note 1 in the summary of significant accounting policies under IFRS.
The Group measures the performance of its operating segments through a measure of segment profit or loss which is 
referred to as “Gross Profit” in the management and reporting system. Gross Profit is the measure of segment profit/(loss) 
used in segment reporting and comprises revenue and cost of sales.
Intersegment revenue is recorded at values which approximate third party selling prices and is not significant.
United Kingdom
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Revenue from external customers    224,337 271,248
Gross Profit    66,820 76,939
T otal Assets    118,099 130,518
T otal Liabilities    62,496 59,405
Capital Expenditure    4,751 3,411
Continental Europe
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Revenue from external customers    226,694 239,406
Gross Profit    82,213 86,762
T otal Assets    46,115 27,767
T otal Liabilities    31,397 20,957
Capital Expenditure    611 918 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 62
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
Rest of the World
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Revenue from external customers    23,420 8,718
Gross Profit    17,335 7,454
T otal Assets    13,217 8,540
T otal Liabilities    1,620 1,646
Capital Expenditure    396 525
Group
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Revenue from external customers    474,451 519,372
Gross Profit    166,368 171,155
T otal Assets    177,431 166,825
T otal Liabilities    95,513 82,008
Capital Expenditure    5,758 4,854
The following segmental analyses by brand, recruitment classification and discipline (being the profession of candidates 
placed) have been included as additional disclosure over and above the requirements of IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’.
     Revenue  Gross profit
  28 November 29 November 28 November 29 November
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Brand
Progressive  133,780 132,461 45,416 41,918
Huxley Associates  125,843 132,670 44,892 44,839
Computer Futures Solutions  111,875 149,247 37,745 51,526
Real Staffing Group  98,938 101,679 34,300 29,557
Others  4,015 3,315 4,015 3,315
  474,451 519,372 166,368 171,155
Recruitment classification
Contract  392,803 447,077 84,954 98,816
Permanent  81,648 72,295 81,414 72,339
  474,451 519,372 166,368 171,155
Discipline
Information & communication technology  341,484 411,761 102,610 122,612
Others 
1
  132,967 107,611 63,758 48,543
  474,451 519,372 166,368 171,155
1
 Including engineering and energy, banking, accountancy and finance, pharmaceuticals and job board sectors. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 63
3 Administrative expenses
(a) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items which, because of their size, incidence or nature, are separately disclosed to give a 
proper understanding of the underlying results for the period. Items classified as exceptional are as follows:
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Exceptional items — charged to operating profit
Corporate and divisional restructuring    – (9,050)
Exceptional items — before taxation    – (9,050)
Corporate and divisional restructuring
During the prior period, the Company announced a number of changes relating to corporate and divisional restructuring. 
The total cost of this restructuring including redundancy, relocation and consolidation of business, was considered 
exceptional by virtue of its size. The Group charged the restructuring cost incurred in the prior period to the statement of 
comprehensive income. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 64
3 Administrative expenses (continued)
(b) Administrative expenses — other
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
      28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
Analysis of costs by nature    £’000 £’000
Net trade receivables provision charge/(release) (note 12)    211 736
Depreciation (note 9)    2,925 2,953
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 10)
— Software and systems development costs    3,000 2,466
— T rademarks    3 6
— Computer software    385 703
Foreign exchange gains    (1,016) (2,772)
Staff costs (note 4)    106,617 107,363
Loss on disposal of investments    – 478
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment    110 1,107
Loss on disposal of intangible assets    1 355
Operating lease charges     
— Motor vehicles    1,449 2,251
— Land and buildings    7,477 7,608
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors at 
the costs detailed below:
      28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
Amounts payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers:    £’000 £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of parent and 
consolidated financial statements    120 118
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
— The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  377 450
— Other services pursuant to legislation    40 55
— Other assurance services    10 134
— T axation advice    165 401
— Other services    383 42
Costs charged to operating profit    1,095 1,200 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 65
4 Directors and employees
Staff costs and employee numbers consist of:
      28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries (including bonuses)    90,356 92,319
Social security costs    13,475 12,576
Pension costs    699 678
T emporary staff costs    431 342
Cost of employee share options and awards (Note 19)    1,656 1,448
    106,617 107,363
The average number of employees (including Directors) during the year was:
      28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    Number Number
Geographic analysis
United Kingdom
— Sales    527 638
— Non-sales    427 411
    954 1,049
Europe and Rest of World
— Sales    742 723
— Non-sales    76 69
    818 792
    1,772 1,841
Included in the headcount numbers above is a total of 80 (2009: 52) temporary short-term full time employees.
Information on Directors’ emoluments and interests, which forms part of these audited financial statements, is given in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The Company had an average of 9 (2009: 4) employees in the year ended 28 November 2010. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 66
5 Finance income and cost
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Finance income
Bank interest receivable    451 359
    451 359
Finance cost
Bank loans and overdrafts    (18) (378)
    (18) (378)
Net finance income/(cost)    433 (19)
6 T axation
(a) Analysis of tax charge for the year
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Current taxation
UK
Corporation tax charged/(credited) at  
28% (2009: 28%) on profits for the year    9,195 4,732
Adjustments in respect of prior periods    583 (1,447)
Overseas
Corporation tax charged/(credited) on  
profits for the year    1,274 1,725
Adjustments in respect of prior periods    (768) (329)
T otal current tax charge/(credit)    10,284 4,681
Deferred taxation
Origination and reversal of temporary  
differences    (3,862) (3,401)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods    992 2,079
Schedule 23 deferred tax credit in respect  
of unexercised employee share awards  
and options    (48) (394)
T otal deferred tax (credit)/charge    (2,918) (1,716)
Total income tax charge in the  
statement of comprehensive income    7,366 2,965 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 67
6 T axation (continued)
(b) Reconciliation of the effective tax rate
The Group‘s tax charge for the year ended 28 November 2010 exceeds the UK statutory rate and can be reconciled as 
follows:
 28 November 29 November
  2010  2009
  £’000 % £’000 %
Profit before taxation  21,649  8,927 
Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate  
of corporation tax in the UK  6,062 28% 2,500 28%
Effects of:
Disallowable items  80 – 59 1%
Differing tax rates on overseas earnings  376 2% 103 1%
Adjustments to tax in respect of previous periods  807 4% 303 3%
Adjustment due to UK tax rate change  41 – – –
T ax expense and effective tax rate  7,366 34% 2,965 33%
(c) Current and deferred tax movement recognised directly in equity
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Current tax
Equity settled employee share options    155 1,042
Deferred tax
Equity settled employee share options    258 620
    413 1,662
The Group expects to receive additional tax deductions in respect of the share awards and share options currently 
unexercised. Under IFRS the Group is required to provide for deferred tax on all unexercised share awards and options. 
At 28 November 2010 a deferred tax asset of £2.1m (2009: £1.8m) has been recognised in respect of these options (note 18). SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 68
7 Dividends
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Amounts recognised and distributed to shareholders in the year  
Equity
Interim dividend of 4.0p (2009: 4.0p) per ordinary share    4,782 4,738
Second interim dividend of 8.0p (2009: nil) per ordinary share    9,587 –
Final dividend of nil (2009: 8.0p) per ordinary share    – 9,696
    14,369 14,434
Amounts proposed
Interim dividend of 4.0p (2009: 4.0p) per ordinary share for the period ended  
30 May 2010    4,797 4,782
Second interim dividend of nil (2009: 8.0p) per ordinary share for the year ended  
28 November 2010    – 9,544
Final dividend of 8.0p (2009: nil) per ordinary share for the year ended  
28 November 2010    9,594 –
An interim dividend of 4.0 pence (2009: 4.0 pence) per ordinary share for the six months ended 31 May 2009 was paid on 
4 December 2009 to shareholders on record at 6 November 2009.
For the year ended 29 November 2009, instead of a final dividend, a second interim dividend of 8.0 pence per ordinary 
share was paid on 31 March 2010, to shareholders on record at 26 February 2010.
An interim dividend of 4.0 pence (2009: 4.0 pence) per ordinary share for the six months ended 30 May 2010 was paid on 
3 December 2010 to shareholders on record at 5 November 2010.
The Board propose a final dividend of 8.0 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 28 November 2010 (2009: nil), to be 
paid on 6 June 2011 to shareholders on record at 6 May 2011. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 69
8 Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’) is based on the following data.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the EBT which are treated as 
cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion 
of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Earnings
Profit after taxation excluding exceptional items    14,283 12,438
Non controlling interest    (67) (1,164)
Adjusted profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company excluding  
exceptional items    14,216 11,274
Effect of exceptional items (net of tax)    – (6,476)
Profit after taxation attributable to equity holders of the Company   14,216 4,798
    millions millions
Number of shares
Weighted average number of shares used for basic EPS    119.9 118.7
Dilutive effect of share plans    3.9 3.8
Diluted weighted average number of shares used for diluted EPS   123.8 122.5
    pence pence
Basic
Basic earnings per share    11.9 4.0
Adjusted basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items    11.9 9.5
Diluted
Diluted earnings per share    11.5 3.9
Adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items   11.5 9.2 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 70
9 Property, plant and equipment
 Computer Leasehold Fixtures and Motor
 equipment improvements fittings vehicles Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 30 November 2008 10,424 4,508 3,405 469 18,806
Additions 1,493 765 337 131 2,726
Disposals (905) (1,009) (790) (322) (3,026)
Exchange difference 193 83 117 – 393
At 29 November 2009 11,205 4,347 3,069 278 18,899
Additions 1,818 589 337 92 2,836
Disposals (2,125) (45) (134) (211) (2,515)
Reclassification (note 10) 51 156 64 – 271
Exchange difference (107) (18) (74) – (199)
At 28 November 2010 10,842 5,029 3,262 159 19,292
Depreciation
At 30 November 2008 8,361 1,898 1,777 195 12,231
Charge for the year 1,561 785 504 103 2,953
Disposals (699) (618) (444) (158) (1,919)
Exchange difference 147 36 53 – 236
At 29 November 2009 9,370 2,101 1,890 140 13,501
Charge for the year 1,451 878 470 126 2,925
Disposals (2,080) (38) (117) (169) (2,404)
Exchange difference (91) (41) (45) – (177)
At 28 November 2010 8,650 2,900 2,198 97 13,845
Net book value
At 28 November 2010 2,192 2,129 1,064 62 5,447
At 29 November 2009 1,835 2,246 1,179 138 5,398 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 71
10 Intangible assets
    Software and
  Intangible  system
  assets under Computer development
 Goodwill construction software cost Trademarks Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 30 November 2008 206,899 639 2,564 12,865 71 223,038
Additions 710 1,479 199 450 – 2,838
Disposals (674) – – (355) – (1,029)
Exchange difference – – 3 – – 3
Reclassification – (790) – 790 – –
At 29 November 2009 206,935 1,328 2,766 13,750 71 224,850
Additions – 2,270 652 – – 2,922
Disposals – – (1) – – (1)
Reclassification (note 9) – (1,885) – 1,614 – (271)
At 28 November 2010 206,935 1,713 3,417 15,364 71 227,500
Amortisation and Impairment
At 30 November 2008 205,687 – 1,624 3,410 55 210,776
Charge for the year – – 703 2,466 6 3,175
At 29 November 2009 205,687 – 2,327 5,876 61 213,951
Charge for the year – – 385 3,000 3 3,388
At 28 November 2010 205,687 – 2,712 8,876 64 217,339
Net book value
At 28 November 2010 1,248 1,713 705 6,488 7 10,161
At 29 November 2009 1,248 1,328 439 7,874 10 10,899
The remaining useful life of significant intangible assets ranges between 1 to 5 years. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 72
10 Intangible assets (continued)
Goodwill
The net book value at 28 November 2010 and 29 November 2009 along with changes in goodwill are as follows:
   Transfer  
  of Goodwill Net book value
   Group’s 2010 2010 2009
Investment in   shareholding £000 £000 £000
SThree Staffing UK Limited   100% 833 833 –
Strategic Resource Group Limited   100% (154) – 154
Jobboard Enterprises Limited   87% – 415 415
New Wave Resourcing Limited   100% (1) – 1
Staff Search Group Limited   100% (26) – 26
Progressive SAS   100% (5) – 5
Madison Black Limited   100% (421) – 421
J P Gray Limited   100% (226) – 226
    – 1,248 1,248
During the year, the Group started to reorganise and simplify its corporate structure resulting in the consolidation of 
various businesses across UK and Europe. In assessing the Group’s cash generating units, the carrying value of goodwill 
will not be affected by the transfer or sale of different business units across the Group. The transfer figures above show 
the post reorganisation effect on the carrying value of goodwill being transferred to SThree Staffing UK Limited.
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill has been tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit, including 
goodwill, with the recoverable amount of that cash-generating unit. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group 
of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are calculated by preparing cash flow forecasts derived 
from the most recent financial budgets and an average annual growth rate of 5% over the next five years, which does not 
exceed the long-term average growth rate of the relevant markets. A terminal value of the cash flow is then calculated 
by assuming growth of 5%, discounted using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. If the recoverable amount 
of the cash generating-unit is less than the carrying value, then an impairment loss is recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income.
Software and system development cost
In 2008, the Group began a phased rollout of a Customer Relationship Management (‘CRM’) system to complement the 
front-office system. Further costs directly attributable to the development of the new systems have been capitalised 
during the year.
Additions during the year represent the development of a credit risk managment system to improve the early 
identification of risky clients through better reporting and optimising the granting of credit, thereby improving the 
visibility and management of trade debtors leading to a reduction in bad debts, a legal management and tracking system 
which gives greater visibility and efficiency across the whole dispute resolution process leading to increased recovery 
of disputed debts and an online expenses system to automate the expense claims policy thereby creating back office 
efficiencies and greater overall control. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 73
10 Intangible assets (continued)
Recoverable amounts
The recoverable amounts used for impairment testing of intangible fixed assets is based on value-in-use calculations 
using a pre-tax discount rate based on the Group‘s weighted average cost of capital of 9.5% (2009: 10.1%). The Group has 
used the same discount rate for each cash generating unit as they are all considered to have the same risk profile. The 
future cash flow projections are based on approved financial budgets. Average growth rates used to estimate cash flows 
for the first five years are in line with Board approved forecasts, with the growth rate assumption thereafter limited to the 
expected growth rate of the local economy.
11 Investments in subsidiaries
 Shares 
 in subsidiaries
Company £’000
Cost
At 30 November 2008     246,715
Capital contribution relating to share based payments (IFRS 2)     936
Additions
– Repurchase of non-controlling interest     1,349
– Disposal of investment     (859)
At 29 November 2009     248,141
Capital contribution relating to share based payments (IFRS 2)     1,316
Additions
– Increase in investments
 i)
     6,089
– Repurchase of non-controlling interest 
ii)     
135
– Disposal of investments
 iii)
     (374)
– Group reorganisation
 iv)
     (1,397)
At 28 November 2010     253,910
Provision for impairment
At 30 November 2008 and 29 November 2009     9,598
– Group reorganisation
 iv)
     (1,340)
At 28 November 2010     8,258
Net carrying value
At 28 November 2010     245,652
At 29 November 2009     238,543
i)  The increase in investments relates to the capital requirements of SThree Overseas Holdings Limited.
ii)  The repurchase of the non-controlling interest related to Huxley Banking and Finance Limited, Huxley Associates 
S Limited, Orgtel Contract Limited and SThree Overseas Holdings Limited.
iii)  The investments disposed of during the year related to Jobboard Enterprises Limited, Huxley Banking and Finance 
Limited, Huxley Associates S Limited and Progressive France Limited.
iv) The Group reorganisation related to the transfer of MG Resourcing Limited and T actical Resourcing Limited. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 74
11 Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
In accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’ the carrying values of the Company’s investments in subsidiaries have 
been allocated to their cash-generating units to assess their value in use. In assessing the value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are calculated by preparing cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budget and 
an average annual growth rate of 5% (2009: 5%), discounted using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. If the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating-unit is less than the carrying value, then an impairment loss is recognised in 
the statement of comprehensive income. The pre-tax discount rate applied to projected future net cash flows to arrive at 
the valuation was 9.5% (2009: 10.1%).
IFRS 2 requires that any options or awards granted to employees of a subsidiary company will increase the carrying value 
of the investment held. In 2010, the Group has recognised an increase in the investments in its subsidiaries of £1.3m 
(2009: £0.9m) relating to these share options and awards.
Group Reorganisation
As part of the reorganisation, the Group undertook a share for share exchange for all non-controlling interests held. There 
was no material effect from the share transfer and no effect on the Group cashflow position. These subsidiaries were 
subsequently transferred by way of a share exchange to either SThree UK Holdings Limited or SThree Overseas Holdings 
Limited.
In 2010, the movements in the investment relates to the following:
    Group’s shareholding
    Before After
Repurchase and disposals of non-controlling interest    acquisition acquisition
Progressive GmbH    78.0% 100.0%
Progessive Nederland BV    81.0% 100.0%
Progressive France Limited    84.0% 100.0%
Progressive Germany Limited    80.0% 100.0%
Progressive SAS    86.0% 100.0%
Huxley Associates Finance Resourcing Inc    74.5% 100.0%
Huxley Associates BV    73.5% 100.0%
Huxley Associates Banking & Finance Limited    83.0% 100.0%
Huxley Associates Banking and Finance BV    74.5% 100.0%
Huxley Associates Nederland BV    70.0% 100.0%
Huxley Associates M Limited    70.0% 100.0%
Huxley Associates N Limited    70.0% 100.0%
Huxley Associates S Limited    72.0% 100.0% SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 75
11 Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
Investments comprise the following principal subsidiary trading companies:
    Shareholding Country of
    2010 2009 incorporation Principal Activity
SThree Australia Pty Limited 100% 100% Australia Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions NV 100% 100% Belgium Recruitment
Huxley Associates Belgium NV 100% 100% Belgium Recruitment
SThree Services NV 100% 100% Belgium Recruitment
SThree Belgium NV 100% 100% Belgium Recruitment
SThree SAS 100% 100% France Recruitment
Jobboard Enterprises GmbH 100% 100% Germany Recruitment
SThree GmbH 100% 100% Germany Recruitment
SThree Limited 100% 100% Hong Kong Recruitment
SThree India Private Limited 100% 100% India Recruitment
SThree Staffing Ireland Limited 100% 100% Ireland Recruitment
Jobboard Enterprises BV 100% 100% Netherlands Recruitment
SThree Holdings BV 100% 100% Netherlands Recruitment
SThree Pte. Ltd. 100% 100% Singapore Recruitment
Huxley Associates Banking & Finance Limited 100% 100% UK Recruitment
Huxley Associates Global Limited 100% 100% UK Recruitment
Huxley Associates Limited 100% 100% UK Recruitment
Jobboard Enterprises Limited 90% 90% UK Recruitment
Orgtel Contract Limited 79.5% 79.5% UK Recruitment
Orgtel Limited 80% 80% UK Recruitment
Real Staffing Group Limited 100% 100% UK Recruitment
SThree Finance Limited
*
 100% 100% UK Finance
SThree IP Limited
*
 100% 100% UK Holding Company
SThree Management Services Limited
*
 100% 100% UK Management Services
SThree Overseas Holdings Limited
*
 100% 100% UK Holding Company
SThree Staffing UK Limited 100% 100% UK Recruitment
SThree UK Holdings Limited
*
 100% 100% UK Holding Company
Huxley Associates Finance Resourcing Inc 100% 100% USA Recruitment
Huxley Associates Inc 100% 100% USA Recruitment
Specialist Staffing Solutions Inc 100% 100% USA Recruitment
*
Directly held subsidiaries. All other subsidiaries are indirectly held.
Group Reorganisation
During the current year, the Group further rationalised its structure by undertaking mergers and other legal restructuring 
steps, some of which will not formally take effect until into 2011. This followed on from the reorganisation started in 
the prior year, where two new holding companies were incorporated, namely, SThree UK Holdings Limited and SThree 
Overseas Holdings Limited. These holding companies either incorporated or purchased the share capital of a number 
of UK and overseas subsidiaries in a share for share exchange and this had no effect on the net assets of the Group. 
Non-controlling interests remain in respect of three companies at the year end. The aggregate profit and net assets, 
attributable to these non-controlling interest holders has not been separately recognised in the financial statements on 
the basis of materiality.
Non-controlling interest rights
In the event of a return of capital in a winding up or capital reduction the non-controlling interest holding reverts to the 
‘right to dividend’ percentage in any distribution. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 76
12 Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
  28 November 29 November 28 November 29 November
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current
T rade receivables  64,862 60,813 3 21
Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables  (1,767) (2,473) – –
Net trade receivables  63,095 58,340 3 21
Other receivables  3,806 5,392 154 2,515
Prepayments and accrued income  31,034 29,497 – –
  97,935 93,229 157 2,536
T rade receivables do not carry interest. The Group makes judgements on an entity by entity basis as to its ability to 
collect outstanding receivables and provides an allowance for doubtful accounts based on a specific review of significant 
outstanding invoices. For those invoices not specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at differing percentages based 
on the age of the receivable. In determining these percentages, the Group analyses its historical collection experience 
and current economic trends. T rade receivable balances are written off when the Group determines that it is unlikely that 
future remittances will be received. Management considers the carrying values of trade and other receivables are equal to 
the fair value and are deemed to be current assets.
T rade receivables and cash and cash equivalents are deemed to be all current loan and receivables for disclosure under 
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Disclosures (note 25).
  Group
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
The following table shows the development of allowances on receivables:
Allowances at start of financial year    2,473 2,772
Charge for the year    686 1,968
Amounts written down during the year    (917) (1,035)
Amounts recovered during the year    (475) (1,232)
Allowances at end of financial year    1,767 2,473 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 77
13 Assets classified as held-to-maturity
 Group Company
  28 November 29 November 28 November 29 November
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fixed rate Sterling Deposit/Euro Bond  3,500 3,203 – –
At the prior period year end the Group invested in a fixed rate Euro bond which matured on 6 May 2010. At 28  November 
2010, the Group invested in a fixed rate Sterling deposit. The fixed interest rate on this security is 1.6% per annum (2009: 
1.4% per annum). The bond has a fixed maturity date of 23 May 2011, that is, between 3 to 6 months from the end of the 
reporting period. The counterparty has a minimum A credit rating. None of this asset is past due or impaired.
14 Current tax assets/liabilities
The current tax liability of £3.8m (2009: tax asset of £3.3m) for the Group and the current tax liability of nil (2009: £0.5m) 
for the Company represent current tax recoverable/payable relating to current and prior periods respectively.
15 Trade and other payables
 Group Company
  28 November 29 November 28 November 29 November
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
T rade payables  29,961 25,479 25 86
Amounts due to Group companies  – – 65,634 52,451
Other taxes and social security  8,655 4,393 – –
Other payables  2,039 3,032 449 196
Accruals  45,495 43,152 895 461
  86,150 76,056 67,003 53,194
All amounts detailed above are payable within one year. The fair values of trade and other payables are not materially 
different from those disclosed above.
T rade and other payables are predominantly interest free.
Amounts due to Group companies are charged interest at an average rate of 1.5% (2009: 1.75%) for Sterling denominated 
balances and at 1% above the local base rate for other currencies. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 78
16 Financial liabilities
 Group Company
  28 November 29 November 28 November 29 November
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank overdraft  – – 445 –
A flexible invoice financing arrangement has renewed with the Royal Bank of Scotland Group (RBS) until April 2012. Under 
this arrangement the Group is able to borrow up to £20m. Funds borrowed under this facility bear interest at the rate of 
1.75% above the RBS base rate. The Group has not drawn down any amount on this facility.
Borrowing levels are subject to maximum of 85% of trade receivables that meets Daily Sales Outstanding target in the 
range of 40-50 days.
(i) Maturity profile of bank overdrafts
 Group Company
  28 November 29 November 28 November 29 November
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within 1 year, or on demand  – – 445 –
(ii) Interest rate risk profile of bank overdrafts
The interest rate risk profile of bank overdrafts are as follows:
 Group Company
  28 November 29 November 28 November 29 November
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Floating rate - overdraft  – – 445 –
The Group has a cash pooling arrangement which allows netting off the overdraft balances to mitigate finance costs. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 79
17 Provisions for liabilities and charges
 Corporate and divisional
 restructuring Property Other Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 November 2008  – 1,288 2,579 3,867
Utilised during the year  (6,974) (223) – (7,197)
Charged/(released) to the statement of comprehensive income  9,050 539 (307) 9,282
At 29 November 2009  2,076 1,604 2,272 5,952
Utilised during the year  (1,565) (100) – (1,665)
Charged/(released) to the statement of comprehensive income  – (251) (1,827) (2,078)
T racker share consideration  – – 3,382 3,382
T ransfer  (511) 511 – –
At 28 November 2010  – 1,764 3,827 5,591
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
Current/non-current analysis:    £’000 £’000
Current liabilities    4,237 3,063
Non-current liabilities    1,354 2,889
    5,591 5,952
Provisions are not discounted as the Group believes that the effect of the time value of money is immaterial and the 
amount of provisions measured at cost approximate to the present value of the expenditure required to settle the 
obligation.
Corporate and divisional restructuring
On 15 April 2009, the Group announced a number of changes relating to corporate and divisional restructuring. The Group 
has charged the restructuring cost incurred of £9.1m at 29 November 2009 to the statement of comprehensive income 
in the previous period. The transfer to ”property” provision represents the residual amount of £0.5m relating to property 
rationalisation costs.
Property
Dilapidations — The Group is obliged to pay for dilapidations at the end of its tenancy of various properties. Provision has 
been made based on independent professional estimates of the likely costs based on current conditions and these have 
been spread over the relevant lease term. The liability is expected to crystallise as follows:
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Within one year    410 683
One to five years    903 782
After five years    451 139
    1,764 1,604 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 80
17 Provisions for liabilities and charges (continued)
Other
Other provisions released to the statement of comprehensive income in the current year principally included amounts in 
respect of liabilities resulting from indemnities given to Group clients in Continental Europe arising in the normal course of 
business in respect of the employment status of contractors. A detailed review of the Group’s improved internal controls 
and procedures surrounding this area, as well as a history of not receiving any legal claims since the provision was 
created in 2004, resulted in the decision that the provision was no longer required.
Other remaining provisions relate to the obligation to repay amounts received or receivable in relation to the subscription of 
tracker shares offered to certain employees under the terms of the tracker share arrangements and ongoing legal matters.
18 Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
  European
 Excess tax contractor Share-based
 depreciation liabilities payments Other Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 November 2008 371 667 812 1,296 3,146
Credit/(charge) to statement of comprehensive  
income for the year 601 (82) 394 2,915 3,828
Prior year (charge)/credit to statement of  
comprehensive income for the year (2,314) 33 – 202 (2,079)
Charge to equity for the year – – 620 – 620
At 29 November 2009 (1,342) 618 1,826 4,413 5,515
Credit/(charge) to statement of comprehensive  
income for the year 85 (618) 48 4,358 3,873
Prior year (charge)/credit to statement of  
comprehensive income for the year (49) – – (943) (992)
Charge to equity for the year  – 258 – 258
Exchange difference – – – 16 16
At 28 November 2010 (1,306) – 2,132 7,844 8,670
The Group believes that the deferred tax assets will be recoverable against projected taxable profits over the foreseeable 
future in the companies to which they relate.
The Group has tax losses of £24.5m for the year (2009: £11.2m) in respect of overseas territories. A deferred tax asset in 
respect of these losses has been recognised on consolidation.
The Finance (No 2) Act 2010 included legislation to reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax from 28% to 27% with effect 
from 1 April 2011. The legislation was substantially enacted in July 2010 and, as a result, the Group’s deferred tax asset 
has been reduced as at 28 November 2010 by £32,112, resulting in a charge to the statement of comprehensive income of 
£41,652 and a credit to equity of £9,540.
Unremitted earnings
As at 28 November 2010, unremitted earnings of overseas Group companies amounted to £20.8m (2009: £35.5m). 
Unremitted earnings may be liable to some overseas tax and UK tax (after allowing for double taxation relief) if they were 
to be distributed as dividends. However, no tax is expected to be payable on them because, as at the end of the reporting 
period, there are no plans to remit these earnings. Therefore no provision for tax in respect of possible future remittances 
has been made. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 81
18 Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (continued)
   Share-based 
   payments Other Total
Company   £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 November 2008   (38) 264 226
Charge/(Credit) to statement of comprehensive income for the year  433 (264) 169
Charge to equity for the year   762 – 762
At 29 November 2009   1,157 – 1,157
Charge to statement of comprehensive income for the year   27 – 27
Charge to equity for the year   116 – 116
At 28 November 2010   1,300 – 1,300
19 Share Capital
(a) Share Capital
   28 November  29 November
   2010  2009
  Number of  Number of
Authorised  shares £’000 shares £’000
Ordinary shares of 1p each  300,000,000 3,000 300,000,000 3,000
   Capital
  Ordinary redemption Capital
  shares reserve reserve Total
Allotted and fully paid Number £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 29 November 2009 121,756,276 1,218 168 878 2,264
Issue of share capital 3,303 – – – –
At 28 November 2010 121,759,579 1,218 168 878 2,264
Share issue
Share options that were granted in November 2000 were satisfied in the current period with a new issue of 3,303 (2009: 
29,500) ordinary shares. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 82
19 Share Capital (continued)
(b) Share options
Certain employees hold options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company under the share option schemes. 
The number of shares subject to options, the period in which they were granted and the period in which they may be 
exercised are given below. During this financial year, 337,127 (2009: 88,265) of these options were exercised of which 
3,303 (2009: 29,500) were satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares and the remaining 333,824 (2009: 59,265) were 
satisfied by the shares held in the EBT.
  Number    Number
  of options    of options
  outstanding    outstanding Exercise
  29 November Granted Exercised Lapsed 28 November price Exercise
Year of grant Note 2009 in year in year in year 2010 per share period
2000 a 3,000 – 3,000 – – 1p 2000-2010
*
2007 b 345,332 – 173,480 171,852 – – 2010-2017
2008 c 1,039,095 – 55,894 31,685 951,516 – 2011-2018
2009 d 1,625,583 – 90,638 30,016 1,504,929 – 2012-2019
       £1 & 272.2p &  
2010 e – 1,287,035 14,115 10,020 1,262,900 299.4p
*
 2013-2020
  3,013,010 1,287,035 337,127 243,573 3,719,345  
*
  The exercise price relates to approved options (276,979 options at 299.4p per share; 11,021 options at 272.2p per share) and funding shares 
(288,000 options at £1) under the relevant scheme.
Note
a)  3,000 share options became exercisable and were all exercised during the year.
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP)
  In November 2006, shareholders approved a share-based L TIP . In February 2010, awards for all L TIP participants were 
structured to include tax approved options, with funding awards also being granted at an option price of £1 in respect 
of the total award.
  On 19 October 2010, the company introduced a Joint Ownership Plan (‘JOP’) in respect of the unapproved L TIP awards 
made in February 2010. JOP options over existing L TIP awards were granted to participants at 60p per share. The main 
features of the L TIP are detailed within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
b)  The weighted average fair value of the equity-settled share awards granted in 2007 amounted to 226.64p per 
award. The fair value of the share awards was calculated using the Monte-Carlo simulation model. The Monte-Carlo 
simulation model reflected the historical volatilities of the Company’s share price and those other companies to which 
the Company’s performance is compared, over a period equal to the vesting period. The average share price on the 
date of grant was 402.0p, the vesting period in which performance of the TSR is assessed is 3 years.
c)  The weighted average fair value of the equity-settled share awards granted in 2008 amounted to 117.42p per award. 
The average share price on the date of grant was 196.75p, the vesting period in which performance of the TSR is 
assessed is 3 years.
d)  The weighted average fair value of the equity-settled share awards granted during 2009 amounted to 110.99p per 
award. The average share price on the date of grant was 170.0p, the vesting period in which performance of the TSR is 
assessed is 3 years. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 83
19 Share Capital (continued)
(b) Share options (continued)
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP) (continued)
e)  The weighted average fair value of the equity-settled share awards granted during the year amounted to 261.50p per 
award. The average share price on the date of grant was 310.0p, the vesting period in which performance of the TSR is 
assessed is 3 years.
Other employees share option schemes
   SAYE SIP Total
   £’000 £’000 £’000
At 29 November 2009   59 58 117
Granted   37 148 185
Lapsed   – (2) (2)
At 28 November 2010   96 204 300
Save as you Earn (SAYE)
The SAYE share option scheme was approved by the shareholders on 24 April 2009 in order to promote share ownership 
amongst all UK employees of the Company, linking employee benefit to Company performance and to aid staff retention. 
All UK employees and Executive Directors who have continuous service of more than six months, ending on the date of 
grant, or such shorter period as the Board may decide, within the Group, are eligible to participate in the scheme. The 
Board has discretion to reduce the period of qualifying service and to invite other employees to participate. Under the 
SAYE, employees can save up to £250 per month for three years and receive options to purchase the Company’s shares at 
a discount of up to 20% on the market value. During 2010, 129 employees (2009: 233 employees) applied to participate in 
the SAYE. Options awarded under the SAYE scheme are not subject to any performance conditions.
For the purpose of valuing options to arrive at the share-based payment charge, the Black Scholes option pricing model 
has been used for schemes with total shareholder return performance targets. The assumptions used in the models are 
as follows:
Weighted average fair value (£) 148.47p
Key assumptions used:
Weighted average share price 296.00p
Exercise prices (£) 189.00p
Range of expected volatility 45%
Risk-free interest rate 3.22%
Range of expected option term (life) 3 years
Dividend yield 6.06%
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
The SIP was approved by shareholders on 24 April 2009. Under the SIP , employees are invited to make contributions to 
buy Partnership Shares. If an employee agrees to buy Partnership Shares the company currently matches the number of 
Partnership Shares bought with an award of Matching Shares, on a one-for-one basis.
Assumptions on expected volatility and expected option term have been made on the basis of historical data, wherever 
available, for the period corresponding with the vesting period of the option. Best estimates have been used where 
historical data is not available in this respect. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 84
19 Share Capital (continued)
(b) Share options (continued)
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) (continued)
During the year, the Group recognised a cost of £0.2m (2009: £0.06m) related to equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions. The weighted average price paid for plan shares during the year was 302.85p (2009: 253.80p).
Employee benefit trusts (EBT)
In addition to the share options set out above the Company has issued further share options and awards which will be 
satisfied by shares held by the Group’s EBT. The shares held by the EBT are shown as a deduction from shareholders’ 
funds.
The EBT waive their rights to receive a dividend under the terms of the trusts. No other shareholder waives their rights to 
dividends.
Ordinary shares     Number
29 November 2009   2,250,988
Movement in the year L TIP options exercised  (333,824)
 Options/awards exercised  (55,037)
28 November 2010   1,862,127
The shares held in the trust include shares gifted from the Directors at nil cost to the EBT and shares newly issued to 
satisfy awards under the share option schemes and L TIP .
Options granted and awards to be settled by shares held in the EBT are as follows:
  Number of    Number of    
  options/awards    options/awards    
  outstanding Granted/   outstanding  Exercise  
Year of  29 November awards Exercised Lapsed 28 November  price Exercise
grant/award Note 2009 in year in year in year 2010 per share period
2004 a 12,000 – 12,000 – – 1p 2004-2014
*
2004 b 4,800 – 4,800 – – 1p 2004-2014
*
2004 c 1,174,718 – 10,237 113,081 1,051,400 1p 2004-2014
*
2005 d 1,700 – – – 1,700 £1 total 2005-2015
*
2008 e 34,000 – 28,000 6,000 – – 2008-2018
  1,227,218 – 55,037 119,081 1,053,100
*
 Providing certain conditions have been met at the time of exercise
The weighted average market share price for shares exercised during the year was 295p (2009: 203p). SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 85
19 Share Capital (continued)
(b) Share options (continued)
Employee benefit trusts (EBT) (continued)
Approved executive share option scheme
a)  On 28 May 2004 options over 650,720 ordinary shares were issued at an exercise price of 1p. These options replaced 
options that had lapsed in the previous grant of options in 2000. There are no performance conditions attached and 
the options are exercisable within 10 years from the date of grant. The number of options outstanding at 28 November 
2010 was nil (2009: 12,000).
b)  On 3 December 2004 options over 49,600 ordinary shares were issued at an exercise price of 1p. These options 
replaced options that had lapsed in the previous grants of options in November 2000 and May 2004. There are no 
performance conditions attached and the share options are exercisable within 10 years from the date of grant. The 
number of options outstanding at 28 November 2010 was nil (2009: 4,800).
c)  Options over 5.25 million ordinary shares were granted by the Board to certain employees on 3 December 2004. These 
are exercisable within 10 years from the date of grant. These options are subject to a performance condition requiring 
that over a five year period a certain level of profits has to be achieved. If these performance targets are achieved in 
each of the relevant periods, a total of 1,050,000 options are available for allocation in each year following the target 
being achieved. The number of options outstanding at 28 November 2010 was 1,051,400 (2009: 1,174,718).
Unapproved share option scheme
d)  At IPO (16 November 2005), the Board awarded 433,749 Ordinary Shares and issued 505,710 Share options to certain 
current and former employees who were considered to have contributed to the Group’s continued success. The Share 
options are exercisable immediately upon grant and expire 10 years from the date of grant. The number of options 
outstanding at 28 November 2010 was 1,700 (2009: 1,700). The Group recognised a charge in the income statement for 
the year ended 30 November 2005, in accordance with IFRS 2, amounting to £1,878,918, representing the fair value of 
the options awarded at the date of grant. There have been no awards in the current year.
e)  On 15 October 2008 the Directors made share awards over 226 700 ordinary shares to certain current employees who 
were considered to have contributed to the Group’s continued success. The share awards vest either immediately or 
after two years. For the calculation of the charge the fair value of these share awards is based on the mid-price on the 
day that the award was granted to the employees. The number outstanding at the year end was nil (2009: 34,000). SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 86
19 Share Capital (continued)
(c) Share awards in subsidiary companies (previously ‘Minority Interests’)
As described in the Directors’ Report the Group makes awards of shares in subsidiary businesses to certain 
entrepreneurial employees who will participate in the development of those businesses.
These awards generally have the following characteristics:
–  an employee receives an award of a ‘’tracker share’’ in a subsidiary business. This share gives the employee certain 
rights to income and capital growth of a ‘’tracked’’ business;
–  the employee must subscribe for his award of tracker shares at fair value, as determined by an independent third party 
share valuer and taking into account the particular rights attached to the shares described in the relevant businesses’ 
Articles of Association;
–  if the employee remains in employment with the Group for a pre-agreed period, not less than three years, he may 
then offer his tracker shares for sale to SThree plc. Should SThree plc decide to buy back the tracker shares, it will do 
so at a price based on a multiple of the tracker shares’ fair value at that date and SThree plc may choose to settle this 
transaction in cash or in SThree plc shares, as it chooses;
–  if the employee leaves the Group before the pre-agreed period, being three or five years depending on the life of the 
tracker, he is entitled to receive the lower of the initial subscription he paid or the fair value on the date of his departure 
as calculated by a third party valuer.
During the prior year, the following awards have been made under the tracker share arrangements:
 Number of awards   Number of awards
 outstanding Number of awards Number of awards outstanding
 30 November created during the bought back 29 November
 2008 year during the year 2009
T racker share awards made – 2009 941 619 94 1,466
 Number of awards   Number of awards
 outstanding Number of awards Number of awards outstanding
 30 November created during the bought back 28 November
 2009 year during the year 2010
T racker share awards made – 2010 1,466 22,313
*
 105 23,674
*
*
 20,207 of this total was transferred from the non controlling interests into SThree UK Holdings Ltd and SThree Overseas Holdings Ltd in July 2010
As employees must subscribe for the awards at fair value there is no IFRS2 charge. The total net subscription proceeds 
received for 2010 tracker share awards was £435,000 (2009: £192,000), with proceeds in respect of individual awards 
ranging from £282.71 to £48,849.73 (2009: £337.00 to £17,452.74). The Group also bought back 105 tracker shares during 
the year for a total consideration of £33,719 (2009: £10,000).
The subscription price of the tracker share awards is determined by an independent valuer, taking into account the 
expected performance of each tracked business and the likelihood of ultimate buy-back by SThree plc. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 87
20 Results of holding company
Of the results for the financial year, a retained profit of £4.9m (2009: retained profit of £28.7m) was recorded. The 
Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and do not 
present a statement of comprehensive income for the Company alone.
21 Commitments
Group
Operating leases
At the end of the reporting period the Group had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as set out 
below:
    Motor vehicles  Land and buildings
  28 November 29 November 28 November 29 November
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
T otal minimum operating lease payments due:
Within one year  408 1,244 10,218 11,459
One to five years  2 400 28,598 35,191
After 5 years  – – 11,544 13,083
  410 1,644 50,360 59,733
Capital commitments
The Group had contractual commitments of £0.2m (2009: £0.5m) relating to property, plant and equipment at the end of 
the reporting period.
VAT group registration
As a result of the group registration for VAT purposes, the Company is contingently liable for VAT liabilities arising in other 
companies within the VAT group. The total VAT liability as at 28 November 2010 amounted to £4.7m (2009: £1.8m).
Guarantees
The Group issued bank guarantees for commitments which amounted to £1.8m (2009: £2.1m).
Company 
The Company held no outstanding lease or capital commitments at the year end (2009: nil). SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 88
22 Cash and cash equivalents
 Group Company
    28 November 29 November 28 November 29 November
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash in hand and at bank  51,718 45,272 – 150
Bank overdraft (note 16)  – – (445) –
  51,718 45,272 (445) 150
Due to the Group pooling arrangement, an overdraft amount of £0.4m (2009: £nil) in SThree plc is netted out against cash 
balance in Group companies.
Included within cash and cash equivalents is £0.8m (2009: £0.4m) against which the Group has issued cash collaterised 
bank guarantees. This amount is not immediately available for use in the business.
23 Related party transactions
Group 
The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (note 11), with its Directors and with members of the 
Executive Board. Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
Key management personnel
The key management under IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosure’ is defined as those persons who have authority and 
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the entity’s activities, directly or indirectly. The Group’s key 
management comprises of the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors, Executive Committee and other key 
managers who are deemed to influence the day to day activities. Details of Directors’ remuneration are given in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. The remuneration of the Directors is determined by the SThree plc Remuneration 
Committee in accordance with its stated policy. T otal remuneration for members of key management is detailed below.
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Salaries and other short-term benefits    4,124 3,255
Fair value of share awards granted    1,271 810
Post-employment benefits    196 156
T ermination benefits    – 448
    5,591 4,669
The above figures for 2009 include £259,000 which was recognised in the corporate and divisional restructuring 
exceptional items. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 89
23 Related party transactions (continued)
Company 
The Company has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (note 11), and with members of the Executive Board. 
The Directors receive remuneration from the Company, which is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The 
Company did not have any transactions other than those disclosed in the Remuneration Report with the Directors during 
the financial year. Details of transactions between the Company and other related parties are disclosed below.
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Loans and advances given to and dividends received from subsidiaries
Loans and advances given to subsidiaries    – 11,340
Loans and advances given to directors    305 305
Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans and advances   70 162
Dividend income received    13,201 25,745
Loans and advances received from subsidiaries
Loans and advances received from subsidiaries    13,183 –
Interest expense paid in respect of interest bearing loans and advances   976 1,674
Year end balances arising from transactions with subsidiaries
    28 November 29 November
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Amounts payable to subsidiary companies    65,634 52,451
24 Subsequent events
The Group does not have any events post the end of the reporting period that require disclosure as at 28 January 2011. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 90
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors
Financial risk factors 
The Group reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of Sterling profits. The role of Corporate T reasury is to manage 
and monitor external and internal funding requirements and financial risks in support of corporate objectives. T reasury 
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors. T reasury management chaired 
by our Chief Financial Officer meets on a monthly basis to review T reasury activities. Its members receive management 
information relating to T reasury activities. Our internal auditors regularly review the T reasury internal control 
environment.
In previous years, the Group T reasury entered into a small number of derivative transactions, principally currency swaps 
and forward currency contracts with the purpose to manage the currency risks arising from operations and financing. 
The Board undertook a review of its currency hedging strategy to ensure it is appropriate and currently does not actively 
manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk by the use of financial instruments. The Group does not hold or issue 
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes and our T reasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All 
transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities, not 
for speculation.
The T reasury function is managed as a cost centre and thus not engaged in speculative trading.
The Group is exposed to a number of different financial risks including foreign currency exchange rates, liquidity, interest 
rates, and credit risk. The Group’s objective and strategy in responding to these risks is set out below.
(a) Capital risk management
  The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the group’s ability to continue as a going concern 
in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital.
  In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to 
shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
  Consistent with others in the industry, the group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is 
calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including ‘current and 
non-current borrowings’ as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position) less cash and cash equivalents. 
T otal capital is calculated as ‘equity’ as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position plus net debt.
(b) Foreign currency exchange risk
  The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in Sterling and conducts business in a number of other 
currencies, principally the Euro. Consequently the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk due to exchange rate 
movements which affect the Group‘s transactional revenues, cost of sales, the translation of the earnings and net 
assets of its overseas operations.
  The Group is also exposed to foreign currency exchange risk from the value of net investments outside the United 
Kingdom. The settlement of intercompany balances held with foreign operations is neither planned nor likely to occur 
in the foreseeable future. Therefore, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investments are 
taken into equity.
  The Group’s businesses generally raise invoices and incur expenses in their local currencies. Local currency cash 
generated is remitted via intercompany transfers to the United Kingdom. The Group generally converts foreign 
currency balances into Sterling to manage its cash flows.
  The anticipated impact on the Group‘s results if the Euro strengthened against Sterling by a movement of more 
than 10% in terms of translational exposure amounts to an increase in profit before tax by £2.8m (2009: £3.1m). If 
the Euro weakened against Sterling by more than 10% this would result in a decrease in profit before tax of £2.8m 
(2009: £3.1m). SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 91
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(b) Foreign currency exchange risk (continued)
  The table below provides exchange rates used by the Group for translation of the earnings and net assets of its 
overseas operations.
    Weighted average rate   Closing rate
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £ £ £ £
Euro  0.8691 0.8977 0.8499 0.9087
US dollar  0.6458 0.6530 0.6417 0.6061
Hong Kong dollar  0.0832 0.0843 0.0827 0.0782
Australian dollar  0.5852 0.4924 0.6193 0.5496
Singapore dollar  0.4695 0.4448 0.4865 0.4368
(c) Liquidity risk
  The Group actively maintains committed facilities to enable it to finance its day-to-day operations, based on cash 
flow projections. The Group invests surplus cash in interest-earning deposit accounts or bonds with UK and European 
banks (note 13), and complies with all its covenants.
  The Group’s treasury function centrally co-ordinates relationships with banks, borrowing requirements, foreign 
exchange requirements and cash management. The Group believes it has access to sufficient funding through an 
invoice financing arrangement that provides a committed borrowing facility of £20m and expires in April 2012.
  The table below shows the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on the contractual amounts 
payable on the date of repayment:
 Trade and other payables Financial liabilities
 Group Company Group Company
At 28 November 2010  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year  77,495 67,003 – 445
At 29 November 2009
Within one year  71,663 53,194 – – SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 92
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(d) Interest rate risk
  The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash 
flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally financial liabilities. The Group finances its operations 
through a mixture of retained profit, the invoice discounting facility and, when required, bank overdrafts.
  The Group does not hedge the exposure to variations in interest rates presented by the above instruments.
  T aking into consideration all variable rate borrowings and cash in place as at 28 November 2010,  if the interest rate 
payable or receivable moved by a 100 basis points in either direction then the effect to the Group would be minimal.
(e) Credit Risk
  In the normal course of business, the Group participates in cash pooling arrangements with its counterparty bank. The 
maximum exposure with a single bank for deposits is £30m (2009: £45.2m).
  T rade and other receivables of the Group are analysed in the table below. With respect to the trade and other 
receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors 
will not meet their payment obligations.
  The Group mitigates its credit risk by using a credit rating agency to assess new clients and payment history to assess 
further credit extensions to existing clients. In addition, the spread of SME client base (circa 7,000 clients) helps to 
mitigate the risk of individual client failure having a material impact on the Group.
  The Group does not typically renegotiate the terms of trade receivables, hence the outstanding balance is included 
in the analysis based on the original payment terms. There were no significant renegotiated balances outstanding at 
year end.
  Group  Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
Trade and other receivables  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Neither impaired nor past due  71,708 70,417 157 2,536
Impaired (net of valuation allowance)  1,336 392 – –
Not impaired and past due in the following periods
within 30 days  19,859 17,599 – –
31 to 60 days  4,211 3,894 – –
61 to 90 days  821 927 – –
Total  97,935 93,229 157 2,536 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 93
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(f) Interest rate profile of financial assets/(liabilities)
  The following tables set out the exposure of financial assets and liabilities to either fixed interest rates, floating interest 
rates or no interest rates. The maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities exposed to interest rate risk in the table 
below indicates the contractual repricing and maturity dates of these interest rates.
 Financial assets/(liabilities)
 Group Company
    Cash Held-to- Cash 
    and cash  maturity and cash   Financial
    equivalents investments equivalents Investments liabilities
At 28 November 2010  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Less than one year  51,718 3,500 – – (445)
Total interest-bearing  51,718 3,500 – – (445)
Analysed as:
Floating rate  51,718 – – – (445)
Fixed rate  – 3,500 – – –
T otal interest-bearing  51,718 3,500 – – (445)
Non-interest-bearing  – – – 245,404 –
T otal   51,718 3,500 – 245,404 (445)
At 29 November 2009  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Less than one year  45,272 3,203 150 – –
Total interest-bearing  45,272 3,203 150 – –
Analysed as:
Floating rate  45,272 – 150 – –
Fixed rate  – 3,203 – – –
T otal interest-bearing  45,272 3,203 150 – –
Non-interest-bearing  – – – 238,543 –
Total   45,272 3,203 150 238,543 –
(g) Price risk
  As part of the presentation of the market risks, IFRS 7 requires disclosure on how hypothetical changes in risk 
variables affect the price of financial instruments. Important risk variables are stock exchange prices or indices. As of 
28 November 2010, the entity did not hold any material investments to be classified as ‘available for sale’ or as ‘held for 
trading’. Therefore there are no financial instruments which would be materially impacted by risk variables affecting 
the price of financial instruments. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 94
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(h) Currency profile of financial assets/(liabilities)
Functional currency of Group operations:
 Net foreign currency monetary assets
    Other
 Sterling Euro US Dollars Currencies Total
At 28 November 2010 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling – 1,644 221 920 2,785
Euro – – – – –
Other – – 184 – 184
Total – 1,644 405 920 2,969
 
At 29 November 2009 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling – 9,865 518 1,063 11,446
Euro 10 – – – 10
Other – – 248 – 248
Total 10 9,865 766 1,063 11,704
The Company does not have any exposure to other currencies other than its functional currency of Sterling.
Other foreign currencies held by the Group include the following: Swiss Francs, United Arab Emirates Dirhams, Australian 
Dollars, Hong Kong Dollars, Singapore Dollars, Swedish Kronor, Bahrain Dinars, Kuwait Dinars, Qatar Riyals, Saudi Arabia 
Riyals and Indian Rupees. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 28 November 2010
SThree plc 5 95
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(i) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
 The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities are equal to their fair values.
  Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between 
informed and willing parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale, and excludes accrued interest.
  Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values. Where market values are not available, fair 
values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end 
exchange rates. A summary of the assumptions used for each category of financial instrument is set out below.
 Summary of methods and assumptions
Short-term deposits and borrowings  Approximates to the carrying amount because of the short 
maturity of these instruments.
Cash and cash equivalents Approximates to the carrying amount.
Receivables and payables  Approximates to the carrying amount for current balances; there 
are no material longer term balances.
Financial instruments Market valuations at the end of the reporting period.
26 Contingent Liabilities
The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of legal claims arising in the ordinary course of business. They are not 
anticipated to result in a material cash outflow for the Group. SThree plc 5 96
SThree plc
Five Year Financial Summary
 28 November 29 November 30 November 2 December 30 November
 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Turnover
Geographic analysis
– by location of client
United Kingdom 224.3 271.3 386.9 369.7 295.7
Europe and Rest of World 250.2 248.1 244.6 153.0 97.6
 474.5 519.4 631.5 522.7 393.3
Gross profit
Geographic analysis
– by location of client
United Kingdom 66.8 76.9 121.6 123.3 98.9
Europe and Rest of World 99.6 94.3 97.3 59.4 36.6
 166.4 171.2 218.9 182.7 135.5
Operating profit
Before exceptional items 21.2 18.0 56.8 52.3 41.0
Other key performance indicators
 numbers numbers numbers numbers numbers
Average headcount 1,772 1,841 2,157 1,786 1,288
Permanent placements in financial year 6,551 6,060 10,236 9,568 7,685
Active contractors at year end 4,359 4,157 5,745 5,662 4,719
 £ £ £ £ £
Average placement fee — permanent 12,123 11,930 10,355 9,780 8,563
Average gross profit per day — contractors 84.24 84.69 78.30 71.42 64.90 SThree plc 5 97
SThree plc
Notes Shareholder Information
Shareholder Enquiries and Electronic 
Communications – www.capitashareportal.com
Shareholders with enquiries relating to their shareholding 
should contact Capita Registrars. Alternatively, you may 
access your account via www.capitashareportal.com, but will 
need to have your shareholder reference available when you 
first log in, which may be found on your dividend voucher, 
share certificate or form of proxy. The online facility also allows 
shareholders to view their holding details, find out how to 
register a change of name or what to do if a share certificate 
is lost, as well as download forms in respect of changes of 
address, dividend mandates and share transfers.
Shareholders who would prefer to view documentation 
electronically can elect to receive automatic notification by 
e-mail each time the Company distributes documents, instead 
of receiving a paper version of such documents, by registering 
a request via the registrar by calling 0871 664 0391 (from UK 
– calls cost 10p per min plus network extras; lines are open 
8.30am – 5.30pm Mon to Fri) or + 44 208 639 3367 (Non UK) or 
register online at: 
www.capitashareportal.
There is no fee for using this service and you will automatically 
receive confirmation that a request has been registered. 
Should you wish to change your mind or request a paper 
version of any document in the future, you may do so by 
contacting the registrar.
Potential targeting of shareholders
Companies have become aware that their shareholders have 
received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning 
investment matters. These are typically from overseas based 
brokers’ who target UK shareholders offering to sell them 
what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US 
or UK investments. They can be very persistent and extremely 
persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) has reported that the average amount lost by 
investors is around £20,000. It is not just the novice investor 
that has been duped in this way; many of the victims had been 
successfully investing for several years. Shareholders are 
advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy 
shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
Make sure you get the correct name of the person and • 
organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA • 
before getting involved. You can check at  
www.fsa.gov.uk/register
The FSA also maintains on its website a list of • 
unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or 
have targeted, UK investors and any approach from 
such organisations should be reported to the FSA 
so that this list can be kept up to date and any other 
appropriate action can be considered. If you deal with an 
unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive 
payment under the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an 
online form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/ 
law/alerts/overseas.shtml
Inform the Registrar as shown above. • 
Details of share dealing facilities that the Company endorses 
will only be included in publications issued by the Company. 
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be 
found on the FSA website www.fsa.gov.uk/consumer/
ADR information
For US investors, the Company has set up a Level One ADR 
facility, under the ticker symbol ‘SERTY’. BNY Mellon acts 
as both ADR depositary bank & registrar for this facility. 
For further information, please visit the website: www.
adrbnymellon.com and search for the SThree profile page. 
Holders can also access information by the following:
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
PO Box 358016
Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8016
Customer service: T el: 1 800 522-6645 (from outside the US 
T el: 001 201 680-6578)
Email: shrrelations@mellon.com
For the issuance of ADRs please contact:  
Michael Ludwig
T el: +1 212 815 2213
Fax: +1 212 571 3050
E-mail: mludwig@bankofny.com
Website: http://www.adrbnymellon.com
Share price information
Information on the Company’s share price can be found via: 
www.sthree.com, or via the FT Cityline Service, tel: 0906 003 
0000 (code 3912). Calls cost 60p per minute from a BT landline 
and charges from other telephone networks may vary.
Share dealing service
Capita Share Dealing Services provide a telephone and online 
share dealing service for UK and EEA resident shareholders. T o 
use this service, shareholders should contact Capita, tel: 0871 
664 0454 – lines are open Mon to Fri 8.00am – 4.30pm UK time 
(calls cost 10p per min plus network extras). Alternatively log 
on to www.capitadeal.com.
(Capita Share Dealing Services is a trading name of Capita IRG 
T rustees Limited which is authorised and regulated by the FSA)
Dividend Re-investment Plan (DRIP) 
(non sponsored)
For any shareholders who wish to re-invest dividend 
payments in additional shares of the Company, a facility  
is provided by Capita IRG T rustees Ltd in conjunction  
with Capita Registrars. Under this facility, accrued  
dividends are used to purchase additional shares. Any 
shareholder requiring further information should contact 
Capita on (UK) 0871 664 0381* or (Non-UK) +44 208 639 3402 
or e-mail: shares@capitaregistrars.com.
*Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 
8.30am – 5.30pm Mon to Fri
ShareGift
ShareGift (reg charity no. 1052686) operates a charity share 
donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares 
whose value may make it uneconomic to sell. Details of the 
scheme are available from:
Website: www.sharegift.org; 
T el: 0207 930 3737
Financial Calendar 2010/11
Financial year end – 28 November 2010
Results announced – 31 January 2011
Annual General Meeting – 21 April 2011
Ex-div date for final dividend – 4 May 2011
Record date for final dividend – 6 May 2011
Dividend Reinvestment latest – 12 May 2011
Half Year period end – 29 May 2011
Final dividend payable – 6 June 2011
Interim results announced – 18 July 2011 
Interim dividend payable – early December 2011 
