 Report & Accounts 2009
SThree plc   Report & Accounts 2009 Executive Directors
Russell Clements
Gary Elden
Alex Smith
Sunil Wickremeratne
Non Executive Directors
Sir Anthony Cleaver
Paul Bowtell
Alicja Lesniak
T ony Ward
Nadhim Zahawi
Secretary and Registered Office
Steve Hornbuckle
41-44 Great Windmill Street
London
W1D 7NB
Company number
3805979
Contact details
T el: 020 7292 3838
Fax: 020 7292 3839
Email: enquiries@sthree.com
Web: www.sthree.com
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London
WC2N 6RH
Registrars (ordinary shares)
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
HD8 0GA
T el: (UK) 0871 664 0300*
T el: (Non UK) +44 208 639 3399
Email: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
Web: www.capitaregistrars.com
* Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are 
open 8.30am-5.30pm Mon-Fri
Financial Advisers & Stockbrokers
UBS Investment Bank
1 Finsbury Avenue
London
EC2M 2PP
Investec Investment Banking
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Financial PR
Citigate Dewe Rogerson
3 London Wall Buildings
London Wall
London EC2M 5SY
SThree plc
Company Information and Corporate Advisers Inside Front Cover Company Information and Corporate Advisers
 1  Board of Directors and Secretary
 3 Chairman’s Statement
 5 Financial Highlights
 6 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
 9 Chief Financial Officer’s Review
11 Directors’ Report
19 Directors’ Remuneration Report
27 Corporate Governance Report
37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
42 Independent Auditors’ Report
44 Consolidated Income Statement
45 Balance Sheets (Consolidated and Company)
46 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
47 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
48 Cash Flow Statements (Consolidated and Company)
49 Notes to the Financial Statements
99 Five Year Financial Summary
Inside Back Cover Shareholder Information
SThree plc
Contents SThree plc 1
Board of Directors and Secretary
Report & Accounts 2009
The Board brings together a wealth of experience across differing sectors and businesses on an international basis. Most 
importantly they share a passion for the business and the outstanding opportunities ahead.
Chairman (retires at the Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2010) 
Sir Anthony Cleaver has served as SThree’s Non-Executive Chairman since July 2000 and sits on the SThree Nomination Committee. He spent the 
majority of his career with IBM, where he served as European Vice-President of Marketing and Chairman and Chief Executive in the United Kingdom. 
Sir Anthony has also served as Chairman of the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, IX Europe plc, United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority, 
AEA T echnology plc, General Cable plc, and the Medical Research Council, and as a Non-Executive Director of General Accident, Lockheed Martin 
UK Limited and Smith & Nephew plc. He currently serves as Chairman of EngineeringUK and Novia Financial plc. Sir Anthony was President of the 
Chartered Management Institute.
Chief Executive Officer 
Russell Clements has served as SThree’s Chief Executive Officer since 2004 having previously held the position of Deputy Chief Executive Officer 
since 2001. He worked for VNU Business Publications, before joining Computer Futures in 1986 shortly after its inception as the group’s second 
employee. He subsequently served as Sales Director and Managing Director of Computer Futures. Russell holds a degree in Government from the 
University of Essex and is also a graduate of the Advanced Management Program at the Wharton Business School, University of Pennsylvania. He is 
former Chairman of the Association of Professional Staffing Companies (APSCo).
Chief Financial Officer 
Alex Smith joined SThree in May 2008, having held a number of senior financial and operational roles in the leisure and retail sectors. Most recently 
he held the position of Integration Finance Director at TUI T ravel PLC. Prior to this he was Finance Director of First Choice’s UK Mainstream business, 
at WH Smith plc, as Managing Director of its T ravel Retail business and held senior financial roles at T ravelodge and Forte PLC. Alex has a degree in 
Economics from Durham University and is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Sir Anthony Cleaver
 
Russell Clements 
Alex Smith  
Chief Operating Officer 
Sunil Wickremeratne has served as SThree’s Chief Operating Officer since 2004 having previously been Managing Director of Progressive. After 
working for VNU Business Publications, he joined Computer Futures in 1988 and subsequently established Progressive in 1990, Pathway in 1997 and 
Real IT Resourcing (now Real Staffing Group) in 1998. Sunil holds a degree in Economics from University College, London.
Sunil Wickremeratne 
Chief Development Officer  
Gary Elden was appointed to the Board in July 2008, having been with the Group since 1990, when he joined Computer Futures. He has held a 
number of senior positions, including that of founding Managing Director of Huxley Associates. In his role as Chief Development Officer, he has 
special responsibility for the expansion of the Group’s international operations and non-ICT disciplines.
Gary Elden  SThree plc 2
Non-Executive Director  
Nadhim Zahawi was appointed to the SThree Board and to the Remuneration and Audit Committees in May 2008. Nadhim is CEO and co-founder 
of YouGov plc, a leading international online market research agency. He was previously European marketing director at Smith & Brooks, with 
responsibility for marketing brands such as Warner Bros, Disney and Barbie, after stepping down as a councillor for the London Borough of 
Wandsworth, a post he had held since 1994, in which he worked on public-sector consultation, planning, social services and research within local 
government. Nadhim was previously a director at Allen Hinckley, the property rights licensing group, Marketing Director at Global Inc, a supplier to 
major retailers, and a Conservative Party candidate in the 1997 General Election. Nadhim is a patron of the Genesis Initiative and Peace One Day.
Non-Executive Director (Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)  
Tony Ward, OBE was appointed to the SThree board Board in August 2006 and to the SThree Remuneration and Nomination Committees in October 
2006. T ony currently chairs the Remuneration Committee and has over thirty years experience in a variety of senior executive roles with blue chip 
companies, including BAA plc, Kingfisher plc and Grand Metropolitan Group plc. He joined BAA in 1997 as Group HR Director and was Services Director 
from 1999 until March 2007, being responsible for activities including IT , Security, Rail and Airside Operations. T ony was a board director of BAA plc 
between November 1999 and July 2006. T ony is a Non-Executive Director of the OCS Group Limited, and an advisor to Manchester Square Partners 
LLP; a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development; a former Deputy Chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality; and a graduate 
of the University of Leeds.
Company Secretary  
Steve Hornbuckle was appointed to the role in October 2006. Steve has over twenty years’ company secretarial experience, having held Deputy 
and Assistant Secretary positions within a variety of listed companies, including Intertek Group plc, BPB plc, Kidde plc, Railtrack Group plc, London & 
Manchester Group plc and English China Clays plc. Steve is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
Tony Ward
 
Board of Directors and Secretary
Report & Accounts 2009 (continued)
Nadhim Zahawi
Steve Hornbuckle 
Non-Executive Director  
Paul Bowtell was appointed to the SThree Board and as Chairman of the SThree Audit Committee, in November 2007 and Nomination Committee 
in April 2008 and is currently Chief Financial Officer of TUI T ravel PLC. Paul has extensive experience gained from senior finance roles in a variety of 
companies including First Choice Holidays PLC and British Gas, a subsidiary of Centrica plc, where he was appointed Finance Director in 2002. Prior 
to that, Paul was with WH Smith plc, where he held a number of corporate centre roles before becoming Finance Director of the UK Retail business, 
as well as senior tax roles at Forte and Arthur Andersen. Paul is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Paul Bowtell
Non-Executive Director   
Alicja Lesniak was appointed to the SThree Board in May 2006, to the SThree Audit Committee in July 2006, the Remuneration Committee 
in February 2008 and the Nomination Committee in April 2008. Alicja is currently a Non-Executive Director of DTZ Holdings plc and was, until 
30 September 2009, CFO of Aegis plc and has over thirty years experience in fast moving service businesses, in the latter twenty years holding 
senior financial and managerial roles within the advertising/media sector, including seven years with BBDO Worldwide, latterly as Chief Financial 
Officer for BBDO EMEA, and seven years at WPP Group plc, where she held positions as Chief Financial Officer for Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide 
and Managing Director of J Walter Thompson in the UK. Prior to joining the advertising sector she held senior management positions with Arthur 
Andersen & Co, having originally qualified as a Chartered Accountant with them in 1976. Alicja is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in 
England & Wales and holds a degree in Mathematics from Imperial College.
Alicja Lesniak SThree plc 3
In my fifth, and sadly final, Annual 
Report as Chairman, I am very pleased 
to say that, given the economic 
uncertainty which continued 
throughout 2009, the Group was able 
to achieve a very good set of results, 
building on the strengths of our 
strategy, business model and market 
position. This meant that, despite 
challenging market conditions, we 
were able to find areas of growth in 
order to benefit our stakeholders. 
In this respect I would like to take 
the opportunity to thank all those 
shareholders who have stuck with the 
Company through these more recent 
difficult times, many of whom are 
employees.
While our primary business focus 
in the year was to consolidate, we 
have also pursued niche growth 
opportunities wherever possible. This 
has naturally led to an even more 
diversified business, both in terms 
of geographic and sector spread, 
which will enable us to optimise our 
performance as the market improves. 
In fact, our non-UK gross profit now 
represents 55% of the Group’s gross 
profit (2008: 45%).
As a result of the continued global 
uncertainty, revenue for the year 
decreased by 17.8% to £519.4m (2008: 
£631.5m), while gross profit (‘net fee 
income’) for the year decreased by 
21.8% to £171.2m (2008: £218.9m). 
Profit before tax and exceptional items 
amounted to £18.0m (2008: £56.0m), 
a reduction of 67.9%, although this 
was in line with both the Board’s 
and market expectations, once again 
reflecting the resilience and quality 
within the Group’s management 
teams at all levels. This result was 
particularly commendable, given 
the reduction in headcount and 
restructuring of brands which took 
place in the year.
Our net cash balance at the year-
end, including term investments, 
stood at £48.5m (2008: £24.6m), 
while we also further reduced our 
average days’ sales outstanding from 
43 days in 2008 to 37 days in 2009. 
Along with our improved Enterprise 
Risk Management (‘ERM’) processes, 
which we continue to roll out across 
our business, these are measures 
which clearly demonstrate our solid 
stewardship and which position the 
Group exceptionally well as we begin 
to see some very early signs of growth 
in certain markets and sectors.
Our tried and tested strategy 
remains primarily to focus on 
pursuing organic growth, through 
continued development of the 
Group’s well-established Information, 
Communication and T echnology 
(‘ICT’) staffing business, while also 
increasing the Group’s revenues from 
other sectors and countries. Our 
business model continues to prioritise 
high quality over high volume and 
seeks to optimise the superior 
margins we consistently achieve as 
a consequence of this approach. The 
multi-brand strategy we operate and 
our highly diversified client base will, 
as ever, be crucial in achieving this 
goal and we believe that all SThree 
businesses have scope for significant 
further growth. 
As always, we remain open-minded 
with regard to the launch of new 
ventures, continuing to back our own 
entrepreneurial talent and utilise the 
established minority-stakes model 
where appropriate, in order to expand 
beyond our existing bases in the UK, 
continental Europe, USA, Asia-Pacific 
and the Middle East, as we move into 
2010 and beyond.
Like 2009, 2010 will be an extremely 
challenging year as we invest 
in our business in order to take 
full advantage of any economic 
improvements, when they occur. 
Nevertheless we take confidence 
from the Group’s long track record 
of success to date and look forward 
to seeing the achievements of this 
year acting as a platform for further 
progress as we move forward.
The Board has declared a second 
interim dividend of 8.0p per share in 
place of the final dividend, bringing 
the total dividend for the year to 12.0p 
per share (2008: 12.0p). The second 
interim dividend will be paid on 31 
March 2010 to those shareholders on 
the register as at 26 February 2010. 
This follows the interim dividend of 
4.0p (2008: 4.0p) per share declared 
earlier in the year and paid on 4 
December 2009. A detailed review 
of our trading and results is provided 
within the Chief Executive Officer’s 
and Chief Financial Officer’s Reviews. 
During the year, we have also 
continued to improve our reporting 
on Remuneration, Governance and 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
(‘CSR’) issues, wherever we can, to 
accommodate best practice and 
investor requirements. In particular, 
our CSR Report illustrates how we 
have further embedded our CSR 
strategy within the business and we 
will continue to expand these areas as 
the business moves forward. 
Chairman’s Statement
Report & Accounts 2009 SThree plc 4
The SThree business is built on an 
absolute focus on delivering high 
quality and timely permanent and 
contract specialist staffing services to 
our clients. It remains therefore, first 
and foremost a people business and it 
is only as a direct result of the talent 
and dedication of our people that 
we are able to continue to post such 
resilient results. At the year end the 
Group employed a total of 1,597 people 
worldwide and, although this number 
decreased from 2,274 at the prior 
year end, we have a clear strategy to 
grow this significantly over the next 
five years, particularly outside the 
UK. I would therefore like to thank all 
our employees across the world once 
again for their contribution during the 
year. Many of them have been with 
the Group from its inception in 1986. 
Some of these individuals are featured 
in the front half of this Annual Report, 
which shows highlights from the 
Group’s 2009 annual management 
conference.
As mentioned earlier, this is sadly my 
final statement as Chairman and the 
Board is well advanced in recruiting a 
successor. It has been a great privilege 
to have chaired the Company for the 
past 10 years and to have worked with 
the Executive team and the Board 
in creating a highly successful and 
diversified international Group.
While our business will ultimately 
depend on the overall strength of the 
worldwide economy, we believe that 
our prospects for further growth and 
success remain excellent and while 
we enter the new-year with a realistic 
view of what lies ahead, we have 
great confidence in the quality of the 
business and the opportunities to be 
taken.
Sir Anthony Cleaver 
CHAIRMAN
29 January 2010
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
Report & Accounts 2009 SThree plc 5
Financial Highlights 
Year ended 29 November 2009
“The Group now has a broader geographical base and addresses a more diverse 
range of sectors than ever before.  Our seasoned management team has used 
the challenging circumstances to make positive changes in many areas of the 
business.  Although by no means yet close to fully recovered, the market is 
showing some positive signs.  As such we look forward to 2010 with a pragmatic 
but positive mindset.”
  2009 2008 Change
Revenue £519.4m £631.5m -17.8%
Gross Profit £171.2m £218.9m -21.8%
Operating profit* £18.0m £56.8m -68.3%
Profit before taxation* £18.0m £56.0m -67.9%
Statutory profit before taxation £8.9m £54.1m -83.5%
Basic earnings per share* 9.5p 29.9p -68.2%
Statutory basic earnings per share 4.0p 28.8p -86.1%
Proposed dividend 8.0p 8.0p –
T otal dividend 12.0p 12.0p –
*  Current year operating profit, profit before taxation and EPS are shown before exceptional charges of £9.1m before tax, 
£6.5m after tax relating to a Group restructuring (2008: £2m before tax, £1.4m after tax, in respect of the early close out 
of foreign exchange derivative transactions, which were entered into in 2007).
Operational Highlights
•
  A very good performance given the highly challenging market conditions; 
•
  Non-UK share of gross profit increased significantly to 55% (2008: 45%), with trend expected to continue as the Group 
becomes ever more international; 
•
  New offices opened in Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Stuttgart, Marseille and Singapore and a second office added in Frankfurt, 
during 2009.  Second Australian office (Perth) and additional offices in Munich and Düsseldorf already opened in 
January 2010, with further openings in San Francisco and Delhi expected this year. Further international expansion in 
the pipeline;
•
  Permanent placements decreased by 40.8% to 6,060 (2008:10,236), with average fees increased by 15.2% (+3.9% on a 
constant currency basis);
•
  Number of active contractors at year end decreased by 27.6% to 4,157 (2008: 5,745), with average gross profit per day 
rates up by 8.1% (+1.4% on a constant currency basis);
•
  Contract versus Permanent mix of gross profit now 58:42 in favour of Contract, providing the Group with an excellent 
‘’cash hedge’’ in challenging market conditions;
•
  Continued sector diversification, with non-ICT disciplines (principally Banking, Engineering, Finance and Accountancy, 
Oil & Gas and Pharmaceuticals) now representing 28.4% of total gross profit (2008: 23.1%);
•
 69.2% of gross profit now derived from outside of the UK ICT market (2008: 59.2%);
•
  T otal Group headcount at year end reduced by 29.8% to 1,597 (2008: 2,274) but up 6.0% from end third quarter as 
stabilising market conditions have supported selective hiring; 
•
  Year end net cash and term investments of £48.5m (2008: £24.6m) reflecting continued strong cash generation with 
Days Sales Outstanding at 37 days (2008: 43 days);
•
  Maintained total dividend for the year reflecting strong Group cash position and confidence in the strength of the 
SThree business model;
•
  Entered 2010 with most markets now stable or modestly improving. SThree plc 6
Overview
2009 was by any standards an 
extraordinary year and was without 
question one of the most difficult the 
Group has faced in its twenty three 
year history. The impact of the global 
crisis on demand for specialist staff 
was as tough, if not worse than the 
dot com crash – in itself a slow down 
of historical severity and certainly the 
sternest test the Group had faced up 
until that point. 
The slowdown evident in the UK 
and US by Q2 of 2008 was highly 
indicative that 2009 was likely to be 
a far more difficult market than the 
Group had to deal with in some years. 
Normal levels of expectation, either 
internal or external, had quite clearly 
been overtaken by external events.
Nonetheless the extent and rapidity of 
the further decline seen in the early 
part of 2009 was striking. In particular 
the Group’s international businesses, 
which had very largely showed 
remarkable robustness throughout 
2008, demonstrated that they were 
not immune to the impact of the 
global recession. For its part, the UK 
market demonstrated that although 
conditions were already bad, they 
had the capacity to get substantially 
worse. 
This then is the only context in which 
the Group’s 2009 performance can 
be judged. And if we bear in mind 
these unprecedented headwinds, 
it is pleasing to say that the 2009 
SThree results can be characterised 
as a very commendable outcome in 
exceptionally difficult circumstances. 
The fact that the Group adapted 
to the exceptional conditions with 
outstanding levels of grit and 
determination is what we would 
expect. The fact that we were also 
able to take further steps towards 
achieving our strategic goals gives 
a further perspective on what was 
achieved.
Financial outcome
Inevitably given the circumstances 
the Group saw a reduction in gross 
profit (GP). The 2009 GP figure of 
£171.2m was 21.8% down on the prior 
year (2008: £218.9m). This converted 
to a profit before tax (PBT) of £18.0m 
(2008: £56.0m) down 67.9% before 
exceptional items. Post exceptional 
items PBT was £8.9m (2008: £54.1m), 
down 83.5% on 2008. All exceptional 
items related to the restructuring 
exercise undertaken by the Group in 
Q2 2009.
During the year the Group continued 
to focus on maximising cash. At 
the end of 2009 net cash including 
term investments almost doubled 
to £48.5m (2008: £24.6m). 
Approximately £12.0m of the 
improvement was attributable to 
the unwinding of working capital 
associated with the reduction in 
contract runners. However, the net 
cash position also reflected strong 
cash management, with Days Sales 
Outstanding (DSO’s) improving to 37 
days (2008: 43 days).
The Group’s strong and improving 
cash position combined with a 
high degree of confidence in the 
fundamental robustness of the 
Group’s business model informed 
the decision to maintain the total 
2009 dividend at 12.0p (2008: 12.0p). 
Although uncovered by earnings, the 
Board took the view that this level 
of payment was prudent, being very 
comfortably covered by the level of 
cash available to the Group.
Notwithstanding the fact that the 
Group’s finances strengthened during 
the year and the Group is cash rich 
and debt free, steps were also taken 
to ensure that the Group retains 
maximum financial flexibility. A 
new 30 month banking facility was 
negotiated in October 2009, providing 
£20m of committed funds at highly 
competitive rates.   
Restructuring
By Q1 of 2009 it had become evident 
that compared to Q4 2008, the market 
had taken a further step downwards. 
As a result, Group headcount was 
out of line with market demand and 
the business was  running at an 
approximately break-even level.  It 
was clear that the Group needed 
to urgently address its cost base 
and restructure the business in line 
with a substantially reduced market 
opportunity.
As a consequence Group headcount 
was reduced by approximately 25%. 
In addition the Group closed four 
offices and consolidated a number of 
others, resulting in it exiting a total of 
eleven leases. T ogether these actions 
incurred a one off exceptional charge 
of £9.1m which paid back within the 
financial year. Most significantly 
the actions taken successfully 
recalibrated the Group’s overheads 
resulting in a commensurate and rapid 
return to profitability.  
Strategy
“High margin, high value”
Although 2009 offered no shortage 
of short term challenges and tactical 
difficulties, the Group did not lose 
sight of its medium/long term 
priorities. A notable example of the 
latter is the Group’s commitment to 
its “High margin, high value” model. 
Notwithstanding the fact that the 
market inevitably became more price 
sensitive during 2009, the Group 
successfully resisted any downward 
pricing pressure, which would 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Year ended 29 November 2009   SThree plc 7
otherwise have impacted the quality 
of the business executed.
As a result, the Group’s overall 
contract margin actually improved 
to 22.1% (2008: 21.5%), a noteworthy 
result in the circumstances. In 
absolute terms the average gross 
profit per day rate (GPDR) increased 
to £84.69 (2008: £78.30). This 
represents an 8.1% year on year 
increase on an externally reported 
basis or a 1.4% improvement on a 
constant currency basis.
A similar theme was seen in the 
Group’s permanent business but with 
a still stronger value performance. The 
average permanent fee recorded in 
2009 was £11,930 (2008: £10,355) up 
15.2% on an unadjusted basis or 3.9% 
on a constant currency basis. 
Geographical Expansion 
The Group continued its successful 
strategy of geographical expansion, 
opening six international offices 
during the year. In addition to a further 
office in Frankfurt, new offices were 
rolled out in Düsseldorf, Hamburg, 
Stuttgart, Marseilles and Singapore. 
The strong German theme of 2009 
office openings reflected the relative 
robustness of demand in the German 
specialist staffing market during the 
year which showed 28% growth. 
However, it is equally indicative of 
the outstanding long term growth 
potential of what is currently a very 
underdeveloped market. 
The Group ended the year with a 
total of 46 offices in 11 countries. In 
aggregate Group GP generated from 
outside of the UK was £94.2m (2008: 
£97.4m). Although down 3.2%, this 
contrasts starkly with the 64.1% year 
on year growth achieved in 2008. 
Nonetheless the non UK businesses 
still performed substantially better 
than the UK. In the absence of any 
structural growth to mitigate the 
wider economic situation, UK GP 
of £76.9m was down 36.7% (2008: 
£121.6m) 
As a consequence of the significant 
difference in relative performance, 
the overall UK/non UK business mix 
underwent a marked change. During 
2009 the ratio was 55:45 in favour 
of non UK GP compared with 45:55 
in 2008. It is likely that this shift 
will prove permanent as the Group 
becomes ever more international. 
However, the fact remains that the UK 
has consistently showed itself to be 
capable of very robust growth in more 
typical market conditions.  
We remain convinced that a 
substantial opportunity exists to move 
the proven SThree model into an ever-
wider range of international markets.
In early 2010 the Group launched its 
second Australian office in Perth and 
opened additional offices in Munich 
and Düsseldorf. In the second half 
of the year we expect to open in 
San Francisco and Delhi. Additional 
international offices are in the pipeline 
subject to final approval and it is 
likely that the total for the year will be 
similar to the six that came on stream 
during 2009. 
Sector Diversification 
In parallel with its greater 
geographical diversity, in recent 
years the Group has made significant 
progress in developing a meaningful 
presence outside of its traditional 
Information, Communication and 
T echnology (‘ICT’ or ‘IT‘) franchise.  It 
is worth clarifying that this metric 
is measured by the skillsets of the 
candidates the Group places rather 
than the nature of the business of the 
client company. By the latter metric 
the Group has only a 21% exposure to 
the IT industry per se. 
The major non IT segments for the 
Group are Banking, Engineering, 
Finance and Accountancy, Oil & Gas 
and Pharmaceuticals; the Group also 
has a smaller presence in HR and 
Sales & Marketing. In aggregate these 
niches accounted for £48.5m of GP 
in 2009 (2008: £50.5m). Although 
this was modestly down by 3.8% on 
the prior year, the non IT franchises 
represented 28.4% of total Group GP 
compared to 23.1% in the previous 
year. The (generally more competitive) 
IT market performed less robustly 
with 2009 GP of £122.6m (2008: 
£168.5m) down 27.2%.
Although it showed definite signs 
of improvement in the latter part of 
2009, the Banking market remained, 
by normal standards, very subdued 
and when taking the year as a whole 
was weak. Given that historically the 
Group’s largest non IT sector has been 
Banking, the positive momentum seen 
more recently is an encouraging trend 
particularly given that the Group now 
has a presence in most of the world’s 
major financial centres.  
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Year ended 29 November 2009    (continued) SThree plc 8
Contract/Permanent Business 
Mix
It is an accepted feature of the 
specialist staffing market that 
temporary hiring tends to be more 
robust in a downturn. Therefore 
it is unsurprising that a shift in 
this direction that started in 2008 
continued throughout 2009. During 
the year the Group made a total 
of 6,060 permanent placements 
(2008: 10,236) a reduction of 40.8%. 
It is pleasing to reiterate that this 
significant decline in volume was not 
accompanied by a commensurate 
decline in quality, but an improvement 
in the average placement fee 
achieved.  
The number of contract runners at the 
end of 2009 was 4,157 (2008: 5,745) 
representing a reduction of 27.6%, 
illustrating the relatively better health 
of the temporary sector. As with the 
permanent market, the average value 
of each contractor improved. The net 
effect of the above was that contract 
GP represented 58% of the Group’s 
total in 2009 compared with 52% 
of GP for 2008. However, as market 
conditions improve and the recent 
trends favouring contract normalise, 
the Group’s permanent GP will 
once again become an increasingly 
significant part of the mix.  
Headcount 
The Group ended 2009 with a total of 
1,597 staff (2008: 2,274) a reduction 
of 29.8% on the prior year. Clearly 
the large part of this reduction was 
attributable to the rightsizing exercise 
undertaken in Q2 of 2009 which saw 
approximately 25% of the Group’s staff 
exit the business.
In 2008, normal natural attrition 
aided by the Group’s remuneration 
strategy was enough to ensure that 
the size of sales teams flexed in line 
with changes in market conditions. 
However, as discussed above, in the 
substantially worse market of early 
2009 it was agreed necessary to take 
a more proactive approach.
Following this exercise the Group’s 
approach was to broadly maintain 
the post-rightsizing staffing levels 
and little active hiring/replacement 
was undertaken until some signs 
of improvement in certain markets 
were detected later in the year. As 
a consequence of the latter the Q4 
headcount was up sequentially on 
Q3 and the Group is now selectively 
growing headcount where 
appropriate.
It is worth noting that one of the key 
strengths of the Group is significant 
flexibility in terms of headcount. 
Staffing levels can be reduced 
aggressively if needed but by the 
same token can be rebuilt almost 
equally quickly. Indeed the level of 
staff reduction seen in 2009 is not 
unprecedented, being comparable 
in percentage terms to the 2002/03 
downturn. As the market recovered 
the Group was able to rebuild its 
teams and took full advantage of the 
upturn.  
Outlook
The experience of 2009 clearly 
demonstrates the risk inherent in 
attempting to predict market trends. 
Although we began the last year with 
“our eyes open and mindful of the 
risks and challenges”, the market 
we actually faced was of an order of 
magnitude more difficult still. 
T owards the end of the year there 
were signs that certain markets were 
improving and that others were at 
the least stable and, so far, this has 
continued into 2010. Compared with 
what the Group has been used to in 
recent times, this was a welcome 
positive trend which was reflected 
in the Group’s return to headcount 
growth. Whilst there are indications 
that confidence is gradually returning 
to the market and this above all else 
is what is needed for a full recovery 
to gain traction, it remains true that in 
overall terms market conditions have 
yet to recover to anything close to 
normal.
Market conditions like those the 
Group faced in 2009 have a creative 
dimension. They force an in depth 
and uncompromising assessment of 
all aspects of the business. As a result 
changes are made, some of which are 
overdue and would be more difficult to 
envisage and execute in more benign 
times. Moreover, many individuals 
who have not previously been tested 
to the same degree mature as a result 
of their experiences. Given that the 
Group also has a broader geographical 
base and a more diverse range of 
sectors than ever before, we look 
forward to 2010 with a pragmatic but 
positive mindset. 
Russell Clements
Chief Executive Officer
29 January 2010
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Year ended 29 November 2009    (continued) SThree plc 9
Chief Financial Officer’s Review 
Year ended 29 November 2009 
Revenue for the year decreased by 
17.8% to £519.4m (2008: £631.5m). 
Gross profit for the year decreased 
by 21.8% to £171.2m (2008: £218.9m), 
representing a Group gross profit 
margin of 33.0% (2008: 34.7%). The 
Group gross profit margin reduced as 
a result of the remix in business from 
permanent, which represented 48% of 
gross profit in 2008, to 42% in 2009. 
Permanent revenues are accounted 
for at 100% gross margin, whereas 
contract gross profit is shown after 
the associated cost of sale. As the 
contract margin improved year on 
year to 22.1% from 21.5% in 2008, 
the reduction in Group gross margin 
is driven by a permanent/contract 
mix effect and not by a weakness in 
underlying margin discipline.
Administration expenses before 
exceptional items decreased by 5.5% 
to £153.2m (2008: £162.1m), primarily 
driven by the reduced number of 
staff, and savings on the exit of 
certain leases. On 15 April, the Group 
announced a restructuring of the 
business in line with the markedly 
reduced market opportunity, and an 
exceptional charge of £9.1m has been 
recognised. As a result, the Group’s 
pre-exceptional conversion ratio (pre-
exceptional operating profit divided by 
gross profit) fell to 10.5% (2008: 25.9%).
Group headcount was 1,597 at 
29 November 2009, down 29.8% on 
the opening headcount at 1 December 
2008 of 2,274. Average total headcount 
for the year was 1,841 (2008: 2,157), 
as a result of the restructuring and 
natural attrition in the year.
Profit before tax and exceptional items 
amounted to £18.0m (2008: £56.0m), 
a reduction of 67.9%, whilst profit 
before tax after exceptional items 
reduced by 83.5% to £8.9m (2008: 
£54.1m).
T axation on profit before exceptional 
items was £5.5m (2008: £16.8m), 
representing an effective tax rate of 
31% (2008: 30%). The slight increase 
in the effective tax rate was driven 
by a remix of the business towards 
jurisdictions with higher tax rates. 
Based on the current structure of 
the Group and existing local taxation 
rates and legislation, it is expected 
that the underlying effective tax rate 
will remain at around this level. The 
Group’s effective cash tax rate was 
25.0% (2008: 26.4%), reflecting the 
relatively higher Schedule 23 tax 
benefit (re share options) compared to 
the previous year.
Basic earnings per share before 
exceptional items were 9.5p (2008: 
29.9p), down 68.2%. This was driven 
by a reduction in profit before taxation 
before exceptional items of 67.9%, 
the marginally higher effective tax 
rate of 31% (2008: 30%), a reduction 
in the minority charge to £1.2m 
(2008: £2.0m) and a reduction in the 
weighted average number of shares 
to 118.7m (2008: 124.7m). Fully diluted 
earnings per share before exceptional 
items were 9.2p (2008: 29.2p), down 
68.5%. Basic earnings per share after 
exceptional items were 4.0p (2008: 
28.8p), down 86.1%. Fully diluted 
earnings per share after exceptional 
items were 3.9p (2008: 28.1p), down 
86.1%.
The Board previously declared an 
interim dividend of 4.0p per share 
(2008: 4.0p). The Board has declared 
a second interim dividend of 8.0p per 
share in place of the final dividend, 
bringing the total dividend for the 
year to 12.0p per share (2008: 12.0p). 
The second interim dividend will 
be paid on 31 March 2010 to those 
shareholders on the register as at 26 
February 2010.
Balance Sheet
The Group had net assets of £84.8m 
at 29 November 2009 (2008: £90.6m). 
Net cash including term investments 
amounted to £48.5m (2008: £24.6m), 
the improvement in our cash position 
reflecting the net impact of the 
profitability of the Group, the improved 
management of working capital and 
the release of working capital as the 
number of contractors reduced during 
the year.
Financial Review
2009 2008
Revenue Gross Profit Revenue Gross Profit
Contract £447.0m £98.8m £525.5m £113.1m 
Permanent £72.4m £72.4m £106.0m £105.8m
Total £519.4m £171.2m £631.5m £218.9m SThree plc 10
Chief Financial Officer’s Review 
Year ended 29 November 2009     (continued)
T angible fixed asset capital 
expenditure amounted to £2.7m 
(2008: £2.3m), relating to a more 
normalised level of investment in IT 
hardware and fit out of new offices, 
as expected, following the high level 
of investment in 2007. Intangible 
asset additions, primarily relating to IT 
software purchases and development 
costs, reduced significantly to 
£2.1m (2008: £3.9m). T otal capital 
expenditure is planned to grow 
slightly ahead of these levels in 2010, 
as the business accelerates its office 
opening programme.
Net trade debtors reduced by 42.7% to 
£58.3m (2008: £101.9m) representing 
DSOs of 37 days (2008: 43 days). T otal 
trade and other payables reduced 
from £81.2m to £76.1m as the volumes 
of business reduced.
Cash Flow
At the start of the year the Group 
had net cash of £24.6m. During 
the year, the Group generated cash 
from operating activities of £63.7m 
(2008: £87.0m). The Group achieved 
a significant reduction in working 
capital of £45.3m through improved 
debtor management and a reduction 
in the working capital funding of the 
reduced contractor book. Income 
taxes paid increased to £18.3m (2008: 
£11.4m) as we settled overseas tax 
liabilities relating to prior years.
During the year, the Group 
repurchased certain minority stakes 
for £1.4m and paid dividends of 
£14.4m. The group also invested 
£3.2m in an A rated Euro bond with a 
maturity of less than 6 months.
At 29 November 2009 the Group had 
net cash of £45.3m.
In October 2009, the Group renewed a 
committed invoice discounting facility 
of £20m with Royal Bank of Scotland 
Invoice Finance (‘RBS’) for a 30 month 
term. The Group is not currently 
drawing down against this.
Treasury Management and 
Currency Risk
The main functional currencies of 
the Group are Sterling and the Euro. 
The Group has significant operations 
outside the United Kingdom and as 
such is exposed to movements in 
exchange rates.
The Board has undertaken a review 
of its currency hedging strategy 
to ensure that it is appropriate 
and currently the Group does not 
actively manage its exposure to 
foreign exchange risk by the use of 
financial instruments. The impact of 
foreign exchange will become a more 
significant issue for the Group as we 
expect the business mix to move 
further towards International, with 
the International business accounting 
for 55% of gross profit in 2009 (2008: 
45%). The Group will continue to 
monitor its policies in this area.
During the year, the Group 
implemented a European cash pooling 
arrangement, with a target to invest 
at least 85% of the Group’s cash, 
returning in excess of the 7 day LIBID 
rate on average.
Having been tested by extraordinary 
market conditions in 2009, the Group 
has been successful in strengthening 
its financial position. Our strong 
balance sheet and net cash give 
us the confidence to maximise the 
opportunities that lie ahead in an 
uncertain environment.
Alex Smith
Chief Financial Officer
29 January 2010 SThree plc 11
Directors’ Report 
Year ended 29 November 2009
The Directors present their Annual 
Report on the activities of the Group, 
together with the financial statements 
and auditors’ report for the year-
ended 29 November 2009.
Group business review, 
principal activities and risks 
facing the business
The Chairman’s Statement, Chief 
Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial 
Officer’s Reviews, taken together 
with this Directors’ Report, provide 
information relating to the Group’s 
activities, its business and strategy 
and principal risks and uncertainties 
faced by the business, including 
analysis using financial and other KPIs 
where necessary. These, together 
with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, Corporate Governance and 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Reports, provide an overview of the 
Group, including environmental 
and employee matters and give an 
indication of future developments in 
the Group’s business. This provides 
a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position 
and prospects, in accordance with the 
Business Review requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
SThree is a specialist permanent and 
contract staffing business, currently 
comprised of four operating brands, 
being FS Group (Computer Futures), 
Huxley Associates, Progressive and 
Real Staffing Group, all of which 
operate under a well established 
multi-brand strategy. The first office, 
as Computer Futures, opened in 
London in 1986, whilst international 
expansion started in 1998 with the 
launch of an office in Brussels. Each 
brand operates independently, but 
share common services such as 
finance, information services, human 
resources and legal.
The Group has grown organically and 
has a diverse client base of over 7,000 
clients. Offices are currently located in 
Europe, USA, Asia-Pacific and Middle 
East, with further offices planned to 
be opened in 2010.
From our well-established position in 
the ICT sector, the Group has broadened 
its operations by building fast-growing 
businesses serving the accountancy & 
finance, banking, engineering, oil & gas, 
pharmaceuticals, human resources, 
energy and legal sectors. The Group 
began trading on the London Stock 
Exchange in November 2005 and in 
2007 launched a US Level One ADR 
facility.
SThree has a selective approach to 
clients and focuses on high margin 
opportunities, predominantly within 
the small to medium-sized enterprises 
(‘SMEs’) market and, from its inception, 
the Group has avoided the high 
volume, low margin business model 
in favour of a focus on high quality 
business.
The Group’s main subsidiary 
undertakings are disclosed in the 
notes to the financial statements.
Key Performance Indicators 
(“KPIs”)
Both financial and non-financial Key 
Performance indicators (KPIs) are 
used throughout the Group to monitor 
progress, with the principal indicators 
listed in the table overleaf. Where 
these relate to a strategic Group level, 
analysis is provided within the Chief 
Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial 
Officer’s reviews. For the financial 
KPIs, comparision figures are shown 
for the current and prior year. No 
figures are applicable for non-financial  
KPIs.
The specific KPIs used will depend 
on the split of business, i.e. whether 
it is contract or permanent, as well 
as whether it is in a new sector or 
geography and annual bonuses are 
linked to a mixture of these, as well as 
other KPIs, depending on the specific 
role of the individual concerned. SThree plc 12
Directors’ Report (continued) 
Year ended 29 November 2009
KPIs (financial) 2009 2008 Definition and method of calculation
Revenue £519.4m £631.5m T otal fees earned by the Group, before any cost deductions.
Gross Profit £171.2m £218.9m Revenue less cost of sales. Also known as Net Fee Income.
Profit Before T ax £18.0m £56.0m  Gross profit, less administration expenses and finance income/costs before
(adjusted)    exceptional items.
Total Shareholder  105% (28%) TSR is defined as share price growth plus dividends attributable to shareholders 
Return (‘TSR’)    attributable to shareholders over a specific period. This measure is also used for 
the Group’s L TIP , but over a three year period.
Earnings Per Share  9.5p 29.9p EPS is defined as profit before exceptional items for the year attributable to the  
(‘EPS’) (adjusted)    Group’s equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares 
in issue during the year. This measure is also to be used for the Group’s L TIP , but 
over a three year period.
Group gross margin 33.0% 34.7% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
Contract margin 22.1% 21.5% Contract gross profit as a percentage of contract revenue.
Gross Profit per Day Rate £84.69 £78.30  Contract gross profit per average number of working days.
Permanent fees £11.9k £10.4k Average fees of permanent placements that started during the period.
Geographical diversification – 55.0% 45.0% Split of gross profit by location of client.  
international mix   
Sectoral diversification –  28.0% 23.0% Split of gross profit by candidate skill set. 
non ICT
Contract/Perm mix 58%/42% 52%/48%  Proportion of gross profit attributable to contract and permanent placements.
Conversion ratio 10.5% 25.9%  The conversion ratio is the operating profit stated as a percentage of net fees 
and measures how effective the Group is at controlling the costs and expenses 
associated with its normal operations and its level of investment for the future.
Cash Conversion 326% 142%  Cash conversion is calculated as the cash flows from operating activities for the 
year after deducting net normal capex stated as a percentage of operating profit 
before exceptional items and is a measure of the Group’s ability to convert profit 
into cash.
Debtor days 37 43  Represents the length of time it takes the Company to receive payments from its 
debtors. It is calculated by comparing how many days’ billings it takes to cover 
the debtor balance.
KPIs (non financial)
Risk Management  As detailed within the Corporate Governance Report, the Group has continued to roll out its ERM framework 
throughout the business and has consequently further developed and enhanced its risk evaluation and ERM 
reporting mechanism.
  During 2010, key Executive job descriptions are to be re-drafted to include reference to risk responsibility, 
with annual bonus linked to up to 20% of their bonus opportunity and relating directly to progress towards 
the Company’s strategic objectives, in support of managing any related business risk.
Headcount/Churn  This is the measure of employee retention. Lower churn and higher headcount retention generally means 
increased productivity. It is also an indicator of morale.
Environmental   In late 2008, a strategic decision was made to conduct a Company-wide initiative to establish our carbon 
footprint and reduce energy consumption whilst taking steps to increase recycling by 50%. Specific 
initiatives are detailed within the CSR report. SThree plc 13
Principal risks and 
uncertainties
The principal risks facing the business 
include the following:
Macro-economic environment – The 
performance of the Group has a 
relationship and dependence on the 
underlying growth of the economies 
of the countries in which it operates 
in so far as it impacts client and 
candidate confidence. 2009 saw a 
crisis in confidence, which impacted 
our business volumes significantly. 
This is mitigated in part by 
maintaining:
•
  a balance of temporary and 
permanent recruitment, 
increasingly in the public sector;
•
  a broad exposure across 
geographies and sectors;
•
  a flexible cost base that enables 
us to react swiftly to changes in 
market conditions by increasing or 
reducing costs as appropriate; and
•
  a strong balance sheet with 
manageable debt levels.
A key part of the Group’s strategy 
is to continue to grow the size of its 
international businesses to reduce the 
Group’s reliance on any one specific 
economy, geography or sector.
Competitive environment – The Group 
continues to face competitor risk 
in the markets where the provision 
of permanent and temporary 
recruitment is most competitive 
and fragmented, being generally 
the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands. 
There is strong competition for 
clients and candidates, although we 
generally resist pricing and margin 
pressures across our major specialist 
activities. The Group’s strategy is to 
continue to grow its international 
businesses more aggressively in 
other geographies and sectors, 
including the less-developed markets 
of Asia Pacific and Rest of the World, 
whilst also improving the efficiency 
and operations of our businesses 
throughout the organisation.
In Continental Europe and many 
parts of the world, the markets for 
the provision of recruitment services 
are somewhat less developed and 
the market place is also fragmented, 
although the markets in Continental 
Europe and Asia are developing 
more quickly. Where these markets 
are still in a development phase, 
pricing pressure is less of a risk and 
our strategy is to rapidly grow our 
businesses in these territories.
Competitors in our markets range from 
large multi-national organisations 
to small, boutique, privately owned 
businesses. In all of our markets 
we are continually subject to both 
existing and new competitors entering 
into the markets in which we operate, 
in terms of geographic region and 
specialist activity. The competitive 
threat is from both small start-up 
operations and large multi-nationals 
as the costs of entry into specialist 
recruitment can be relatively low, 
although these costs have risen 
with increased levels of compliance 
required from local regulators and 
clients.
Commercial relationships/customer 
credit risk – The Group benefits 
from close commercial relationships 
with key clients, particularly in the 
SMEs market, in both the private 
and, increasingly, the public sectors, 
although it is not dependent on 
any single key client. However, 
like most companies, the Group is 
always subject to the risk that some 
customers might be unable to fulfil 
obligations, which could impact 
results.
Availability of candidates – the 
availability of highly skilled/quality 
candidates is essential to operating 
in niche/high margin areas. Changes 
in the other risk areas can affect 
candidate supply.
Contractual risk – Clients increasingly 
require more complex levels of 
compliance in their contractual 
arrangements. The Group takes 
these responsibilities seriously 
and contracts are therefore closely 
controlled via the Group’s centralised 
Legal and Business Administration 
functions and subject to regular audit 
by the Internal Audit function in order 
to reduce the risk of non-compliance. 
The Group also has clear guidance 
on the approval of contractual 
terms and monitors the application 
thereof, especially any exceptions 
to our standard liability position 
and insurance protection, which 
require the approval of the Legal 
Department/Company Secretary. 
The placing of temporary workers 
generally represents greater risk for 
the organisation than permanent 
placements. Wherever possible, 
contracts include clauses which place 
the responsibility for supervision and 
control of each contractor directly 
with the client, excluding any 
consequential loss and limiting the 
Group’s aggregate liability under the 
contract.
People – The Group is heavily 
reliant on the ability to recruit, 
train and develop people to meet 
its growth strategy. At the same 
time, the Group’s business model 
demands flexibility to consolidate 
or expand, depending on the 
economic environment. In response 
to this, the Group is focused on 
Directors’ Report (continued) 
Year ended 29 November 2009 SThree plc 14
engaging with and developing 
its key managers in each sector/ 
geography and is committed to 
ensuring it has competitive pay and 
benefits structures, clearly linked 
to performance, combined with 
a succession planning process. 
Through training and development, 
it seeks to provide individuals with 
the leadership, sales, key customer 
management and general business 
skills that support the Group’s 
expansion needs, whilst providing a 
rewarding and challenging career. 
Brand and Country managers are 
also focused on allocating resources 
in respect of the best Group 
opportunities available.
Information T echnology – The Group 
is reliant on delivering its service 
to clients through a number of 
technology systems. These are housed 
in various locations and the Group 
has capacity to cope with a data or 
system loss as a result of a significant 
event through the establishment 
of disaster recovery sites that are 
physically based in separate locations 
to the ongoing operations. The 
Group is also reliant upon a number 
of important suppliers that provide 
critical information technology 
infrastructure. It continually monitors 
the performance and robustness of 
these suppliers to ensure business-
critical processes are safeguarded as 
far as is practicably possible. Whilst the 
Group replaced its financial systems in 
2006, these are periodically reviewed 
to ensure they are fully utilised and 
remain effective. In order to reduce 
any risks associated in upgrading key 
operational and financial systems, 
project management teams are 
appointed, including specialist IT , 
operational and external resource, 
utilising robust management tools 
which monitor progress across the 
life of any project. The business also 
continues to review and enhance its 
ability to cope with a significant data or 
other loss via its Business Continuity 
Plan arrangements.
Regulatory environment and 
legislative changes – The specialist 
recruitment industry is governed 
by increasing levels of compliance, 
which vary from country to country 
and market to market. The Group 
is committed to meeting all of its 
regulatory responsibilities and 
continues to strengthen its internal 
controls and processes with respect 
to legal and contractual obligations. 
As employment laws are changed and 
harmonised in certain geographies, 
this creates new risks and 
opportunities. The contract market is 
more heavily regulated and changes 
in legislation (such as changes in 
managed service company legislation 
or to contract worker rights) may 
impact the Group. The Group 
ensures that its policies, processes 
and systems reflect best practice, 
wherever possible in order to meet the 
legal requirements of the markets in 
which it operates.
Foreign exchange – The Group has 
significant operations outside the 
United Kingdom and is therefore 
exposed to movements in exchange 
rates. As profits from the Euro-based 
markets increase in proportion to 
the Group’s total profits, the foreign 
exchange risk also increases. The Board 
has undertaken a review of its currency 
hedging strategy to ensure that it is 
appropriate and currently the Group 
does not actively manage its exposure 
to foreign exchange risk by the use of 
financial instruments. However, the 
impact of foreign exchange will become 
a more significant issue for the Group 
as the business mix moves further 
towards international. And the Group 
will continue to monitor its policies in 
this area.
Post balance sheet events
There have been no significant events 
since the balance sheet date.
Results and dividends
Information in respect of the Group’s 
profits, dividends and other key 
financial information is contained 
within the Chairman’s Statement, the 
Chief Executive Officer’s and Chief 
Financial Officer’s Reviews.
Directors and their interests
The current Directors of the Company 
are:
•
  Sir Anthony Cleaver, retiring 
Chairman
•
  Russell Clements, Chief Executive 
Officer
•
  Gary Elden, Chief Development 
Officer
•
  Alex Smith, Chief Financial Officer
•
  Sunil Wickremeratne, Chief 
Operating Officer
•
  Paul Bowtell, Independent Non-
Executive Director
•
  Alicja Lesniak, Independent Non-
Executive Director
•
  T ony Ward, Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
•
  Nadhim Zahawi, Independent Non-
Executive Director
Directors’ Report (continued)
Year ended 29 November 2009 SThree plc 15
Directors’ Report (continued) 
Year ended 29 November 2009
Biographies are shown earlier in this 
Annual Report, with details of Board 
Committee membership being set out 
in the Corporate Governance Report. 
All Directors served throughout the 
financial year.
Brian McBride and David Tilston 
retired as Directors at the Annual 
General Meeting on 24 April 2009, 
whilst, in accordance with the 
Company’s Articles of Association, 
Sunil Wickremeratne, T ony Ward 
and Alicja Lesniak will retire at the 
2010 AGM and submit themselves 
for re-election. In accordance with 
the terms of his re-appointment, Sir 
Anthony Cleaver will also retire at the 
Annual General Meeting in 2010. Full 
information is contained in the Notice 
of Meeting.
Other than employment contracts and 
Minority Interest loans to Gary Elden, 
none of the Directors of the Company 
had a material interest in any contract 
with the Company or its subsidiary 
undertakings. The key terms of the 
Directors’ service contracts, the 
Directors’ interests in the shares and 
options of the Company and Minority 
Interest loans to Gary Elden (in respect 
of Minority Interests approved prior 
to him becoming an SThree plc 
director) are disclosed in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
Supplier payment policy, 
Essential Contractors and 
Change of Control
It is the Group’s policy to comply with 
terms of payment negotiated with 
suppliers. Where payment terms are 
not negotiated, the Group endeavours 
to adhere to the suppliers’ standard 
terms. SThree plc acts as a holding 
company for the Group and does not 
trade and consequently does not have 
an average creditors’ payment period. 
T rade creditors of the Group at 29 
November 2009 were equivalent to 
21 days’ purchases (2008: 24 days). 
The Group has business relationships 
with a number of contractors but is 
not reliant on any single one.
There are no significant agreements 
to which the Company is party that 
take effect, alter or terminate upon 
a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover offer, with the 
exception of the RBS Invoice Finance 
agreement regarding the Group’s 
invoice discounting facility, dated 
8 October 2009.
The Company does not have 
agreements with any Director 
or employee that would provide 
compensation for loss of office 
or employment resulting from a 
takeover, except that provisions 
of the Group’s share plans and 
Minority Interest arrangements, may 
cause options, awards or minority 
shareholdings to vest on a takeover.
Share capital
The authorised and issued share 
capital of the Company, together 
with details of the movements in the 
Company’s issued share capital during 
the year, are shown in the notes to the 
financial statements.
Minority Interests (‘MI’) Model
Since flotation, the Group has 
regarded its Minority Interests (or 
Minority Stakes) model as a key factor 
in its success and it is planned to 
create more of these this year, on 
similar terms to those previously 
created, subject to shareholder 
approval at the AGM in April 2010.
Entrepreneurial employees within 
the Group often create ideas for 
new business opportunities, which 
the Group may elect to pursue and 
develop. Historically the Group has 
engaged with such key employees in 
setting up new brands for the purpose 
of pursuing these new ideas, which 
have typically evolved organically 
out of one of the existing SThree 
businesses, for example, JP Gray was 
established as a result of an idea 
presented to the Directors by certain 
senior managers of FS Group, who 
were then given the opportunity to 
manage and develop that new brand. 
T ypically, those managers of the new 
SThree brand will be able to invest, at 
the Company’s discretion, in the new 
venture and share in its success as 
well as the risk of failure.
As in prior years, only the Group’s 
key entrepreneurial employees may 
be invited to invest in the creation 
of any new minority shareholding 
business. In order to receive equity 
ownership such employees must 
invest in any stake at fair value and be 
actively engaged in that business for a 
minimum term of between three and 
five years. Should the employee wish 
to dispose of their stake the Company 
retains pre-emption rights.
The minimum term for each new 
minority stake will be set at the outset 
and will normally be five years, but 
will never be less than three years, 
in order to allow the Group flexibility 
to adapt to the individual needs of its 
brands and businesses and differing 
rates of growth. SThree plc 16
Directors’ Report (continued)
Year ended 29 November 2009
In line with this, approval is also being 
sought to amend the specified period 
provisions of the previous offers 
approved by shareholders at AGM 
in 2006 and 2007. These provisions 
stated that the specified period 
would always be five years. However, 
for offers of unallocated shares, in 
respect of new MI contracts only, it 
is proposed to amend this so that the 
specified period will still normally 
be five years but will never be less 
than three years, provided there are 
exceptional circumstances, in order 
to match the more recent minority 
structures.
Although there are a number of 
different businesses in which 
key employees will be invited to 
invest, each invitation will be on 
generally similar terms to that used 
previously and it is normally therefore 
appropriate to put only one resolution 
to shareholders each year.
Also note that, for all prior shareholder 
authorities granted, the five year 
period available to the Company 
to make such offers to employees 
is to be renewed from the date of 
each Annual General Meeting, or any 
adjournment thereof.
The proposed resolution, together 
with the standard terms upon which 
the Minority Stakes are normally 
based, are outlined within the Notice 
of Meeting.
Whilst the Group refers to its ‘Minority 
Interests’ model throughout these 
financial statements, in recent years 
the Group has evolved its method of 
administering these arrangements 
and has developed a ‘tracker share’ 
model. There are technical accounting 
differences between historic entity 
based MIs and newer tracker share 
based MIs which are accounted for  as 
share based payments under IFRS2 
and not as traditional equity based 
MIs.
Authority to make purchases of 
own shares
The Company is, until the date of the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, 
generally and unconditionally 
authorised to buy back a proportion 
of its own ordinary shares. During 
the year no purchases were made, 
although the Directors will seek to 
renew the authority for up to 10% of 
the Company’s issued share capital at 
the Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ indemnities, 
insurance and conflicts of 
interest
Section 236 of the Companies Act 
2006 allows companies the power 
to extend indemnities to Directors 
against liability to third parties 
(excluding criminal and regulatory 
penalties) and also to pay Directors’ 
legal costs in advance, provided that 
these are reimbursed to the Company 
Substantial shareholdings
As at the date of this Report, the Group had been notified, in accordance with the Companies Act, of the following 
significant interests in the Ordinary share capital of the Company:
Name of holder Number of shares Percentage shareholding
AXA 5,153,356 4.23%
Simon Peter Arber 3,392,047 2.79%
William Frederick Bottriell 9,327,764 7.66%
Russell Clements 4,738,729 3.89%
Fidelity 6,028,475 4.95%
HBOS plc 6,983,314 5.21%
JP Morgan Asset Management (UK) Limited 7,021,061 5.07%
Legal & General Group plc 4,841,179 3.97%
Martin Currie Investment Management Limited 4,314,627 3.12%
Standard Life Investments Limited 10,747,159 8.83%
Sunil Wickremeratne 10,671,553 8.76% SThree plc 17
should the individual Director be 
convicted or, in an action brought 
by the Company, where judgement 
is given against the Director. The 
Company currently has a Directors’ 
and Officers’ insurance policy in place 
which provides this cover.
The Board also confirms that there 
are appropriate procedures in place 
to ensure that its powers to authorise 
any Directors’ conflicts of interest 
operated effectively during the year.
Corporate Governance
Please refer to the separate Corporate 
Governance Report.
Financial instruments
Information in respect of financial 
instruments is set out in the notes to 
the financial statements.
Corporate and Social 
Responsibility
The Board recognises its 
environmental, health and safety 
and employment responsibilities 
and devotes appropriate resources 
towards monitoring compliance with 
and improving existing standards. 
The Chief Executive Officer has 
responsibility for these areas at Board 
level, ensuring that the Group’s policies 
are upheld and providing the necessary 
resources. Further information is 
contained in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report section.
Health and safety – The Group is 
committed to providing for the health, 
safety and welfare of all its employees. 
Every effort is made to ensure that 
the requirements of the Health and 
Safety at Work etc Act 1974 and all 
other relevant regulations and codes 
of practice are complied with.
Employees – The Group has 
continued its policy of informing all 
employees of matters of concern 
to them as employees, both in their 
immediate work situation and in the 
wider context of the Group’s well 
being. It encourages participation 
and involvement in matters which 
affect their interests as employees. 
Communication with employees 
is effected through the Group’s 
management briefings structure, 
Board Committees, formal and 
informal meetings and through the 
Group’s information systems. Informal 
communication is facilitated by emails 
to all Group companies.
The Group is also committed to 
achieving equal opportunities and to 
complying with anti-discrimination 
legislation. In addition, employees 
are encouraged to train and develop 
their careers. It is established Group 
policy to offer employees and job 
applicants the opportunity to benefit 
from fair employment, without regard 
to their sex, sexual orientation, marital 
status, race, religion or belief, age or 
disability.
The Group gives full and fair 
consideration to the employment of 
disabled persons for suitable jobs. 
In the event of members of staff 
becoming disabled every effort is 
made to ensure that their employment 
within the Group continues either in 
the job or in a suitable alternative. It is 
the Group’s policy to support disabled 
employees in all aspects of their 
training, development and promotion 
where it benefits the employee and 
the Group.
Information on employee share plans 
and share ownership is contained in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The Community – The Group is 
committed to providing support to 
the community and society through a 
number of charitable activities. During 
the period the Group made charitable 
donations of £51,000 (2008: £81,000). 
The Group made no donations for 
political purposes either in the UK or 
overseas during the year.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the 
Company will be held on 23 April 2010, 
at Home House, 20 Portman Square, 
London W1H 6LW. A separate formal 
Notice of Meeting details all business 
to be transacted.
Auditors
As required by Section 418(2) of the 
Companies Act 2006, each Director 
in office, at the date of this Report, 
hereby confirms that:
•
  so far as the Director is aware, 
there is no relevant audit 
information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; 
and
•
  he/she has taken all steps that 
he/she ought to have taken as 
a Director in order to make him/
herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that 
the Company’s Auditors are aware 
of such information.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have 
indicated their willingness to continue 
in office. Accordingly, a resolution 
Directors’ Report (continued) 
Year ended 29 November 2009 SThree plc 18
will be put to the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting proposing their 
re-appointment as auditors for the 
ensuing year.
Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. The Directors 
have elected to prepare the Group and 
parent company financial statements 
in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union. In 
preparing these financial statements, 
the Directors have also elected to 
comply with IFRSs, issued by the 
International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB). Under company law 
the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group 
and the Company and of the profit or 
loss of the Group for that period. In 
preparing these financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
•
  select suitable accounting policies 
an d then apply them consistently;
•
  make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
•
  state whether applicable IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union and 
IFRSs issued by IASB have been 
followed; and
•
  prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for 
keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the 
Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial 
statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 
4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in 
the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names 
and functions are listed above confirm 
that, to the best of their knowledge:
•
  the Group financial statements, 
which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group; and
•
  the Directors’ Report, taken 
together with the Chairman’s 
Statement, the Chief Executive 
Officer’s and Chief Financial 
Officer’s Reviews, contained in 
the Annual Report includes a fair 
review of the development and 
performance of the business and 
the position of the Group, together 
with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that it 
faces.
By order of the Board 
Steve Hornbuckle
Company Secretary
29 January 2010
Registered Office:
41-44 Great Windmill Street, London, 
W1D 7NB
Directors’ Report (continued)
Year ended 29 November 2009 SThree plc 19
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 29 November 2009
Introduction
This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006 and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Regulations 2002, 
relevant provisions of the Listing 
Rules and the Combined Code.
The Regulations require the 
auditors to report to the Company’s 
shareholders on the ‘auditable part’ of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and to state whether in their opinion 
this part of the report has been 
properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006 (as amended 
by the Regulations). The report has 
therefore been divided into separate 
sections for unaudited and audited 
information.
As required by the Regulations, a 
resolution to approve the report will 
be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.
Year in focus – summary
•
 Continued policy of positioning 
base salaries between lower 
quartile and median for the 
relevant competitive market;
•
 No salary increases proposed for 
the Executive Directors in light 
of the challenging economic 
background and the associated 
impact on the majority of our 
employees;
•
 Maximum bonus opportunity to be 
increased in 2010, in line with our 
stated policy;
•
 Up to 20% of bonus opportunity 
to relate to strategic objectives, 
in support of managing business 
risk;
•
 L TIP TSR comparator group to be 
broadened and additional EPS 
growth measure to be applied;
•
 Introduction of two UK all 
employee share schemes (SAYE 
and SIP), with other jurisdictions 
to be added.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee 
(the ‘Committee’) determines 
the remuneration policy and the 
individual remuneration packages 
of the Chairman, the Executive 
Directors, the Company Secretary 
and certain key senior management 
posts. The Committee’s T erms of 
Reference are available at  
www.sthree.com.
During the year the Committee 
comprised only independent Non 
Executive Directors, being T ony 
Ward (Chairman), Alicja Lesniak 
and Nadhim Zahawi. The Chief 
Executive Officer, Group HR Director 
and remuneration advisors regularly 
attend meetings by invitation, except 
for matters related to their own 
remuneration. The Committee met 
four times during the year and no 
member of the Committee has any 
personal financial interest (other 
than as a shareholder) in the matters 
decided.
T o help achieve its objectives, the 
Committee has appointed and taken 
independent advice from Deloitte 
& T ouche LLP (‘Deloitte’), in relation 
to remuneration matters and on 
share incentive arrangements/tax 
efficiencies. Fees paid to Deloitte 
during the year amounted to £44,825 
(excluding VAT). Deloitte do not 
undertake any other work for the 
Company.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy has been 
designed to ensure that the Group 
has the capability to attract and 
retain Directors and senior managers 
of a high calibre, to align the interests 
of senior management with those 
of shareholders and be compliant 
with recommended practice. 
Individual pay levels are determined 
by reference to competitive 
market conditions, performance, 
experience and potential. In setting 
the policy the Committee considers, 
for benchmarking purposes, the 
remuneration of relevant senior 
management in comparable quoted 
or similar companies.
There are three main elements of the 
remuneration package for Executive 
Directors:
•
 basic annual salary and benefits, 
including company car allowance, 
pension contributions, and health 
insurance cover;
•
 annual cash bonus payments; and
•
 share-based long-term incentives 
(see Long T erm Incentive Plan or 
L TIP below).
In setting the policy on total 
remuneration, the Group’s policy is to 
position the base salaries of Directors 
and senior management at between 
lower quartile and median for the  SThree plc 20
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued)
relevant competitive market, with 
a higher than average proportion of 
their remuneration being performance 
related. This policy was examined by 
Deloitte during the last benchmarking 
exercise and will continue to be 
reviewed to ensure that it remains in 
line with market practice.
In order to ensure an appropriate 
balance between fixed and 
performance-related pay, annual cash 
bonus payments are dependent on the 
Group’s annual financial performance 
and Executive Directors’ receipt of 
shares under the Long T erm Incentive 
Plan will be dependent on enhanced 
relative returns to shareholders as 
well as Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) 
growth over a three-year period.
Executive Directors’ basic salary 
and pension arrangements
The basic annual salaries of the 
Executive Directors for the year-ended 
29 November 2009 were Russell 
Clements, £317,000; Gary Elden, 
£241,500; Alex Smith, £235,400; 
and Sunil Wickremeratne, £266,500. 
Salaries are normally reviewed in 
December each year and during 2009 
the Committee undertook a detailed 
benchmarking of total compensation 
with the support of Deloitte. The 
Committee concluded from the 
market data that the base salary 
level for Russell Clements remained 
significantly below the comparable 
market level, with others less 
markedly below.
However, the Committee agreed with 
the Executive Directors’ request that, 
in the light of the current economic 
background and the associated 
impact on the majority of our 
employees, no salary increases should 
be awarded to any of the Executive 
Directors, with the proviso that the 
Committee will resume its policy of 
making sure that salaries are adjusted 
to a level between the lower quartile 
and the median of the data when 
conditions change.
Executive Directors also receive 
an employer’s contribution to their 
personal pension schemes equivalent 
to 10% of their basic salaries, subject 
to each Executive Director making 5% 
personal contributions. Bonuses and 
benefits are not pensionable.
Annual Bonus Scheme
Executives receive annual bonus 
payments based on the achievement 
of Group profit targets, underpinned 
by objectives linked to specific Group 
targets, which are agreed by the 
Committee. For 2009, the maximum 
bonus opportunity for Executive 
Directors was 100% of salary, 
although for individuals below Board 
level this was uncapped, with deferral 
into shares for any achievement 
over 100% of salary. Where agreed 
targets, based on profit before tax, 
are achieved, 50% of salary was 
paid. For achievement above these 
targets, bonus was paid on a pro-rata 
basis, with maximum bonus payable 
for achieving substantially above 
target (i.e. achieving 110% of target). 
No bonus was paid for achievement 
below a certain threshold (90% of 
target), with pro rata payment for 
achievement between 90% and 110% 
of target. During the year, an average 
bonus equal to 50% of salary was 
accrued for all Executive Directors 
based on the Committee’s assessment 
of achieving a level of profit that was 
appropriate, in light of the exceptional 
market conditions, and the very good 
performance which resulted.
For 2010, the bonus maximum for 
Executive Directors is to be increased 
to 120% of salary, with any element 
over 100% of salary being paid in 
deferred shares, vesting in equal 
tranches over two years, provided 
the Executive remains employed 
with the Group. Up to 20% of the 
bonus opportunity will relate 
directly to progress towards the 
Company’s strategic objectives, as 
agreed by the Board and in support 
of managing any related business 
risk. The Committee considers 
overall performance, including 
environmental, social and governance 
(‘ESG’) issues, when calibrating the 
remuneration of Executives, to ensure 
that the incentive structure for senior 
management does not inadvertently 
encourage irresponsible behaviour.
Long Term Incentive Plan
In November 2006, shareholders 
approved a share-based L TIP for 
Executive Directors and other 
members of the senior management 
team to provide an incentive to 
increase shareholder value and 
support alignment with shareholder 
interests through building a stake 
in SThree shares. No further awards 
are planned to be made under the 
Executive Share Option Scheme 
operated by the Company before 
flotation.
During 2009, the Committee 
commissioned Deloitte to review 
the Long T erm Incentive Plan (‘L TIP’) 
performance criteria and concluded 
that: a) relative total shareholder 
return (‘TSR’) remains an important 
measure of Executive performance; 
b) the TSR comparator group 
should be broadened to avoid high 
levels of volatility and ensure valid 
comparisons; and c) an Earnings Per 
Share (‘EPS’) growth measure should 
be applied to ensure that Executives 
are appropriately incentivised  SThree plc 21
and rewarded. Views of major 
shareholders on these proposed 
improvements were sought during 
December 2009 and there were 
no objections. Therefore, whilst no 
changes are proposed to the already 
approved TSR vesting hurdles, 50% 
of awards to Executive Directors 
made from February 2010 onwards 
will be made subject to TSR and 
50% subject to EPS performance 
measures.
The main features of the L TIP are as 
follows:
•
 Awards of shares can be made, 
each year, to Executive Directors 
and other senior executives in the 
form of forfeitable shares or share 
options (nil-cost or market value);
•
 The maximum annual face value 
of awards which may be made 
to Executive Directors is 175% of 
salary, whilst over a three-year 
period the Committee intends that 
no Executive Director will receive 
aggregate awards in excess of a 
face value of 450% of salary;
•
 All Executive Directors’ awards 
must be subject to a performance 
condition, assessed over the 
three years following the date 
of grant, with no facility to 
re-test performance. For other 
participants, the Committee has 
discretion to decide whether 
or not a performance condition 
should apply to grants;
•
 For the reasons stated above, 
from February 2010, the current 
peer group of approximately 18 
mainly recruitment or service 
related businesses used for the 
TSR measure is to be expanded 
to comprise some 40 UK-listed 
peer group companies, all being 
recruitment or service companies 
from the FTSE Support Services, 
AIM or Fledgling indices, set out 
as follows: Empresaria Group 
plc, Experian plc, Garner plc, 
Harvey Nash Group plc, Hays plc, 
Healthcare Locums plc, Hexagon 
Human Capital plc, Highams 
Systems Services Group plc, 
Hyder Consulting plc, Hydrogen 
Group plc, Impeilam Group plc, 
Interquest Group plc, Kellan Group 
plc, Management Consulting 
Group plc, Matchtech Group plc, 
Michael Page International plc, 
Mitie Group plc, Morson Group 
plc, Mouchel Group plc, Network 
Group Holdings plc, Networkers 
International plc, Office2office plc, 
Penna Consulting plc, Pinnacle 
Staffing Group plc, Prime People 
plc, Regus plc, Rethink Group plc, 
Ricardo plc, Robert Walters plc, 
RPS Group plc, RTC Group plc, 
Saville Group plc, Servoca plc, 
Staffline Group plc, T ribal Group 
plc, Waterman Group plc, White 
Young plc, Work Group plc, World 
Careers Network plc and WS 
Atkins plc. This list is reviewed 
annually;
•
 The preferred EPS growth 
measure is to be Compound 
Average Growth Rate (‘CAGR’), 
as it rewards value creation 
equally over the period covered 
by the incentive. Pre-exceptional, 
undiluted EPS, is to be used as 
the basis for awards, so that any 
material abnormal influences are 
taken as pre-exceptional items 
and any abnormal influences 
which are not material but still 
significant are highlighted to the 
Committee for consideration;
•
 Both the TSR and EPS measures 
to be used for awards in 2010 are 
summarised below. For the EPS 
measure the Committee will take 
into consideration both internal 
and external forecasts in setting 
targets, as well as the guidelines 
of key investor bodies. The TSR 
measure remains as previously 
approved by shareholders.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued)
 Company’s TSR ranking against  
Percentage of award that comparator group over performance  Company’s EPS growth over 
vests period performance period
None Below median Below RPI plus 5%
30% Median RPI plus 5%
100% Upper quartile or better RPI plus 10% or better
Pro rata on a straight line 
between 30% and 100% Between median and upper quartile Between RPI plus 5% and RPI  
  plus 10% SThree plc 22
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued)
Employee Benefit Trusts and 
other Share Plans
The Group has a culture that 
encourages share participation at all 
levels. T wo Employee Benefit T rusts 
(‘EBT s’), which were funded by gifts 
from some of the current and former 
Directors, hold assets comprising 
shares in the Company. Shares in 
the EBT s are mainly held for awards 
and grants under share option and 
share award schemes introduced 
prior to flotation, in which a number 
of employees still participate. In 
2009, shareholders approved the 
introduction of a Savings-Related 
Share Option Scheme (‘SAYE Scheme’) 
and a Savings & Investment Plan 
(‘SIP’), so that those UK employees 
who joined the Group after 2004 
and who could not benefit from the 
earlier share schemes could then 
have access to such all employee 
schemes. The Company intends to 
make available similar arrangements 
in other jurisdictions, subject to 
local laws, etc, where commercially 
justifiable and has set the critical 
mass of headcount for roll out in 
each country at 100 employees. 
Roll out will begin in 2010 for those 
countries which have already met 
this criteria, with new countries to be 
progressively added each year in line 
with the agreed headcount threshold.
In respect of those share plans and 
related T rusts introduced prior to 
flotation these comprise an Executive 
Share Option Scheme, the Forfeitable 
Share Plan, the Share Gift Plan, and 
the No.1 ESOP and No.2 ESOP . In 
respect of the No.2 ESOP , this had 
adopted a T rust Option Plan and had 
agreed to satisfy the majority of 
options granted under the Executive 
Share Option Scheme, and all awards 
under the Forfeitable Share Plan, with 
shares existing in the T rust. Under the 
terms of the T rust Deed constituting 
the No.2 ESOP , the T rustees have 
undertaken to waive all dividend 
rights on ordinary shares comprised 
in the trust fund. The Executive 
Directors do not currently participate 
in any of these arrangements.
In terms of dilution, the Committee 
intends that awards under the L TIP , 
EBT s and other share plans should be 
satisfied by a combination of existing 
EBT shares, market purchases and 
new issue shares. Where new issue 
shares are used, this will be done 
in accordance with the guidelines 
provided by the Association of British 
Insurers.
Executive Directors’ service 
contracts
It is the Company’s policy that 
Executive Directors should have 
contracts with a rolling term providing 
for a maximum of 12 months’ notice. 
Consequently, in the event of an early 
termination, the contractual right is to 
12 months’ basic salary and benefits, 
with mitigation being generally 
required to reduce any compensation 
payable to a departing Director.
The Executive Directors are employed 
on service contracts with the Group 
which commenced on 11 November 
2005 (both Russell Clements and 
Sunil Wickremeratne), 14 April 2008 
(Gary Elden) and 7 May 2008 (Alex 
Smith). Each of these contracts 
provides an entitlement to a basic 
annual salary, performance bonus 
scheme participation, a company car 
allowance, pension contributions as 
well as health insurance cover and is 
terminable by 12 months’ notice given 
by either party.
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors have 
specific letters of appointment, 
available upon request, and their 
remuneration is determined by the 
Board within the limits set by the 
Articles of Association and normally 
based on independent surveys of 
fees paid to Non-Executive Directors 
of similar companies. Remuneration 
is set taking account of the 
commitment and responsibilities of 
the relevant role. The Non-Executive 
Directors do not have service 
contracts. In 2009, the Committee 
undertook a benchmarking review 
of fees payable to the Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors with the 
support of Deloitte and the resulting 
proposal, that there should be no fee 
increase, was agreed with the Board.
Sir Anthony Cleaver has a letter of 
appointment dated 11 November 
2005, which replaced a prior letter of 
appointment signed before flotation. 
The current annual fees paid to Sir 
Anthony Cleaver are £100,000.
Alicja Lesniak, T ony Ward, Paul 
Bowtell and Nadhim Zahawi were 
appointed Non-Executive Directors 
on 3 May 2006, 14 August 2006, 
5 November 2007 and 1 May 2008, 
respectively, and receive annual fees 
of £35,000 each.
Sir Anthony Cleaver is Chairman 
of the Nomination Committee, but 
receives no additional fee. Paul 
Bowtell is Chairman of the Audit 
Committee for which he receives an 
additional fee of £5,000 pa, whilst 
T ony Ward also receives an additional 
fee of £5,000 pa as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. SThree plc 23
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued)
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (‘TSR’)
The graph below shows the T otal Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) of the Company since flotation on 16 November 2005, for the 
Group and the FTSE Support Services index, which is considered the most illustrative comparator index for investors, as the 
Company is a constituent of this index and its constituents are also used for comparing pay and benefit levels.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed 
for an initial term of three years, 
terminable by either the Company 
or the Non-Executive Director at will, 
and, in normal circumstances, subject 
to performance and re-election at 
Annual General Meetings, they would 
be expected to serve for a second 
three-year term. Non-Executive 
Directors may be requested to serve 
for a further (third) three-year term 
subject to rigorous review at the 
relevant time and their agreement. 
Upon termination or resignation, Non-
Executive Directors are not entitled to 
compensation and no fee is payable in 
respect of the unexpired portion of the 
term of appointment. Non-Executive 
Directors cannot participate in any 
Company incentive scheme.
50
0
100
150
200
250
300
FTSE All Share Support Services SThree
16-Nov 05 16-Nov 06 16-May 07 16-Nov 07 16-May 08 16-Nov 08 16-May 06 16-May 09 16-Nov 09
T otal shareholder returns (rebased to 100)
Source: Datastream SThree plc 24
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued)
AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ remuneration
The table below summarises all Directors’ emoluments and pension contributions for the current and the prior year for 
comparison. No other awards were made to any Director during the year to 29 November 2009.
       2009 2008
   Salary Pension    
Name of Director  and fees contributions Benefits Bonuses Total Total 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors
Russell Clements  317.0 31.7 10.5 158.5 517.7 544.3
Gary Elden   234.5 23.4 10.5 120.7 389.1 181.7
Alex Smith   235.4 23.5 10.5 117.7 387.1 237.3
Sunil Wickremeratne  266.5 26.7 10.5 133.2 436.9 459.1
David Tilston – interim appointment
(23/01/08 to 24/04/08)  – – – – – 83.6
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Anthony Cleaver  100 – – – 100 100
Paul Bowtell   40 – – – 40 40
Alicja Lesniak  35 – – – 35 37.5
T ony Ward   40 – – – 40 39.2
Nadhim Zahawi  35 – – – 35 20.4
Brian McBride (retired 24/04/08)  – – – – – 16.1
Aggregate emoluments  1,303.4 105.3 42.0 530.1 1,980.8 1,759.2
Benefits in kind include car allowance, medical and life insurance. Gary Elden received a reduction in salary between 
1 March and 30 September 2009, due to him taking a pension salary sacrifice.
Long Term Incentive Plan, Minority Stakes and other share options or awards
The Committee has made the following awards to Executive Directors of forfeitable and deferred shares under the L TIP , 
with awards being subject to the Company’s TSR performance relative to peer group, as well as EPS from 2010, as detailed 
earlier. The next awards are to be made in February 2010.
     Shares 
LTIP – Date of Market price  Shares Vesting outstanding as 
Name of Director grant/award at grant/award awarded date at 29 Nov 2009
Russell Clements 8/2/2007 402p 78,358 8/2/2010 78,358
Russell Clements 6/2/2008 196.75p 175,959 6/2/2011 175,959
Russell Clements 3/2/2009 154.50p 246,213 2/2/2012 246,213
Gary Elden 8/2/2007 402p 49,751 8/2/2010 49,751
Gary Elden 6/2/2008 196.75p 108,476 6/2/2011 108,476
Gary Elden 3/2/2009 154.50p 187,572 2/2/2012 187,572
Alex Smith 8/5/2008 183.5p 143,869 8/5/2011 143,869
Alex Smith 3/2/2009 154.50p 182,834 2/2/2012 182,834
Sunil Wickremeratne 8/2/2007 402p 65,820 8/2/2010 65,820
Sunil Wickremeratne 6/2/2008 196.75p 147,903 6/2/2011 147,903
Sunil Wickremeratne 3/2/2009 154.50p 206,990 2/2/2012 206,990 SThree plc 25
The following SAYE awards are held, each being exercisable three years from the date of grant, for a period of six months, at the 
option price.
     Shares 
SAYE – Date of Option price  Shares Vesting outstanding as 
Name of Director grant/award at grant/award awarded date at 29 Nov 2009
Russell Clements 26/6/2009 158.40p 5,729 1/11/2012 5,729
Gary Elden 26/6/2009 158.40p 5,729 1/11/2012 5,729
Alex Smith 26/6/2009 158.40p 5,729 1/11/2012 5,729
Sunil Wickremeratne 26/6/2009 158.40p 5,729 1/11/2012 5,729
Gary Elden also holds small percentage shareholdings in a number of SThree businesses under the Group’s Minority Stake 
arrangements. The earliest of these was created in November 2006 and in some cases loans were provided by the Group to 
enable all senior individuals to acquire their shares. In Gary Elden’s case, loans totalling £305,216 were granted under normal 
commercial terms on 30 November 2006 and 6 February 2007. All loans outstanding are expected to be repaid in full and 
details of the individual arrangements are also disclosed in the statutory accounts of the relevant businesses concerned. As an 
Executive Director, Gary cannot participate in any Minority Stake arrangement approved by shareholders after his appointment 
to the Board. However, at the AGM in April 2009, shareholders ratified his participation in the 2008 arrangements, as these were 
approved at the AGM in April 2008, but not actually created until after his Board appointment in July 2008. Accordingly, Gary 
will be offered the opportunity to invest in these Minority Stakes in early 2010, in line with other senior individuals within the 
Group.
No other awards or share options are held by the Executive Directors.
Directors’ interests in shares
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company at 29 November 2009 are 
shown below and there have been no changes to this information as at the date of this report. No Director had any other 
interest in the share capital of the Company or its subsidiaries, or exercised any share options, during the year, other than as 
already disclosed.
 Ordinary shares held at  Ordinary shares held at Percentage of 
Name of Director 1 Dec 2008 Changes in year  29 Nov 2009 Share Capital
Russell Clements 4,738,151 398 4,738,549 3.89%
Gary Elden 3,384,620 398 3,385,018 2.78%
Alex Smith – 398 398 Below 0.1%
Sunil Wickremeratne 10,670,975 398 10,671,373 8.76%
Sir Anthony Cleaver 152,446 – 152,446 0.13%
Paul Bowtell 10,000 – 10,000 0.01%
Alicja Lesniak 4,245 – 4,245 0.01%
T ony Ward 12,063 – 12,063 0.01%
Nadhim Zahawi 14,720 – 14,720 0.01%
Interests in shares relate only to ordinary shares of 1 pence each, but may include partnership and matching shares held in 
trust under the SIP , which are subject to forfeiture conditions in certain circumstances.
During 2008, following a review of market practice in conjunction with Deloitte, the Committee decided to introduce formal 
shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors. As such, all Executive Directors must attain a level of shares equivalent to 
at least 100% base salary within five years of 1 December 2008, or their date of appointment. Although there is no formal 
shareholding requirement below Executive Director level, most Executive Committee members already hold shareholdings 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued) SThree plc 26
well in excess of this level in line with the Group’s culture of encouraging share participation at all levels. In particular, It is 
currently estimated that, in total, over 30% of the Company’s share capital is held by Directors, Founders, the Employee 
Benefit T rusts, senior management and other employees.
On 27 November 2009, the last dealing day before the year end, the closing market price of SThree plc ordinary shares 
was 250p. The highest and lowest closing prices of these shares during the year, was 276.3p and 124.0p respectively, 
based on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Approval
This report was approved by the Committee, on behalf of the Board, on the date shown below and signed on its behalf by:
Tony Ward, OBE
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
29 January 2010
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued) SThree plc 27
The Board believes that high 
standards of corporate governance are 
intrinsic to the Company’s culture and 
values. In particular:
•
  They are central to its core values 
and strategy, including integrity, 
professional excellence and 
sustainability, as stated in this 
Annual Report;
•
   They underpin the objectivity 
of such processes as balance 
sheet and cash management, 
risk management, the design 
and operation of Executive 
remuneration and succession 
planning;
•
   They are the basis for the 
accountability of Executive 
management to the Board and 
of the Board to Company’s 
shareholders.
This report outlines how the Company 
has complied with the provisions 
of the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance, revised by the Financial 
Reporting Council in June 2008 (‘the 
Code’). The Board considers that it 
complied with all key provisions of 
section 1 (Companies) of the Code 
and the table below summarises how 
the Company has applied the main 
and supporting principles of the Code 
during the year.
Corporate Governance Report 
Year ended 29 November 2009
Relevant area of Section 1  
of the Combined Code Commentary (including relevant Code provision)
A. Directors
A.1 The Board  The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership and overall control of the Group. Its primary 
role is to create value for shareholders, to agree and approve the Group’s long-term strategic 
objectives and to develop robust corporate governance and risk management practices, 
whilst ensuring that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to 
enable those objectives to be met.
  Certain powers are delegated to the Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and 
Nomination Committee. Details of the roles and responsibilities of these Committees are set 
out under the relevant section below. In addition, the Board has agreed T erms of Reference 
for its other formal committees in order to facilitate more efficient working practices and 
these include the Executive Committee, the Investment Committee, a Routine Business 
Committee and CSR Committee, to provide a clear framework of delegated and other 
authorities.
  A.1.1 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and 
has identified key financial and operational areas that require regular reporting and which 
enable the performance of Executive management to be reviewed and monitored. These 
are set out in a schedule of matters reserved to the Board, which is reviewed and kept 
updated on a regular basis. The schedule outlines all matters requiring specific consent of 
the Board, which include, inter-alia, the approval of Group strategy and operating plans, the 
annual budget, the Annual Report, the Interim Report and related announcements, major 
divestments and capital expenditure, large acquisitions and disposals, the recommendation 
of dividends and the approval of treasury and risk management policies. The schedule 
therefore facilitates structured delegation, subject to certain financial limits and provides 
a practical framework for executive management/reporting, which seeks to achieve the 
objectives of maintaining effective financial and operational controls, while providing 
sufficient flexibility to manage the business. The current schedule of matters reserved to 
the Board is available on the Company’s website, www.sthree.com.
  A.1.2 The number of, and attendance at, Board and Committee meetings during the year, is 
shown in a table below. Almost all meetings were fully attended and, outside these, there 
was frequent contact between Directors to discuss the Company’s affairs and develop its 
business. SThree plc 28
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 29 November 2009    (continued)
  A.1.3 The Chairman meets with the Non Executive Directors (‘NEDs’) without the Executive 
Directors being present, either before or after each Board meeting and this is formally 
minuted, whilst the Senior Independent Non Executive Director (‘SID’) holds annual 
discussions with the other NEDs without the Chairman being present and also with the 
Executives, in order to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
  A.1.4 Each Director ensures that if he/she has any concerns which cannot be resolved, 
about the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes, 
whilst upon resignation, Non-Executives are invited to provide a written statement to the 
Chairman for circulation to the Board, should they have any concerns.
  A.1.5 Appropriate insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action against the Directors.
A.2 Chairman and A.2.1 There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief  
Chief Executive  Executive Officer and they have been set out in writing and approved by the Board so that no 
one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
  In particular, the Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy and in the 
achievement of its objectives and is responsible for organising the business of the Board, 
ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda but has no involvement in the day-to-
day business of the Group. The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of the NEDs, 
including Board induction and evaluation, ensures constructive relations between Executive 
and NEDs and that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, to facilitate 
effective communication with shareholders.
  The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and overall 
responsibility to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group, under 
a job description which clearly sets out these responsibilities.
A.3 Board balance The Board comprises a balance of Executive and NEDs who bring a wide range of skills and 
and independence  experience to its deliberations. The NEDs fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability and 
have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive 
Directors are fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best long-term interests 
of shareholders, but also to take proper account of the interests of customers, employees 
and other stakeholders. The NEDs are all experienced and influential individuals and through 
their mix of skills and business experience they contribute significantly to the effective 
functioning of the Board and its Committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and 
that no one individual or group dominates the decision making process.
  Directors have a wide range of experience of various industry sectors relevant to the Group’s 
business and each member brings independent judgement to bear in the interests of the 
Company on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct. The 
Board has an appropriate and varied range of skills, vital to the success of the Group.
  The composition of the Board and its various Committees is reviewed and evaluated so as 
to reflect the Board’s and the Committees’ balance of skills, expected time commitment, 
knowledge and experience. The Directors’ aim is to ensure that the balance of the Board 
reflects the changing needs of the Group’s business and therefore composition, balance and 
skills are all regularly monitored. SThree plc 29
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued)
  A.3.1 Excluding the Chairman the other NEDs have been determined by the Board throughout 
the year as being independent in character and judgement with no relationships or 
circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Director’s judgement.
  A.3.2 The Board comprises the Non Executive Chairman, who is not classed as independent 
because of his position but who met the independence criteria set out in the Code on 
appointment, four Executive Directors and four independent NEDs. This is in compliance 
with the Code, which requires at least half of the Board to consist of independent NEDs.
  A.3.3 T ony Ward is appointed as the Senior Independent NED and is available to shareholders 
to discuss strategy or governance issues or should there be matters of concern that have 
not, or cannot, be addressed through the normal channels.
A.4 Appointments A.4.1 Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board, upon the  
to the Board  recommendation of the Nomination Committee and after appropriate external consultation 
and selection through advisors. Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this 
Committee are set out under the relevant section below.
  A.4.4 Upon joining the Board, each NED receives a formal appointment letter which identifies 
their responsibilities and expected minimum time commitment, being typically two days 
per month. These letters are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office. All 
potential Director candidates are required to disclose any significant outside commitments 
prior to appointment and must undertake that they have sufficient time to meet such 
commitments, in addition to Company business.
  The Company’s Articles of Association also set out clear powers of removal, appointment, 
election and re-election of directors.
A.5 Information Board and Committee meeting papers are circulated well in advance of the relevant meeting 
and professional and where a Director is unable to attend he/she is provided with a copy of the papers and  
development  has the opportunity to comment on the matters to be discussed. Minutes of all Committee 
meetings are circulated to all the Directors, irrespective of Committee membership.
  A.5.1 An induction programme is in place for new appointments and this is tailored to each 
individual to ensure that it is appropriate for their role and level of previous experience. At 
scheduled Board meetings, Directors receive detailed reports from executive management 
on the performance of the Group and such managers give regular presentations on their 
areas of responsibility. Board members are invited to attend the Group’s annual conference 
in order to join senior management from each brand and geographic area, to discuss current 
initiatives and Board meetings are also scheduled at office locations spread throughout 
the globe, in order to allow all Directors to meet local managers and improve international 
understanding. Directors are provided with written materials on their responsibilities as 
directors of a public company and on other relevant regulatory, legal, governance and 
accounting matters. Regular updates are provided on other relevant topics, as required, and 
Directors are also encouraged to attend external seminars on areas of relevance to their role 
in order to facilitate their professional development. These measures help to ensure that the 
Directors continue to develop their knowledge of the Group’s business and get to know its 
senior management, as well as being aware of their general responsibilities. SThree plc 30
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued)
 Major shareholders may, upon appropriate request, meet new NEDs.
  The Board encourages Executive Directors to accept external appointments in order to 
broaden their experience, although currently no such positions are held.
  A.5.2 Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, at the Company’s 
expense, in the performance of their duties as Directors and no such advice was sought 
during the year.
  All Committees are serviced by the Company Secretary’s team and are appropriately 
resourced.
  A.5.3 Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is 
responsible to the Board for ensuring that its procedures are complied with and to assist 
in arranging any additional information as required. The appointment and removal of the 
Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole and the last appointment 
was made in October 2006.
A.6 Performance A.6.1 An annual performance evaluation process, led by the Chairman, is in place to evaluate  
evaluation  the Board, Committees and individual Directors. This ensures that the performance of each 
individual Director and the functioning and constitution of the Board and each Committee 
are properly assessed. The Chairman also discusses the individual performance of Directors, 
in consultation with other Directors, whilst the SID holds annual discussions with the 
other NEDs without the Chairman being present and also with the Executives, in order to 
appraise the Chairman’s performance. These assessments concluded that the performance 
of the Board, each Committee and each Director was and is effective and that Directors 
demonstrate full commitment in their respective roles.
  The evaluation process takes the form of a questionnaire completed by each Director, 
giving his/her assessment of both collective and individual performances and the results 
are reviewed and debated both at Board and Committee level as well as with the individual 
Director concerned, if appropriate.
  The Board will continue to develop this process, as necessary, in order to take into account 
evolving best practice and will be reviewing its procedures after the AGM in 2010, following 
the appointment of a new Chairman.
A.7 Re-election  A.7.1 The Company’s Articles of Association state that a Director appointed by the Board 
shall hold office only until the next AGM, unless re-elected during that meeting. Additionally, 
each Director must retire at the AGM held in the third calendar year following the year in 
which he/she was elected or last re-elected, but shall be eligible for re-election.
  A.7.2 Reference to performance, commitment and biographical details of Directors, as well 
as an explanation of the reason why each retiring Director should be re-elected, are all 
provided in the Notice of Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). The Company also complies fully 
with the Code in respect of its AGM voting arrangements and RNS disclosure. SThree plc 31
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued)
B. Remuneration
B.1 Level and make-up  The Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out in full, the policies and practices which 
demonstrate the Company’s implementation of this Code principle and provisions.
B.2 Procedure  Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under the 
relevant section below and in the Directors’ Remuneration report.
C. Accountability and audit
C.1 Financial reporting  C.1.1 The Directors’ responsibility for preparing the accounts and statement by the auditors 
about their reporting responsibilities are set out in the Directors’ Report and Independent 
Auditors’ Report, respectively.
 C.1.2 A ‘going concern’ statement is included in the Directors’ report.
C.2 Internal control  C.2.1 The Board’s statement regarding its review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal controls is set out below and this is reviewed annually.
C.3 Audit Committee Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under  
and auditors the relevant section below.
D. Relations with shareholders
D.1 Dialogue with Communications with shareholders are given a high priority. The Company produces 
institutional shareholders  Annual and Interim Reports which are published for all shareholders and the Company’s 
website contains up-to-date information on the Group’s activities, investor presentations 
and published financial results. Shareholders can also subscribe for e-mail alerts of 
important announcements made.
  There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, whilst ensuring that price sensitive 
information is released at the same time to all shareholders, in accordance with the 
requirements of the UK Listing Authority. Presentations are made after the Company has 
published its full and half year results and there is also dialogue on specific issues, such as 
the re-election of the Chairman, Minority Interests, introduction of and changes to the Long 
T erm Incentive Plan and on other key remuneration issues.
  D.1.1 The Chairman, Senior Independent and other NEDs are available to shareholders to 
discuss strategy or governance issues or should there be matters of concern that have not, 
or cannot, be addressed through the Executive Directors, although no requests were made 
by shareholders to meet with these individuals during the year.
  D.1.2 Views of analysts, brokers and institutional investors are sought on a non-attributed 
basis via periodic sentiment surveys and these, as well as analyst and broker publications, 
are circulated to all Directors to ensure that all can develop an understanding of the views of 
major shareholders. Any issues or concerns are raised at the Board and Directors routinely 
receive regular reports on share price, trading activity and sector updates.
D.2 Constructive use The Board views the AGM as a valuable opportunity to communicate with private and  
of AGM institutional investors and welcomes their participation. SThree plc 32
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 29 November 2009  (continued)
  D.2.1 The Company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and 
the proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide shareholders with the option to 
direct their proxy to vote either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
  D.2.2 The Company’s registrars ensure that all valid proxy appointments received for the 
AGM are properly recorded and counted and a schedule of proxy votes cast is made available 
to all shareholders attending the meeting. There is full disclosure of the voting result via 
RNS and on the Company’s website as soon as practicable after the AGM has concluded.
  D.2.3 All Board members are encouraged to attend the AGM and in particular, the Chairmen 
of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
  D.2.4 The Notice of AGM is posted at least twenty working days prior to the date of the 
meeting and the Company’s website contains copies of all Notices issued.
Board and Committee Composition and Attendance (in accordance with A.1.2 of the Code)
As stated, the Board has established various Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures 
and powers, which are regularly reviewed. All Committees operate in accordance with the relevant terms of reference, 
approved by the Board, with copies of these being available on request from the Company Secretary or downloadable from 
www.sthree.com. In addition to scheduled Board meetings during the year, the Board met for the AGM and strategy away 
day. The number of Committee meetings held for each respective Committee, and attendance thereat, is as follows.
Directors Possible attendance Actual attendance
    Remun- Nom-   Remun- Nom-
  Board Audit eration ination Board Audit eration ination
Sir Anthony Cleaver  9 N/A N/A 2 9 N/A N/A 1*
Russell Clements  9 N/A N/A N/A 9 N/A N/A N/A
Sunil Wickremeratne  9 N/A N/A N/A 9 N/A N/A N/A
Alex Smith  9 N/A N/A N/A 9 N/A N/A N/A
Gary Elden  9 N/A N/A N/A 8 N/A N/A N/A
T ony Ward  9 N/A 4 2 9 N/A 4 2
Alicja Lesniak  9 3 4 2 8 3 4 2
Paul Bowtell  9 3 N/A 2 8 3 N/A 2
Nadhim Zahawi  9 3 4 N/A 9 3 4 N/A
*Sir Anthony Cleaver was not able to attend the other Nomination Committee meeting as the business related to the 
recruitment of his successor. SThree plc 33
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued)
Audit Committee (in 
accordance with C.3.1 to C.3.7 
of the Code)
The Audit Committee consists of 
Paul Bowtell (Chairman), Alicja 
Lesniak and Nadhim Zahawi, and 
accordingly comprises at least 
three independent NEDs as required 
by the Code. The Chief Executive 
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, 
the Company Secretary and the 
external auditors attend all meetings 
at the request of the Committee. Paul 
Bowtell is a Chartered Accountant 
and is considered by the Board to 
have recent and relevant financial 
experience, particularly in view of his 
role as Chief Financial Officer of TUI 
T ravel PLC.
The Committee’s principal 
responsibilities are set out in its terms 
of reference and, broadly, are: to 
monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Company and any 
formal announcements relating to 
the Company’s financial performance, 
reviewing significant financial 
reporting judgements contained 
in them; to review the Company’s 
internal financial controls and to 
review the Company’s internal control 
and risk management systems and 
identify and report on any business 
areas where action or improvement 
are needed and recommend actions 
to be taken; to monitor and review 
the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function; to review 
arrangements by which Group 
employees may raise concerns about 
possible improprieties in financial 
reporting or other such matters 
and ensure appropriate follow up 
(currently via a confidential telephone 
helpline, with detail published 
on the Group’s intranet); to make 
recommendations to the Board, for 
it to put to the shareholders for their 
approval in general meeting, in relation 
to the appointment, re-appointment 
and removal of the external auditor 
and to approve the remuneration and 
terms of engagement of the external 
auditor; to review and monitor the 
external auditor’s independence and 
objectivity and the effectiveness 
of the audit process, taking into 
consideration relevant UK professional 
and regulatory requirements; and 
to develop and implement policy 
on the engagement of the external 
auditor to supply non-audit services, 
taking into account relevant ethical 
guidance regarding the provision of 
non-audit services by the external 
audit firm, reporting to the Board, 
identifying any matters in respect 
of which it considers that action or 
improvement is needed and making 
recommendations as to the steps to 
be taken.
The Committee considers 
matters relating to the 
recommendation for appointment, 
re-appointment, remuneration 
and terms of engagement of 
the Company’s external auditor, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (’PwC’). 
Both the Committee and the external 
auditors themselves have safeguards 
in place to ensure that objectivity 
and independence is maintained, 
including the periodic rotation of the 
audit partner. In addition to the annual 
appointment of the external auditors 
by the shareholders, the Committee 
regularly reviews their independence 
taking into consideration relevant 
UK professional and regulatory 
requirements. The Committee 
reviews performance and fees 
charged and meets with the external 
auditor at least once a year without 
management present.
The Committee considers that the 
relationship with the external auditors 
is working well and remains satisfied 
with their effectiveness. Accordingly, 
to date, it has not considered it 
necessary to require PwC to re-tender 
for the audit work. The external 
auditors are required to rotate audit 
partners responsible for the Group 
and subsidiary audits every five years 
and the current lead audit partner has 
been in place for one year. There are 
no contractual obligations restricting 
the Group’s choice of external auditor.
During the year, the Committee 
reviewed its policy on non audit work 
which may be undertaken by the 
external auditor and closely monitors 
such work. This policy provides that 
non-audit work may be carried out by 
the external auditor only where that 
work does not impair independence 
and where the Committee believes 
that it is in the Group’s best interests 
to make use of the external auditor’s 
knowledge of the business. Such 
work has included detailed local 
statutory audits required due to 
legislation, other services required 
due to legislation, assurance work, 
taxation advice and other specialist 
services where no internal resource 
is currently available. The Committee 
continuously monitors the quality and 
volume of this work in order to assess 
whether to use other accounting 
firms (or appropriately qualified 
organisations).
Details of fees paid to the external 
auditors for both audit and non-audit 
work are given in the Notes to the 
financial statements. The Committee 
has fully evaluated this work and 
remains comfortable that it is 
appropriate and the fees justified.
Following its creation, the Group has 
continued to expand its internal audit 
function, which is now at full strength. 
The Committee believes that this 
function remains effective and adds 
significant value.
Nomination Committee (in 
accordance with A.4.1, A.4.2, 
A.4.3 and A.4.6 of the Code)
The Nomination Committee consists 
of Sir Anthony Cleaver (Chairman), 
T ony Ward, Alicja Lesniak and Paul 
Bowtell and accordingly comprises  SThree plc 34
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 29 November 2009  (continued)
a majority of independent NEDs as 
required by the Code.
The Nomination Committee’s terms 
of reference are to review regularly 
the structure, size and composition 
(including the skills, knowledge 
and experience) of the Board, make 
recommendations with regard to 
any changes and to review and 
prepare relevant job descriptions 
for new appointees. The Committee 
also considers future succession for 
appointments to the Board and to 
senior management, so as to maintain 
an appropriate balance of skills and 
expertise within the Company and 
on the Board. Where appropriate, 
the Committee engages external 
search consultants with respect to 
both Executive and Non-Executive 
Board appointments, as was the case 
for the most recent appointments, 
being Nadhim Zahawi and Alex Smith. 
In all such cases the Committee 
first conducted an evaluation of 
the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board and, 
in the light of this, prepared an 
appropriate description of the role and 
capabilities required for the particular 
appointment.
As Sir Anthony Cleaver is to retire as 
Chairman at the forthcoming AGM, the 
Nomination Committee has already 
engaged external search consultants 
and prepared a job specification, 
which includes an assessment of the 
time commitment expected, as well as 
recognising the need for availability, 
both for induction and in the event of 
a crisis.
In terms of succession planning, 
the Group has continued its ‘T op 60’ 
leadership initiative, bringing together 
key managers from around the 
globe at regular sessions, in order to 
identify and develop the most talented 
individuals for executive positions. As 
part of this initiative, Egon Zehnder 
International, were engaged to 
undertake evaluations of a number 
of key individuals. The Nomination 
Committee closely monitors these 
activities to ensure that they are 
continually aligned with the Group’s 
strategy.
Remuneration Committee (in 
accordance with B.2.1 of the 
Code)
The Remuneration Committee 
is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board on 
Group policy for the remuneration of 
the Executive Directors and senior 
executives and for the determination, 
within agreed terms of reference, of 
additional benefits for each of the 
Executive Directors, including pension 
rights and any compensation for 
loss of office. The Committee is also 
responsible for the implementation 
and operation of employee share 
incentive arrangements. The 
Committee comprises a majority of 
independent NEDs as required by 
the Code. Full information on the 
composition, role and operation of 
the Remuneration Committee and 
Directors’ Remuneration is detailed in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
System of internal controls (in 
accordance with C.2.1 of the 
Code)
The Board has overall responsibility 
for the Group’s internal controls 
system and for monitoring 
effectiveness in order to safeguard 
shareholders’ investments and the 
Group’s assets. Executive Directors 
and senior management are 
responsible for the implementation 
and maintenance of the system, 
which is subject to periodic, and at 
least annual, review by the Board. 
As explained above, in response to 
business requirements, the Group 
created an internal audit function in 
2008 in order to facilitate this process.
The Board monitors the continuous 
process by which critical risks to the 
business are identified, evaluated and 
managed and this process explicitly 
includes the risks and opportunities 
to enhance value arising from 
environmental, social and governance 
(‘ESG’) matters. This process is 
consistent with the T urnbull Guidance 
on Internal Control and has been in 
operation for the period under review 
and up to the date of approval of this 
Annual Report.
The Board assesses the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of internal 
controls, including material controls 
such as financial, operational 
and compliance controls and risk 
management systems. These are 
designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve the Group’s objectives, and 
can only provide reasonable, and 
not absolute, assurance against 
material mis-statement or loss. The 
Board considers, in assessing what 
constitutes reasonable accuracy, 
the materiality of financial and non-
financial risks and the relationship 
between the cost of, and benefit from, 
internal control systems.
The Board regularly reviews the 
actual results compared with the 
budgeted and forecast performance 
of the Group, as well as other key 
performance indicators.
During 2009 the Group rationalised 
its brands to implement a Country 
Director structure and lines of 
responsibility and delegated 
authorities are areas which continue 
to be reviewed, with policies 
and procedures updated and 
communicated accordingly.
Assessment of risk and 
Enterprise Risk Management 
(‘ERM’) framework
The Board, through the Audit 
Committee, has overall responsibility 
for risk management activities and 
implementing policies to ensure that  SThree plc 35
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 29 November 2009 (continued)
all risks are evaluated, measured 
and kept under review by way of 
appropriate KPIs. Following the 
thorough review of risk control 
processes undertaken in 2008, the 
Group has continued to roll out its 
ERM framework throughout the 
business and has consequently 
further developed and enhanced its 
risk evaluation and ERM reporting 
mechanism. T o objectively assess 
progress made, in October 2009 the 
Committee commissioned a gap 
analysis which was undertaken by 
external ERM specialists. This was 
facilitated by interviews with key 
management as well as a strategic 
risk workshop involving Executive 
directors, brand MDs, Country 
Directors as well as key function 
heads. This gap analysis identified 
a number of areas that had already 
been improved, but also areas for 
further improvement, summarised as 
follows:
Improvements already made:
•
  Group key risk register now 
better targeted, with risk profile 
movement illustrated, with 
Country/Support function sub-
registers;
•
  Country Directors being engaged 
to set up regular local workshop 
sessions to review/update risks 
and improve risk ownership;
•
  Regular reviews of risks/integrity 
in place via a standing risk item 
as part of the quarterly Country 
Directors/brand MDs and Support 
meetings;
•
  Additional Audit Committee 
meetings scheduled each year, 
with regular presentations by 
brands, etc, on their approach 
to business risk management/
tracking of improvement areas;
•
  Further ‘risk focussed’ leadership 
workshops being scheduled, 
with ERM specialists to be in 
attendance.
Areas for potential 
improvement:
•
  Group wide communication of 
risk management processes was 
patchy;
•
  No formal risk management policy 
and procedure document approved 
by the Board;
•
  The Group’s risk appetite could be 
better defined and formalised;
•
  Some key Executive job 
descriptions should be re-drafted 
to include reference to their risk 
responsibility;
•
  The Group’s Annual Report 
disclosure could be improved to 
better describe its good progress 
on risk areas.
The Group has already seen the 
benefits of its enhanced ERM 
framework through improved 
strategic and individual brand focus 
on key risk areas, with greater clarity 
on risk ownership, identification of 
opportunities as well as threats, whilst 
also facilitating better monitoring 
of progress, mitigation measures 
and forward looking assessment, 
including, where appropriate, 
reference to ESG matters.
Consequently, work is already well 
advanced to address the areas 
for improvement, working closely 
with all parties, commencing with 
Group-wide communication of the 
ERM framework, underpinned by a 
formal ERM policy, endorsed by the 
Audit Committee, in early 2010. It is 
expected that, when fully rolled out, 
the ERM arrangements will meet, as 
closely as possible, the appropriate 
BSI standard (BS 3100) on risk 
management processes and that 
the resulting corporate risk register 
will improve risk areas, such as the 
recording of the key risks facing the 
business; assessment of the likelihood 
of risks crystallising; their potential 
materiality; progress on reducing each 
risk area; and the Group’s response 
to each risk. Responsibility for 
management of each risk identified is 
typically attributed to the most senior 
appropriate person and, as previously, 
the Audit Committee will review 
the register twice a year as well as 
receiving the various presentations 
from key business areas. SThree plc 36
Association of British Insurers 
(‘ABI’) guidelines on responsible 
investment disclosures
In respect of the Company’s 
compliance with the ABI guidelines on 
responsible investment disclosures, 
the Board confirms the following, in 
relation to its responsibilities, policies 
and procedures:
•
  As part of its ERM procedures, 
the Board takes account of the 
significance of environmental, 
social and governance (‘ESG’) 
matters to the business of the 
Company. Adherence to these 
procedures and disclosure of 
relevant issues is monitored by the 
Internal Audit function.
•
  The Board has reviewed but has 
not identified any significant ESG 
risks to the Company’s short and 
long-term value or opportunities to 
enhance value.
•
  The Board has received adequate 
information to make this 
assessment by way of its ERM 
procedures and, where necessary, 
has taken account of ESG matters 
in the training of directors as well 
as ensuring inclusion in bonus 
structures.
•
  The Board has ensured that the 
Company has in place effective 
systems for managing and 
mitigating significant risks. 
Where relevant, these incorporate 
performance management 
systems and appropriate 
remuneration incentives.
•
  There are no ESG-related risks 
and opportunities that may 
significantly affect the Company’s 
short and long term value or the 
future of the business.
Going concern
The Board has reviewed the Group’s 
budget for the financial year ending 
28 November 2010 and medium term 
financial projections, for the next three 
years. After taking account of the cash 
flow projections, including proposed 
capital expenditure and considering 
the availability of borrowing facilities, 
the Board has concluded that it is 
appropriate to prepare the accounts of 
both the Group and the Company on 
the going concern basis.
Corporate Social and 
Environmental Responsibility
The Board recognises that the Group 
has a responsibility to act ethically 
in relation to the physical and social 
environment in which it operates, and 
that failure to do so could adversely 
impact on the Group’s long and short-
term value as a result of financial 
penalty and loss of customer support. 
It takes such responsibilities seriously 
paying due regard to international and 
local laws in all its dealings. Further 
details are disclosed in the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report.
Steve Hornbuckle
Company Secretary 
29 January 2010
Corporate Governance Report  
Year ended 29 November 2009  (continued) SThree plc 5 37
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report
Year ended 29 November 2009
Introduction
We believe that proper understanding 
and management of our social and 
environmental impacts are important to 
the continued success of our business. 
As we focus on long term success, our 
CSR strategy, called Giving Something 
Back, concentrates on tackling issues 
that will have a sustained effect on our 
local and international communities, 
our environment, our people – and 
ultimately, our business.
We strive to be the best company 
to work for and we cannot achieve 
this without being a socially and 
environmentally responsible business. 
Our global success will be increasingly 
reliant on the breadth and effectiveness 
of our CSR programme and we now 
have a solid base linking people, 
committees and policies to make this 
programme an integral part of how we 
run our business.
Background
During 2007 we commissioned a 
specialist CSR advisor to undertake a 
review of our CSR practices. This led 
to the launch of our Giving Something 
Back programme detailed in this report. 
Putting together the programme 
involved the development of a clear 
strategy and framework to ensure the 
strategy was implemented within the 
desired timeframe. In 2009 a cross-
disciplinary team of managers started 
working together on a regular basis to 
further develop and implement our CSR 
programme and the progress made 
forms the basis of this report. 2010 will 
see us build a fully-fledged programme 
on the foundations laid over the last 
two years.
Principles
In 2007, we defined our corporate social 
responsibility ambitions that underpin 
everything we do as follows:
• Give those in the community that 
most need it opportunity and 
aspiration;
• Respect the environment we live in;
• Give back to the people who work so 
hard to make this a great company.
Governance
Our CSR strategy is set by a Committee 
which meets regularly and is chaired 
by the Group HR Director, who briefs 
the Board on appropriate matters. 
Separate meetings are held with non 
executive directors on relevant matters 
periodically. The Board receives regular 
progress updates on matters from the 
Committee.
Our CSR programme is reviewed on 
a regular basis to make sure that the 
Company adheres to national and 
international legal and environmental 
requirements.
What happened in 2009?
Giving Something Back concentrates 
on three areas: community, 
environment and workplace. The 
following details progress made against 
our CSR strategic objectives in 2009.
Community 
We want to give those that most need 
it opportunity and aspiration – this 
applies to the communities in which we 
work and beyond. We have a wealth of 
talent and energy at SThree that can be 
harnessed to benefit communities local 
to our offices and we will continue to 
partner with charities and community 
groups to facilitate this. Fulfilling our 
community commitments influences 
the way we do business and we hope 
they will contribute to our continued 
success.
One of the key achievements of 2009 
was to ratify our first volunteering 
and fundraising policy that underpins 
all the work we do for communities 
and enabled us to clearly state to 
employees how they can get involved 
with our community work. Activities 
that took place in 2009 include:
Volunteering
Following an award-winning 
‘Apprentice Day’ held in 2008, we 
were keen to build on this success in 
2009. This involved working closely 
with Time & T alents Westminster, 
a not for profit partnership enabling 
private, public and voluntary sector 
organisations to work together to 
deliver effective Employer Supported 
Volunteering (ESV). Our membership 
of this organisation gives us access 
to charities that are interested in 
employers providing skilled volunteers 
that would take a lot of effort and time 
to achieve ourselves.
Our main focus for any work we do 
in the community is young people, 
especially those classified as NEET 
– Not in Education, Employment or 
T raining. T o that end, we worked hard 
with Time & T alents and Connexions 
(who we organised the Apprentice Day 
with) to find ways of providing support 
to young people to help them find jobs. 
Unfortunately, due to Connexions 
becoming a part of City of Westminster 
Council and a strengthening of child 
protection laws, we weren’t able to 
progress this initiative.
T owards the end of 2009, we started 
working with the Paddington Academy 
(a non-selective school in West London 
for 11 to 18 year olds) and look forward to 
offering our employees the chance to 
volunteer at the academy in 2010. We 
have agreed a series of activities, the 
first being a teacher mentoring scheme 
for our senior managers. Other activities 
will quickly be developed that will focus 
on employability. SThree plc 5 38
In addition to the policy developed in 
2009 that outlines how employees can 
get involved in volunteering supported 
by us or arranged by the individual, 
we have online application forms and 
an approval process that ensures 
everyone benefits from the experience. 
Each permanent employee at SThree 
is entitled to two volunteer days per 
year that can be used to attend a 
volunteering activity.
As a corporate partner of Time & 
T alents Westminster, we meet 
regularly with other corporate, 
community and third sector partners 
to share our collective experiences 
and work together to build a strong 
network that will benefit each partner 
and their stakeholders. We will host an 
employability working group in spring 
2010 with the objective of setting the 
agenda for any volunteering done in 
this area within Westminster.
Fundraising
Raising funds for charitable causes has 
always been important at SThree and 
we continued to fundraise for some 
great charities in 2009. Our current 
charity partner, SOS Children’s Villages, 
has benefited from three major 
fundraising events – a Fun Day in June, 
a Dress Down Day in September and 
a prize draw at our annual Battersea 
Christmas party. SOS Children provide 
homes for orphans and abandoned 
children worldwide and were chosen at 
the end of 2008 because of their young 
person focus and international scope. 
As a growing international company, 
we wanted to have a charity partner 
that represented our network of offices 
around the world.
We are very pleased to have raised 
nearly £37,000 for SOS Children 
this year – with matched funding, it 
takes the grand total to just short of 
£60,000 as non direct donations are 
not matched. In April of this year, we 
asked our employees which village 
should benefit from our support during 
the partnership and they had two to 
choose from. Our employees chose 
Chipata and we are excited to report 
that we have raised nearly enough to 
pay for one of the 15 houses that will 
form part of the village when it is built 
in 2010/11. As well as homes for the 
children, there will be a nursery school 
and a medical centre.
 As well as raising money for our 
charity partner, we raise money 
through other Dress Down Days 
for charities that are nominated 
by employees and chosen by the 
charity committee, which is formed 
from a cross-section of employees 
within the Group. This year we raised 
over £45,000 on these days for the 
following charities: Comic Relief in 
March, Street Child Africa and Motor 
Neurone Disease Scotland in May and 
The Alzheimer’s Society in October.
In total, with matched funding, six 
charities have received £100,000 
from SThree and its employees and 
we are very proud of this amount and 
are looking forward to raising more 
in 2010. Our future focus will be to 
enable employees in each region to 
choose a local charity to fundraise for 
and to have an international network 
of community champions throughout 
the Group to engage employees and 
ensure that we maximise impact in 
this area.
  
Environment 
With 1,500 employees spread 
across the globe, managing our 
environmental impact is a challenge 
and one that we are fully committed 
to. We have started to measure 
and reduce our carbon footprint 
throughout our UK operations and will 
implement individual carbon reduction 
plans for each UK office in 2010. By 
introducing technology to allow us 
to hold meetings and conferences 
via video links and the web, we will 
continue to reduce the amount we 
travel and lessen our contribution to 
worldwide CO
2
 emissions.
T o kick start the measure and 
management of our carbon emissions 
in the UK, we commissioned an energy 
consultancy called Adian Consulting 
to measure our carbon footprint in 
early 2009. This will change the way 
we manage energy at SThree and will 
lay the foundations for becoming an 
energy efficient company in the future. 
Our carbon footprint is disclosed below. 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report   (continued)
Year ended 29 November 2009
Nursery school pupils at an existing SOS Children Village in Lusaka, Zambia SThree plc 5 39
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report   (continued)
Year ended 29 November 2009
Currently, less than 20% of FTSE 
companies publish this figure although 
this will undoubtedly increase with 
the introduction of the UK Carbon 
Reduction Commitment Energy 
Efficiency Scheme (CRC). Although 
we fall outside the requirements of 
CRC due to the amount of electricity 
we use, we are pleased that we will be 
compliant with the scheme when it is 
introduced in April 2010.
Carbon footprint and energy 
management
In late 2008, a strategic decision 
was made to conduct a Company-
wide initiative to establish our 
carbon footprint and reduce energy 
consumption whilst taking steps to 
increase recycling by 50%. Adian 
Consulting were engaged to manage 
and deliver the project using a phased 
approach.
Phase One looked into data availability 
in relation to carbon emissions 
associated with office energy 
efficiency, business travel and 
our company car fleet. In addition, 
waste management and utilities 
cost management were singled out 
for future consideration and action. 
This phase took place from March 
to May with the report being issued 
in the summer. The report found 
information on energy consumption 
and cost was patchy across the whole 
organisation, whilst there were few 
waste management systems in place 
to record the quantities generated and 
the rates at which waste may have 
been recycled.
Phase T wo commenced in May 2009 
to verify preliminary findings and to 
identify opportunities for change. 
Adian Consulting visited and surveyed 
nineteen SThree offices in the UK 
and inspected landlords’ plant rooms, 
service equipment and installations. 
The end goal of both phases was a 
carbon footprint figure for our business 
in the UK. The following are highlights 
of Phase T wo that was delivered in 
September:
•
  
The Company’s UK carbon footprint 
was estimated at 2,299 tonnes for 
the year 2007/8;
•
  
89% (2,048 tonnes) was due to 
building related energy usage;
•
  
11% (249 tonnes) was due to 
business travel excluding cars 
journeys;
•
  
Energy efficiency could reduce the 
building related CO
2
 emissions by 
approximately 11% (195 tonnes); and
•
  
For an organisation of our size and 
activity profile, the suggested 
footprint was between 1,600 tonnes 
and 3,500 tonnes.
Carbon Footprint
Office
Electricity
49%
Communal
Electricity
30%
Communal
Gas
10%
Travel by Train
2%
Travel by
Plane
9%
Water Supply
Negligible
We are currently in a transition phase 
as we look at scoping Phase Three 
of the carbon footprint project that 
will see us implement some of the 
recommendations from Phase T wo. 
Phase Three will also be focussed on 
putting systems in place in order that 
we can measure our carbon footprint 
internally from 2010 onwards.
Waste Management
Although we chose not to pursue 
actions to reduce the waste we create 
in Phase T wo, this does not mean that 
the subject was completely ignored. 
While some offices in the UK have 
recycling facilities, we do not have a 
UK-wide solution to managing waste. 
We therefore approached several 
waste management companies 
asking them to tender for a contract to 
manage all our waste in the UK and we 
expect to start implementing a waste 
management programme with the aid 
of one of these suppliers in 2010.
Offsetting
As a result of the carbon footprint 
project, we will start implementing 
ways of managing our energy and 
reducing our carbon emissions in the 
future. T o add to our commitment to 
respecting the environment, we will 
invest in carbon reduction projects 
through ClimateCare to offset our 
annual carbon footprint. This means 
that we will invest around £15,000 in 
projects in 2010.
We have taken a number of steps to 
reduce the amount of business travel 
our employees make over the last 
two years although we are conscious 
that this area still represents over 
10% of our carbon footprint figure. T o 
minimise the impact of this travel on 
the environment, we will be offsetting 
all incentive-related travel through 
ClimateCare.
Workplace
We want our people to thrive in 
the workplace and consider it our 
responsibility to provide an engaging, 
supportive and safe environment that 
encourages them to make the best 
use of their talents and personalities. 
We welcome anyone with the skills 
and abilities to succeed and are 
committed to offering our employees a 
balance of professional development, 
benefits and rewards. By not putting 
any restrictions on the type of people 
we recruit and by treating everyone 
equally, we have established a truly 
diverse workforce. We regularly 
review our working practices to 
ensure that they meet the needs of 
our employees and the cultures we 
operate in. During 2009, we pushed 
forward with new initiatives that fall 
under the workplace banner, the most 
notable of these being a UK-wide 
Health & Safety project and also being 
awarded diversity accreditation by the 
recruitment industry. A summary of 
our 2009 initiatives is as follows: SThree plc 5 40
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report   (continued)
Year ended 29 November 2009
Diversity
We completed The Recruitment & 
Employment Confederation’s Diversity 
Assured Health Check in October 2009 
and are proud to have been awarded 
the Diversity Assured Recruitment 
Kitemark. Being a Diversity Assured 
Recruiter confirms that we take a 
proactive approach to improving 
diversity in the workplace and show 
commitment to deliver diversity 
through better recruitment practices.
We also developed our first Group-
wide diversity statement that outlines 
our aims in this area and confirms 
that we are currently concentrating 
on finding an accurate and efficient 
way of measuring how diverse our 
workforce is. Additionally, we are in the 
early stages of developing a ‘Women in 
the Workplace’ initiative that will help 
attract, retain and promote existing 
and prospective female employees. 
As part of the programme, we will 
look at introducing forums, mentoring 
schemes and undertake a review of 
benefits that directly affect the Group.
Health & Safety
T o review and ultimately improve our 
health & safety practices, a project 
team was put together in the spring of 
2009 and many improvements have 
now been implemented. Key amongst 
these was the development and 
subsequent ratification of a Health & 
Safety policy for the UK and ownership 
was established in each office location 
for adherence to this policy. A working 
environment self-assessment was sent 
to all UK employees and actions were 
taken at the end of the year to rectify 
any issues. Office visits were also made 
by the project manager to further 
understand local issues in the UK.
A mirror project will be run in all 
international offices during 2010 
now that a blueprint for an effective 
initiative has been established.
Learning & Development
Many positive changes have been 
made to the structure and content 
of our training courses and our 
development programmes in 2009. As 
a sales-orientated business, we have 
traditionally only offered training to 
our employees working in sales teams. 
However, this changed in 2009 when 
we introduced a key skills programme 
for employees working in support roles 
along with learning plans for these 
employees.
One of the major developments in our 
Learning & Development capability 
was to launch an online learning tool 
called MyLearning, which will allow 
all our international employees to 
take part in the full compliment of 
training courses available. In tandem 
with the launch of MyLearning, the 
entire training programme for sales 
consultants was redesigned to reflect 
the changing needs of our business.
Wellbeing
A number of new employee benefits 
were introduced in 2009 as we look to 
standardise and increase the number 
of benefits offered to our employees 
worldwide. For our UK employees we 
introduced new healthcare and dental 
plans and launched a salary exchange 
scheme, which allows employees to 
contribute more to their Company-
sponsored pension fund. We also 
introduced a new Save As Y ou Earn 
(SA YE) scheme and Share Incentive 
Plan (SIP) to enable UK employees to 
buy shares in SThree.
A pension scheme and healthcare plan 
were made available to employees in 
Singapore and a healthcare scheme 
was launched for colleagues in the US.
What is going to happen in 2010?
Following a successful year of 
progression in 2009, SThree’s Giving 
Something Back programme in 2010 
will focus on increasing employee 
participation in the initiatives that will 
be launched throughout the year. We 
will also be focussed on reducing our 
carbon footprint figure. 
A brief summary of key initiatives for 
2010 is as follows:
Community
Our fundraising goal is to pay for the 
building of two houses in the SOS 
Children’s village that will be built 
in Chipata, Zambia, costing around 
£126,000 in total. We aim to achieve 
this through a variety of established 
events as well as encouraging our 
employees to take part in individual 
fundraising activities and already have 
several employees planning to take 
part in a 10K run in London in July.
Supported volunteering activities 
will be launched this year in the 
UK with the first due to take place 
in the spring. We are working with 
a number of charities and not-for-
profit organisations in London to kick 
start the process before establishing 
opportunities in other areas in the 
second half of 2010.
Environment
Phase 3 of our carbon emissions 
project will run throughout most of 
2010 and will see the implementation 
of several energy saving and energy 
management initiatives across UK 
offices. The project will also see us 
implement systems and processes to 
enable the in-house measurement of 
our carbon footprint in future years. 
As we make efforts to reduce our 
carbon emissions as a Group, we are 
committed to offsetting our footprint 
every year by investing in carbon 
reduction projects across the globe.
We aim to introduce waste reduction 
and management in all UK offices 
in 2010. This will involve finding a 
suitable national provider, with the  SThree plc 5 41
process of selection already having 
begun. As we open more and more 
offices globally, we will look to decrease 
the environmental impact of each 
new office and will provide guidance 
to employees on how they can take 
personal ownership of environmental 
issues while at work. 
Workplace
Being awarded diversity accreditation 
in 2009 was an important step for the 
Group and we want to build on that 
success in 2010.  We will be piloting a 
‘Woman in Management’ programme 
with the aim of increasing the number 
of female employees moving into 
management roles and the number of 
female managers being promoted to 
senior roles. Focus will also be on the 
implementation of a consistent method 
of measuring and monitoring our 
diversity footprint.
We will continue the roll out of the 
health and safety project established 
in the UK in 2009 to all international 
offices as well as further developing 
our online learning portal to deliver 
worldwide training programmes. 
Summary
We are well on track with our CSR 
programme and fully expect to make 
further progress throughout 2010. 
Russell Clements
Chief Executive Officer
29 January 2010
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report   (continued)
Year ended 29 November 2009
Prizewinners at the SThree Christmas charity event
The winning team from SThree’s fundraising five-a-side football tournament, 
June 2009  SThree plc 42
Independent Auditors’ Report 
Year ended 29 November 2009
Independent Auditors’ 
Report to the Members of 
SThree plc
We have audited the financial 
statements of SThree plc for the 
year ended 29 November 2009 
which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated 
and Company Balance sheets, 
the Consolidated and Company 
Statements of Changes in Equity, the 
Consolidated and Company Cash Flow 
Statements and the related notes. The 
financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union 
and, as regards the parent Company 
financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of 
directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in 
the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 18, 
the directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit the 
financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, 
has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Sections 495 to 497 
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this 
report is shown or into whose hands 
it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the 
financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence 
about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient 
to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and the 
parent Company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation 
of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial 
statements 
In our opinion:
•  
the financial statements give a 
true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the parent 
Company’s affairs as at 29 
November 2009 and of the Group’s 
profit and Group’s and parent 
Company’s cash flows for the year 
then ended;
•  
the Group financial statements 
have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union;
•  
the parent Company financial 
statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006; and
•  
the financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the lAS 
Regulation.
 
Opinion on other matters 
prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 
In our opinion:
• 
the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006;
• 
the information given in the 
Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial 
statements.
• 
the information given in the 
Corporate Governance Report 
set out on pages 27 to 36 with 
respect to internal control and 
risk management systems is 
consistent with the financial 
statements.
Matters on which we are 
required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect 
of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we 
are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
• 
adequate accounting records 
have not been kept by the parent  SThree plc 43
Independent Auditors’ Report  (continued) 
Year ended 29 November 2009
Company, or returns adequate for 
our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• 
the parent Company financial 
statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and 
returns; or
• 
certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
• 
we have not received all the 
information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
• 
a corporate governance statement 
has not been prepared by the 
parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are 
required to review:
• 
the directors’ statement, set out 
on page 36, in relation to going 
concern; and
• 
the parts of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating to 
the Company’s compliance with 
the nine provisions of the June 
2008 Combined Code specified for 
our review.
Julian Jenkins  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
For and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and  
Registered Auditors
London
29 January 2010 SThree plc
Consolidated Income Statement
Year ended 29 November 2009
	 29	November	 30	November 	
	 2009	 2008
	 	 	Before		 	 	 Before		 	
	 	 exceptional		 E xceptional		 	 exceptional		 E xceptional		
	 	 items		 items		 T otal		 items		 items		 T otal	
	 Note	 	 £’000		 £’000		 £’000		 £’000		 £’000		 £’000	
Revenue		 2		 519,372		 –	 519,372		 631,520		 –	 631,520	
Cost of sales   (348,217)  – (348,217)  (412,581)  – (412,581) 
Gross	profit		 2		 171,155		 –	 171,155		 218,939		 –	 218,939	
Administrative expenses  3  (153,159)  (9,050)  (162,209)  (162,129)  (1,957)  (164,086) 
Operating	profit		 	 17,996		 (9,050)		 8,946		 56,810		 (1,957)		 54,853	
Finance income  5  359  – 359  25  – 25 
Finance cost  5  (378)  – (378)  (827)  – (827) 
Profit	before	taxation		 	 17,977		 (9,050)		 8,927		 56,008		 (1,957)		 54,051	
T axation  6  (5,539)  2,574  (2,965)  (16,809)  594  (16,215) 
Profit	for	the	year		 	 12,438		 (6,4 76)		 5,962		 39,199		 (1,363)		 37,836	
Attributable	to:
Equity holders of the Company   11,274  (6,476)  4,798  37,241  (1,363)  35,878 
Minority interest   1,164  – 1,164  1,958  – 1,958 
	 	 12,438		 (6,4 76)		 5,962		 39,199		 (1,363)		 37,836
Earnings	per	share		 8	 pence	 pence	 pence	 pence	 pence	 pence
Basic  9.5 (5.5) 4.0 29.9 (1.1) 28.8
Diluted  9.2 (5.3) 3.9 29.2 (1.1) 28.1 
The accompanying notes on pages 49 to 98 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 All amounts relate to continuing operations. 
SThree	plc 5 44 SThree plc
Balance Sheets
As at 29 November 2009
	 Consolidated	 Company
	 	 29	November	 30	November	 29	November	 30	November
	 	 2009		 2008		 2009		 2008	
	 Note		 £’000		 £’000		 £’000		 £’000	
ASSETS	
Non-current	assets	
Property, plant and equipment  9  5,398  6,575  – –
Intangible assets  10  10,899     12,262  – –
Investments in subsidiaries  11  – – 238,543  237,117 
Deferred tax assets  18  5,515  3,146  1,157  226 
  21,812  21,983  239,700  237,343 
Current	assets 
T rade and other receivables  12  93,229  139,937  2,536  2,374 
Current tax assets  14  3,309  – – –
Cash and cash equivalents  22  45,272  24,584  150  –
Assets classified as held-to-maturity  13  3,203  – – –
  145,013  164,521  2,686  2,374 
T otal	assets		 	 166,825		 186,504		 242, 386 		 239,717	
LIABILITIES	
Current	liabilities	
Provisions for liabilities and charges  17  (3,063)  (332)  – –
T rade and other payables  15  (76,056)  (81,246)  (53,194)  (66,376) 
Financial liabilities  16, 22  – – – (1,167) 
Current tax liabilities  14  – (10,818)  (497)  –
  (79,119)  (92,396)  (53,691)  (67,543) 
Non-current	liabilities	
Provisions for liabilities and charges  17  (2,889)  (3,535)  – –
  (2,889)  (3,535)  – –
T otal	liabilities		 	 ( 82,008 )		 (95,931)		 (53, 691 )		 (67,543)	
Net	assets		 	 84,817 		 90,573		 188, 695 		 172,17 4	
EQUITY
Capital	and	reserves	attributable	to	the	
Company’s	equity	holders	
Share capital  19  1,218  1,218  1,218  1,218 
Share premium   2,925  2,925  2,925  2,925 
Capital redemption reserve  19  168  168  168  168 
Capital reserve  19  878  878  878  878 
Currency translation reserve   2,416  2,331  – –
Retained earnings   72,562  78,906  183,506  166,985 
  80,167  86,426  188,695  172,174 
Minority	interest	  4,650  4,147  – –
T otal	equity		 	 84,817 		 90,573		 188, 695 		 172,17 4	
The accompanying notes on pages 49 to 98 are an integral part of these financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 January 2010. 
On behalf of the Board of Directors. 
Sir Anthony Cleaver   Alex Smith
Chairman	 	 	 Chief	Financial	Officer
SThree	plc 5 45 SThree plc
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Year ended 29 November 2009
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Attributable
	 	 	 Capital	 	 Currency	 	 to	Company
	 Share	 Share	 redemption	 Capital	 translation	 Retained	 equity	 Minority	 T otal
	 capital	 premium	 reserve	 reserve	 reserve	 earnings	 shareholders	 interest	 equity
	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
Balance	at	2	December	2007	 1,383	 2,925	 2	 87 8	 69	 85,751	 91,008	 2,425	 93,433
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations – – – – 2,262 – 2,262 95 2,357
Deferred tax on employee share options – – – – – (1,297) (1,297) – (1,297)
Current tax on employee share options – – – – – 1,043 1,043 – 1,043
Net income recognised directly in equity – – – – 2,262 (254) 2,008 95 2,103
Profit for the year to 30 November 2008 – – – – – 35,878 35,878 1,958 37,836
T otal recognised income and expense for the period – – – – 2,262 35,624 37,886 2,053 39,939
Repurchase of share capital (166) – 166 – – (31,250) (31,250) – (31,250)
Issue of share capital 1 – – – – – 1 – 1
Employee subscription for share awards – – – – – 127 127 – 127
Repurchase of minority interest – – – – – – – (242) (242)
Dividends paid to equity holders – – – – – (12,004) (12,004) – (12,004)
Dividends paid to minority interest – – – – – – – (89) (89)
Employee share award and share option credit – – – – – 658 658 – 658
T otal movements in equity (165) – 166 – 2,262 (6,845) (4,582) 1,722 (2,860)
Balance	at	30	November	2008	 1,218	 2,925	 168	 87 8	 2,331	 7 8,906	 86,426	 4,14 7	 90,573
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations – – – – 85 – 85 158 243
Deferred tax on employee share options – – – – – 620 620 – 620
Current tax on employee share options – – – – – 1,042 1,042 – 1,042
Net income recognised directly in equity – – – – 85 1,662 1,747 158 1,905
Profit for the year to 29 November 2009 – – – – – 4,798 4,798 1,164 5,962
T otal recognised income and expense for the period – – – – 85 6,460 6,545 1,322 7,867
Issue of share capital to minority interest – – – – – – – 160 160
Employee subscription for share awards – – – – – 182 182 – 182
Repurchase of minority interest – – – – – – – (898) (898)
Dividends paid to equity holders – – – – – (14,434) (14,434) – (14,434)
Dividends paid to minority interest – – – – – – – (81) (81)
Employee share award and share option credit – – – – – 1,448 1,448 – 1,448
T otal movements in equity – – – – 85 (6,344) (6,259) 503 (5,756)
Balance	at	29	November	2009	 1,218	 2,925	 168	 87 8	 2,416	 72, 562	 80,167	 4,650	 84,817
The accompanying notes on pages 49 to 98 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
SThree	plc 5 46 SThree plc
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
Year ended 29 November 2009
	 	 	 	 	 	 Capital	 	 	 Attributable
	 	 	 	 Share	 Share	 redemption	 Capital	 Retained	 to	Company
	 	 	 	 Capital	 premium	 reserve	 reserve	 earnings	 shareholders
	 	 	 	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
Balance	at	2	December	2007	 	 	 	 1,383	 2,925	 2	 87 8	 219,861	 225,049
Deferred tax on employee share options    – – – – (693) (693)
Expenses recognised directly in equity    – – – – (693) (693)
Loss for the year to 30 November 2008    – – – – (9,587) (9,587)
T otal recognised income and expense for the period    – – – – (10,280) (10,280)
Repurchase of share capital    (166) – 166 – (31,250) (31,250)
Issue of share capital    1 – – – – 1
Increase in value of investments (note 11)    – – – – 658 658
Dividends paid to equity holders (note 7)    – – – – (12,004) (12,004)
T otal movements in equity    (165) – 166 – (52,876) (52,875)
Balance	at	30	November	2008	 	 	 	 1,218	 2,925	 168	 87 8	 166,985	 172,17 4
Deferred tax on employee share options    – – – – 762 762
Expenses recognised directly in equity    – – – – 762 762
Profit for the year to 29 November 2009    – – – – 28,745 28,745
T otal recognised income and expense for the period    – – – – 29,507 29,507
Increase in value of investments (note 11)    – – – – 1,448 1,448
Dividends paid to equity holders (note 7)    – – – – (14,434) (14,434)
T otal movements in equity    – – – – 16,521 16,521
Balance	at	29	November	2009	 	 	 	 1,218	 2,925	 168	 87 8	 183, 506	 188,695
Of the above reserves only the retained profit of £183,506,000 (2008: £166,985,000) is distributable. 
The accompanying notes on pages 49 to 98 are an integral part of these financial statements. 
SThree	plc 5 47 SThree	plc 5 48
	 Consolidated	 Company
	 	 	 	 29	November		 30	November	 29	November		 30	November
	 	 2009	 2008	 2009	 2008
	 Note	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000	 £’000
Profit/(loss) before taxation  8,927 54,051 27,003 (9,853)
Depreciation and amortisation charge  6,128 5,895 – –
Goodwill recognised in the income statement  (237) – – –
Loss on disposal of investments  478 – 632 –
Realised losses on financial instruments 3 – 1,957 – 1,957
Finance income 5 (359) (25) (162) (666)
Finance cost 5 378 827 1,674 6,435
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  1,107 – – –
Loss on disposal of intangible assets  355 – – –
Non-cash charge for employee share options and awards  1,448 658 511 –
Employee subscription for share awards 19c 182 127 – –
Operating	cashflow	before	changes	in
working	capital	and	provisions	 	 18,407	 63,490	 29,65 8	 (2,127)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables  50,952 16,455 (162) (350)
(Decrease)/increase in payables  (7,704) 6,731 10,563 57,769
Increase in provisions  2,011 295 – –
Cash	flows	from	operating	activities
Cash generated from operating activities  63,666 86,971 18,933 55,292
Income tax (paid)/received  (18,267) (11,449) (351) 261
Net cash generated from operating activities  45,399 75,522 18,582 55,553
Cash	flows	from	investing	activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 9 (2,726) (2,341) – –
Purchase of intangible assets 10 (2,128) (3,861) – –
Purchase of held-to-maturity investment 13 (3,203) – – –
Capital injection  – – – (1,004)
Proceeds from disposal of investments  40 – 30 –
Net cash used in investing activities  (8,017) (6,202) 30 (1,004)
Cash	flows	from	financing	activities
Repayment of loan facility  – (1,000) – (1,000)
Cash loss on settlement of treasury investments  – (2,956) – (2,956)
Finance income 5 359 25 162 666
Finance cost 5 (378) (827) (1,674) (6,435)
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares  – 1 – 1
Issue of share capital of subsidiary companies  
to minority interest  10 – – –
Repurchase of share capital  – (31,250) – (31,250)
Repurchase of minority interest  (1,371) (1,072) (1,349) (1,072)
Dividends paid to equity holders 7 (14,434) (12,004) (14,434) (12,004)
Dividends paid to minority interest  (81) (89) – –
Net cash used in financing activities  (15,895) (49,172) (17,295) (54,050)
Net	increase	in	cash	and	cash	equivalents	 	 21,487	 20,148	 1,317	 499
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  24,584 4,504 (1,167) (1,666)
Effect of exchange rate changes   (799) (68) – –
Cash	and	cash	equivalents	at	the	end	of	the	year	 22	 4 5,272	 24,584	 150	 (1,167)
The accompanying notes on pages 49 to 98 are an integral part of these financial statements. 
 
SThree plc
Cash Flow Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 49
1 Accounting policies
The Company (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘the Group’) operate predominantly in the United Kingdom and 
Europe. The Group’s activities and business are set out in the Directors’ Report. 
The Company is a public limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and the Company is 
listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is 41-44 Great Windmill Street, London, W1D 7NB. 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below. 
Basis of preparation 
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) 
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’), International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (‘IFRIC’) interpretations and Standing Interpretations Committee (‘SIC’) interpretations as adopted and endorsed 
by the European Union (‘EU’) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
Therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards Regulation. 
The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified 
by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through the 
income statement. The Company’s financial statements have been prepared on the same basis and as permitted by 
Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement is presented for the Company. 
The financial year of the Group comprises 52 weeks and not a calendar year. 
The Group’s accounting policies, as set out below, have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless 
otherwise stated. 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS since 1 December 2004. The 
preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. 
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. 
Management consider that the areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions 
and estimates affect the consolidated financial statements, do not substantially impact the results. 
The Group has adopted the following IFRS, IFRIC and amendments with effect from 1 December 2008. They did not have a 
material effect on the results or net assets of the Group: 
  Amendments to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: 
  Disclosure’ in respect to disclosures that would permit reclassification of some financial instruments out of the 
fair-value through profit or loss category. 
  IFRIC 12 ‘Service Concession Arrangements‘ gives guidance on the accounting by operators for public-to-private 
service concession arrangements. 
  IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’ applies to customer loyalty award credits that an entity grants to its 
customers as part of a sales transaction. 
  IFRIC 14 ‘IAS19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction’ explains 
when refunds or reductions in future contributions should be regarded as available, particularly when a minimum 
funding requirement exists.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 50
1 Accounting policies (continued)
  IFRIC 16 ‘Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation’ applies to an entity that hedges the foreign currency risk 
arising from its net investments in foreign operations and wishes to qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with 
IAS 39. 
As at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations were in issue but 
not yet effective. The Group has not applied these standards and interpretations in the preparation of financial statements: 
  Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 
2009). The revised standard affects the presentation of other changes in equity and introduces a statement of 
comprehensive income. The Group will have the option of presenting items of income and expense and components of 
other comprehensive income either in a single statement of comprehensive income with subtotals, or in two separate 
statements (a separate income statement followed by a statement of other comprehensive income). 
  Amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ in respect of definition of ‘return on plan assets’ to require the deduction 
of plan administration costs only to the extent that such costs have not been reflected in the actuarial assumptions 
used to measure the defined benefit obligation. Effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009, it also 
amends the definition of ‘short-term employee benefits’ and ‘other long-term employee benefits’ to refer to when the 
benefits are ‘due to be settled’, rather than when they ‘fall due’. 
  Amendments to IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009) eliminates 
the option to recognise all borrowing costs immediately as an expense. T o the extent that borrowing costs relate to the 
acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, the revised Standard requires that they be capitalised as 
part of the cost of that asset. All other borrowing costs should be expensed as incurred. 
  The revised Standard IAS 24 ‘Related Parties Disclosure’ is effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 
2011. The standard revises the definition of a related party and clarifies that disclosure is required of any commitments 
of a related party to do something if a particular event occurs or does not occur in the future, including executory 
contracts (recognised and unrecognised). 
  Amendments to IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ and IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ are 
effective from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009. The amendments relate primarily to accounting for 
non-controlling interests and the losses of control of a subsidiary. It also addresses the guidance for applying the 
acquisition method of accounting.
  Amendments to IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ in respect 
to puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation are effective from periods commencing on or 
after 1 January 2009. Subject to specified criteria being met, these instruments will be classified as equity whereas, 
prior to these amendments, they would have been classified as financial liabilities. 
  Amended IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ addresses the accounting for rights issues (rights, options or 
warrants) that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer. It requires that rights, 
options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of an entity’s own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency 
are equity instruments (regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated) if the entity offers 
the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity 
instruments. The amendment is effective from periods commencing on or after 1 February 2010. 
  Amendments to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ in respect of eligible hedged items. 
Effective from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009, it provides clarification on identifying inflation as a hedged 
risk or portion and hedging with options. 
  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 51
1 Accounting policies (continued)
   Amendments to IFRS 2 ‘Share-Based Payment’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009) 
clarifies terms ‘vesting conditions’ and ‘cancellations’ with proposed recognition and measurement criteria. 
  Effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009, the amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures’ require enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements and liquidity risk in the wake of the recent 
financial crisis. 
  IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009) sets out requirements for 
disclosure of information about an entity’s operating segments and also about the entity’s products and services, the 
geographical areas in which it operates, and its major customers. This standard replaces IAS 14 ‘Segment Reporting’ 
and will require a change in the disclosure of segmental information. 
  IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ will establish principles for the financial reporting of financial assets that will present 
relevant and useful information to users of financial statements for their assessment of the amounts, timing and 
uncertainty of the entity’s future cash flows. The standard is applicable for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013. 
  Amendments to IFRIC 14 ‘Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’ (effective from periods commencing 
on or after 1 January 2011) remove an unintended consequence arising from the treatment of prepayments of future 
contributions in some circumstances when there is a minimum funding requirement. 
  IFRIC 15 ‘Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 
2009) applies to the accounting for revenue and associated expenses by entities that undertake the construction of 
real estate directly or through subcontractors. 
  IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009) 
provides guidance on the appropriate accounting treatment when an entity distributes assets other than cash as 
dividends to its shareholders. 
  IFRIC 18 ‘T ransfers of Assets from Customers’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009) concludes 
that when the item of property, plant and equipment transferred meets the definition of an asset from the perspective 
of the recipient, the recipient should recognise the asset at its fair value on the date of the accordance with IAS 18 
‘Revenue’. 
  IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments’ (effective from periods commencing on or after 
1 July 2010) addresses the accounting by an entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in 
the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor of the entity to extinguish all or part of the financial liability. 
The impact on the Group‘s financial statements of the future adoption of these standards and interpretations is still under 
review, but the Group does not expect any of these changes to have a material effect on the results or net assets of the 
Group. 
Consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and of its subsidiaries. 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, 
generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from 
the date on which control is transferred to the Group; they are de-consolidated from the date when control ceases. 
Disposals of minority interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the income statement. 
Purchases from minority interests are accounted for using the parent company method. Goodwill is calculated as being 
the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the 
subsidiary.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 52
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Foreign currencies 
(i)  Functional and presentation currency 
  Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which that subsidiary operates (its ‘functional currency’). The consolidated financial 
statements of the Group are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the Group’s presentation currency. 
(ii) T ransactions and balances
  Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation at period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the income statement. 
(iii) Group companies
  The results and financial position of all of the Group’s subsidiaries (none of which has the currency of a hyper-
inflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the Group’s presentational currency are 
translated into the presentational currency as follows: 
 – Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date; 
 –  Income and expenses for each income statement are translated using the average rate of exchange (unless this 
average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, 
in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and
 – All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity. 
The Group treats specific inter-company loan balances, which are not intended to be settled for the foreseeable future, as 
part of its net investment in the relevant subsidiaries. On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation 
of the net investment in foreign entities and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such 
investments, are taken to shareholders’ equity. When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are removed 
from equity and recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
 
Revenue and revenue recognition 
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the provision of services provided in the 
ordinary course of the Group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value added tax and other sales taxes, returns, rebates 
and discounts and after elimination of sales within the Group. 
Contract revenue for the supply of professional services is recognised based on the number of hours worked by a 
contractor. 
Revenue for permanent placements is recognised when candidates commence employment. A provision is established for 
nonfulfilment of permanent placement obligations. 
Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues to the net carrying amount of the financial asset. 
Segment reporting 
The Group operates in one business segment being that of recruitment services (primary segment). The Group operates in 
two geographic segments (secondary segment) being the United Kingdom and Europe and the Rest of the World.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 53
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Dividends 
Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements at the time they are paid. The final dividends declared to the 
Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Company’s and Group’s financial statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
The Company recognises dividends from subsidiaries at the time that they are received. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Historical cost includes 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. 
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the depreciable value of property, plant and 
equipment to the income statement over their useful economic lives as follows: 
Computer equipment 33.33% per annum
Leasehold improvement 20% per annum
Fixtures and fittings 20% per annum
Motor vehicles 33.33% per annum
Assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only 
when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item 
can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial 
period in which they are incurred. 
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts. These are included in the 
income statement. 
Intangible assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable 
assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries is included in 
intangible assets. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Any 
impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed. Gains and losses on the 
disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. 
Assets under construction 
Purchased fixed assets or internally generated intangible assets that are still under development are classified as ‘Assets 
under construction’. These assets are reclassified over the phased completion dates and are amortised from the date they 
are reclassified.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 54
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Computer software 
The cost of acquired computer software licenses is capitalised. These costs are amortised over their estimated useful 
lives (up to three years). 
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense to the income 
statement when incurred. 
Software and system development costs 
Costs incurred on development projects (relating to the design or improvement of systems) are recognised as intangible 
assets when the IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ recognition criteria are met. Capitalised software and system development 
costs are amortised from the date the system is available for use over their expected useful lives (not exceeding five 
years). 
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense to the income statement as incurred. 
Trademarks 
T rademarks are initially recognised at cost. They have a definite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of trademarks over their 
estimated useful lives (up to twelve years). 
Impairment of assets 
Assets that are not subject to amortisation are tested annually for impairment. 
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, by analysing individual assets or classes of assets that naturally 
belong together. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value 
in use is measured based on the expected future discounted cash flows (‘DCF’ model) attributable to the asset. For the 
purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash 
flows (cash generating units). 
A number of significant assumptions and estimates are involved in using DCF models to forecast operating cash flows, 
e.g. with respect to factors such as market growth rates, revenue volumes, market prices for services and working capital 
requirements. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on best estimates of future revenues and operating expenses 
using historical trends, general market conditions, industry trends and forecasts and other available information. These 
assumptions are subject to review by management and the Board of Directors. The cash flow forecasts are adjusted by an 
appropriate pre-tax discount rate derived from the Group’s cost of capital. 
Significant judgements and estimates 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use 
of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates 
are based on the Directors’ best knowledge of the amounts, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates. 
The ‘critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty’ made by the Directors in these financial 
statements are set out below. 
(i)   The determination of the carrying amount of capitalised software and systems development costs and assets under 
construction with the related amortisation, estimation of useful economic life and recoverability of such assets is 
deemed to be judgemental.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 55
1 Accounting policies (continued)
(ii)   The Group follows the guidance of IAS 39 to determine when trade and other receivables are impaired. This 
determination requires significant judgement. In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, amongst other factors, 
the duration and extent to which the carrying values of a receivable is less than its cost, the risk profile of the client 
and other credit rating factors, the financial health, historical experience of and near-term business outlook for the 
client. 
(iii)   Revenue is recognised when the supply of professional services has been rendered, it also includes an assessment 
of professional services received by the client for the placement of temporary services between the date of the last 
received timesheet and the year end. Unsubmitted timesheets are estimated to the extent that an open contract has 
not expired during the period under assessment. Management apply judgement to several factors in estimating the 
revenue and cost of sales accruals; any difference compared to actual experience would result in the amount payable 
to the contractor and receivable from the client being adjusted in the next financial year. The judgement applied, 
and the assumptions underlying these judgements are considered to be appropriate. However, a change in these 
assumptions would impact upon both the amount of revenue and cost of sales recognised. 
(iv)   The Group recognised a net deferred tax asset of £5.5m (2008: £3.1m), of which £4.4m (2008: £1.3m) related to trading 
losses that arose during the year that are to be carried forward and relieved against profits arising in future periods. 
The judgement to recognise the deferred tax asset is dependent upon the Group’s expectations regarding future 
profitability based upon subsidiary revenue and cost forecasts for future years which contain a degree of inherent 
uncertainty. 
Investments 
The Company’s investments in shares in Group companies are stated at cost less provisions for impairment. Any 
impairment is charged to the income statement as it arises. 
Where share-based payments are granted to the employees of subsidiary undertakings by the parent company, they 
are treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary and the Company’s investment in the subsidiary is increased 
accordingly. 
Financial assets 
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as either ‘held to maturity’, ‘available for sale financial assets’ or ‘loans and 
receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of 
initial recognition. 
Held to maturity financial assets 
Held-to-maturity financial assets comprises investments with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity for 
which there is a positive intention and ability to hold to maturity and which have not been designated at fair value through 
the income statement or as available for sale. 
Held-to-maturity financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an 
active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet 
date. These are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ 
and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the balance sheet.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 56
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Trade and other receivables 
T rade accounts receivable are recorded at net realisable value after deducting an allowance for doubtful accounts. The 
Group makes judgements on an entity by entity basis as to its ability to collect outstanding receivables and provides an 
allowance for doubtful accounts based on a specific review of significant outstanding invoices. For those invoices not 
specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at differing percentages based on the age of the receivable. In determining 
these percentages, the Group analyses its historical collection experience and current economic trends. T rade receivable 
balances are written off when the Group determines that it is unlikely that future remittances will be received. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
current financial liabilities on the balance sheet unless they form part of a cash pooling arrangement in which case they 
are reported net of related cash balances.
Financial instruments 
The Group uses financial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts as economic hedges of the risk associated with 
foreign currency fluctuations. Such financial instrument transactions are stated at their fair value. 
Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising any resulting gain or loss depends on whether the financial 
instrument is designed as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. 
Changes in the fair value of any financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. 
Financial liabilities 
All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as ‘other financial liabilities’ and are initially measured at fair value, net 
of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the ‘effective interest 
rate’ method. Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date. 
Net investment hedging 
Financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the Group’s net investment in an 
overseas operation. The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative 
instrument is recognised directly in equity. Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Group income 
statement. 
Leases 
Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of assets remain with the lessor are accounted for as 
operating leases. Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease periods.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 57
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Trade and other payables 
T rade and other payables are stated at cost. 
Short term financial liabilities and overdrafts 
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Financial liabilities are 
subsequently stated at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the 
redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest 
method. 
Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of 
the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is more 
likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably 
estimated. 
Provisions are recognised as the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. No 
provision is recognised for future operating losses. 
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined 
by considering the class of obligation as a whole. A provision may be recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with 
respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small. 
T axation 
Corporation tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. 
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profits for the period. T axable profit differs from profit as reported in the 
income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it 
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax 
rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of 
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax is determined 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when 
the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised. 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are 
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 58
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Employee benefits 
Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the period in 
which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group. 
Pension obligations — the Group has defined contribution plans and pays contributions to privately administered 
pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the 
contributions have been paid.
Bonus plans — The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based on the Directors’ best estimate of the 
amounts due. The Group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice of payments 
that has created a constructive obligation. 
T ermination benefits — T ermination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement 
date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for those benefits. The Group recognises 
termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees 
according to a detailed formal plan without the possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benefits as a result of an 
offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. 
Employee Benefit Trusts 
The Employee Benefit T rusts (‘EBT’) were funded by gifts from certain of the Company’s shareholders and Directors. The 
assets and liabilities of the EBT are consolidated into the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
The EBT’s main assets are the ordinary shares in the Group which were gifted and hence no cost is attributed to 
those shares and no amounts are shown in the Group’s financial statements. The EBT also holds shares which were 
subsequently newly issued in order to satisfy awards under the share option schemes and Long T erm Incentive Plan 
(‘L TIP’). 
The shares in the EBT are held for awards and grants under the employee share award, share option schemes and L TIP . 
Share-based compensation 
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which 
equity instruments are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which 
the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. Fair value is determined by using an appropriate valuation 
model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions. 
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a 
market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided 
that all other performance conditions are satisfied. 
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions 
and the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market 
condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance 
sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 59
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled 
award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, 
an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, 
based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as 
measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative. 
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet 
recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid, up to the fair value of 
the award, at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as 
an expense in the income statement. 
Exceptional items 
Items which are of a non-recurring nature and material, when considering both size and nature, have been disclosed 
separately to give a clearer presentation of the Group‘s results. These items are shown as “exceptional items” on the face 
of the income statement. 
Restructuring costs 
Provision is made for restructuring costs, including the costs of redundancy, when the Group has an actual or 
constructive obligation to pay amounts to third parties. An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal plan for 
the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation of those affected by starting to implement the plan or announcing its 
main features.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 60
2 Segmental analysis
As the Group operates in one business segment, being that of recruitment services, no additional business segment 
information is required to be provided. The Group’s secondary segment is geographical and the segmental results by 
geographical area are shown below. 
Geographic analysis
  By location of 
 By location of client operating company
    29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
United Kingdom  271,248 386,934 381,965 486,944
Europe and Rest of World  248,124 244,586 137,407 144,576
  519,372 631,520 519,372 631,520
Gross Profit
United Kingdom  76,939 121,566 103,713 144,975
Europe and Rest of World  94,216 97,373 67,442 73,964
  171,155 218,939 171,155 218,939
 Total assets Capital expenditure
    29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom  130,518 124,817 3,411 4,806
Europe and Rest of World  36,307 61,687 1,443 1,396
  166,825 186,504 4,854 6,202 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 61
2 Segmental analysis (continued) 
The following supplemental segmental analyses have been included as additional disclosure over and above the 
requirements of IAS 14 ‘Segment Reporting’.
  By location of 
  operating company
      29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Operating Profit
Operating profit before exceptional items
United Kingdom    5,543 27,372
Europe and Rest of World    12,453 29,438
    17,996 56,810
Exceptional items (note 3)
United Kingdom    (7,478) (1,957)
Europe and Rest of World    (1,572) –
    (9,050) (1,957)
Operating (loss)/profit after exceptional items
United Kingdom    (1,935) 25,415
Europe and Rest of World    10,881 29,438
    8,946 54,853
The analysis of operating profit above does not include inter-segment recharges. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 62
2 Segmental analysis (continued) 
 Revenue Gross profit
    29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
   (restated)  (restated)
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Brand
Computer Futures  149,247 180,295 51,526 65,345
Huxley  132,670 169,338 44,839 59,911
Progressive 
1
  132,461 150,811 41,918 50,099
Real Staffing Group 
2
  101,679 125,893 29,557 38,437
Other  3,315 5,183 3,315 5,147
  519,372 631,520 171,155 218,939
Recruitment classification
Contract  447,077 525,531 98,816 113,098
Permanent  72,295 105,989 72,339 105,841
  519,372 631,520 171,155 218,939
Discipline
Information & communication technology  411,761 535,164 122,612 168,465
Others 
3
  107,611 96,356 48,543 50,474
  519,372 631,520 171,155 218,939
During the year, the Group announced that the divisional management of the business segments would be combined. At 
the heart of this restructuring was a desire to eliminate duplication, save costs and better align the management teams to 
the businesses. As a result the Group now reports Pathway, Madison Black and JP Gray as part of the Real Staffing Group 
brand segment and Orgtel as part of the Progressive brand. The comparative analysis has been changed to reflect this 
structure.
1
 Includes Orgtel.
2
 Includes Real Resourcing, Madison Black, JP Gray and Pathway.
3
 Including accountancy and finance, banking, engineering, oil and gas, pharmaceuticals, human resources, energy, jobboard and legal sectors.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 63
3 Administrative expenses
(a) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items which, because of their size, incidence or nature, are separately disclosed to give a 
proper understanding of the underlying results for the period. Items classified as exceptional are as follows:
      29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Exceptional items — charged to operating profit
Corporate and divisional restructuring    (9,050) –
Exchange loss on settlement of financial instruments    – (1,957)
Exceptional items — before taxation    (9,050) (1,957)
Corporate and divisional restructuring 
On 15 April 2009, the Company announced a number of changes relating to corporate and divisional restructuring. The 
total cost of this restructuring including redundancy, relocation and consolidation of business, is considered exceptional 
by virtue of its size. The Group has charged the restructuring cost incurred in the current period to the income statement. 
Exchange loss on settlement of financial instruments 
During the prior period, some complex financial instruments transactions were undertaken to mitigate certain foreign 
currency exposures. These resulted in a £2.0m loss arising when a series of equal and opposite positions were taken 
during the previous financial year in order to reduce the Group’s total exposure from these positions to a minimal level. 
The Board has undertaken a review of its currency hedging strategy to ensure that it is appropriate and currently the 
Group does not actively manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk by the use of financial instruments. The impact 
of foreign exchange will become a more significant issue for the Group as we expect the business mix to move further 
towards our international business. The Group will continue to monitor its policies in this area. As a result of earlier 
mitigation, the Group no longer has net exposure to complex derivative financial instruments, which the Board believes 
are not appropriate for the Group going forward.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 64
3 Administrative expenses (continued)
(b) Administrative expenses — other
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
      29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Net trade receivables provision charge/(release) (note 12)    736 (697)
Depreciation (note 9)    2,953 2,767
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 10)
— Software and systems development costs    2,466 2,301
—T rademarks    6 6
— Computer software    703 821
Foreign exchange gains    (2,772) (4,447)
Staff costs (note 4)    107,363 124,564
Loss on disposal of investments    478 –
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment    1,107 –
Loss on disposal of intangible assets    355 –
Operating lease charges
— Motor vehicles    2,251 2,410
— Land and buildings    7,608 11,202
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors at 
the costs detailed below:
      29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
Amounts payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers:    £’000 £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of parent and
consolidated financial statements    120 120
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
— The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  383 587
— Other services pursuant to legislation    55 55
— Other assurance services    134 185
— T axation advice    401 350
— Other services    42 47
Costs charged to operating profit    1,135 1,344 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 65
4 Directors and employees
Staff costs and numbers consist of:
      29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries (including bonuses)    92,319 107,530
Social security costs    12,576 14,500
Pension costs    678 519
T emporary staff costs    342 1,357
Cost of employee share options and awards    1,448 658
    107,363 124,564
The average number of employees (including Directors) during the year was:
      29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    Number Number
Geographic analysis
United Kingdom
— Sales    638 996
— Non-sales    411 498
    1,049 1,494
Europe and Rest of World
— Sales    723 599
— Non-sales    69 64
    792 663
    1,841 2,157
Included in the headcount numbers above is a total of 52 (2008: 56) temporary short-term full time employees. 
Information on Directors’ emoluments and interests, which forms part of these audited financial statements, is given in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
The Company had an average of 4 (2008: 4) employees in the year ended 29 November 2009.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 66
5 Finance income and cost
    29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Finance income
Bank interest receivable    359 25
    359 25
Finance cost
Bank loans and overdrafts    (378) (827)
    (378) (827)
Net finance cost    (19) (802)
6 T axation
(a) Analysis of tax charge for the year
   29 November   30 November
 Before  2009 Before  2008
 exceptional Exceptional  exceptional Exceptional
 items items Total items items Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current taxation
UK
Corporation tax charged/(credited) at  
28% (2008: 28%) on profits for the year 6,834 (2,102) 4,732 12,592 (876) 11,716
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (1,447) – (1,447) 33 – 33
Overseas
Corporation tax charged/(credited) on  
profits for the year 2,197 (472) 1,725 5,857 – 5,857
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (329) – (329) – – –
T otal current tax charge/(credit) 7,255 (2,574) 4,681 18,482 (876) 17,606
Deferred taxation
Origination and reversal of temporary
differences (3,401) – (3,401) (1,193) 282 (911)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 2,079 – 2,079 (216) – (216)
Schedule 23 deferred tax credit in respect  
of unexercised employee share awards  
and options (394) – (394) (264) – (264)
T otal deferred tax (credit)/charge (1,716) – (1,716) (1,673) 282 (1,391)
Total income tax charge/(credit) in the
income statement 5,539 (2,574) 2,965 16,809 (594) 16,215 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 67
6 T axation (continued)
(b) Reconciliation of the effective tax rate
The Group‘s tax charge for the year ended 29 November 2009 exceeds the UK statutory rate and can be reconciled as 
follows:
 29 November 30 November
  2009  2008
  £’000 % £’000 %
Profit before taxation  8,927  54,051
Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate  2,500 28% 15,134 28%
of corporation tax in the UK
Effects of:
Disallowable items and other timing differences  59 1% 283 –
Higher tax rates on overseas earnings  103 1% 959 2%
Utilisation of tax losses brought forward  – – (235) –
Unrelieved overseas losses net of deferred tax  – – (23) –
Adjustment due to UK tax rate change  – – 280 –
Adjustments to tax in respect of previous periods  303 3% (183) –
T ax expense and effective tax rate  2,965 33% 16,215 30%
(c) Current and deferred tax movement recognised directly in equity
    29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Current tax
Equity settled employee share options    1,042 1,043
Deferred tax
Equity settled employee share options    620 (1,297)
    1,662 (254)
The Directors expect to receive additional tax deductions in respect of the share awards and share options currently 
unexercised. Under IFRS the Group is required to provide for deferred tax on all unexercised share awards and options. 
At 29 November 2009 a deferred tax asset of £1.8m (2008: £0.8m) has been recognised in respect of these options 
(note 18).  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 68
7 Dividends
    29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Amounts recognised and distributed to shareholders in the year  
Equity
Interim dividend of 4.0p (2008: 3.1p) per ordinary share    4,738 4,101
Final dividend paid of 8.0p (2008: 6.2p) per ordinary share    9,696 7,903
    14,434 12,004
Amounts proposed
Interim dividend for the period ended 31 May 2009: 4.0p (2008: 4.0p) per ordinary share  4,782 4,738
Second interim dividend of 8.0p (2008: nil) per ordinary share for the year ended  
29 November 2009    9,544 –
Final dividend of 0 pence (2008: 8.0 pence) per ordinary share for the year ended 
29 November 2009    – 9,280
An interim dividend of 4.0 pence (2008: 3.1 pence) per ordinary share for the six months ended 1 June 2008 was paid on 
5 December 2008 to shareholders on record at 7 November 2008. 
The final dividend of 8.0 pence (2008: 6.2 pence) per ordinary share for the year ended 30 November 2008 was paid on 
8 June 2009 to shareholders on record at 1 May 2009. 
An interim dividend of 4.0 pence (2008: 4.0 pence) per ordinary share for the six months ended 31 May 2009 was paid on 
4 December 2009 to shareholders on record at 6 November 2009. 
No final dividend is proposed for the year ended 29 November 2009 (2008: 8.0 pence). The Board propose a second 
interim dividend for the year ended 29 November 2009 of 8.0 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 31 March 2010 to 
shareholders on record at the close of business on 26 February 2010.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 69
8 Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share (‘EPS’) is based on the following data. 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the EBT which are treated as 
cancelled. 
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion 
of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. 
    29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Earnings
Profit after taxation excluding exceptional items    12,438 39,199
Minority interest    (1,164) (1,958)
Adjusted profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company excluding
exceptional items    11,274 37,241
Effect of exceptional items (net of tax)    (6,476) (1,363)
Profit after taxation attributable to equity holders of the Company   4,798 35,878
    millions millions
Number of shares
Weighted average number of shares used for basic EPS    118.7 124.7
Dilutive effect of share plans    3.8 3.0
Diluted weighted average number of shares used for diluted EPS   122.5 127.7
    pence pence
Basic
Basic earnings per share    4.0 28.8
Adjusted basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items    9.5 29.9
Diluted
Diluted earnings per share    3.9 28.1
Adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items   9.2 29.2 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 70
9 Property, plant and equipment
 Computer Leasehold Fixtures and Motor
 equipment improvements fittings vehicles Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 2 December 2007 9,144 3,412 2,795 322 15,673
Additions 919 821 454 147 2,341
Reclassification (note 10) 72 – – – 72
Exchange difference 289 275 156 – 720
At 30 November 2008 10,424 4,508 3,405 469 18,806
Additions 1,493 765 337 131 2,726
Disposal (905) (1,009) (790) (322) (3,026)
Exchange difference 193 83 117 – 393
At 29 November 2009 11,205 4,347 3,069 278 18,899
Depreciation
At 2 December 2007 6,788 1,182 1,111 113 9,194
Charge for the year 1,393 679 613 82 2,767
Exchange difference 180 37 53 – 270
At 30 November 2008 8,361 1,898 1,777 195 12,231
Charge for the year 1,561 785 504 103 2,953
Disposal (699) (618) (444) (158) (1,919)
Exchange difference 147 36 53 – 236
At 29 November 2009 9,370 2,101 1,890 140 13,501
Net book value
At 29 November 2009 1,835 2,246 1,179 138 5,398
At 30 November 2008 2,063 2,610 1,628 274 6,575 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 71
10 Intangible assets
    Software and
    system
  Assets under Computer development
 Goodwill construction software cost Trademarks Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 2 December 2007 206,069 2,372 1,942 7,973 63 218,419
Additions 830 3,305 515 33 8 4,691
Reclassification (note 9) – (5,038) 107 4,859 – (72)
At 30 November 2008 206,899 639 2,564 12,865 71 223,038
Additions 710 1,479 199 450 – 2,838
Disposals (674) – – (355) – (1,029)
Exchange difference – – 3 – – 3
Reclassification – (790) – 790 – –
At 29 November 2009 206,935 1,328 2,766 13,750 71 224,850
Amortisation and Impairment
At 2 December 2007 205,687 – 803 1,109 49 207,648
Charge for the year – – 821 2,301 6 3,128
At 30 November 2008 205,687 – 1,624 3,410 55 210,776
Charge for the year – – 703 2,466 6 3,175
At 29 November 2009 205,687 – 2,327 5,876 61 213,951
Net book value
At 29 November 2009 1,248 1,328 439 7,874 10 10,899
At 30 November 2008 1,212 639 940 9,455 16 12,262
The remaining useful life of significant intangible assets ranges between 1 to 3 years. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 72
10 Intangible assets (continued)
Goodwill
The net book value at 29 November 2009 and 30 November 2008 along with additions in goodwill relate to the following 
acquisitions:
 Group’s shareholding Additions in Goodwill Net book value
 Before After 2009 2008 2009 2008
Investment in acquisition acquisition £000 £000 £000 £000
Strategic Resource Group Limited 90% 100% – 206 154 206
Jobboard Enterprises Limited 80% 95% – 623 415 623
New Wave Resourcing Limited 82% 100% – 1 1 1
Staff Search Group Limited 98% 100% 7 – 26 19
Progressive France Limited 83% 92% 41 – – –
Progressive SAS 82% 92% 15 – 5 –
Madison Black Limited 82% 100% 421 – 421 363
J P Gray Limited 80% 100% 226 – 226 –
   710 830 1,248 1,212
Amount paid to increase the Group’s holdings in the above companies was £1.2m. 
The Group disposed its interest to reduce shareholding in the following subsidiaries: 
 Group’s shareholding 
 Before After
Investment in disposal disposal
Madison Black Limited 89% 82%
Progressive SAS 92% 86%
Progressive France Limited 92% 84%
Jobboard Enterprises Limited 95% 90%
Strategic Resource Group Limited    92% 90%
The amount received to reduce the Group’s holdings in the above companies was £0.2m. 
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill has been tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit, including 
goodwill, with the recoverable amount of that cash-generating unit. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable 
group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups 
of assets.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are calculated by preparing cash flow forecasts derived 
from the most recent financial budgets and an average annual growth rate of 2% over the next five years, which does not 
exceed the long-term average growth rate of the relevant markets. A terminal value of the cash flow is then calculated by 
assuming growth of 2%, discounted using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. If the recoverable amount of the 
cash generating-unit is less than the carrying value, then an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. 
Software and system development cost 
In 2008, the Group  began a phased rollout of a Customer Relationship Management (‘CRM’) system to complement the 
front-office system. Costs directly attributable to the development of the new systems were capitalised. 
Additions during the year represent development of automated commission calculations system that will integrate to ERP 
payroll module. Investments were also made to develop integration of web portals with candidate CV details. This allows 
contractors to file online time sheets and also enables the development of a candidate/client management system. The 
Group has also developed and configured Human Resource, Payroll and Business Consolidation modules within the ERP 
system.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 73
10 Intangible assets (continued)
Recoverable amounts 
The recoverable amounts used for impairment testing of intangible fixed assets is based on value-in-use calculations 
using a pre-tax discount rate based on the Group‘s weighted average cost of capital of 10.1% (2008: 12.8%). The future 
cash flow projections are based on approved financial budgets. Average growth rates used to estimate cash flows for the 
first five years are in line with Board approved forecast, with the growth rate assumption thereafter limited to the expected 
growth rate of the local economy. 
11 Investments in subsidiaries
 Shares 
 in Subsidiaries
 £’000
Cost
At 2 December 2007 243,981
Capital contribution relating to share based payments (IFRS 2) 658
Additions
– Capital injection 1,004
– Repurchase of Minority Interest 1,072
At 30 November 2008 246,715
Capital contribution relating to share based payments (IFRS 2) 936
Additions
– Repurchase of Minority Interest 1,349
– Disposal of investments (859)
At 29 November 2009 248,141
Provision for impairment
At 2 December 2007, 30 November 2008 and 29 November 2009    9,598
Net carrying value
At 29 November 2009 238,543
At 30 November 2008     237,117
In accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’ the carrying values of the Company’s investments in subsidiaries have 
been allocated to their cash-generating units to assess their value in use. In assessing the value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are calculated by preparing cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budget and 
an average annual growth rate of 5% (2008: 2%), discounted using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. If the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating–unit is less than the carrying value, then an impairment loss is recognised in 
the income statement. The pre-tax discount rate applied to projected future net cash flows to arrive at the valuation was 
10.1% (2008: 12.8%). 
IFRS 2 requires that any options or awards granted to employees of a subsidiary company will increase the carrying value 
of the investment held. In 2009, the Group has recognised an increase in the investments in its subsidiaries of £0.9m 
(2008: £0.7m) relating to these share options and awards. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 74
11 Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
In 2009, the additions in the investment relates to the following:
    Group’s shareholding
    Before After
Repurchase of Minority interest    acquisition acquisition
Progressive Nederland BV    80.8% 87.0%
Staff Search Group Limited    98.0% 100.0%
Progressive France Limited    83.0% 92.0%
Progressive SAS    83.0% 92.0%
Huxley Associates Finance Resourcing Inc    74.5% 80.5%
Huxley Associates BV    70.0% 73.5%
Huxley Associates Banking & Finance Limited    70.0% 83.0%
Huxley Associates Banking and Finance BV    70.0% 74.5%
Madison Black Limited    82.0% 100.0%
J P Gray Limited    80.0% 100.0%
Huxley Associates S Limited    70.0% 72.0%
The amount paid to increase the Group’s holdings in the above companies was £1.4m
Disposal of investments relate to the following:
    Group’s shareholding
    Before After
Disposal of investment    disposal disposal
Progressive GmbH    80.8% 78.0%
Progressive Nederland BV    87.0% 81.0%
Progressive France Limited    92.0% 84.0%
Progressive SAS    92.0% 86.0%
Huxley Associates Finance Resourcing Inc    80.5% 74.5%
Progressive Germany Limited    83.0% 80.0%
Jobboard Enterprises Limited    95.0% 90.0%
The amount received to reduce the Group’s holdings in the above companies was £0.3m
(i)  Goodwill amounting to £0.7m was capitalised where value of net assets acquired was lower than total consideration 
paid.
(ii)  Goodwill amounting to £0.2m was charged to the income statement where value of net assets acquired was in excess 
of total consideration paid.
(iii)  Loss of £0.5m was charged to the income statement on disposal of investments. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 75
11 Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
Investments comprise the following principal subsidiary companies:
    Shareholding Country of
    2009 2008 incorporation Principal Activity
SThree Australia Pty Limited 100% 100% Australia IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions NV 100% 100% Belgium IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Belgium NV 100% 100% Belgium IT Recruitment
Progressive Belgium NV 100% 100% Belgium IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions SAS 100% 100% France IT Recruitment
Progressive SAS 86% 83% France IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions GmbH 100% 100% Germany IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates GmbH 100% 100% Germany IT Recruitment
Progressive GmbH 78% 80.8% Germany IT Recruitment
SThree Limited 100% 100% Hong Kong Finance Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions Limited 100% 100% Ireland IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions BV 100% 100% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions Nederland BV 100% 100% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Banking and Finance BV 74.5% 70% Netherlands Finance Recruitment
Huxley Associates BV 73.5% 70% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Nederland BV 70% 70% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Jobboard Enterprises BV 100% 100% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Progressive BV 100% 100% Netherlands IT Recruitment
Progressive Nederland BV 81% 80.8% Netherlands IT Recruitment
SThree Holdings BV 100% 100% Netherlands IT Recruitment
SThree Pte. Ltd. 100% 100% Singapore IT Recruitment
Computer Futures Solutions Limited 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Banking & Finance Limited 83% 70% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Belgium Limited 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates France Limited 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates International Limited 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Limited 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates M Limited 70% 70% UK Engineering Recruitment
Huxley Associates N Limited 70% 70% UK Engineering Recruitment
Huxley Associates S Limited 72% 70% UK Engineering Recruitment
J P Gray Limited 100% 80% UK Finance Recruitment
Jobboard Enterprises Limited 90% 95% UK IT Recruitment
Madison Black Limited 100% 82% UK IT Recruitment
Orgtel Contract Limited 79.5% 79.5% UK IT Recruitment
Orgtel Limited 80% 80% UK IT Recruitment
Pathway Resourcing Limited 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Progressive France Limited 84% 83% UK IT Recruitment
Progressive Germany Limited 80% 83% UK IT Recruitment
SThree Middle East Limited 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Real Staffing Group Limited 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
S Three Management Services Limited 100% 100% UK Management Services
Staff Search Group Limited 100% 98% UK IT & Human Resource  
    Recruitment
SThree Overseas Holdings Limited 100% 100% UK Holding Company
SThree UK Holdings Limited 100% 100% UK Holding Company
Strategic Resource Group Limited 100% 100% UK IT Recruitment
Huxley Associates Finance Resourcing Inc 74.5% 74.5% USA Finance Recruitment
Huxley Associates, Inc 100% 100% USA IT Recruitment SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 76
11 Investments in subsidiaries (continued)
Group Reorganisation 
During the prior year the Group reorganised the corporate structure and incorporated two new holding companies namely, 
SThree UK Holdings Limited and SThree Overseas Holding Limited. These holding companies either incorporated or 
purchased the share capital in number of UK and overseas subsidiaries in a share for share exchange. This has no effect 
on the net assets of the Group. 
Minority Interest Rights 
In the event of a return of capital in a winding up or capital reduction the minority interest holding reverts to the ‘right to 
dividend’ percentage in any distribution. 
12 Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
  29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current
T rade receivables  60,813 104,675 21 56
Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables  (2,473) (2,772) – –
Net trade receivables  58,340 101,903 21 56
Other receivables  5,392 1,228 2,515 2,258
Prepayments and accrued income  29,497 36,806 – 60
  93,229 139,937 2,536 2,374
T rade receivables do not carry interest. The Group makes judgements on an entity by entity basis as to its ability to 
collect outstanding receivables and provides an allowance for doubtful accounts based on a specific review of significant 
outstanding invoices. For those invoices not specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at differing percentages based 
on the age of the receivable. In determining these percentages, the Group analyses its historical collection experience 
and current economic trends. T rade receivable balances are written off when the Group determines that it is unlikely that 
future remittances will be received. Management considers the carrying values of trade and other receivables are equal to 
the fair value and are deemed to be current assets. 
T rade receivables and cash and cash equivalents are deemed to be all current loan and receivables for disclosure under 
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Disclosures (note 25e). SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 77
12 Trade and other receivables (continued)
 Group Company
  29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The following table shows the development of allowances on receivables:
Allowances at start of financial year  2,772 4,226 – –
Charge for the year  1,968 1,321 – –
Amounts written down during the year  (1,035) (757) – –
Amounts recovered during the year  (1,232) (2,018) – –
Allowances at end of financial year  2,473 2,772 – –
13 Assets classified as held-to-maturity
 Group Company
  29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fixed rate Euro Bond  3,203 – – –
The Group invested in a fixed rate Euro bond. The weighted average interest rate on this security is 1.4% per annum 
(2008: nil% per annum). The bond has a fixed maturity date of 6 May 2010, that is, between 3 to 6 months from the end of 
the reporting period. The counterparty has a minimum A credit rating. None of these assets is past due or impaired.
14 Current tax assets/liabilities
The current tax asset of £3.3m (2008: tax liability of £10.8m) for the Group and the current tax liability of £0.5m 
(2008: £nil) for the Company represent current tax recoverable/payable relating to current and prior periods respectively. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 78
15 Trade and other payables
 Group Company
  29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
T rade payables  25,479 30,261 86 98
Amounts due to Group companies  – – 52,451 63,791
Other taxes and social security  4,393 5,945 – –
Other payables  3,032 4,697 196 –
Accruals  43,152 40,343 461 2,487
  76,056 81,246 53,194 66,376
All amounts detailed above are payable within one year. The fair values of trade and other payables are not materially 
different from those disclosed above. 
T rade and other payables are predominantly interest free. 
Amounts due to Group companies are charged interest at an average rate of 1.75% (2008: 6.75%) for Sterling denominated 
balances and at 1% above the local base rate for other currencies. 
16 Financial liabilities
 Group Company
  29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank overdraft  – – – 1,167
A committed flexible invoice financing arrangement has renewed with the Royal Bank of Scotland Group (RBS) until April 
2012. Under this arrangement the Group is able to borrow up to £20m. Funds borrowed under this facility bear interest at 
the rate of 1.75% above the RBS base rate. The Group has not drawn down any amount on this facility.
Borrowing levels are subject to maximum of 85% of trade receivables that meets Daily Sales Outstanding target in the range 
of 40-50 days.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 79
16 Financial liabilities (continued)
(i) Maturity profile of bank overdrafts
 Group Company
  29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within 1 year, or on demand  – – – 1,167
(ii) Interest rate risk profile of bank overdrafts
The interest rate risk profile of bank overdrafts are as follows:
 Group Company
  29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Floating rate – overdraft  – – – 1,167
During the year, the Group entered into cash pooling arrangement which allowed netting off the overdraft balances to 
mitigate finance costs.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 80
17 Provisions for liabilities and charges
 Corporate and divisional
 restructuring Property Other Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 November 2007  – 818 2,684 3,502
Utilised during the year  – (175) – (175)
Charged/(released) to the income statement  – 645 (105) 540
At 2 December 2008  – 1,288 2,579 3,867
Utilised during the year  (6,974) (223) – (7,197)
Charged/(released) to the income statement  9,050 539 (307) 9,282
At 29 November 2009  2,076 1,604 2,272 5,952
    29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
Current/non-current analysis:    £’000 £’000
Current liabilities    3,063 332
Non-current liabilities    2,889 3,535
    5,952 3,867
Provisions are not discounted as the Group believes that the effect of the time value of money is immaterial and the 
amount of provisions measured at cost approximate to the present value of the expenditure required to settle the 
obligation. 
Corporate and divisional restructuring 
On 15 April 2009, the Company announced a number of changes relating to corporate and divisional restructuring. The 
total cost of this restructuring including redundancy, relocation and consolidation of business, is considered exceptional 
by virtue of its size. The Group has charged the restructuring cost incurred of £9.1m to the income statement in the 
current period. As at 29 November 2009, £2.1m remains as a provision relating to people exit and property rationalisation 
costs. This provision is expected to be utilised within 2 years.
Property 
Dilapidations — The Group is obliged to pay for dilapidations at the end of its tenancy of various properties. Provision has 
been made based on independent professional estimates of the likely costs based on current conditions and these have 
been spread over the relevant lease term. The liability is expected to crystallise as follows: 
    29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Within one year    683 332
One to five years    782 713
After five years    139 243
    1,604 1,288 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 81
17 Provisions for liabilities and charges (continued)
Other 
Other provisions principally include amounts in respect of liabilities resulting from indemnities given to Group clients in 
continental Europe arising in the normal course of business in respect of the employment status of contractors. 
The timing of settlement is uncertain but management expects that the provision will be utilised within the average 
statute of limitation period in the countries to which this exposure relates. Unutilised provisions in respect of earlier years 
where no further exposure remains have been released. 
18 Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
  European
 Excess tax contractor Share-based
 depreciation liabilities payments Other Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 2 December 2007 (361) 712 1,845 856 3,052
Credit/(charge) to income statement for the year 482 (11) 264 440 1,175
Prior year credit/(charge) to income statement  
for the year 250 (34) – – 216
Charge to equity for the year – – (1,297) – (1,297)
At 30 November 2008 371 667 812 1,296 3,146
Credit/(charge) to income statement for the year 601 (82) 394 2,915 3,828
Prior year (charge)/credit to income statement  
for the year (2,314) 33 – 202 (2,079)
Charge to equity for the year – – 620 – 620
At 29 November 2009 (1,342) 618 1,826 4,413 5,515
The Group believes that the deferred tax assets will be recoverable against projected taxable profits over the foreseeable 
future in the companies to which they relate. 
The Group has tax losses of £11.2m for the year (2008: £3.9m) in respect of overseas territories. A deferred tax asset in 
respect of these losses has been recognised on consolidation.
Unremitted earnings 
As at 29 November 2009, unremitted earnings of overseas Group companies amounted to £35.5m (2008: £32.3m). 
Following the introduction of the dividend exemption on 1 July 2009, the Group expects to benefit from this exemption 
on future remittances. However, unremitted earnings may still be liable to withholding tax if they were distributed as 
dividends. No such tax is expected to be payable as there are no plans to remit these earnings. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 82
18 Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (continued)
   Share-based 
   payments Other Total
Company   £’000 £’000 £’000
At 2 December 2007   655 610 1,265
Credit to income statement for the year   – (18) (18)
Credit to equity for the year   (693) – (693)
T ransferred to Group Companies   – (328) (328)
At 30 November 2008   (38) 264 226
Charge/(Credit) to income statement for the year   433 (264) 169
Charge/(Credit) to equity for the year   762 – 762
At 29 November 2009   1,157 – 1,157
19 Share Capital
(a) Share capital
   29 November  30 November 
   2009  2008
  Number of  Number of
Authorised  shares £’000 shares £’000
Ordinary shares of 1p each  300,000,000 3,000 300,000,000 3,000
   Capital
  Ordinary redemption Capital
  shares reserve reserve Total
Allotted and fully paid Number £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 2 December 2007 138,277,163 1,383 2 878 2,263
Repurchase of own shares (16,613,387) (166) 166 – –
Issue of share capital 63,000 1 – – 1
At 30 November 2008 121,726,776 1,218 168 878 2,264
Issue of share capital 29,500 – – – –
At 29 November 2009 121,756,276 1,218 168 878 2,264
Capital redemption reserve 
During the year ended 29 November 2009 the Group purchased nil (2008: 16,613,387) of its own shares for cancellation 
on the London Stock Exchange. The average price paid per share amounted to nil p (2008: 188.0994p) and the total 
consideration paid was £nil (2008: £31,249,681).  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 83
19 Share Capital (continued)
Share issue 
Share options that were granted in November 2000 were satisfied in the current period with a new issue of 29,500 (2008: 
59,000) ordinary shares. No (2008: 4,000) shares were also issued during the year in order to reimburse the EBT for 
shares used to settle share awards on behalf of the company.
(b) Share options 
Certain employees hold options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company under the share option schemes. 
The number of shares subject to options, the period in which they were granted and the period in which they may be 
exercised are given below. During this financial year, 88,265 (2008: 58,500) of these options were exercised of which 
29,000 were satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares and the remaining 59,265 were satisfied by the shares held in 
the EBT. 
  Number    Number
  of options    of options
  outstanding    outstanding Exercise
  3 December Granted Exercised Lapsed 30 November price Exercise
Year of grant Note 2007 in year in year in year 2008 per share period
2000 a 81,500 – 49,500 – 32,000 1p 2000-2010
*
2002 b 6,000 – 5,000 500 500 1p 2002-2012
*
2004 c 4,000 – 4,000 – – 1p 2004-2014
*
2007 d 469,859 – – 100,809 369,050 – 2007-2017
2008 e – 1,153,352 – 22,836 1,130,516 – 2008-2018
  561,359 1,153,352 58,500 124,145 1,532,066
  Number    Number
  of options    of options
  outstanding    outstanding Exercise
  1 December Granted Exercised Lapsed 29 November price Exercise
Year of grant Note 2008 in year in year in year 2009 per share period
2000 a 32,000 – 29,000 – 3,000 1p 2000-2010
*
2002 b 500 – – 500 – 1p 2002-2012
*
2004 c – – – – – 1p 2004-2014
*
2007 d 369,050 – 710 23,008 345,332 – 2007-2017
2008 e 1,130,516 – 22,053 69,368 1,039,095 – 2008-2018
2009 f – 1,689,438 36,502 27,353 1,625,583 – 2009-2019
  1,532,066 1,689,438 88,265 120,229 3,013,010
*
 Exercisable at IPO (15 November 2005), but granted in the disclosed years, prior to IPO.
Note 
a)   8,500 share options became exercisable on 15 November 2005, the remainder of these share options remain 
exercisable until 2010; 36,000 can be exercised from 16 November 2006 until 16 November 2010 and 37,000 can be 
exercised from 16 November 2007 until 16 November 2010. 
b)  All of these options became exercisable on 15 November 2005 and remain exercisable until 2012.
c)  All of these options became exercisable on 15 November 2005 and remain exercisable until 2014. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 84
19 Share Capital (continued)
(b) Share options (continued) 
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP) 
  In November 2006, shareholders approved a share-based L TIP . The main features of the L TIP are discussed in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
d)   The weighted average fair value of the equity-settled share awards granted in 2007 amounted to 226.64p per 
award. The fair value of the share awards was calculated using the Monte-Carlo simulation model. The Monte-Carlo 
simulation model reflected the historical volatilities of the Company’s share price and those other companies to which 
the Company’s performance is compared, over a period equal to the vesting period. The average share price on the 
date of grant was 402.0p, the vesting period in which performance of the TSR is assessed is 3 years. 
e)   The weighted average fair value of the equity-settled share awards granted during the year amounted to 117.42p per 
award. The average share price on the date of grant was 196.75p, the vesting period in which performance of the TSR is 
assessed is 3 years. 
f)  The weighted average fair value of the equity-settled share awards granted during 2009 amounted to 110.99p per 
award. The average share price on the date of grant was 170.0p, the vesting period in which performance of the TSR is 
assessed is 3 years.
Other employees share option schemes
   SAYE SIP Total
   £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 November 2008   – – –
Granted   59 58 117
At 29 November 2009   59 58 117
Save as you Earn (SAYE) 
The SAYE share option scheme was approved by the shareholders on 24 April 2009. The SAYE was implemented in order 
to promote share ownership amongst all UK employees of the Company, linking employee benefit to the performance of 
the Company, and to aid retention of staff. All UK employees and Executive Directors who have continuous service of more 
than six months, ending on the date of grant, or such shorter period as the Board may decide, with the Company, or any 
subsidiary in the Group nominated to join in the SAYE, are eligible to participate in the scheme. The Board has discretion 
to reduce the period of qualifying service and to invite other employees of the Group to participate. Under the SAYE, 
employees can save up to £250 per month for three or five years and receive options to purchase the Company’s shares at 
a discount of up to 20% on the market value. During 2009, 233 employees (30% of those eligible) applied to participate in 
the SAYE. Options awarded under SAYE scheme are not subject to any performance conditions. 
For the purpose of valuing options to arrive at the share-based payment charge, the Binomial option pricing model has 
been used for schemes with total shareholder return performance targets. The assumptions used in the models are as 
follows: 
Weighted average fair value (£) 61.24p
Key assumptions used:
Weighted average share price 198.00p
Exercise prices (£) 158.40p
Range of expected volatility 40%
Risk-free interest rate 4.75%
Range of expected option term (life) 3 years
Dividend yield 6.06% SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 85
19 Share Capital (continued)
(b) Share options (continued) 
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) 
The SIP was approved by shareholders on 24 April 2009. Under the SIP employees are invited to make contributions to 
buy Partnership Shares. If an employee agrees to buy Partnership Shares the company currently matches the number of 
Partnership Shares bought with an award of shares (Matching Shares), on a one-for-one basis. 
Assumptions on expected volatility and expected option term have been made on the basis of historical data, wherever 
available, for the period corresponding with the vesting period of the option. Best estimates have been used where 
historical data is not available in the respect. 
During the year, the Group recognised a cost of £0.06m (2008: £nil) related to equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions. The weighted average price paid for plan during the year was 253.80p. 
Employee benefit trusts (EBT) 
In addition to the share options set out above the Company has issued further share options and awards which will be 
satisfied by shares held by the Group’s EBT. The shares held by the EBT are shown as a deduction from shareholders’ 
funds. 
The EBT waive their rights to receive a dividend under the terms of the trusts. No other shareholder waives their rights to 
dividends. 
Ordinary shares  Number Number
2 December 2007   6,428,863
Movement in the year Director gift to the trust 37,200
 Forfeitable ordinary shares lapsed in year 31,250
 Shares issued to reimburse EBT for share awards settled 4,000
 Options/awards exercised (2,236,252) (2,163,802)
30 November 2008   4,265,061
Movement in the year Director gift to the trust 11,111
 L TIP options exercised (59,265)
 Options/awards exercised (1,965,919) (2,014,073)
29 November 2009     2,250,988
All shares held in the trust were gifted from Directors at nil cost to the EBT. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 86
19 Share Capital (continued)
(b) Share options (continued)
Employee benefit trusts (EBT) (continued)
Options granted and awards to be settled by shares held in the EBT are as follows:
  Number of    Number of    
  options/awards    options/awards    
  outstanding Granted/   outstanding  Exercise  
Year of  3 December awards Exercised Lapsed 30 November  price Exercise
grant/award Note 2007 in year in year in year 2008 per share period
2000 a 62,477 – 28,586 – 33,891 1p 2000-2010
*
2004 b 141,015 – 84,461 2,500 54,054 1p 2004-2014
*
2004 c 29,000 – 15,900 – 13,100 1p 2004-2014
*
2004 d 4,963,967 – 1,925,995 89,325 2,948,647 1p 2004-2014
*
2005 e – – – – – n/a 2005-2015
*
2005 f 32,587 – 1,500 1,087 30,000 £1 total 2005-2015
*
2007 g 37,200 – 37,200 – – – 2007-2017
2008 h – 226,700 142,610 – 84,090 – 2008-2018
  5,266,246 226,700 2,236,252 92,912 3,163,782
  Number of    Number of    
  options/awards    options/awards    
  outstanding Granted/   outstanding  Exercise  
Year of  1 December awards Exercised Lapsed 29 November  price Exercise
grant/award Note 2008 in year in year in year 2009 per share period
2000 a 33,891 – 33,891 – – 1p 2000-2010
*
2004 b 54,054 – 42,054 – 12,000 1p 2004-2014
*
2004 c 13,100 – 8,300 – 4,800 1p 2004-2014
*
2004 d 2,948,647 – 1,760,887 13,042 1,174,718 1p 2004-2014
*
2005 e – – – – – n/a 2005-2015
*
2005 f 30,000 – 28,300 – 1,700 £1 total 2005-2015
*
2007 g – – – – – – 2007-2017
2008 h 84,090 – 29,590 18,500 36,000 – 2008-2018
2009 i – 62,897 62,897 – – – 2009-2019
  3,163,782 62,897 1,965,919 31,542 1,229,218
*
 Providing certain conditions have been met at the time of exercise 
The weighted average market share price for shares exercised during the year was 203p (2008: 163p).  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 87
19 Share Capital (continued)
(b) Share options (continued) 
Employee benefit trusts (EBT) (continued) 
Approved executive share option scheme 
a)  Options over 4 million of the ordinary shares were granted by the Board to certain employees on 27 November 2000 
at an exercise price of 1p. These options are exercisable, under normal circumstances, within 10 years from the date of 
grant. The number outstanding at 29 November 2009 was nil (2008: 33,891). 
b)  On 28 May 2004 options over 650,720 ordinary shares were issued at an exercise price of 1p. These options replaced 
options that had lapsed in the previous grant of options in 2000. There are no performance conditions attached and 
the options are exercisable within 10 years from the date of grant. The number of options outstanding at 29 November 
2009 was 12,000 (2008: 54,054).
c)  On 3 December 2004 options over 49,600 ordinary shares were issued at an exercise price of 1p. These options 
replaced options that had lapsed in the previous grants of options in November 2000 and May 2004. There are no 
performance conditions attached and the share options are exercisable within 10 years from the date of grant. The 
number of options outstanding at 29 November 2009 was 4,800 (2008: 13,100). 
d)  Options over 5.25 million ordinary shares were granted by the Board to certain employees on 3 December 2004. These 
are exercisable within 10 years from the date of grant. These options are subject to a performance condition requiring 
that over a five year period a certain level of profits has to be achieved. If these performance targets are achieved in 
each of the relevant periods, a total of 1,050,000 options are available for allocation in each year following the target 
being achieved. The number of options outstanding at 29 November 2009 was 1,174,718 (2008: 2,948,647). 
Unapproved share option scheme 
e)   On 16 November 2005 the Zero Coupon Preference Shares held by the EBT were converted into 10,244,748 ordinary 
shares. The Board decided to award 5,006,128 of the resulting ordinary shares to employees, for no consideration. In 
accordance with IFRS 2 a charge was recognised in the income statement for the year ended 30 November 2005. The 
charge was calculated as the fair value of the awards granted, which amounted to £10,012,318. The Board expected 
to make an additional gift of shares from the EBT not earlier than nine months after flotation. This additional award 
of shares was made on 26 September 2006 and amounted to 4,729,783 ordinary shares, with a charge of £15,951,193 
being recognised in the income statement for the year ended 30 November 2006. The number of shares awarded but 
not yet accepted at 29 November 2009 was nil (2008: nil). No further awards have been made during this financial 
year and therefore no income statement charges have been recognised during this financial year. 
f)   At IPO (16 November 2005), the Board awarded 433,749 Ordinary Shares and issued 505,710 Share options to certain 
current and former employees who were considered to have contributed to the Group’s continued success. The Share 
options are exercisable immediately upon grant and expire 10 years from the date of grant. The number of options 
outstanding at 29 November 2009 was 1,700 (2008: 30,000). The Group recognised a charge in the income statement 
for the year ended 30 November 2005, in accordance with IFRS 2, amounting to £1,878,918, representing the fair value 
of the options awarded at the date of grant. There have been no awards in the current year. 
g)   On 16 September 2007 the Directors made share awards over 37,200 ordinary shares to certain current employees 
who were considered to have contributed to the Group’s continued success. The share awards vest immediately. 
There are nil share awards outstanding at the year end (2008: nil). 
h)   On 15 October 2008 the Directors made share awards over 226 700 ordinary shares to certain current employees who 
were considered to have contributed to the Group’s continued success. The share awards vest either immediately or 
after two years. The Group recognised a charge in accordance with IFRS 2 amounting to £nil (2008: £215,278). For the 
calculation of the charge the fair value of these share awards is based on the mid-price on the day that the award was 
granted to the employees. The number outstanding at the year end was 36,000 (2008: 84,090).  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 88
19 Share Capital (continued)
i)   On 9 April 2009, the Directors made share awards of 62,897 ordinary shares to certain employees who were 
considered to have contributed to the Group’s continued success. The share awards vest immediately. The Group 
recognise a charge in accordance with IFRS 2 amounting to £143,000 (2008: £nil). For the calculation of the 
charge the fair value of these share awards is based on the mid-price on the day that the award was granted to the 
employees. All the above shares were exercised in the current period. 
(c) Share awards in subsidiary companies
As described in the Directors’ report the Group makes awards of shares in subsidiary businesses to certain entrepreneurial 
employees who will participate in the development of those businesses.
These awards generally have the following characteristics:
–  an employee receives an award of a ‘’tracker share’’ in a subsidiary business. This share gives the employee certain 
rights to income and capital growth of a ‘’tracked’’ business;
–  the employee must subscribe for his award of tracker shares at fair value, as determined by an independent third party 
share valuer and taking into account the particular rights attached to the shares described in the relevant businesses’ 
Articles of Association; 
–  if the employee remains in employment with the Group for a pre-agreed period, not less than three years, he may 
then offer his tracker shares for sale to SThree plc. Should SThree plc decide to buy back the tracker shares, it will do 
so at a price based on a multiple of the tracker shares’ fair value at that date and SThree plc may choose to settle this 
transaction in cash or in SThree plc shares, as it chooses. 
During the prior year, the following awards have been made under the tracker share arrangements: 
 Number of awards   Number of awards
 outstanding Number of awards Number of awards outstanding
 3 December created during the bought back 30 November
 2007 year during the year 2008
T racker share awards made – 2008 – 941 – 941
 Number of awards   Number of awards
 outstanding Number of awards Number of awards outstanding
 30 November created during the bought back 29 November
 2008 year during the year 2009
T racker share awards made – 2009 941 619 94 1,466
The fair value of the tracker share awards made during the period is nil, as employees must subscribe for the awards at 
fair value. The total net subscription proceeds received for 2009 tracker share awards was £192,000 (2008: £127,000), 
with proceeds in respect of individual awards ranging from £337.00 to £17,452.74 (2008: £253.33 to £17,634.67). The Group 
also bought back 94 tracker shares during the year for a total consideration of £10,000 
The subscription price of the tracker share awards is determined by an independent valuer, taking into account the 
expected performance of each tracked business and the likelihood of ultimate buy-back by SThree plc.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 89
20 Results of holding company
Of the results for the financial year, a retained profit of £28.7m (2008: retained loss of £9.6m) was recorded. The Directors 
have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and do not present an 
income statement for the Company alone.
21 Commitments
Group
Operating leases
At the balance sheet date the Group had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as set out below:
    Motor vehicles  Land and buildings
  29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
T otal minimum operating lease payments due:
Within one year  1,244 1,948 11,459 11,368
One to five years  400 1,582 35,191 34,606
After 5 years  – – 13,083 15,902
  1,644 3,530 59,733 61,876
Capital commitments 
The Group had contractual commitments of £0.5m (2008: £0.4m) relating to property, plant and equipment at the balance 
sheet date. 
VAT group registration 
As a result of the group registration for VAT purposes, the Company is contingently liable for VAT liabilities arising in other  
companies within the VAT group. The total VAT liability as at 29 November 2009 amounted to £1.8m (2008: £4.2m). 
Guarantees 
The Group issued bank guarantees for commitments which amounted to £2.1m (2008: £1.9m). 
Company 
The Company held no outstanding lease or capital commitments at the year end (2008: nil).  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 90
22 Cash and cash equivalents
 Group Company
    29 November 30 November 29 November 30 November
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash in hand and at bank  45,272 24,584 150  –
Bank overdraft   –  –  – (1,167)
  45,272 24,584 150 (1,167)
Due to the Group pooling arrangement, an overdraft amount of £nil (2008: £1.2m) in SThree plc is netted out against cash 
balance in Group companies. 
Included within cash and cash equivalents is £0.4m (2008: £nil) against which the Group has issued cash collaterised 
bank guarantees. This amount is not immediately available for use in the business. 
23 Related party transactions
Group 
The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (note 11), with its Directors and with members of the 
Executive Board. Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below. 
Key management personnel 
The key management under IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosure’ is defined as those persons who have authority and 
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the entity’s activities, directly or indirectly. The Group’s key 
management comprises of the Executive Directors, Executive Committee and other key managers who are deemed to 
influence the day to day activities. Details of Directors’ remuneration are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The 
remuneration of the Directors is determined by the SThree plc Remuneration Committee in accordance with its stated 
policy. T otal remuneration for members of key management is detailed below. 
    29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Salaries and other short-term benefits    3,005 3,471
Fair value of share awards granted    810 455
Post-employment benefits    156 78
T ermination benefits    448 438
    4,419 4,442
The above figure includes £259,000 which have been recognised in the corporate and divisional restructuring exceptional 
items. SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 91
23 Related party transactions (continued)
Company 
The Company has related party relationships with its subsidiaries (note 11), and with members of the Executive Board. 
The Directors receive remuneration from the Company, which is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The 
Company did not have any transactions other than those disclosed in the Remuneration Report with the Directors during 
the financial year. Details of transactions between the Company and other related parties are disclosed below. 
    29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Loans and advances given to and dividends received from subsidiaries
Loans and advances given to subsidiaries    11,340 57,740
Loans and advances given to directors    305  –
Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans and advances   162 666
Dividend income received    25,745 197
Loans and advances received from subsidiaries
Loans and advances received     –  –
Interest expense paid in respect of interest bearing loans and advances   1,674 6,435
Year end balances arising from transactions with subsidiaries
    29 November 30 November
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Amounts payable to subsidiary companies    52,451 63,791
24 Subsequent events
The Group does not have any post balance sheet events that require disclosure as at 29 January 2010.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 92
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors
Financial risk factors 
The Group reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of Sterling profits. The role of Corporate T reasury is to manage 
and monitor external and internal funding requirements and financial risks in support of corporate objectives. T reasury 
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors, most recently on 27 November 
2009. T reasury management chaired by our Chief Financial Officer meets on a monthly basis to review treasury activities. 
Its members receive management information relating to treasury activities. Our internal auditors regularly review the 
T reasury internal control environment. 
In previous years, the Group treasury entered into few derivative transactions, principally currency swaps and forward 
currency contracts with the purpose to manage the currency risks arising from operations and financing. During 2008, a 
series of equal and opposite derivative positions were taken to reduce the Group’s total exposure to derivatives to nil. All 
above derivate transactions were closed during the year with minimal impact on income statement. The Board undertook 
review of its currency hedging strategy to ensure it is appropriate and currently does not actively manage its exposure 
to foreign exchange risk by the use of financial instruments. The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes and our T reasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All transactions in 
financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities, not for speculation. 
The treasury function is managed as a cost centre and thus not engaged in speculative trading.
The Group has nil (2008: 46) derivative financial instruments open at the year end. 
The Group is exposed to a number of different financial risks including foreign currency exchange rates, liquidity, interest 
rates, and credit risk. The Group’s objective and strategy in responding to these risks is set out below. 
(a) Capital risk management
  The group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the group’s ability to continue as a going concern in 
order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure 
to reduce the cost of capital.
  In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, 
return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
  Consistent with others in the industry, the group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calcu-
lated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including ‘current and non-current 
borrowings’ as shown in the consolidated balance sheet) less cash and cash equivalents. T otal capital is calculated as 
‘equity’ as shown in the consolidated balance sheet plus net debt.
(b) Foreign currency exchange risk
  The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in Sterling and conducts business in a number of other 
currencies, principally the Euro. Consequently the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk due to exchange rate 
movements which affect the Group‘s transactional revenues, cost of sales, the translation of the earnings and net 
assets of its overseas operations. 
  The Group is also exposed to foreign currency exchange risk from the value of net investments outside the United 
Kingdom. The settlement of intercompany balances held with foreign operations is neither planned nor likely to occur 
in the foreseeable future. Therefore, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investments are 
taken into equity. 
  The Group’s businesses generally raise invoices and incur expenses in their local currencies. Local currency cash 
generated is remitted via intercompany transfers to the United Kingdom. The Group generally converts foreign 
currency balances into Sterling to manage its cash flows. 
  The anticipated impact on the Group‘s results if the Euro strengthened against Sterling by a movement of more than 
10% in terms of transactional exposure amounts to an increase in profit before tax by £3.1m (2008: £3.1m). If the Euro 
weakened against Sterling by more than 10% this would result in a decrease in profit before tax of £3.1m (2008 £3.1m). 
The effect to Equity would result in a movement of £3.3m.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 93
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(b) Foreign currency exchange risk (continued)
The table below provides exchange rates used by the Group for translation of the earnings and net assets of its overseas 
operations.
    Weighted average rate   Closing rate
  2009 2008 2009 2008
Euro  0.8977 0.7755 0.9087 0.8268
US dollar  0.6530 0.5198 0.6061 0.6518
Hong Kong dollar  0.0843 0.0667 0.0782 0.0841
Australian dollar  0.4924 0.4561 0.5496 0.4265
Singapore dollar  0.4448 0.3690 0.4368 0.4306
(c) Liquidity risk
  The Group actively maintains committed facilities to enable it to finance its day-to-day operations, based on cash flow 
projections. The Group invests surplus cash in floating rate interest-earning deposit accounts with UK and European 
banks (note 17). 
  The Group’s treasury function centrally co-ordinates relationships with banks, borrowing requirements, foreign 
exchange requirements and cash management. The Group believes it has access to sufficient funding through an 
invoice financing arrangement that provides a committed borrowing facility of £20m. 
  The table below shows the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on the contractual amounts 
payable on the date of repayment: 
 Trade and other payables Financial liabilities
 Group Company Group Company
At 29 November 2009  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year  (76,056) (53,194) –  –
At 30 November 2008
Within one year  (81,246) (66,376)  – (1,167) SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 94
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(d) Interest rate risk
  The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash 
flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally financial liabilities. The Group finances its operations 
through a mixture of retained profit, the invoice discounting facility and, when required, bank overdrafts. 
  The Group does not hedge the exposure to variations in interest rates presented by the above instruments. 
  Based on the composition of the net debt as at 29 November 2009, and taking into consideration all variable rate 
borrowings and cash in place if the interest rate payable or receivable moved by a 100 basis points in either direction 
then the effect to the Group would be minimal. 
  Profit is more sensitive to interest rate decrease than increase because of borrowing with uncapped interest rates. 
The sensitivity is lower in 2009 than in 2008 because of reduction in outstanding borrowings that has occurred as the 
entity’s debt has matured. 
(e) Credit Risk
  In the normal course of business, the Group participates in cash pooling arrangements with its counterparty bank. The 
maximum exposure with a single bank for deposits is £45.2m (2008: £24.4m). 
  T rade and other receivables of the Group are analysed in the table below. With respect to the trade and other 
receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors 
will not meet their payment obligations. 
  The Group mitigates its credit risk by using a credit rating agency to assess new clients and payment history to assess 
further credit extensions to existing clients. In addition, the spread of SME client base (circa 7,000 clients) helps to 
mitigate the risk of individual client failure having a material impact on the Group. 
  The Group does not typically renegotiate the terms of trade receivables, hence the outstanding balance is included 
in the analysis based on the original payment terms. There were no significant renegotiated balances outstanding at 
year end. 
  Group  Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
Trade and other receivables  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Neither impaired nor past due  70,417 105,288 2,536 2,374
Impaired (net of valuation allowance)  392 3,600  –  –
Not impaired and past due in the following periods
within 30 days  17,599 21,647  –  –
31 to 60 days  3,894 7,163  –  –
61 to 90 days  927 2,239  –  –
over 90 days   –  –  –  –
Total  93,229 139,937 2,536 2,374 SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 95
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(f) Interest rate profile of financial assets and liabilities
  The following tables set out the exposure of financial assets and liabilities to either fixed interest rates, floating interest 
rates or no interest rates. The maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities exposed to interest rate risk in the table 
below indicates the contractual repricing and maturity dates of these interest rates.
 Financial Assets
 Group Company
  Cash Held-to- Cash 
  and cash  maturity and cash  
  equivalents investments equivalents Investments
At 29 November 2009  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Less than one year  45,272 3,203 150 –
Total interest-bearing  45,272 3,203 150 –
Analysed as:
Floating rate  45,272 – 150 –
Fixed rate  – 3,203 – –
T otal interest-bearing  45,272 3,203 150 –
Non-interest-bearing  – – – 238,543
  45,272 3,203 150 238,543
At 30 November 2008
Less than one year  24,584 – – –
Total interest-bearing  24,584 – – –
Analysed as:
Floating rate  24,584 – – –
T otal interest-bearing  24,584 – – –
Non-interest-bearing  – – – 237,117
  24,584 – – 237,117
(g) Price risk
  As part of the presentation of the market risk, IFRS 7 requires disclosure on how hypothetical changes in risk affect the 
price of financial instruments. Important risk variables are stock exchange prices or indices. As of 29 November 2009, 
the entity did not hold any material investments to be classified as ‘available for sale’ or as ‘held for trading’. Therefore 
there are no financial instruments which would be materially impacted by risk variables affecting the price of financial 
instruments.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 96
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(h) Currency profile of financial assets/(liabilities)
 Net foreign currency monetary assets
    Other
 Sterling Euro US Dollars Currencies Total
At 29 November 2009 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling  – 9,865 518 1,063 11,446
Euro 10  –  –  – 10
Other  –  – 248  – 248
Total 10 9,865 766 1,063 11,704
At 30 November 2008
Sterling  – 6,225 624 802 7,651
Euro 56  –  –  – 56
Other  –  –  –  –  –
Total 56 6,225 624 802 7,707
  The Company does not have any exposure to other currencies other than its functional currency of sterling. 
  Other foreign currencies held by the Group include the following: Swiss Francs, United Arab Emirates Dirhams, 
Australian Dollars, Hong Kong Dollars, Singapore Dollars, Swedish Kronor, Bahrain Dinars, Kuwait Dinars, Qatar Riyals 
and Saudi Arabia Riyals.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 97
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(h) Currency profile of financial assets/(liabilities) (continued)
  Financial derivatives
 Group and Company 
  The table below sets out the net principal amount and fair value of derivative contracts held by the Group and the 
Company.
 Notional amounts of the 
 derivative instrument Fair value
Currency and interest related instruments:
   Assets Liabilities Net (gain)/loss
At 30 November 2009  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Foreign currency swaps   –  –  –  –
Other foreign exchange derivative instruments   –  –  –  –
T otal financial derivatives   –  –  –  –
At 29 November 2008
Foreign currency swaps   –  –  –  –
Other foreign exchange derivative instruments  24,567  –  –  –
T otal financial derivatives  24,567  –  –  –
  In previous years the Group entered into a variety of complex derivative transactions with notional values of £33.0m. 
These included foreign currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts with extension options and forward 
foreign exchange contracts with options based on foreign exchange rate movements. Although these were not 
designated as hedges under the definitions as set out by IAS 39, they acted as economic hedges of the Group’s foreign 
currency exposures and were accounted for at fair value through the income statement. 
  On 1st February 2008, the Group closed out these positions early, crystallising a £2.0m exceptional charge. T o 
close out these positions, exactly equal and opposite transactions were entered into, the last of which matured on 
28 September 2009. These resulted in a notional value of £24.6m. These transactions were settled.  SThree plc
Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 29 November 2009
SThree plc 5 98
25 Financial instruments and financial risk factors (continued)
(i)  Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
  The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities are equal to their fair values. 
  Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between 
informed and willing parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale, and excludes accrued interest. 
  Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values. Where market values are not available, fair 
values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end 
exchange rates. A summary of the assumptions used for each category of financial instrument is set out below. 
Summary of methods and assumptions
Short-term deposits and borrowings  Approximates to the carrying amount because of the short 
maturity of these instruments.
Cash and cash equivalents Approximates to the carrying amount.
Receivables and payables  Approximates to the carrying amount for current balances; 
there are no material longer term balances.
Financial instruments Market valuations at the balance sheet date. SThree plc 5 99
SThree plc
Five Year Financial Summary
 29 November 30 November 2 December 30 November 30 November
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Turnover
Geographic analysis
– by location of client
United Kingdom 271.3 386.9 369.7 295.7 243.6
Europe and Rest of World 248.1 244.6 153.0 97.6 71.5
 519.4 631.5 522.7 393.3 315.1
– by location of operating company
United Kingdom 382.0 486.9 479.5 372.6 299.0
Europe and Rest of World 137.4 144.6 43.2 20.7 16.1
 519.4 631.5 522.7 393.3 315.1
Gross profit
Geographic analysis
– by location of client
United Kingdom 76.9 121.6 123.3 98.9 79.5
Europe and Rest of World 94.3 97.3 59.4 36.6 25.0
 171.2 218.9 182.7 135.5 104.5
– by location of operating company
United Kingdom 103.7 145.0 147.5 118.6 92.2
Europe and Rest of World 67.5 73.9 35.2 16.9 12.3
 171.2 218.9 182.7 135.5 104.5
Operating profit
Before exceptional items 18.0 56.8 52.3 41.0 29.5
Other key performance indicators
 numbers numbers numbers numbers numbers
Average headcount 1,863 2,157 1,786 1,288 1,037
Permanent placements in financial year 6,060 10,236 9,568 7,685 6,023
Active contractors at year end 4,157 5,745 5,662 4,719 4,365
 £ £ £ £ £
Average placement fee — permanent 11,930 10,355 9,780 8,563 7,972
Average gross profit per day — contractors 84.69 78.30 71.42 64.90 58.40 SThree plc 5 100
SThree plc
Notes Shareholder Information
Shareholder Enquiries and Electronic 
Communications – www.capitashareportal.com
Shareholders with enquiries relating to their shareholding 
should contact Capita Registrars. Alternatively, you may 
access your account via www.capitashareportal.com, but will 
need to have your shareholder reference available when you 
first log in, which may be found on your dividend voucher, 
share certificate or form of proxy. The online facility also allows 
shareholders to view their holding details, find out how to 
register a change of name or what to do if a share certificate 
is lost, as well as download forms in respect of changes of 
address, dividend mandates and share transfers.
Shareholders who would prefer to view documentation 
electronically can elect to receive automatic notification by 
e-mail each time the Company distributes documents, instead 
of receiving a paper version of such documents, by registering 
a request via the registrar by calling 0871 664 0391 (from UK 
– calls cost 10p per min plus network extras; lines are open 
8.30am – 5.30pm Mon to Fri) or + 44 208 639 3367 (Non UK) or 
register online at:
www.capitashareportal.
There is no fee for using this service and you will automatically 
receive confirmation that a request has been registered. 
Should you wish to change your mind or request a paper 
version of any document in the future, you may do so by 
contacting the registrar.
Potential targeting of shareholders
Companies have become aware that their shareholders have 
received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning 
investment matters. These are typically from overseas based 
brokers’ who target UK shareholders offering to sell them 
what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US 
or UK investments. They can be very persistent and extremely 
persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) has reported that the average amount lost by 
investors is around £20,000. It is not just the novice investor 
that has been duped in this way; many of the victims had been 
successfully investing for several years. Shareholders are 
advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy 
shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
Make sure you get the correct name of the person and • 
organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA  • 
before getting involved. You can check at  
www.fsa.gov.uk/register
The FSA also maintains on its website a list of • 
unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or 
have targeted, UK investors and any approach from 
such organisations should be reported to the FSA 
so that this list can be kept up to date and any other 
appropriate action can be considered. If you deal with an 
unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive 
payment under the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an 
online form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/
law/alerts/overseas.shtml
Inform the Registrar as shown above. • 
Details of share dealing facilities that the Company endorses 
will only be included in publications issued by the Company. 
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be 
found on the FSA website www.fsa.gov.uk/consumer/
ADR information
For US investors, the Company has set up a Level One ADR 
facility, under the ticker symbol ‘SERTY’. BNY Mellon act as 
both ADR depositary bank & registrar for this facility. For 
further information, please visit BNY Mellon’s website at www.
adrbnymellon.com and search for the SThree profile page. 
Holders can also access details using the following:
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
P .O. Box 358016
Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8016
Customer service T el: 1 800 522-6645 (from outside the U.S. 
001 201 680-6578)
mailto:shrrelations@mellon.com
For the issuance of ADRs please contact:
Jason Paltrowitz 
T el: +1 212 815 2077 
Fax: +1 212 571 3050 
E-mail: jpaltrowitz@bankofny.com
Websites: http://www.adrbnymellon.com
Share price information
Information on the Company’s share price can be found on 
www.sthree.com, or via the FT Cityline Service, telephone 
0906 003 0000 (code 3912). Calls cost 60p per minute from a 
BT landline and charges from other telephone networks may 
vary.
Share dealing service
Capita Share Dealing Services provide a telephone and online 
share dealing service for UK and EEA resident shareholders. T o 
use this service, shareholders should contact Capita, telephone 
0871 664 0454 – lines are open Mon to Fri 8.00am – 4.30pm UK 
time (calls cost 10p per min plus network extras). Alternatively 
log on to www.capitadeal.com.
(Capita Share Dealing Services is a trading name of Capita IRG 
T rustees Limited which is authorised and regulated by the FSA)
Dividend Re-investment Plan (DRIP)  
(non sponsored)
For any shareholders who wish to re-invest dividend 
payments in additional shares of the Company, a facility is 
provided by Capita IRG T rustees Ltd in conjunction with Capita 
Registrars. Under this facility, accrued dividends are used 
to purchase additional shares. Any shareholder requiring 
further information should contact Capita on (UK) 0871 664 
0381* or (Non-UK) +44 208 639 3402 or e-mail: shares@
capitaregistrars.com.
* Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 
8.30am – 5.30pm Mon to Fri
ShareGift
ShareGift (registered charity no. 1052686) operates a charity 
share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of 
shares whose value may make it uneconomic to sell. Details of 
the scheme are available from:
ShareGift at www.sharegift.org
T elephone 0207 930 3737
Financial Calendar 2009/10
Financial year-end – 29 November 2009
Results announced – 1 February 2010
Ex-div date for dividend – 24 February 2010
Record date for dividend – 26 February 2010
Dividend paid – 31 March 2010
Annual General Meeting – 23 April 2010
Half-year period end – 30 May 2010
Interim results announced – 19 July 2010
Interim dividend payable – early December 2010 SThree plc   Report & Accounts 2009
