 Stobart Group Limited
Isabelle Chambers, Route Isabelle, St Peter Port
Guernsey, Channel Islands  GY1 3TX.
www.stobartgroup.com
Registered in Guernsey, registered number 39117.
Printed on environmentally friendly paper. ©2010 Stobart Group. Designed and produced by Carne Whitney 01228 596 895. Photography David Mulholland 07770 676766.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Introduction Business Review Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Introduction
Chairman’s Statement                                                     2
Business Highlights 2009-2010                                       3
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement                              11
Business Review
Stobart Group Operations                                             17
Corporate Responsibility                                                29
Financial Review
Business Performance                                                   31
Risk Management                                                          37
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Profiles                                                           38
Directors’ Report                                                            40
Corporate Governance Report                                      43
Directors’ Remuneration Report                                    46
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report                                       50
Consolidated Income Statement                                   51
Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position                                                       53
Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity                                                          55
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement                              56
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements                               57
Independent Auditor’s Report                                       90
Company Financial Statements                                    91
1        Stobart Group Limited
3.9%
Revenue Growth
42.5%
EAFFC Growth
a
59.7%
PBT Growth
b
43.1%
EPS Growth
c
a Comprising underlying operating profit of £35.0m (2009: £31.4m) and net disposal profit on
Widnes assets of £8.2m less fleet financing costs of £3.4m (2009: £3.2m) and share based
payments of £0.7m (2009: £0.7m).
b Normalised PBT is before restructuring costs of £2,7m and includes net disposal profit
on Widnes assets of £8.2m.
c EPS is based on a PBT of £36.8m with a normalised tax charge of 28%. EPS excluding the
net disposal profit on Widnes assets is 8.6p.
d Reflects five months of trading for Eddie Stobart Division.
2010 2009 2008
d
£m £m £m
Revenue 447.7 431.1 101.8
Earnings After Fleet Financing Costs 39.1 27.5 5.4
Profit Before T ax (continuing) 36.8 23.1 3.5
Earnings Per Share (continuing) 11.0p 7.7p 2.1p Chairman’s Statement
Rodney Baker-Bates, Group Chairman
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010     2
Performance
We have achieved significant contract wins in the past financial
year, particularly a major new win with Unilever. We have
improved our margins by delivering synergies, through tight cost
control and by driving further efficiencies in our core trucking
business. We are utilising our assets better, as is demonstrated
by the development programme at the Widnes inland port and
similar schemes will follow.
This past year has also seen an improvement in the funding of the
business. We have repaid facilities due within 12 months and
improved the asset and liability matching within the balance sheet. 
Other highlights include the completed successful integration of
recently acquired businesses such as James Irlam and Innovate
(renamed Eddie Stobart Chilled). These integrations have seen
significant synergies and efficiency savings, which should yield
further benefits going forward.
Dividend
The Group maintains a progressive dividend policy, which takes
into account underlying growth in Group earnings, capital require-
ments and cash flows, while maintaining an appropriate level of
dividend cover.
An interim dividend of 2p was paid in December 2009. The Board
is proposing a final dividend of 4p per ordinary share, bringing the
total dividend for the year to 6p (2009:6p). The final dividend will be
paid to shareholders on 21 June 2010.
People
On 1 July 2009, Jesper Kjaedegaard and Daniel Dayan were
appointed as Non-Executive Directors, replacing Richard Burrell
and Nigel Rawlings, who guided the Group through the transition
from The Westbury Property Fund to the Stobart Group. We are
grateful for their input.
Jesper and Daniel have the skills and experience to help guide the
Group through this exciting time in its growth and development.
Jesper brings a wealth of experience in multimodal logistics, espe-
cially in ports and shipping. Daniel has solid operational experience
that gives him a strong customer perspective.
Outlook
The economic climate is still tough as Andrew Tinkler’s statement
makes clear. However the Board remains convinced that the Group
has the market strategy, systems and people in place to prosper. We
are very positive about the continued future growth potential across
all the Divisions. 
We approach 2010/11 in a buoyant mood, forecasting better mar-
gins, further cost management opportunities, additional turnover
from new contracts and substantial further progress in some of our
recent acquisitions, such as London Southend Airport. Asset devel-
opment opportunities will continue to bring good project returns,
whilst at the same time strengthening our core transport and ware-
house businesses.  
Rodney Baker-Bates Non-Executive Chairman
On behalf of the Board, I am
pleased to report on a period
of both good progress and
consolidation within the
Group. The Group has
strengthened all aspects of
the business, despite the
tough trading year. 3        Stobart Group Limited
Introduction
Eddie Stobart, Business Highlights 2009-2010
Success with blue-chip business
The award of the new Unilever contract is yet another example
of how Stobart Group is growing through its ability to win major
contracts from headline brands.
It’s been another strong year for new business at the Stobart
Group. There have been important wins with both small and large
clients, notably a new contract with Unilever.
“One reason why Unilever were attracted to Stobart is due to our
highly efficient ‘pooling of customers’, which delivers substantial
cost savings over the traditional revenue driven ‘Open Book’
model” said William Stobart. “Another reason is Stobart’s multi-
modal service, offering road, rail, sea and air. They recognised
that the Stobart Group’s cutting edge technology and operating
systems are superior to any rival.
Executive Director David Irlam’s long
experience in high level negotiations
has been invaluable in consolidating
and expanding existing key client
relationships and securing valuable
new contracts with blue-chip names
like Johnson & Johnson.
Left: Stobart’s Johnson & Johnson Contract Manager Peter Kelly with 
Executive Director David Irlam on the right.                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010     4
Like them, we also have a carbon cutting agenda and this environ-
mental innovation appealed to Unilever. They also liked the Stobart
culture. It is different from competitors. We can offer the financial
security of a FTSE 250 company with an underlying ‘family busi-
ness’ attitude.”
Eddie Stobart’s key relationship with T esco plc has been further
consolidated with a major new £25m per annum transport contract
serving the retail giant’s north east Distribution Centre at T eesport.
Stobart Ireland continues to show significant growth with the award
of a €13m transport contract for T esco’s Donabate DC.
Warehousing continues to perform impressively with new contracts
awarded by Danone (£4m per annum) and SCA Packaging (£2m
per annum). The integration of the Chilled operation has also been
reflected in new business with Dale Farm, Del Monte and Co-Op,
totalling £7m per annum. Arla Foods is now one of Chilled’s largest
customers generating around £3m revenue per annum.
New contracts have been matched with extensive renewals across
the Eddie Stobart transport and warehousing operation. The
Group’s relationships with leading names, Gerber, Knauf, McBride plc
and Forest Garden have all been renewed and extended.
Finally, and significantly, a new nine year contract with Stobart’s
longest-standing client, Crown has been agreed. Building on a 40
year relationship, it takes advantage of the new development now
underway at Carlisle airport. This just-in-time transport and ware-
housing contract will generate revenue over the contract totalling
circa £150m.
The Unilever contract is
worth circa £20m annually
and is a major bonus to the
Group. As a client, Unilever is
particularly attractive because
many of its headline products
sell irrespective of recession 
or season. Stobart Rail, Business Highlights 2009-2010
5        Stobart Group Limited
Introduction The innovative new Valencia ‘fresh’ rail service, which was
launched in September 2009, is likely to increase from one to
three services per week during 2010.
National and International 
Rail Freight solutions
Stobart Rail began its innovative ‘fresh’ train service from Valencia
in southern Spain to Barking in London last October. The weekly
service provides for the first time a low-carbon alternative for
retailers and customers for the import of fresh Spanish produce. 
The pioneering Spanish train is the longest train route provided
by a single European operator at 1,100 miles. The new train
also marks the first time a refrigerated service has operated
through the Eurotunnel. 
It is also faster than an equivalent journey by road, improving the
‘shelf life’ of the products – mostly fruit and vegetables. The service
is also considerably more environmentally friendly than a similar
road service; reducing CO2 emissions annually by 5,502 tonnes
and cutting 6.92 million kilometres of road journeys per year.  
In line with Stobart’s ongoing drive to reduce waste throughout
the business the return journey is full of pallets, cutting out
empty running.
“Plans are well advanced for the extension of the route from
Barking on to Stobart’s multimodal hub at Widnes, where there
is an extensive chilled warehouse distribution facility,” said Sto-
bart Group Chief Operating Officer William Stobart. “Widnes is
an ideal hub for distribution into the heartland of the UK.”
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010     6 Stobart’s Inland Port
was developed by
the Group’s in-house
team, generating new
operating revenue
streams and then two
parts were sold at a
significant profit.
Inland Port Asset
Development and Disposal
Across its four Divisions the Group performs operational services for customers and
during this past year has seen the first results of a profitable new complementary
business stream for the Stobart Group: Asset development and disposal.
Existing underutilised assets such as the port facilities – or new assets in convenient
locations near major roads, ports or airports – will be developed generating operational
profit streams and then potentially disposed at a capital profit. 
Prior to year end, the Group sold part of its inland ports asset, at Widnes, to Legal and
General Assurance (Pension Management) Limited, for £61 million. The disposal pack-
age included the outright sale of the new T esco chilled distribution site and the sale
and leaseback of the adjoining inland port terminal. This represented an initial return on
investment of 19.6 percent. 
A key part of the sale was the 528,000 square foot distribution centre developed by the
Group and recently announced as the new Northern Distribution Centre for T esco’s
’fresh’ operations. The Group has also been confirmed as transport contractor. Further-
more, the Group will generate additional revenue streams from rail freight and ports
storage and handling. The centre is superbly placed, alongside a major inland port,
good road network, a rail terminal and Liverpool Airport. Stobart’s existing Valencia
‘fresh’ rail service will soon be extended to the Widnes site, allowing fresh fruit and veg-
etables to be delivered, for T esco, directly from southern Spain. When Stobart fully
develops the Widnes site, it will double in size, and will increase the company’s total
warehousing capacity to nearly seven million square feet.
“This asset disposal illustrates a fundamental strategy of our Group which is to invest in
assets in order to develop existing and new customer relationships and then realise the
value of the asset, at a profit, to reinvest elsewhere within the business,” said Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Tinkler.
Stobart Ports, Business Highlights 2009-2010
7        Stobart Group Limited
Introduction 90 Acres Approved 
for Development
Currently under 
negotiation with a
number of clients. 
42 Acres Already
Developed
31 Acres Already
Developed
    
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010     8 Airport development on-target
With planning permission granted for the new runway extension
at Southend and development work well underway, the nearby
London Olympics will ensure there’s huge potential for the site.
Stobart’s Air Division has made huge progress in the past year,
thanks mostly to developments at London Southend Airport. The
long established airport, once the third busiest in the UK, was
acquired by the Stobart Group in December 2008. 
Stobart plans to greatly increase capacity, and will work with existing
and new operators to boost both passengers and freight. The goal
is to welcome at least 600,000 passengers to Southend by 2012,
the year of the London Olympics, rising to two million by 2020.
Stobart Air, Business Highlights 2009-2010
With planning permission now
granted for the important runway
extension at London Southend 
Airport, construction of the new Control
T ower is moving ahead fast, whilst the
dedicated Rail Station is rapidly ap-
proaching completion by Stobart Rail.
9        Stobart Group Limited
Introduction
Dedicated Rail Station 
and Carpark
Under Construction
Site of New T erminal
Dubai Ports’ new Shell Haven 
deep sea port development
New Control T ower 
Under Construction
Recently Approved
Runway Extension
Dover
  
    Government approval for the runway exten-
sion forms a key stage in Stobart’s £30 million
development plans, with work already under-
way on a new railway station and control
tower which will be completed during 2010. 
Southend is closer to mainland Europe than
any other London airport reducing flying time
by 20 minutes. The airspace over Southend
is less congested than other London facili-
ties, reducing the likelihood of delay and
improving passenger flow.
London Southend Airport
> Prestigious dedicated railway station will be completed September 2010, providing
a quick route into Central London for local people, as well as airport customers.
> New Control T ower will be completed November 2010.
> New Passenger T erminal will be completed September 2011.
> Existing 1,605m x 37m runway approved for extension to 1,905m, giving a take off
distance of 1,799m.
> Runway Extension will be completed by October 2011.
> The extended runway will easily handle popular 160 seat, short haul aircraft such
as the Airbus A319 and Boeing 737.
> Commercial operations should serve two million passengers each year by 2020.
    
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010   10
M25
  
   
  
  Stratford 42min
Rail to London
Liverpool
Street 49min  
City of London and
Millennium Dome
Airport industrial complex 
and development land
Fuel Farm Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Andrew Tinkler, Chief Executive Officer
11     Stobart Group Limited
Vision
Our vision is clear: to be the UK’s leading provider of multimodal
transport and logistics solutions. T o do so, we need to expand all
forms of transport, especially rail, sea and air. We need infrastruc-
tures in the best places to service the maximum number of
customers. We have made a good start, and are outperforming the
market, but we still have some way to go.
Our divisional operations are supported by a profitable new area
of our business; logistics asset development, which continues to
grow and is exemplified by our ongoing development at our
Widnes inland sea port. We set up a desirable infrastructure, sold
part of the assets at a capital gain, generating a return on invest-
ment for our shareholders. 
In addition, we have secured a three-year road transport revenue
stream with T esco, a rail freight revenue stream for inbound goods
and a storage and handling revenue stream for the inland port
terminal. This demonstrates how operational services and devel-
opment of our logistics assets are linked.
Stobart Group is a FTSE 250 company comprising four main Divi-
sions: Road, Rail, Ports and Air. While Eddie Stobart remains the
core of our business – responsible for about 85 percent of turnover
– I am confident in the growth potential of our other Divisions.
Andrew Tinkler Chief Executive Officer
Strategy
Our strategy is underpinned by our brand, people and systems:
> Forming new partnerships with customers to further drive
efficiencies.
> T o seize the opportunities, operationally, as the economy comes
out of recession, building on our key competitive advantages,
such as load utilisation and pooling our customers.
> T o market and develop our assets to our customers and then
sell these assets where appropriate, at a profit to be reinvested
in the business.
> T o develop systems and technologies that protect the business
from operational and financial risk.
> T o grow organically with both existing and new customers.
> T o take waste out of the system; waste adds to cost and
damages the environment. 
> T o increase business in the UK, Ireland and mainland Europe.
> T o leverage the high value in our brand.
CEO, Andrew Tinkler explains how an exciting, ambitious vision for the Group;
to become the UK’s leading name in multimodal transport and logistics; is
rapidly coming to fruition, despite the background of a tough economic climate.
Introduction                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   12
Answering the key questions
You are now offering two service streams across the Divisions:
The operational side and the asset development, as epitomised
by your recent sale of part of the giant Widnes site. This marked
a strategic shift in 2009. Can you explain in more detail?
Across all of our Divisions we have an operating business that is
performing well and another asset development business that is
also giving a good return. 
Let me explain the latter in more detail: A lot of underutilised exist-
ing assets in key locations will put value into the respective
Divisions in the coming years. Equally, we will buy land in the right
locations, preferably next to road, rail, sea and air facilities.
We develop this land and we sell it to our customers as a business
concept because it’s in the right location. We develop it for them,
then we generate revenue streams for the operational side of the
business, be it road, rail, warehousing etc, and ultimately we sell on
the asset at a profit. It’s a low-risk, profitable model. 
The sale of the first phase at our Widnes inland port, part of the
Merseyside Multimodal Gateway, is a good example of how this
works. This is not speculative asset development, rather it is low
risk and very well integrated with the operational side. The asset
development helps the operational side, and vice versa.
How multimodal are you really?
If a customer wants road, rail, sea or air transport, we can deliver.
We have the infrastructure. If we don’t have the transport for a par-
ticular journey, we can partner with someone to do it. We are
developing our own assets, and infrastructures, to be more cost-
effective and more multimodal.
The aim is certainly to grow the Rail, Port and Air Divisions. There
are big environmental benefits. But you will always need a truck at
the end of every journey, for that final delivery. You have to under-
stand what type of truck to use and how to use it. A radius of up to
about 100-150 miles is the ideal journey for a truck, but no more.
We’d like to replace truck with train on some of those longer journeys.
If we can do multi-drops on the rail network – loading and unloading
at major stopover points by having our assets on the rail network at
the right place – then that helps. T ypically with rail now, you have one
big loading and one big unloading. We’re trying to change that. 
With sea, the big container ships have one drop-off point, such as
Rotterdam, Southampton or Felixstowe. We want to use feeder
ships from those vast ports. We need volume for that and Stobart
Group have enough customers to potentially make that work.
That’s where inland ports can also work, they’re ideal for smaller
feeder vessels and they’re typically nearer other transport hubs.
How would you sum up 2009?
We have taken big strides in achieving our goal of being true multi-
modal providers, with substantial progress made in rail, air and
ports. But it’s been a difficult year because, with the recession, the
flow of the work has been up-and-down. There has clearly been
pressure on rates, as customers strive for better deals. Yet we’ve
done well. We haven’t gained materially on overall turnover but we
have been able to consolidate and reduce our own waste.
The tough weather conditions this past winter also proved a chal-
lenge but, by working in partnership with our customers, and thanks
to the commitment of our drivers, we have continued to deliver a
comprehensive service. We estimate the extreme conditions cost
the business in excess of £0.5m, however the longer-term benefits 
Pictured: Andrew Tinkler, right, discusses the new Rail Station and Control
T ower being constructed at London Southend Airport with Stobart Air MD,
Alastair Welch, far left, and Steven Harker, Stobart Rail’s Site Engineer, centre. Chief Executive Officer’s Statement  
Continued
13     Stobart Group Limited
should far outweigh this cost, as the conditions once again high-
lighted the inflexible nature of the Open Book model, under which
this cost would have been borne by the customer. Our core busi-
ness model and customer focus is comparatively recession
resistant, and during this challenging period we have managed to
outperform the industry.
A good strong business model helps in a recession and I believe
we have it. Compared with most rivals, we are comparatively reces-
sion-resistant. Because of our ’shared‘ trucks, and our ability to treat
all customers as ’one‘, we can maximise efficiency and our utilisa-
tion of trucks. Most of our deliveries are in the food and drink sector,
and that is also more recession proof than most other forms of
transport delivery. Our new contract with Unilever is also good news.
A lot of their products sell irrespective of recession, and season.
After all you still need bathroom cleaner or washing powder no mat-
ter what the state of the economy, or whether it’s summer or winter.
What have been the highlights?
There have been many highlights. Firstly, our development and sub-
sequent asset disposal of part of our Widnes inland port. This has
given a good return on investment – around 20% initially – and that
will be reinvested elsewhere in the business, including our expan-
sion plans for London Southend Airport. The Widnes phase one site
development and subsequent sale includes the new Northern Distri-
bution Centre for T esco’s ’fresh‘ operations, which was developed
by the Stobart Group. We were recently confirmed as transport con-
tractor from this distribution centre, which is excellent news. 
Secondly, the planning approval for the runway extension at London
Southend Airport. This is a key part of our plans, which include a
new railway station, terminal and control tower. Work starts soon
and will be finished a year in advance of the London 2012 Olympics.
London Southend is the nearest operational airport to the Olympic
site, and will have an excellent rail link, so it is superbly located.
Next, we are delighted to have won the transport contract with
another blue chip company, Unilever. This is a further endorsement
of our ’pay as you go‘ cost model – in which the customer only 
pays for what they need. If they require 50 trucks one day and 100
the next, Stobart Group can do that. We also pool our customers’
needs, improving efficiency for us and for our customers. 
Finally, the launch of the Spanish ‘fresh’ train service, from Valen-
cia to Barking in London, was also special. It’s the longest train
journey in Europe by a single operator, is faster and much more
environmentally friendly than similar journeys by road, and proves
the potential of rail for longer journeys.
You’re enjoying continued success at winning big name customers,
adding Unilever to the portfolio. How have you achieved this?
I think we have been innovative in bringing all our customers
together into a shared-user transport system to reduce empty
miles. One customer controlling their own fleet hasn’t got our
national coverage or our efficiencies. No-one has quite the same
partnerships or shared-users as we do. By pooling customers, we
can view them as one large customer.
Is that why you’ve also had success with small customers?
Yes, our policy of pooling customers means that no job is too
small. If you can fill one empty leg, you are saving money. An
empty truck or an empty leg that could be used by another cus-
tomer is an unnecessary waste of money.
What challenges face the transport and logistics industry?
The price of fuel is a huge issue for consumers as we are forced to
pass on the cost to our customers. It adds to the costs of our cus-
tomers’ goods and to consumers’ cost. Every train service we
establish reduces our fuel usage significantly.
Customers, of course, generally don’t care how their goods get
there, just as long as they get there. Being able to offer all four
modes of transport increases choice and efficiency. 
As fuel costs rise, reducing waste becomes an even greater issue
for the industry. It’s a big challenge. The other big issue is traffic
and road congestion. We need to do more to utilise our railroads
and our waterways. I think we’re taking the lead here. 
Introduction
Financial                                                                                                                                                    2010                         2009                % Change
Business Revenue                                   From continuing operations                                                      £447.7m              £431.1m                  +3.9%
EAFFC
a
                                                    Earnings After Fleet Financing Costs                                           £39.1m                £27.5m                +42.5%
Earnings Per Ordinary Share
b
                 Normalised from continuing operations                                           11.0p                    7.7p                +43.1%
Environmental
Fleet Utilisation                                         Reflecting low efficiency of integrated businesses                         83.7%                  84.1%                  -0.48%
Euro 4/5 Compliance                                T otal fleet                                                                                               88%                    81%                  +8.6%
People
Accident/Incident Rate (RIDDOR)            New measure more appropriate to Group                                          0.53               0.43                  23.3%
a Comprising underlying operating profit of £35.0m (2009: £31.4m) and net disposal profit on Widnes assets of £8.2m less fleet financing costs of £3.4m (2009: £3.2m) and share based
payments of £0.7m (2009: £0.7m).
b EPS is based on a PBT of £36.8m with a normalised tax charge of 28%. EPS excluding the net disposal profit on Widnes assets is 8.6p.
Key Performance Indicators                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   14
Finally, one of our specific challenges, as we continue to acquire
and take on more businesses, is integrating the Stobart culture. We
need these businesses we acquire to understand our core values –
our attention to detail, our customer service, our drivers’ tidy
appearance, our environmental commitments, our job satisfaction
and the extraordinary following we have from the Members’ Club.
How have you dealt with the economic uncertainty?
We have to continually check our costs. People are buying more
sporadically now, they are buying more at the last minute. This
causes peaks and troughs in demand, which can make life difficult
for businesses.
The IT infrastructure that Stobart has developed over the years
helps keep utilisation rates on an even keel, minimising the swings
in demand.
Business conditions are still quite flat. We are predicting a boost
this summer because of the football World Cup, especially in drink
sales. A hot summer would help too; when the sun shines it boosts
the economy. Stobart Group have out-performed the market; keep-
ing level operationally and hitting our targets. T urnover is reasonably
flat but our margins have improved. We have also developed assets
to give a return to shareholders that showed the actual assets were
undervalued.
We have outperformed the market partly because 85 percent of
our customers are in food and drink or recession-resistant retail
sectors. For instance, we weren’t reliant on the motor industry,
which has been badly hit, but people still have to eat and drink.
They may buy cheaper brands of orange juice and cheaper
chocolate biscuits, but they still need to be transported. 
Your capacity utilisation is higher than the industry standard.
How have you achieved this?
By sharing customers and putting IT systems in place that allow us
to monitor it all ’live‘, and anticipate it before it even happens. During 
this year, our UK capacity utilisation was 83.7 percent. It was rea-
sonably flat because of integrating new business that wasn’t up to
our efficiency standard, and the recession. I don’t believe you can
get much better than 90 percent because you will always have
some empty miles. 
You are still acquiring, still expanding. How will you expand
moving forward?
We certainly see growth in road, rail, air and sea transport, mostly
at the expense of less efficient competitors. We also see growth
and great investment potential in our asset development. Widnes
this year is a good model. 
Southend Airport has been a highlight this year. T ake us through
the rationale of your involvement.
It’s part of our multimodal strategy. Look at air; 82 percent of all air
freight coming into London comes on passenger planes. So what’s
the point of buying transport planes when the passenger airlines
are already struggling? If Stobart Group can get an operator to use
our airport and help him fill his plane with freight, we’ve won
twofold... We’ve got freight business and passenger business.
By developing an airport that has a fast rail service for both passen-
gers and freight, Stobart Group has a big advantage over all those
other London airports that are further from town. We can also pro-
vide air transport from mainland Europe that is 20 minutes faster
than any other London airport, or 40 minutes faster on a round trip.
That’s a massive time and fuel saving. 
If you take Southampton Airport as a model, it has two million pas-
sengers now and the same length of runway and a rail station
nearby. We have a station right next to the air terminal itself and
much quicker links to London, and I believe that we can be a
‘Southampton’ quite easily. We certainly predict two million passen-
gers by 2020 for London Southend and if the right airline operators
come in, we could have a million passengers by 2012. Thanks to
the Olympics, there may be even more. Chief Executive Officer’s Statement   
Continued
We have taken a controlling interest in the newly-formed
Stobart Biomass Products Limited, together with market-leader
A.W. Jenkinson. The new company sources and distributes
biomass fuel for renewable energy production in the UK, it is 
a market that could increase tenfold in the next three years.
15     Stobart Group Limited
You have also just invested in the biomass market, through a
new venture with a biomass supplier. Why?
We have taken a controlling interest in the newly formed Stobart Bio-
mass Products, together with market leader A.W. Jenkinson. The new
company sources and distributes biomass fuel to the UK renewable
energy market. At the same time we have secured a ten year major
transport contract with A.W. Jenkinson’s existing business.
We anticipate that the biomass business market could increase
tenfold in the next three years, not least because EU law mandates
that 15 percent of electricity must come from renewable resources,
such as biomass, by 2020, and the UK has set an even higher tar-
get of 30 percent.
Our expertise in transport logistics clearly helps. Transport and logis-
tics is a major cost and headache for biomass suppliers and
Stobart’s expertise will bring improved efficiencies to the whole bio-
mass logistics and supply chain.
One further point; to build a biomass generator you need the raw
material to feed it. We have some of the raw material, such as 
packaging, in the trucks. Using it also reduces empty running. It
gives customers another level of service. Plus there is the environ-
mental benefit.
The business is coming up to 40 years old. Does the Stobart of
today have anything in common with the Stobart of the 1970s?
It’s a similar company – the cleanliness (you’ll never see a grubby
Stobart vehicle on the road), the professionalism, the customer
service. It has the same values, the same culture. People who have
been here for years would still recognise Stobart. Obviously there
are differences – we’re a listed company, for example – but we still
have those family values.
We need to continue to increase our investment in the brand, to put
the Stobart name even more ‘on the map’. We have clearly been
successful here: Stobart is already listed as a UK ‘Superbrand’,
32nd in a list of 500 business brands for 2010. We can continue to
build the brand by emphasising our core characteristics and, of
course, supporting the marvellous Stobart Members’ Club.
 
 
Introduction
The Biomass Process
Biomass Fuel
Biowaste is chipped 
to form Biofuel
Transport by 
Eddie Stobart
Boiler
generates
steam
Surplus low pressure 
Steam often used for 
Domestic or 
Industrial Heating
Steam turbine
generates electricity
Green 
Electricity                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   16 17     Stobart Group Limited
Business Review Stobart Group Operations
William Stobart, Chief Operations Officer
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010   18
Introduction
This business review includes information on our various Stobart
Group Divisions – Eddie Stobart (road transport, distribution and
warehousing), Stobart Rail, Stobart Ports and Stobart Air. It also
covers the recent investment by Eddie Stobart into Stobart
Biomass Products. There is information on the markets in which we
operate, and our corporate responsibilities.  
Our goal; to become the UK’s leading provider of multimodal trans-
port and logistics solutions; means providing our customers with a
choice of the most efficient and most environmentally friendly solu-
tions to meet their needs. 
T oday, we are a true multimodal provider. Stobart Group continues
to succeed in its core road transportation business, attracting new
customers who appreciate the superior load utilisation efficiencies
and resulting cost savings we can offer. Despite the recession, the
Group achieved several important business wins from blue-chip
clients, including Unilever, T esco and Nestlé.
This past year has seen substantial progress in our rail, port and air
operations, culminating in the planning permission received for
London Southend Airport, superbly positioned to benefit from the
increased utilisation heading into the 2012 Olympics. 
We employ around 5,000 people in more than 40 sites in the UK,
Ireland and mainland Europe. The Group operates more than
1,800 trucks and six million square feet of warehousing, five rail
freight services, including the new Spanish service to the UK, a civil
engineering business, inland port, sea port and now two airports.
In conclusion, Stobart is increasingly a ‘one-stop shop’ to anyone
who needs transport and logistics. We not only offer every possible
mode of transport, all carefully linked, but we offer a variety of stor-
age and handling facilities which we can develop to our customer’s
specification through our in-house teams. This is indeed why so
many new customers choose Stobart, and our existing customers
stay loyal. Our asset developments generate a variety of revenue
streams, ultimately creating profit and an attractive return on invest-
ment on disposal.
Built around four coherent operational Divisions, Stobart Group
continues to demonstrate resilience and growth by providing 
its customers with a choice of the most efficient and most
environmentally friendly solutions to meet their needs.
Celebrating its 40th anniversary in 2010, Eddie Stobart forms
the centrepiece of this successful group which also covers
Rail, Sea and Air transport and related activities. Stobart Group Operations
19     Stobart Group Limited
Eddie Stobart
This covers our road transport (General, Chilled, Environmental,
International and Ireland) and Warehousing, and is the biggest
element of the Stobart business.
It includes the successful integration of the James Irlam business. All
Irlam transport operations, depot network operations and front and
back office functions have now been fully integrated without any
interruption to our customers. Due to the growth in the business over
the past few years, we now have a Managing Director and a Finance
Director for each transport fleet and the warehousing operation.
Recently, Stobart placed a large order with Scania GB, mostly to
replace current vehicles. Stobart and A.W. Jenkinson, a Stobart
customer and business partner for its new biomass joint venture,
together ordered 1,000 new vehicles over the next 24 months, Sca-
nia’s largest order to date. The deliveries commenced in March
2010. The trucks all comply with the latest Euro 5 environmental
legislation, and will both replace some existing vehicles, and
expand the size of the Stobart fleet, reflecting anticipated growth.
Eddie Stobart road transport has many important competitive
advantages, not least its ‘pay as you go’ shared user system, which
increases efficiency, reduces costs and helps the environment. 
The specialist and primary fleets are each controlled by their own
dedicated National Traffic Planning Control Centres. These state of
the art facilities operate the latest in planning and satellite tracking,
so operators know the exact location of each vehicle. GTS Planning
Screens give an instant real-time picture of load status, including
estimated time of arrival (ETA) and the exact speed and direction of
travel of the vehicle. This ‘efficiency through technology’ is a major
corporate asset. 
Eddie Stobart drivers offer another real advantage. Smartly turned
out and well trained, Stobart long-haul drivers, known as ‘trampers’,
can spend up to six days at a time on the road. Because they do
not have to return to a Stobart depot at the end of the day, they
offer maximum flexibility.
The fully equipped tramper cab offers a comfortable bed, a night
heater, fridge, microwave cooking and TV . In addition Stobart
depots have full driver welfare facilities including cafeteria, wash-
room and showers. 
Business Review                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   20
Eddie Stobart General Distribution
This operates the biggest fleet in the Eddie Stobart Division, and
provides UK transport solutions for a wide variety of retail, food,
consumer, manufacturing, industrial and defence sectors. 
General Distribution’s road freight capacity is supported by a
national network of about 30 depots, strategically located at key
transport hubs throughout the UK.
Now that the Irlam business has been successfully integrated, the
general operation runs to 1,250 trucks and 2,400 trailers. 
Eddie Stobart’s UK utilisation efficiency is 83.7 percent compared
with the industry average of 70 percent, and less for ‘own account’
operators. This means only 16.3 percent of our trucks are not carry-
ing a load. This is a slight reduction compared with a year ago, and
is due to the integration of the Irlam business, which has lower utili-
sation levels. The integration and synergies have led to annualised
savings of around £1.1 million.
New business wins have included a £25 million per annum contract
for T esco in T eesport, to distribute imports from China. This
became fully operational in the new financial year.
Unilever was also a major win at around £20 million per annum.
Stobart was chosen for its full multimodal offering, and the com-
pany’s ability to move goods cost effectively and in an
environmentally friendly manner. 
Scottish-based AG Barr, best known for its Irn-Bru soft drink,
awarded Stobart a three-year, £6 million per annum distribution and
warehousing contract starting in May 2010. Stobart Rail will move
goods from the AG Barr factory in Cumbernauld to the new central
warehouse in Crick, from where Stobart trucks will distribute to
retailers throughout the UK.
It’s also been a strong year on business retention. The Group has
signed a new nine-year deal with Crown, which will have a new
warehouse at Stobart’s Carlisle Lake District Airport site to act as
distribution centre for the UK. Crown is Stobart’s longest standing
customer, and has been using Stobart for its haulage since the
early 1970s.
A new nine-year deal with
Crown, will see Stobart’s
longest standing client utilise
a purpose-built warehouse
at the Group’s Carlisle Lake
District Airport which will act
as its UK Distribution Centre. Stobart Group Operations  
Continued
21     Stobart Group Limited
Eddie Stobart Environmental Transport
Stobart’s relatively new Environmental Transport fleet division
distributes environmentally friendly biomass – mostly expired
timber, forestry residues and compostable material. This fast
growing market carries the chipped wood to the new generation of
‘green’ low-carbon power stations that burn renewable fuels.
Stobart’s large fleet of ‘Chipliner’ and ‘Walking Floor’ trailers are
ideal for carrying this bulky, loose material. 
A new area of business for the Group is the joint venture with A.W.
Jenkinson, the UK’s leading supplier of wood-related biomass
fuels. Newly formed Stobart Biomass Products has been created to
source and distribute supplies of biomass fuel to the UK renewable
energy market. A significant amount of the cost of biomass fuel
relates to its transport and logistics and Stobart’s multimodal
model can offer big savings and efficiencies. 
The biomass market is set to boom following directives that, in the
EU, 15 percent of energy must come from renewable sources by
2020, while in the UK the target is even higher at 30 percent.
In 2008, 85 percent of renewable energy generated in the UK was
from biomass – substantially more than other highly publicised
renewable generators, such as wind turbines.
Stobart has secured a ten-year contract with A.W. Jenkinson, to
transport hundreds of tonnes of its biomass from collection and
processing sites to energy generation stations.
In addition to this contract, Stobart will control all future transport
requirements of the new joint venture company.
Eddie Stobart International
The Group’s international fleet serves continental Europe with a
dedicated high specification fleet, and is controlled using the same
advanced IT system that monitors and ensures the timeliness and
efficiency of Stobart’s UK haulage operations. On mainland
Europe, the main warehouse is sited in Lokeren, Belgium, while the
UK’s distribution logistics are also widely utilised. Additional
features include making key data available instantly to international
customers by email, online or via dedicated directly linked screens.
New volume this year includes substantial growth to support the
new Spanish train service, from Valencia. Trucks are used on those
days when the train doesn’t run, to build volume. When cargo
volume is sufficient, more train services will be introduced. 
Early in 2010, Stobart invested in a fleet of new Schmitz Cargobull
refrigerated trailers, reflecting the growth of the International operation.
Eddie Stobart Ireland
There has been strong growth in Stobart’s Irish operation in the
past year. Of particular note was the major win, from T esco in
Donabate, to handle Irish ambient distribution. This €13 million
contract trebles Stobart’s Irish turnover, and justifies Stobart’s
decision to make a strategic stand-alone investment in Ireland in
2008. The operation has its own office and depot in Dublin,
including warehousing and cross-docking. 
The Irish fleet works especially closely with other Stobart fleets to
ensure efficient planning of Irish import and export work.
Business Review
The market for biomass is set to boom following 
directives that, in the EU, 15 percent of energy 
must come from renewable sources by 2020, while 
in the UK the target is even higher at 30 percent.                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   22
Eddie Stobart Chilled Distribution
Stobart bought Innovate’s chilled business in July 2008, and it has
now been totally, and successfully integrated into the Group. 
A restructure saw two sites close, with a saving of £1million per
annum. The introduction of Stobart’s advanced IT systems has
greatly improved efficiencies. Payroll costs have been reduced,
load fill has increased from 70 percent to 76 percent, and revenue
has grown by 18 percent compared with last year. Chilled
Distribution continues to focus on improving load fill.
Key customers have been retained and major new business has
been added, including the Co-Op. In all, £7 million of new business
was won in the past year, generating good return on investment,
and moving the Chilled operation significantly into profit.
The operation utilises chilled cross-docking facilities throughout the
UK and in Dublin and includes around 300 high-specification artics
with the latest dual-compartment, multi-temperature trailers. The
units operate 24/7, handle all categories of chilled food and are
fully approved to the highest level of the stringent European Food
Safety Inspection Service (EFSIS) standards.
Eddie Stobart Warehousing
Operating over six million square feet of quality state-of-the-art
storage facilities, Eddie Stobart’s warehousing operation is trusted
by many of the best-known names in UK retailing and
manufacturing. It comprises a full range of chilled, ambient and
specialist storage in a variety of racked, stacked and mixed layouts.
Facility use is highly flexible and can be operated as single-user,
part-user or multi-user format.
The warehouses are all controlled using a fully trackable, 100
percent accurate system that uses barcode tracking to give clients
real-time stock data through web, email or direct communication.
They play a key role in fulfilling the wider multi-modal logistical
offerings of the group.
There is potential for several major new warehouse developments at
our inland port in Widnes (1.5 million square feet) and at Carlisle
Lake District Airport (400,000 square feet). Work is set to start shortly. 
Stobart’s new site in Bardon, Leicestershire, has come on stream
giving the Group one of the most advanced automated warehousing
facilities in the UK. This site comprises both chilled and ambient
storage to a capacity of 115,000 pallet locations. A ten-year contract
sees the Group handle 75 percent of Nestlé’s UK confectionery
distribution and is worth approximately £11 million per annum.
The new 360,000 square foot purpose-built facility in Daresbury
accommodates Stobart’s expanding relationship with Johnson &
Johnson, who have now signed a new long-term contract for
warehousing and transport. This is only three miles from the
Widnes terminal and is another great example of a multimodal
revenue stream for the Group, using road, warehousing, rail and
ports. This site has achieved accreditation with the MHRA (Medical
Healthcare Regulation Agency) for over-the-counter and
prescription-only medicine, along with BSI 9001:2008, placing
Stobart at the forefront for meeting specific customer requirements.
Danone Water, a former Irlam transport customer, has now
engaged Stobart for its warehousing under a three-year deal,
showing how the Group can grow newly integrated business
organically thanks to its extended service offerings.
In July 2008 Stobart acquired Innovate’s
chilled business, renamed ‘Stobart
Chilled’, it has now been totally, and
successfully integrated into the Group.  Stobart Group Divisional Profile  VERSION 4
Continued
23     Stobart Group Limited
Stobart Rail
Stobart Rail Freight Distribution
Stobart’s first dedicated rail freight service
was launched in 2006 and, since then, has
grown rapidly. Stobart now has a further
three UK trains running between five and
six days a week, and an additional route
from Barking to Wakefield is due to com-
mence later in 2010.
Rail is ideally suited to long distance jour-
neys with minimal stops for loading and un-
loading; it is also ideal for large volumes.
UK and Scottish governments continue to
support rail services, making grants avail-
able. They reduce congestion on the UK’s
crowded roads, and are environmentally
friendly, reducing carbon emissions.
In the past year, Stobart has launched a
new European service from Valencia in
southern Spain to Barking near London, in
partnership with DB Schenker, Europe’s
largest rail freight operator. The dedicated
train links the fruit, vegetable and salad
growing areas of Spain to the UK’s major
grocery retailers, and the journey takes only
53 hours – faster than could be achieved
by road. The new service provides maxi-
mum flexibility. Customers may place regu-
lar bookings of single or multiple contain-
ers, paying only for space utilised. 
The weekly service is due to expand to
three trains a week at the end of 2010, ex-
panding to five times a week as take-up
further increases. The route is also due to
be extended north to Widnes, site of Sto-
bart’s new multimodal hub, with potential
for over two million square feet of storage
and cross-docking facilities linked to road,
rail, sea and air.
Business Review
Stobart Rail Infrastructure Engineering
Stobart is one of the UK’s leading names in
rail network maintenance, repair and im-
provement, and is active across the UK. A
Network Rail Principal Contractor’s Licence
enables it to work independently on Net-
work Rail assets, providing further revenue
for the Group.
Infrastructure Engineering also provides
civil engineering services for all Group de-
velopments. It is playing a key role in the
development of the new rail station at
Southend airport, at the Widnes inland port
and the giant Bardon warehousing site for
Nestlé and Daresbury warehouse for John-
son & Johnson.                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   24
Stobart Developments
This has been an especially fast growing element of the Stobart Rail Di-
vision. It is responsible for the development and improvement of assets
for the Group and its customers. During the week, Stobart Develop-
ments utilises labour and plant which is also used on the Division’s rail
infrastructure projects at the weekend.
The biggest current project is the Mersey Multimodal Gateway (3MG) at
Widnes, which will boost the company’s total warehousing capacity to
over seven million square feet. Seventy-three acres have already been
developed, including the new Chilled Distribution Centre for T esco. A
further 90 acres are awaiting development and will be marketed to cus-
tomers looking for a convenient location, combined with the benefits of
direct access to all four forms of transport offered by the Group. 
When complete, most of the energy requirements will be supplied by an
on-site biomass powerplant. Water recycling and other environmentally
friendly measures are also being developed. 
The development team responsible for Widnes will also be responsible
for delivering the expansion plans at London Southend Airport and a
number of other specific civils projects directly for customers.
Stobart Developments has
been an especially fast
growing part of the business.
It is active in developing and
improving Group property
holdings, and specialises in the
regeneration of brownfield sites
into valuable business space.  Stobart Group Operations  
Continued
25     Stobart Group Limited
Stobart Ports
The Ports Division comprises two main
operations: An inland port container
handling facility at Widnes and the nearby
Mersey Gateway Port. 
The inland Widnes facility, also known as
the Mersey Multimodal Gateway (3MG), is
one of the Group’s biggest projects. It has
direct access to the West Coast Mainline
and is close to major waterways and Liver-
pool Airport, and just four miles from the M6
and M56. It manages nearly 1,000 vehicle
movements a day, with an average turn-
around time of only 12 minutes per vehicle.
Widnes handles over 120,000 containers a
year. There is secure storage for more than
6,000 containers. A new 528,000 square
foot Chilled Distribution Centre was com-
pleted, on time and on budget, in July
2009, and now handles Northern Distribu-
tion for T esco’s fresh operations. Stobart
has been confirmed as the transport con-
tractor, using its multimodal skills.
Nearby, Stobart Ports is also developing
the Mersey Gateway Port at the Manches-
ter Ship Canal/River Mersey junction. When
finished, this once-underutilised port may
handle ocean-going container ships, bulk
dry cargoes, palletised products, bonded
goods, steel coil, bulk liquids or imported
biomass products. It is within easy reach of
Manchester and Liverpool, and close to the
M6, M62, M56 motorway hub.
Stobart Ports operates its own fleet of spe-
cialist ‘skeletal’ units for carrying containers,
which rely on Stobart’s renowned IT , track-
ing and planning systems.
The volume of work, for the Ports Division,
has increased over the past year, especially
as Far Eastern imports have grown.
Stobart Air
Stobart Air operates two airport facilities at
London Southend Airport and at Carlisle
Lake District Airport. These airports will
grow, in both passengers and freight.
London Southend, acquired by Stobart in
December 2008, has huge potential
because of its proximity to central London,
and to the new Olympic Park. Planning per-
mission has been granted for a runway
extension that will enable London Southend
to handle popular passenger and freight
planes such as the Boeing 737 and Airbus
A319. The extension will be completed well
in advance of the 2012 Olympics.
A new railway station, currently under con-
struction alongside the planned new
passenger terminal, will be finished later in
2010 and will provide up to eight train serv-
ices an hour, direct to Stratford, the site of
the Olympics, in 42 minutes and to Lon-
don Liverpool Street in 49 minutes. 
Many high-tech companies are also based
at London Southend Airport, including
many involved in aircraft maintenance,
business jet operations and aviation related
manufacturing. There are more than 1,000
people currently working on site. 
Carlisle Lake District Airport, acquired by
Stobart in May 2009, has long been over-
due for development as a valuable tourist
route into the popular destinations of the
Lake District, Hadrian’s Wall and the Scot-
tish Borders region. Currently, the nearest
large airport is 70 miles away.
Stobart will also develop the area as a busi-
ness site, and plans to combine the
Group’s seven locations currently dotted
around Carlisle into a single, highly efficient
facility. An important regional cross-docking
warehouse will also serve Scotland.
Plans are well advanced to link Carlisle Lake
District Airport to London Southend Airport.
Part of the development plans for Stobart’s
London Southend Airport, the 28m high
Control T ower is now under construction.
Business Review                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   26 Eddie Stobart, 40 years in the making
27     Stobart Group Limited
Eddie Stobart looks forward 
to its 40th Anniversary 
as an incorporated business 
on 23 November this year.
Business Review                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   28
Eddie Stobart started as a private agricultural contractor in the early
’60s, based in the isolated Lake District village of Hesket Newmar-
ket. “My father began Eddie Stobart Limited so my older brother
Edward and I could operate it as a business and allow him to con-
tinue as a sole trader” said son William, now Chief Operating
Officer of the Stobart Group.  
“We had four vehicles and employed six or seven drivers. We
mostly transported and spread lime and fertiliser. Then we got into
haulage and that’s when my dad went limited. Haulage was riskier,
a limited company protected us, in case people wouldn’t pay. That
really concerned my dad.”
“I was nine years old when it started and remember it well. I remem-
ber the signwriter putting ‘Ltd’ after ‘Eddie Stobart’ on our four trucks.”
Is the culture still similar? “Absolutely. The business is steeped in our
core values. First and foremost, they are about house keeping  in
every sense, including professional administration and the appearance
of the drivers, vehicles, personnel, warehousing and premises. A dri-
ver’s truck is his home. He keeps it immaculate and hands it, freshly
cleaned, to the next driver. These values get handed from manager to
manager, from driver to driver, from generation to generation.” 
Eddie Stobart is now, without doubt, the best-known name in UK
road transport, and even has its own Members’ Club of 15,000
people (‘Eddie Spotters’ are also familiar sights near motorways).
Why such warmth to a haulage company? There must be no other
transport brand so loved. “The warmth reflects the professionalism
of the brand” says William, who spent four years driving for the
company in his early 20s. “We personalised our trucks, all with
girls’ names, and we were one of the first operators to have our
own livery. You always know when you overtake an Eddie Stobart
truck. We were very good at attention to detail and we still are. Peo-
ple can’t imagine just how much effort goes into nurturing,
protecting and developing the brand.” 
William Stobart Chief Operating Officer
An original early 1970s Atkinson Borderer makes
the slow haul up Newlands Hill to the site of the
original Eddie Stobart yard, leaving the Cumbrian
hill village of Hesket Newmarket behind. Corporate Responsibility
29     Stobart Group Limited
Environmental Responsibility
> Stobart Rail makes a major contribution to reducing carbon
pollution and road traffic. Each year, compared with road trans-
port, Stobart’s trains save 15,500 tonnes of CO2, 14.9 million
road miles and cuts fuel usage by 67 percent.
> At 83.7 percent, Stobart’s load utilisation is the best in the
haulage industry, making journeys more economically and envi-
ronmentally efficient.
> The new fleet of Scania trucks are all Euro 5 compliant. More
than 88 percent of the current Stobart fleet complies to either
Euro 4 or Euro 5 pollution regulations.
> A new 18-tonne Volvo diesel-electric hybrid has been trialled
and will begin making deliveries from Stobart’s Park Royal hub
into central London next year.
> The proposed new Enviro-Trailer, developed by Stobart and
currently awaiting EU approval, will deliver much greater fuel-to-
load efficiency. The Enviro-Trailer will reduce pollution and cut
the haulage industry’s carbon footprint. This new, more
efficiently proportioned semi-trailer can offer up to a 13 percent
increase in carrying capacity. 
Less than a metre longer than a standard trailer –
and actually shorter when the existing trailer
has a forklift mounted on the back – the
Enviro-Trailer remains within the 44-tonne
weight limit. The new rear-wheel steering
actually reduces road wear and improves
manoeuvrability. Fuel consumption is not
increased, boosting efficiency. With the
new trailer already approved by MIRA, a
proposal for its use is now before Gov-
ernment.
> Stobart’s Environmental transport
offering is at the cutting edge of
sourcing and distributing biomass
fuels, a major factor in sustainable
power generation.
> Stobart Air’s revamped airport at Lon-
don Southend offers a 20-minute
shorter air journey from mainland
Europe than other London airports (a
40-minute saving for a round trip), with
commensurate reductions in fuel use
and carbon emissions.
> Stobart drivers get efficiency training to
reduce their fuel use, saving the environ-
ment and reducing waste. 
Stobart People
Stobart has excellent training programmes for all employees. The
company’s drivers’ training programme includes an on going
Level 2 NVQ in driving a Heavy Goods Vehicle, which 50% of Sto-
bart drivers have already successfully completed. Every driver will
have completed their CPC or equivalent training programme on
SSOW (Safe Systems of Work) and SAFED (Safe and Fuel Effi-
cient Driving Skills) by 31 August 2010. SAFED will help to reduce
the Groups carbon footprint and cut costs. 
Cash incentives are offered for drivers who ‘keep the revs in the
green’, maximise use of cruise control, cut wasteful engine idling
and minimise harsh use of brakes.
As the Group has grown, so have the number of new employees, 
often integrated from other companies which the Group has pur-
chased. Each one is trained to understand the Stobart culture of
professionalism, good housekeeping and excellent standards of
presentation.
Stobart is committed to promoting from within and encourages
career development. The Management Development Programme
(MDP) is creating and nurturing the future management team and
Directors, strengthening the business. Several of Divisional Direc-
tors started off as juniors within the business.
Business Review
Stobart Group takes its corporate and social responsibilities seriously. 
The company has been responsible for numerous positive environmental
initiatives and is widely active in the communities associated with its facilities.                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   30
Health and Safety
Health and Safety is a key performance indicator. In the past year,
there was an excellent safety performance record, with
accident/incident rate at 0.53 (2009: 0.43). These figures are arrived
at by dividing the number of RIDDORS by the number of hours
worked x100,000. 0.09 of the movement in the RIDDOR rate can be
explained by the extreme bad weather in January and February
2010. By integrating safety systems we are confident all accidents
are correctly reported.
Working Smarter-Working Safer initiative developed to include
poster and credit card campaign, Positive Performance Pyramid
including workforce engagement to encourage the reporting of
near misses in order to further reduce the number of RIDDORS
within the Group.
Following a recent full site tour at our major 450,000 sq ft Daventry
Site, Northampton Fire Service commented how impressed they
were with “the site controls implemented and the high operational
standards attained”. 
The dedication and commitment to Business Systems (Quality)
within the Group has unified systems within the Divisions, ensuring
that all sites and customer locations are audited on an, at least,
annual basis. Positive progress and improvements are evidenced
at all depots, with compliance continuing to improve overall. Audit
results have been aligned with Health and Safety to provide an
overall balanced scorecard approach.
Managing Risk
Commentary on our internal control and risk management is included
within the Corporate Governance Report on page 43, however, we
have specifically identified the Climate Reduction Commitment
Energy Efficiency Scheme, ‘CRCEES’, as a key consideration to our
environmental approach.
The legislative pressures are all aimed at “encouraging” compa-
nies to reduce the environmental impact of their activities by
introducing and implementing good energy management
techniques, which complements the Group objectives of reducing
environmental waste and reducing it’s carbon footprint.
Further significant potential is offered by Stobart Biomass Products
Limited, which could provide impetus to develop bi or tri-genera-
tion, utilising biomass as a fuel source, at a number of sites,
especially sites with chilled warehousing requirements.
For any energy and environmental strategy to succeed, it is impor-
tant to enlist the support and active participation of staff members
to maximise the benefits of manual control, opportunity identifica-
tion and procedure implementation. We therefore plan to promote
and support an Energy and Environmental Strategy (ESS), encom-
passing KPI’s, Action Plans and Information Dissemination.
Social Responsibility
Stobart Group understands the importance of helping people both
in our local communities and nationally, through sponsorship,
donations and direct involvement. We have a varied programme in
place, with our Super Brand status playing a major part in support-
ing worthwhile charities such as local hospices and large charities
such as Cancer Research. 
Some examples of our achievements include:
Auction of truck name at the Emerald 
and Ivory Ball in aid of Cancer Research, raising: £6,000
Support for local charitable trust race day, donation: £1,500
Support for Muscular Dystrophy campaign, donation: £8,000
Support for Cancer Research Ltd/
Marie Curie Cancer Care, donation: £8,000
Support for local hospices: £6,600
Stobart Group have supported the Madeleine McCann campaign
by creating awareness of the campaign through the livery on one of
the trailers ‘tramping’ around the UK. 
We sponsor Carlisle United FC and also their local school of excel-
lence, which offers young people the opportunity to be part of the
future their local football club. In addition, we sponsor Widnes
Vikings RLFC, supporting our presence in the community.
A Stobart Professor of Logistics has been created through a part-
nership with the University of Cumbria, launching a groundbreaking
national project for logistics and transport. Stobart Group brings its
world-renowned brand and years of experience to the project.
Stobart Group also recognise the importance of offering young
people the opportunity to learn about our activities. As part of this
positive drive, we are aiming to attract high calibre candidates
aged between 16 and 18 to join Stobart Group as Apprentices. Business Performance
Ben Whawell, Chief Financial Officer
31     Stobart Group Limited
Results
This is the second full financial year since the Group became a
multimodal logistics operation and I am pleased to report another
strong performance, and in particular, a strong improvement in
profitability despite a background of difficult national economic
conditions.
This is also the first year in which we have realised value in our
strategic assets by a major disposal of part of our Widnes site
which we had developed.
Following major acquisitions in the prior year we have consolidated,
restructured and integrated these businesses, increasing profitability
and putting us in an excellent position to grow further.
T otal revenue from continuing operations increased to £447.7m
(2009: £431.1m).
Underlying earnings after fleet financing costs (EAFFC*) increased to
£39.1m (2009: 27.5m) and underlying profit before tax from continu-
ing operations increased to £36.8m (2009: £23.5m) both measures
include a net profit on disposal of the Widnes assets of £8.2m (£10m
before associated share based payment charge).
Continuing profit before tax increased to £34.1m (2009: £22.1m
restated after impairment of investment property of £1.8m was
reclassified to continuing operations). 
Earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share increased to 11.0p from 7.7p. This
includes the profit on disposal of assets at Widnes but excludes
restructuring costs, credit for purchase of London Southend Air-
port (2009 only), impairment of investment properties (2009 only)
and is normalised for a tax charge of 28%. The weighted average
number of shares in the period increased to 246.4m shares from
215.6m shares.
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations increased to
12.1p from 9.0p.
Divisional performance review and acquisitions
Eddie Stobart
The Eddie Stobart road transport and warehousing business has
contributed revenue of £381.5m (2009: £387.3m) and underlying
EAFFC of £26.4m (2009: £24.5m).
The profitable James Irlam & Sons Ltd business which was
acquired in the prior year was fully integrated in to the Eddie Sto-
bart fleet in the early part of the year.
Financial Review
T otal Revenue from continuing operations
increased to £447.7m from £431.1m in 2009,
whilst underlying Profit Before T ax increased 
to £28.6m in 2010 from £23.1m in 2009.
* Underlying EAFFC is calculated as the underlying operating profit of £35.0m (2009: £31.4m) plus the profit on disposal of Widnes assets of £8.2m (2009: £nil) less share
based payment costs of £0.7m (2009: £0.7m) and fleet financing costs of £3.4m (2009: £3.2m).                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   32
Ben (above, left) and Group Deputy CEO Richard Butcher (right) were integral to
raising £29m funding for the Phase One development at Widnes. They then managed
the combined sale of this asset, and the sale and leaseback of the adjoining terminal
generating £8.2m profit for the Group after a share-based payment charge.
The chilled business of Innovate Logistics, which was also acquired at
low cost in the prior year, has already recovered the cost of acquisition
and restructuring costs spent.
The Division suffered disruption caused by the extreme weather condi-
tions in the UK in January 2010, which cost the business in excess of
£0.5m and which is included in the figures quoted. This is expected to
be a one-off cost but highlights our supportive culture and reaffirms
our efficient ‘Pay As You Go’ model to our customer base.
After the balance sheet date, we have secured a 50% investment in
newly set up Stobart Biomass Products Limited for £30m half in
shares and half in cash. This venture, in conjunction with A.W. Jenkin-
son has been formed to distribute biomass products to the
fast-growing UK renewable energy market.
At the same time we have secured a ten-year contract with A.W. Jenk-
inson which is expected to deliver additional pre-tax profit in excess of
£19m over five years. The investment and new contract together will
provide substantial strategic opportunities across the Stobart Group,
including rail and ports.
Stobart Rail
The Rail Division has continued to perform very well since its acquisition
in the prior year for £10.3m including costs. The Division contributed rev-
enue of £64.8m (2009: £38.2m) and underlying EAFFC of £5.0m (2009:
3.5m). Out of this, £19.1m (2009: £10.7m) of revenue and £1.0m (2009:
£0.3m) of profit was earned on Group development projects; £0.7m of
this profit was ultimately realised on disposal of the Widnes assets.
The strong performance reflects a steady demand for rail infrastructure
engineering work and an increasing demand for other civil engineering
developments works including external and intra-Group projects.
External projects included major development of a state-of-the-art ware-
house facility at Bardon, which handles 75% of Nestle’s confectionery
distribution and also construction work on a warehouse at Daresbury for
Johnson and Johnson, another customer of the business. This latter
development helped secure a long-term contract with the customer.
The results are stated after a write-down of £0.3m of debtors when one
of our customers, Jarvis plc, went into Administration. This is not
expected to materially affect the business going forward.  33     Stobart Group Limited
Business Performance
Continued
Revenue
£447.7m
Notes
2008/2009 Revenue
£431.1m
2007/2008 Revenue
£101.8m
EAFFC
Earnings After Fleet Financing Costs
£39.1m
Notes
> Normalised comprising the underlying operating profit of £35.0m
(2009: £31.4m) plus profit on disposal of Widnes assets of £8.2m
(2009: £nil) less fleet financing costs of £3.4m (2009: £3.2m) and
share based payments of £0.7m (2009: £0.7m).
> 2010 EAFFC before profit on disposal of Widnes assets of £8.2m
was £30.9m.
2008/2009 EAFFC
£27.5m
2007/2008 EAFFC
£5.4m
Financial Review
The ideal solution Revenue Profit
1. Find ideal location, preferably with 
road, rail, sea and air links.
2. Agree development with customer
3. Develop using 
Stobart’s in-house team
3
4. Secure road transport contract
33
5. Secure warehouse contract
33
6. Move goods by rail freight
33
7. Inbound goods moved 
on feeder vessels
33
8. Store and handle goods 
though port facilities
33
9. Provide air freight option 
for fast moving goods
33
10.Dispose of asset at a profit
3
Business model using assets to generate growth: Unearthing the hidden value in our assets
A unique aspect of our business strategy is the interaction of our
asset developments and our multimodal operations. We own several
valuable sites, which can be enhanced by using our in-house devel-
opment expertise. Enhancement of assets in turn provides further
opportunities for development of operations with our customers
which further enhances the asset values. This strategy is set out in
the table opposite.
An excellent example of how this model has worked successfully
is the chilled distribution centre at Widnes which was completed
on time and on budget, project managed by our Stobart Rail
Developments team.
This project converted 42 acres of mostly empty brownfield site
in to a new 528,000 sq. ft. chilled distribution centre which is now
occupied by T esco. Our Eddie Stobart chilled fleet has since won
the transport contract to service the requirements of this major
site. We hope to move goods by rail to the site as an extension of
our chilled goods rail service from Valencia, Spain and the goods
will be handled by our inland port facility.
The site and the adjacent terminal land (subsequently leased
back to the Group) were sold by the Group in February 2010 for
£61m, realising a net profit on disposal after costs of £10.0m
(reducing to £8.2m after associated share based payment
charge) and allowing us to pay down a significant amount of
debt. The return on investment (before the share based payment
charge) of this disposal is 19.6%.  
Stobart Ports
The Ports Division has contributed revenue of £13.9m (2009:
£14.6m) and underlying EAFFC of £12.4m (2009: £2.6m) including
a profit on disposal of the assets at Widnes of £8.2m.
The Division has successfully reduced its costs to match the
reduced container volumes driven by the economic slowdown.
As described above, the first phase of the development of the
Widnes site was completed in the year. The terminal operation is
able to handle more than double the current container volumes so
this development, the Johnson & Johnson Daresbury warehouse,
and further potential developments on our inland port site are
promising for the terminal operation.
Stobart Air
The Air Division contributed revenue of £6.6m (2009: £1.7m) and
underlying EAFFC of £0.2m (2009: £0.1m). This includes a full year
of London Southend Airport (2009: 3 months) and 9 months of
Carlisle Lake District Airport, which was acquired in the year.
The development of London Southend Airport is progressing well,
the new on-site railway station will be completed in July 2010 and
planning approval has been confirmed for the runway extension.
We have secured funding for the capital expenditure required to
fully develop the airport.
Carlisle Lake District Airport was acquired on 30 May 2009 for a
total consideration of £9.9m including costs. The acquisition was
funded by issue of 9.0m shares and a new £5m bank loan.
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010   34
PBT
Profit Before T ax from Continuing Operations
£36.8m
Notes
> Normalised PBT including profit on disposal of Widnes assets of £8.2m
(2009: £nil) but stated before restructuring costs of £2.7m (2009:
£2.7m), credit for purchase of London Southend Airport of £nil (2009:
£3.6m) and impairment of investment property of £nil (2009: £1.8m).
> 2010 normalised PBT before profit on disposal of Widnes assets of
£8.2m was £28.6m.
2008/2009 EAFFC
£23.1m
2007/2008 EAFFC
£3.5m
EPS
Earnings Per Ordinary Share
11.0p
Notes
> EPS based on normalised PBT of £36.8m (2009: £23.1m) and 
allowing for a 28% tax charge.
> 2010 normalised EPS before profit on disposal of Widnes assets of
£8.2m (2009: £nil) was 8.6p.
2008/2009 EPS
7.7p
2007/2008 EPS
2.1p Eddie Stobart 2010 2009
Revenue £381.5m £387.3m
EAFFC £26.4m £24.5m
PBT £25.6m £22.1m
Stobart Rail
Revenue £64.8m £38.2m
EAFFC £5.0m £3.5m
PBT £5.0m £3.4m
Stobart Ports
Revenue £13.9m £14.6m
EAFFC before disposal £4.2m £2.6m
EAFFC on disposal £8.2m -
EAFFC after disposal £12.4m £2.6m
PBT before disposal £3.2m £0.9m
PBT on disposal £8.2m -
PBT after disposal £11.4m £0.9m
Stobart Air
Revenue £6.6m £1.7m
EAFFC £0.2m £0.1m
PBT £0.2m £0.1m
Notes:
EAFFC is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit less fleet financing costs and share based payments.
PBT is normalised before restructuring costs, credit for purchase of London Southend Airport (2009 only) and impairment of
investment properties (2009 only).
Eddie Stobart £25.6m
Stobart Ports £11.4m
Made up of £3.2m operational profits,
plus £8.2m profits from disposal.
Stobart Air £0.2m
Stobart Rail £5.0m
Enhancing assets and earnings:
Profit Before Tax 2010
Eddie Stobart £381.5m
Stobart Ports £13.9 Stobart Air £6.6m
Stobart Rail £64.8m
Revenue 2010
Business Performance
Continued
35     Stobart Group Limited
Financial Review   
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010   36
Discontinued activities
Discontinued activities contributed revenue of £0.0m (2009: £0.7m)
and a loss before tax of £0.7m (2009: £29.9m loss).
The joint venture property related assets are written down to nil in the
balance sheet and are classified as held for sale and included in
discontinued activities as they are non-core business assets and
part of a coordinated disposal plan. The Group has been unable to
sell these assets in the last year due to the fall in the commercial
property market and the difficulty in co-ordinating joint venture part-
ners for a disposal of the asset. We continue to look for opportunities
to dispose of these assets on reasonable commercial terms, and
expect to sell them in the next 12 months. The property at Debden
has been reclassified into continuing operations in the year, as it is
expected to be held for more than 12 months before disposal. The
prior year comparatives have also been restated where appropriate.
Taxation
£1.4m of tax is payable for the year due to the availability of trading
losses brought forward, capital allowances and land remediation
relief available in connection with the Widnes development. The tax
charge of £5.1m includes deferred and non-current tax of £3.6m
and adjustment to prior year current tax of £0.1m, giving an overall
effective tax rate on continuing operations of 14.9% which has also
been reduced by the available losses and land remediation relief.
Relief of 150% is available for certain land remediation costs. This
has resulted in a tax saving of approximately £1.5m. In addition,
capital allowances on the Widnes development have resulted in a
tax saving of approximately £1.4m. 
Statement of Financial Position
We have a strong balance sheet with net assets of £305.4m (2009:
£279.2m) including operational fixed assets of £210.9m (2009:
£211.6m). Freehold property held includes five operational road
transport sites, land at the Mersey Multimodal Gateway (3MG) in
Widnes, the Port of Weston at Runcorn, London Southend Airport
and Carlisle Lake District Airport.
Funding
The net debt of the Group has reduced to £96.8m from £120.7m at
28 February 2009 (and reduced by £58m from £154.8m at the
interim position at 31 August 2009). This is principally due to the pay-
down of the £25m revolving credit facility and specific £29m
development funding following the disposal of the assets at Widnes.
The finance lease liabilities have reduced to £50.4m from £53.4m, due
to 2009 being a low year for vehicle replacements; 2010 and 2011 are
both high replacement years on the three year replacement cycle.
The gearing ratio is 31.7% (2009: 43.2%) and more importantly the
gearing ratio ignoring fleet assets and fleet financing is 15.2% (2009:
24.1%) following the disposal of the assets at Widnes.
There is £53.9m of net debt due within one year at the balance
sheet date. Of this, £32.0m was working capital and finance lease
debt which revolves on normal cycles. Of the remaining £21.9m,
£4.2m has been repaid since the year end, £3.6m of the Income
Shares have been converted and £5m refinanced into a longer facil-
ity. The final £9.1m is Income Shares (£0.9m), vendor loan notes on
London Southend Airport (£6m) and normal amortising term debt
repayments (£2.2m). The Group is reviewing its funding
requirements with a view to implementing a suitable structure for
further strategic development. Our bankers remain supportive and
we have strong interest from other banks and funding institutions.  
Cashflow
Cash generated from operations was £39.8m (2009: £47.9m). Operat-
ing cash flow after fleet financing repayments (which can be regarded
as operating) was £20.9m (2009: £29.9m). This reduction is due to an
increase in working capital from a low base in the prior year.
Cash outflow for capital expenditure in the year totalled £63.3m
(2009: £54.7m) including assets backed by finance leases of
£17.7m (2009: £33.9m). This included the following principal items:
> Development of the chilled distribution site at Widnes, funded by
a £29m loan which was also repaid on disposal of the assets.
> Development of the railway station and control tower at
Southend funded by a new loan facility.
Cash received from disposal of property, plant and equipment
was £72.8m (2009: £4.8m) including £61m from disposal of the
Widnes assets. Of the remaining amount, £5.1m (2009: £1.0m)
related to the buyback and resulting repayment of finance lease
balloons on vehicles.
The net repayment of borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities)
was £29.6m (2009: £1.9m increase in borrowings).
Dividends paid totalled £13.0m (2009: £14.6m) reflecting a reduction
of the annual dividend rate to 6p (2009: 8p) as previously announced.
Outlook
The Group expects to grow its operational business and develop
certain important strategic assets over the next year.
Within the Eddie Stobart Division, there will be a full year of the new
£20m per annum Unilever contract, the new £6m per annum AG Barr
contract and the Valencia train. We also expect to start transport
services for the chilled distribution centre in Widnes in the first half.
The railway station at London Southend Airport will be completed in
July 2010 giving a 49 minute connection to central London which
will significantly help the Airport to attract passenger services. We
have planning approval for extension of the runway and expect to
complete this by Autumn 2011. We already have funding in place
for these developments.
At the Carlisle Airport site, we await certain final site planning
approvals and then we expect to start construction of a purpose-
built distribution centre to replace the current sites. This will make
our Carlisle operation much more efficient.
Dividends
As indicated at the interims, the Board proposes a final dividend of
4p (2009: 3.3p) reflecting the normal one third/two thirds split,
bringing the total dividend for the year to 6p (2009: 6p).
Conclusion
We have had a successful year consolidating our acquisitions,
developing our multimodal strategy and have demonstrated that
we can add significant value to our assets by development of the
operations and infrastructure around them.
We have further growth and development plans which we believe
have excellent potential and we look forward to enhancing our
earnings and asset values in the coming years.
Ben Whawell Chief Financial Officer Risk Management
37     Stobart Group Limited
Risk Management
The Group operates an internal risk control system to evaluate and
manage risks as described in the section ‘Internal Control’ on page
45 of this report. Besides general risk factors, a non-exhaustive
summary of specific risks affecting the Group’s operations and
industry is outlined below
Consumer confidence
As a key supplier to UK retailers, the Group’s revenues are not as
sensitive to general economic and consumer spending conditions.
This is because a large proportion of loads carried are within the
Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) sector. 
Where volumes decline, the Group operates a fleet financing and
recruitment policy which allows it to flex its operations in response
to both increases and decreases in demand. 
Seasonality and abnormal weather
Supplying UK retailers, the Group’s revenue has been seasonally
linked with its customers, with demand peaking in the Summer
months and the build-up to Christmas. January and February have
typically been the slowest trading months. 
The Group has grown non-seasonal business to minimise these
peaks and troughs, but revenues will still flex in response to strong
or weak retail trading; particularly in the build-up to Christmas. The
ability to flex the fleet in response, as outlined above, also mitigates
this risk. 
Extreme weather, such as high winds, can disrupt the Group’s
business as the fleet and rail terminals can have difficulty operating. 
Government legislation and regulation
Operating in the transport and distribution sector, the Group is sub-
ject to a number of areas of legislation and regulation. 
Legislation and regulation in areas such as working time, health and
safety, road duties, fuel costs and environment, can have an impact
on a number of operational areas. Management have worked within
these constraints through the introduction of appropriate systems
and controls.
Information technology
The Group’s business model is dependent on certain information
systems and databases. These are backed up and the Group has
in-house IT services.
Airport safety and security
There are inherent safety and security risks involved in operating an
airport. The airport management and staff are well equipped to
manage fire and other safety and security related risks. London
Southend Airport and Carlisle Lake District Airport are regulated by
the Civil Aviation Authority and the Department for Transport.  
Demand for integrated and outsourced transport and logistics
The transport and logistics industry in the UK has seen a general
trend towards an increased demand from customers for an inte-
grated transport and logistics service from suppliers with national
and international operations, as opposed to companies providing
only one service on a limited regional basis.
The Board believes that the Group is well positioned to take advan-
tage of this move towards integrated and outsourced transport and
logistics with both national and international capabilities, offering a
more operationally efficient service.
People
The strategic and operational management of the Group depends
on certain key management. Management are retained by competi-
tive performance-based remuneration and key man insurance
policies are in place.
Competition
The transport and logistics industry remains highly polarised, with a
large number of small regional operators competing for general
transport work and a small number of national and international
businesses capable of offering fully outsourced/integrated solu-
tions to major UK customers. 
The Group is targeting national transport and logistics contracts
worth in excess of £10m per annum. This will increase its direct
competition with the small number of international businesses also
looking to target this market segment. 
However, due to the nature of the innovative cost model, the Group
will also seek other business to complement its traffic flows.
Nature of lease obligations
Stobart Group has a number of warehouse and operating depot
leases which represent a significant cost commitment and con-
tribute to material fixed costs. 
Where possible, the Group sublets facilities in back-to-back
arrangements with end customers to minimise financial risk. The
warehouses are predominantly on standard commercial property
terms and include periodic upwards only rent reviews. 
Fuel prices
Fuel prices represent a high cost in the Group. The impact of fuel
price movements on financial performance in 2007/2008 and
2008/2009 have been negligible due to the use of fuel price escala-
tors within all customers contracts.
Commercial property
The Group currently holds a number of property assets held for
sale through associated companies and joint ventures. Although
the Group is seeking to exit these arrangements, the properties are
subject to the general property market climate. The carrying values
have been largely written down in the year and previous periods.
Acquisitions
The enlarged Stobart Group was formed by a merger in September
2007 and has, since then, completed a further five major acquisitions. 
The synergistic benefits from the merger and acquisitions will be
derived from successful integration of the various interests. The
Group has adopted detailed integration plans to ensure the inte-
gration is successful.
Capital expenditure
The successful development of the Group’s current assets at
Widnes rail connected distribution park, London Southend Airport,
Carlisle Lake District Airport and the Port of Weston at Runcorn, will
depend on securing funding for the proposals. The Group currently
has a reasonably low level of gearing, and believes it is in a strong
position to realise the potential of these assets.
Financial Review                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   38
The Board of Directors, Executives
Andrew Tinkler
Chief Executive Officer
In 1988 Andrew formed WA Tinkler Building
Contractors, later to become WA Developments, a
very successful business focussed on civil
engineering and railway infrastructure. It is now
part of the Group and is known as ‘Stobart Rail’.
In 2004, Andrew acquired Eddie Stobart Group with
colleague William Stobart and was appointed CEO.
He was instrumental in developing the strategy and
vision that is today’s successful Stobart Group.
A past winner of the IoD North West Director of 
the Year Award, his proven risk management
experience has played a valuable role in building a
solid foundation for implementing the Group’s
multimodal strategy.
William Stobart
Chief Operating Officer
Long-time Director of Eddie Stobart Limited, William
started his career with the haulage company. 
He carried out a broad spectrum of roles, including
HGV Driver, Planner and Manager within Stobart
during his early career. This comprehensive
experience has given him an in-depth understanding
of every level of the business.
William left Eddie Stobart in 2001 to join WA
Developments as a shareholding Director, and in
2004, following the acquisition of Eddie Stobart
Group, he returned to the Company as COO.
As COO, William continues to be closely involved in
delivering the Group’s strategy.
Ben Whawell
Chief Financial Officer
Qualified Chartered Accountant, Ben, spent nine
years at Grant Thornton before joining Eddie Stobart
in 2004.
Ben is responsible for Finance, HR, IT and Business
Systems. His primary focus is on the financial
performance of the Group’s operations. Ben
oversaw the Company’s merger with Westbury
Property Fund, forming Stobart Group and the
acquisitions of James Irlam, Innovate Chilled, WA
Developments, London Southend Airport, Carlisle
Lake District Airport and more recently Stobart
Biomass Products.
Ben received the North West Financial Director 
of the Year Award in 2009.
David Irlam
Executive Director, Business Development
David Irlam joined the Stobart Board with the
acquisition in April 2008 of James Irlam Logistics.
David started his career in the family business 30
years ago as a Driver. He held a variety of
management positions within Irlam before becoming
MD and later CEO of James Irlam. 
He was instrumental in expanding the Irlam business,
leading contract negotiations and building relationships
with blue-chip clients. More recently, he has been active
in business development strategies and systems. 
As an Executive Director, David’s extensive
experience at the cutting edge of the logistics
industry is a valuable asset to Stobart Group. 
Trevor Howarth
Legal Director and Company Secretary
Trevor Howarth joined the Company as Group Legal
Director and has over 20 years’ legal experience.
Within a matter of weeks Trevor became BSB
licensed to instruct Counsel direct on behalf of the
Group, resulting in substantial savings on legal fees. 
Since joining Stobart Group, Trevor has overseen a
review of the Company’s insurances and has
brought the management of all claims in-house.
T revor’s legal expertise has provided the Company with
immediate legal advice on a wide range of legal issues.
Trevor is Legal Director and Company Secretary 
of Stobart Group. 39     Stobart Group Limited
Corporate Governance
The Board of Directors, Non-Executives
Rodney Baker-Bates
Group Non-Executive Chairman
Rodney has held numerous senior positions within
the finance sector, including MD of UK Banking at
the Midland Bank and CE of Prudential FS. He has
also been a member of the BBC’s management
committee. 
He holds a number of Board positions with Bedlam
Asset Management PLC, Co-Operative Financial
Services, EG Solutions Ltd and G’s Group Holdings
Ltd. Rodney is also a Non-Executive Director of
C.Hoare & Co. and is Chairman of Assura Group. 
Nick Watts
Non-Executive Director
Nick has a long history working at senior level within
the investment industry. Currently Stobart Group’s
Senior Independent Director, he Chairs the Stobart
Remuneration Committee.
Nick is SID and Chairman of the Corporate
Governance Committee at LGIM (H). He also holds
Trustee Directorship of Cable & Wireless Pension
Fund and Chairs its Investment Committee. He is
also a Trustee Board Director for a school for children
with special needs. 
Daniel Dayan
Non-Executive Director
Daniel was appointed in 2009. He is Chief Executive
Officer of Fiberweb plc and a Trustee of the human
rights charity The Medical Foundation. Daniel has
also been a Novar plc Board Director.
A Chartered Mechanical Engineer by profession,
earlier in his career he also worked in manufacturing
management at ICI plc and has been a
Management Consultant with Arthur D. Little. 
Jesper Kjaedegaard
Non-Executive Director
Jesper has more than 30 years’ experience in
transport and logistics. He has held several senior
positions within A.P . Moller-Maersk Group and was
appointed Chief Executive of The Maersk Company
UK Ltd in 2004. 
Leaving in 2008, he co-founded Mercator
International, an independent ports and
infrastructure consultancy. Currently, he is also
President of the British Chamber of Shipping and
Chairman of Maritime UK.
Michael Kayser
Non-Executive Director
Michael is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants. He has extensive
experience in corporate transactions, both in quoted
and private markets.
Michael has also held a variety of senior finance
appointments at Laporte PLC, Doncasters Ltd,
Amey PLC, Unilever and Guinness Brewing
Worldwide.                                                                                                                                                                          Report and Accounts 2010   40
Directors’ Report
Year Ended 28 February 2010
Principal activities 
Stobart Group is a multimodal logistics business which operates a
range of transport and logistics solutions. The principal subsidiary
undertakings, associates and joint ventures of the Group are con-
tained in the notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Results and dividends 
A review of Group activities, analysis of revenue and profit, indica-
tion of future developments and principal risks and uncertainties
and a review of the KPIs are included in the Business and Financial
Reviews.
An interim dividend of 2.0p per share was paid on 10 December
2009. Subject to shareholders’ approval at the AGM to be held on
Friday 18 June 2010 at 10.30am, at The Fermain Valley Hotel, Fer-
main Lane, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1ZZ. A final dividend of 4.0p
per share will be paid on 21 June 2010 to shareholders on the regis-
ter at 21 May 2010. The ex-dividend date is 19 May 2009.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors 
The Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers when it enters
into a binding agreement. In this way, suppliers are made aware of
these terms. 
Directors
Biographies of the Directors who are currently serving are shown
on pages 38 and 39.
Directors’ and Officers’ insurance
The Group maintains an appropriate level of Directors’ and Offi-
cers’ insurance whereby Directors are indemnified against liabilities
to third parties to the extent permitted by Guernsey Company Law.
Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing annual financial
statements in accordance with applicable Guernsey Law and
International Financial Reporting Standards applicable in the EU.
Guernsey Company Law requires Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial period which give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the
profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period and are
in accordance with applicable laws. 
In preparing those Financial Statements the Directors are required to:
> Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently.
> Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
> Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis,
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and
Company will continue in business.
> State whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies
(Guernsey) Law 1994. They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking rea-
sonable steps for the prevention of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board and Senior Executives of the Group are accountable to
the shareholders and communicate with them on a regular basis in
a number of ways. These include:
> Annual general and extraordinary meetings.
> Announcements on the London Stock Exchange.
> Regular briefings on the Group’s website.
> Presentations to institutional shareholders on a semi-annual basis.
Directors’ interests in shares
The Directors and their immediate families had the following benefi-
cial interests as at 23 April 2010 in the Group’s ordinary shares.
Director No. of Ordinary Shares
Rodney Baker-Bates 381,000 
Andrew Tinkler* 35,620,367
William Stobart** 12,991,927
Ben Whawell 97,906
David Irlam 2,546,620
Nick Watts 73,135
Michael Kayser 40,000
Daniel Dayan 40,000
Jesper Kjaedegaard 30,000
Director No. of Share Options
Ben Whawell 275,000
* 25,000 shares held in the name of Laura Tinkler, 25,000 shares held in the name of Adam Tinkler and 40,000 shares held in the name of Alison Schmutz.
** 10,554 shares held in the name of April Stobart, 20,329 shares held in the name of Edward Stobart.
The individual interests of the Directors in share options are shown above with further details to be found in the remuneration report on pages 46 to 49. Substantial shareholdings
At 23 April 2010, Directors were aware that the following sharehold-
ers owned three per cent or more of the issued ordinary shares of
the Group.
Director No. of Ordinary Shares % of Ordinary Shares
Invesco Asset 
Management Limited 64,942,663 24.5
Directors and Related 51,820,955 19.5
Artemis Investment 
Management Limited 27,767,879 10.5
Aviva plc 16,182,334 6.1
Legal & General Investment
Management Limited 10,474,598 3.9
Alan Jenkinson 11,278,195 4.3
Moor Capital Management 9,327,076 3.5
Steve O’Connor* 8,185,768 3.1
*    Shares held in the name of Cenkos Channel Islands Nominee Limited.
Share capital and reserves
Details of the authorised and issued share capital and reserves of
the Group are shown in note 25 of the Financial Statements on
page 86. The Share capital of Stobart Group Limited is made up of
265,164,912 ordinary shares of 10p as at the date of this report.
The shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the
Channel Islands Stock Exchange. 
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect
its future performance and position, are set out in the Chief Execu-
tive Officer’s Statement and Business Review on pages 13 to 30. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and funding are
described in the Business Performance Review on pages 31 to 36.
In addition, note 22 to the financial statements includes the Group’s
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its
financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instru-
ments and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources, together with long
term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers. The finan-
cial forecasts show that borrowing facilities are adequate such that
the Group can operate within these facilities and meet its obligations
when they fall due for the foreseeable future. As a consequence, the
Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its busi-
ness risks successfully despite the current economic climate.
41     Stobart Group Limited
Corporate Governance
The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated
Income Statement on page 51.
During the period under review, the Group has declared and
paid the following dividends to its income shareholders:
Dividend Date Declared Rate
First interim 18 March 2009 2.0p
Second interim 17 June 2009 2.0p
Third interim 19 September 2009 2.0p
Final Dividend for 2009 17 December 2009 2.0p
During the period under review, the Group has declared and
paid the following dividends to its ordinary shareholders:
Dividend Date Declared Rate
Final for 2009 12 May 2009 3.3p
Interim Dividend 22 October 2009 2.0p
A final dividend of 4.0p was declared on 12 May 2010 and
will be paid on 21 June 2010.
Results and Dividends
Directors’ Report
Continued After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the forseeable future. Accordingly, the financial state-
ments have been prepared on a going concern basis. 
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect
of the Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 
The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge:
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, gives a true
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or
loss of the Group. 
The Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the balance sheet position of the
Group, together with the principal risks and uncertainties.
Auditors  
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the
Company and for the approval of their remuneration are to be pro-
posed at the 2010 AGM. 
The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this
Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware,
there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s audi-
tors are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that
he ought to have taken as Director to make himself aware of any
relevant audit information and establish that the Group’s auditors
are aware of that information.
By order of the Board.
Trevor Howarth Company Secretary
Stobart Group Limited
Stretton Green Distribution Park, Langford Way, 
Appleton Thorn, Warrington WA4 4TZ 
Directors, Officers and Advisers
Executive Directors
Andrew Tinkler Chief Executive Officer Appointed 01 March 2008
William Stobart Chief Operating Officer Appointed 01 March 2008
Ben Whawell Chief Financial Officer Appointed 01 March 2008
David Irlam Executive Director Appointed 04 April 2008
Non-Executive Directors
Rodney Baker-Bates Appointed 10 April 2002
Nick Watts Appointed 01 February 2007
Michael Kayser Appointed 01 March 2009
Daniel Dayan Appointed 01 July 2009
Jesper Kjaedegaard Appointed 01 July 2009
Company Secretary
Trevor Howarth Appointed 01 March 2009
Registered Office
Isabelle Chambers, Route Isabelle 
St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands  GY1 3TX.
Administrator
Morgan Sharpe Administration Limited
PO Box 327, Isabelle Chambers, Route Isabelle 
St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands  GY1 3TX.
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP 
100 Barbirolli Square, Manchester  M2 3EY .
Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
1 Spinningfields Square, Spinningfields 
Manchester  M3 3AP .
Sponsor, Financial Adviser and Brokers
Cenkos Securities Limited
6.7.8 T okenhouse Yard, London  EC2R 7AS.
Investec Securities
2 Gresham Street, London  EC2V 7QP .
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010   42
 
          
            
 
      
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
    S          
   
          
           
            
           
          
    
 
         
           
           
           
          
          
        
        
         
        
          
         
          
           
           
        Corporate Governance Report
Year Ended 28 February 2010
Good corporate governance assists in the promotion of this growth
by ensuring that there is effective authority and accountability
throughout the organisation. The base that the Group uses for this
is the 2008 Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting
Council and appended to the Listing Rules and which sets out best
practice of how a company should be run.
Whilst the Group was incorporated in Guernsey and hence was not
required under law to comply with the Combined Code, the Board
is committed to its standards. 
The purpose of this report is to show how the Group complies with
the Code and, on the rare occasions where it does not, explain the
reason for non-compliance.
The Board - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held by
different individuals in order to provide segregation of roles. 
The Chairman’s role is to manage the Board of Directors, ensure
that the Non-Executives are committed to their positions and are
able to contribute to the management of the Group as a whole. 
The Chief Executive Officer’s role is to implement strategy laid down by
the Board of Directors and to manage the Group and its operations.
The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the success of
the Group.
Board balance and independence
The Board now consists of nine individuals, five of whom (including
the Chairman) are independent Non-Executive and four are Execu-
tive Directors. Over the past year, this Board has had the
appropriate balance and skill set to advise on the Group’s growth.
It was recognised that the Board would benefit from Non-Executive
Directors who have more operational and industry-specific knowl-
edge. 
During the year, Richard Burrell and Nigel Rawlings stepped down
from the Board and were replaced by Daniel Dayan and Jesper
Kjaedegaard. Daniel is a Chartered Mechanical Engineer and is
Chief Executive Officer of Fibreweb plc. 
Jesper was Chief Executive of the Maersk Company UK Ltd until
recently and now runs his own ports infrastructure consultancy
business. He is also President of the British Chamber of Shipping
and Chairman of Maritime UK.
Senior Independent Director 
Nick Watts is Group Senior Independent Director, his role is to: 
> Be available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot
be dealt with by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer.
> Attend institutional and analyst briefings, in addition to the Chief
Executive Officer and his team.
> Meet with the Non-Executive members of the Board at least
once a year, without the presence of the Chairman or the Execu-
tive Directors, in order to review the Chairman’s performance in
his role and also the Chairman’s relationship with the Chief
Executive Officer.
Company Secretary and independent advice
The Company Secretary’s role is to act as advisor to the Board on
matters relating to Corporate Governance and, in conjunction with
the Chairman, to ensure good information flows between the
Board, its various committees, the Non-Executive and Executive
Directors and Senior members of the Executive T eam.
The Non-Executive Directors have access to his advice and serv-
ices in addition to independent, professional advice if required (at
the Group’s expense).
Matters reserved for the Board and how it operates
In accordance with the Code, the Board has agreed a formal
schedule of matters requiring its decision. This schedule is avail-
able on the Group’s website. In summary, those matters reserved
to the Board include:
> Strategy of the Group.
> Being alert to market and other prevalent conditions and their
potential consequence on the Group and the environment in
which it operates.
> Continuing review of Group performance against its forecasts.
> Consideration and approval of financial results, dividend policy
and payments.
> Capital structure and any debt funding of the Group.
> Approval of financial and other commitments above those dele-
gated to the Executive.
> Monitoring internal control and risk management.
> Appointment of the Executive Directors on the recommendation
of the Nomination Committee.
43     Stobart Group Limited
Corporate Governance
Above all other objectives, the Board is there to ensure that
the Group provides long term and sustainable growth for
its shareholders.                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   44
The Board has met for eight scheduled meetings during the course
of the 12 months under review and attendance at such Board
Meetings by individual Directors is set out below. 
In addition, it has met with members of the senior management
team on 14 October 2009 to discuss the Group’s vision and strat-
egy and review business planning and risk mechanisms.
Director Number of Number of
meetings attended meetings possible
Rodney Baker-Bates 88
Andrew Tinkler 88
William Stobart 88
Ben Whawell 78
David Irlam 68
Nick Watts 78
Michael Kayser 88
Richard Burrell (resigned 30 June 2009) 33
Nigel Rawlings (resigned 30 June 2009) 33
Daniel Dayan (appointed 01 July 2009) 45
Jesper Kjaedegaard (appointed 01 July 2009)55
Board meetings are an opportunity, for example, for the Non-Exec-
utive Directors to challenge performance of the various Divisions
against targets and KPIs set, to review transactions which have
taken place since the preceding meeting, and to receive reports
from the Board’s committees.
Board proceedings are recorded in comprehensive minutes, which
permit any Director to record their views if they have any concerns
which the Board cannot satisfactorily resolve. No such concerns
were voiced during this period.
Appointments to the Board
The Board has established a Nomination Committee which is
required to meet at least once a year or more often, if so required,
in order to make recommendations to the Board on the composi-
tion, balance and membership of the Board. 
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appoint-
ments and makes recommendations to the Board on the structure,
size and composition of the Board and succession planning for
Directors and Senior Executives. 
The Committee’s members are Rodney Baker-Bates (Chairman),
Andrew Tinkler and Nick Watts. For new potential Non-Executive
Board members, the Nomination Committee meet and agree to
appoint an external consultant to assist with the selection of a
shortlist of potential Non-Executive Directors. 
Once this shortlist is presented, the Nomination Committee meet
and undertake a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the
appointment of new Directors to the Board.
During 2009, the Board engaged an external consultant to advise
and assist on the selection and recruitment of two Non-Executive
Directors.
Careful consideration is given by the Nomination Committee to
ensure that any appointees to the Board have enough time avail-
able to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge
and experience on the Board is maintained. 
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chair-
man, the Senior Independent Director will Chair the Committee
instead of the Chairman. When the Committee has found a suitable
candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will make the proposal
to the whole Board and the appointment is the responsibility of the
whole Board following recommendation from the Committee. 
Information, induction and professional development
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring all Directors receive com-
prehensive information on a regular basis to enable them to
perform their duties properly. Board papers are normally distributed
five days in advance of scheduled Board Meetings. 
New Directors receive appropriate induction on joining the Board,
typically including meeting members of the senior management
team and visits to operational sites. All Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible
to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with. 
Board/Director evaluation and training
The Chief Executive Officer conducts annual appraisals with Executive
Directors and has regular one-to-one discussions about their perform-
ance with them, as does the Chairman with the Chief Executive. 
The Board has also appointed an independent consultancy to
undertake a review of the effectiveness of the governance arrange-
ments. This evaluation included the following:
> A review of the Board and key committee papers for the preced-
ing 12 months and other background materials;
> Interviews of current Board members, the former Non-Executive
Director, Nigel Rawlings and the Company Secretary.
> Observation of the Board meeting on 29 July 2009.
A report of findings was presented to the Board in September 2009. The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is to establish formal and transparent
arrangements for considering how to apply the financial reporting
and internal control principles and to maintain an appropriate rela-
tionship with the external auditors. 
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial state-
ments, internal financial controls and internal audit functions. The
Committee also makes recommendations to the Board in relation
to the appointment of the Group’s external auditors. 
Audit Committee membership
The Audit Committee is chaired by Michael Kayser and its other
members include Rodney Baker-Bates, Nigel Rawlings (resigned
30 June 2009) and Daniel Dayan (appointed 01 July 2009). The
Company Secretary acts as its secretary.
Michael Kayser is considered by the Board and the Nomination Com-
mittee to hold the requisite recent and relevant financial experience.
The quorum for an Audit Committee meeting is any two members.
Only members of the Audit Committee and the Company Secretary
are permitted to attend meetings. However, the Chief Financial Offi-
cer and the Group’s external auditors will normally be invited to
attend meetings. 
At least once a year, the Audit Committee will meet with the external
auditors without the Chief Financial Officer or any other Executive
Directors present. 
Attendance at Audit Committee meetings
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee from 1 March
2008 (which are available on the Group’s website) require it to
meet at least three times per year. During the period under
review, the Audit Committee met on four occasions, with atten-
dance as set out in the table below:
Number of Audit Committee Meetings in the period 4
Member Number of meetings attended
Michael Kayser 4
Nigel Rawlings 2
Rodney Baker-Bates 4
Daniel Dayan 1
Shareholder relations
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications
with shareholders. Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief
Executive and Chief Financial Officer, have dialogue with individual
institutional shareholders in order to develop an understanding of
their views which are periodically fed back to the Board. 
T wice a year general presentations are given to analysts and
investors covering the annual and half year results. In addition
members of the Board meet with institutional investors and ana-
lysts on a periodic basis.
The Company Secretary generally deals with enquiries from individ-
ual shareholders. www.stobartgroup.com contains published
information and press releases. 
Whistleblowing policy
The Board has prepared and approved a whistleblowing policy
which has been circulated within the Company. This policy
includes arrangements for employees to raise concerns about
possible improprieties in financial or other matters. Arrangements
include independent investigation of such matters and appropriate
follow-up action.
Internal control and risk management
The Directors’ responsibilities in connection with the financial state-
ments are set out in the Directors’ report on page 40. The Board,
through the Audit Committee, is responsible for the Group’s system
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board considers risk assessment, implementation of mitigating
actions and internal control to be fundamental to achieving the
Group’s strategy. Internal control gives the Board reasonable but
not absolute assurance. The Board has an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the
Group and maintains a risk register. 
The system of internal control is based upon:
> The Board’s overall responsibility.
> The Group has an organisational structure with established lines
of accountability, as well as clearly defined levels of authority.
> Regular, and at least annual review, by the Board and the Audit
Committee.
> Compliance with the T urnbull Guidance 2005.
> Support by company policies in other areas such as finance.
> Management rather than elimination of the risk of failure to achieve
strategic objectives. It can also only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the effective-
ness of internal control (including financial, operational and
compliance controls, together with risk management in accordance
with the Code) over the period of this report, and to the date of its
publication, and confirm that no significant failings or weaknesses
have been identified. If they had been, the Board confirms that the
necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
The Audit Committee review the independence of the auditors at
the interims and at year end.
Corporate responsibility
David Irlam, Executive Director, takes Board level responsibility for
developing and implementing the Group’s policy and approach for
corporate responsibility. 
This includes its arrangements for matters relating to people, soci-
ety and the environment. 
Corporate Governance Report
Continued
45     Stobart Group Limited
Corporate Governance                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   46
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Year Ended 28 February 2010
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) makes recommen-
dations to the Board on the Company’s framework for Executive
remuneration and its cost. It approves on the Board’s behalf the
general recruitment terms, remuneration benefits, employment
conditions and severance terms for Executive Management. 
The Committee’s members include Nick Watts (Chairman), Rodney
Baker-Bates, Richard Burrell (resigned as a Director 30 June 2009)
and Jesper Kjaedegaard (appointed as a Director 01 July 2009). All
the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board to be
independent in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Committee has retained Hewitt New Bridge Street (HNBS) to
advise it on Executive remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee met once during the period ended
28 February 2010. 
Number of Remuneration Committee Meetings in the period 1
Member Number of meetings attended
Nick Watts 1
Rodney Baker-Bates 1
Richard Burrell (resigned June 2009) 0
Jesper Kjaedegaard 1
Policy statement on 
Executive Directors’ remuneration
The Board’s policy for Executive Directors and key Executives’
remuneration is to:
> Keep salaries and fixed pay at below market levels but move
them towards a market level over a period of years and to
reward performance through variable pay arrangements;
> Use short and long term incentives to encourage Executives to
out-perform targets, thereby linking their rewards to the interests
of shareholders and other stakeholders and giving them the
opportunity to increase their earnings;
> Encourage Executives to hold shares in the Group; and
> Overall, reward Executives fairly and responsibly for their contri-
bution to the Group’s short and long-term performance and
avoid paying more than is necessary for achieving this objective.
The Company repays reasonable expenses to Non-Executive
Directors which are incurred to carry out their duties as Directors. 
Policy statement on 
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
The Group’s policy is to pay annual fees that reflect the responsibil-
ities placed upon Non-Executive Directors. Fees are reviewed each
year, when account is taken of the level of fees paid in companies
of similar size and complexity. Additional fees will be paid to the
Chairman of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and
Nomination Committee. 
Non-Executive Directors will not participate in any annual bonus or
incentive plans, the pension scheme, healthcare arrangements and
the Company long-term incentive plans. 
During the period to 28 February 2010 there was no increase given
to the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors. 
Share options awarded to Directors 
At the time of the Westbury Property Fund merger in September
2007, the Board decided to award a share incentive award to
Richard Burrell and Nigel Rawlings.
In respect of Richard Burrell, this relates to an option of 902,472
shares in the Group at an exercise price of 166.2p per ordinary
share. In respect of Nigel Rawlings, this relates to an option of
601,648 shares in the Group at an exercise price of 166.2p per
ordinary share. Both Richard Burrell and Nigel Rawlings resigned
from the Board in the year and they retain their options. There are
no performance conditions attached to these options.
In March 2008 and August 2009 respectively, Ben Whawell was
awarded 300,000 and 125,000 share options under the Stobart’s Exec-
utive Equity Incentive Plan (SEEIP). In February 2010, 150,000 of the
first granted options were fully vested. 61,500 of the shares issued after
vesting were sold by the Employee Benefit T rust to pay the income tax
and employee’s National Insurance payable on issue of these shares.
The other Executive Directors were not awarded share options under
the incentive plans, as they hold significant shareholdings in the
Group. 
No other Directors’ share options were exercised or lapsed in the
period ended 28 February 2010.
Non-Executive Directors’ Fees for the period to 28 February 2010
Director T otal Fees 2010 T otal Fees 2009
£’000 £’000
Rodney Baker-Bates 90.0 90.0
Nick Watts 44.7 40.0
Michael Kayser 42.0 42.0
Richard Burrell (resigned June 2009) 14.6 35.0
Nigel Rawlings (resigned June 2009) 14.6 35.0
Daniel Dayan (appointed July 2009) 20.4 -
Jesper Kjaedegaard (appointed July 2009) 20.4 -
Tim Chesney (resigned August 2008) - 11.6 Executive Directors’ elements of remuneration
The Executive Directors’ total remuneration consists of salary,
annual bonus, long term incentives, pensions and other benefits
such as company car allowance and health care. 
Salary 
The Board has agreed to pay all its Executive Directors a salary of
£100,000 in the year. The salary is lower than that of executives paid
in companies of comparable size and complexity. The Committee
feels that it is appropriate to increase salary levels towards market
levels over a period of years and to reward executives through the
variable pay arrangements. 
For 2010 the committee has reviewed salary levels and awarded a
salary of £125,000 for Executive Directors for the current year.
Annual bonus 
The Group's bonus policy is to pay a self funded cash bonus,
based on individual performance assessment, when the Group's
performance for the year is ahead of budget. As well as a cash
bonus for the year, the Board agrees a stretching upside target
significantly ahead of budget, which if met in full, will trigger
awards based on individual performance under the LTIP scheme.
The Executive Directors participate in an annual performance
related bonus scheme and the remuneration Committee review
targets and levels of eligibility annually.
Bonus payments are determined by the Committee and are based
on targets. The maximum bonus level is 100% of base salary, of
which 75% is based on the attainment of headline profit before tax
and 25% is based on the attainment of other corporate operational
objectives, such as business wins, fleet utilisation, health and
safety and efficiency savings.
Stobart Executive Equity Plan (SEEIP)
Long term incentives have been awarded under the Stobart Exec-
utive Equity Plan (SEEIP). The rules for the SEEIP were approved
by shareholders in September 2007 and the Group made awards
under the SEEIP to Ben Whawell of 300,000 options in March
2008 and of 125,000 options in August 2009. Awards under the
SEEIP are also made to certain other senior management and
seek to reward performance measured over a three year period.
The awards under SEEIP are conditional based on performance
measured over a period to a fixed point in time. The performance
period for the EPS based options is for the year to 28 February
2010 (March 2008 options), to 28 February 2011 (July 2008
options) and to 28 February 2012 (August 2009 options). The
performance period for the TSR based options is a three year
period from the date of grant of the options.
There are two performance measures associated with the SEEIP ,
chosen to align with the best interests of the Group and its share-
holders. These are an Earnings Per Share (EPS) test and a T otal
Shareholder Return (TSR) test. 
The vesting of 50% (March 2008 award), 40% (July 2008 award)
and 40% (August 2009 award) are dependent on the Company’s
TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE small cap
index (excluding investment trusts) over the three year period from
the date of the grant. No award vests for below median perform-
ance. At median performance awards vest in proportion to full
vesting for upper quartile performance. 
The vesting of the remaining 50% (March 2008 award), 60% (July
2008 award) and 60% (August 2009 award) are dependent on EPS
growth targets:
EPS growth March 2008 award
<7.75p 0% vests
Between 7.75p and 10.75p Pro rata between 0% and 100%
>10.75p 100%
EPS growth July 2008 award
<9.3p 0% vests
Between 9.3p and 12.9p Pro rata between 0% and 100%
>12.9p 100%
EPS growth August 2009 award
<10.2p 0% vests
Between 10.2p and 13.3p Pro rata between 0% and 100%
>13.3p 100%
The EPS measure will be a normalised EPS basis as determined by
the Remuneration Committee but excluding any charge in relation
to the options under the SEEIP .
On 28 February 2010, all of the March 2008 EPS based options vested. 
47     Stobart Group Limited
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Continued                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   48
The TSR comparatives shown are the FTSE Small Cap (excluding Investment Trusts) as that is the comparator Group for the TSR based
options under the SEEIP , and the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts) as the Group has been a member of the FTSE 250 during the year.
T otal Shareholder Return
21 Sept
2007
0
20
40
60
Value (£)
80
100
120
29 Feb
2008
28 Feb
2009
28 Feb
2010
Stobart Group Limited
FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts)
FTSE Small Cap (excluding Investment Trusts)
Source: Datastream 49     Stobart Group Limited
For the period to 1 March 2008 to 28 February 2009
Executive Director Base salaries Performance Benefits T otal Pension
and fees payments contribution
2009 2009 2009 2009 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Andrew Tinkler 100.0 60.0 72.9 232.9 15.0
William Stobart 100.0 60.0 26.0 186.0 15.0
Ben Whawell 100.0 60.0 13.3 173.3 15.0
David Irlam 91.7 60.0 30.4 182.1 13.8
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Continued
Share option schemes
Currently 3.4% of shares of the Company’s issued share capital
have been allocated under share option schemes. 
Service contracts 
The Committee is also under a duty to ensure contractual terms on
termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and
to the Group, that failure is not rewarded; and that duty to mitigate
loss is fully recognised. Each service contract expires at the normal
retirement date or earlier if notice is given. 
The Executive Directors’ service contracts are dated 8 May 2009.
The Non-Executive Directors’ service contracts are dated as fol-
lows: Rodney Baker Bates: 21 September 2007, Nick Watts: 21
September 2007, Michael Kayser: 13 August 2008, Daniel Dayan: 1
July 2009, Jesper Kjaedegaard: 1 July 2009.
The notice periods are 12 months for Executive Directors and one
month for Non-Executive Directors. There are no provisions for fur-
ther compensation on early termination.
Rodney Baker-Bates, Andrew Tinkler, David Irlam, Daniel Dayan
and Jesper Kjaedegaard, will all retire and be proposed for re-elec-
tion at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 18 June 2010.
Pension and benefits
The Executive Directors receive a contribution to a personal pen-
sion scheme of 15% of annual salary, death in service benefits of
eight times annual salary, together with standard executive med-
ical benefits. They are also entitled to a company car of a size and
type deemed appropriate for the proper performance of their
duties, or at their discretion, a company car allowance of £20,000
per annum apart from Ben Whawell who is entitled to an allowance
of £12,000 per annum.
Trevor Howarth Company Secretary
Stobart Group Limited
Stretton Green Distribution Park, Langford Way, 
Appleton Thorn, Warrington WA4 4TZ 
Executive Directors’ Emoluments
For the period to 1 March 2009 to 28 February 2010
Executive Director Base salaries Performance Benefits T otal Pension
and fees payments contribution
2010 2010 2010 2010 2010
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Andrew Tinkler 100.0 63.3 42.2 205.5 15.0
William Stobart 100.0 63.3 38.0 201.3 15.0
Ben Whawell 100.0 63.3 15.2 178.5 15.0
David Irlam 104.6 63.3 31.6 199.5 15.1 Report and Accounts 2010 50
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Stobart Group
Limited for the year ended 28 February 2010 which comprise the
Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body,
in accordance with section 262 of the Companies (Guernsey) Law,
2008. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state
to the company’s members those matters we are required to state
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. T o the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the
preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to
audit the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices
Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable
assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of; whether the accounting policies are appropriate to
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting
estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of
the Financial Statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements:
> Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at
28 February 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended;
> Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union; and
> Have been properly prepared in accordance with the require-
ments of the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008 we are required to
report to you if, in our opinion:
> Proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company;
> The Company’s accounts are not in agreement with the account-
ing records; or
> We have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial
Statements of Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 28
February 2010.
Stuart Watson
For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Manchester
12 May 2010 
Independent Auditor’s Report
T o the Members of Stobart Group Limited  Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year to 28 February 2010
51 Stobart Group Limited
Notes Year to Restated year to
28.02.2010 28.02.2009
£’000 £’000
Revenue 5 447,661 431,062
Operating expenses - underlying 3 (412,642) (399,711)
Underlying operating profit 35,019 31,351
Share based payments 23 (2,504) (716)
Less: share based payments associated with the 
disposal of Widnes assets 3 1,758 -
Share based payments on underlying operating profit (746) (716)
Profit on disposal of Widnes assets (net of associated costs) 3 8,258 -
Restructuring costs 3 (2,746) (2,722)
Credit for business purchase 12 - 3,609
Impairment of investment property 15 - (1,803)
Profit before interest and tax 3 39,785 29,719
Finance costs 8 (6,650) (8,161)
Finance income 7 928 581
Profit before tax 5 34,063 22,139
Income tax 9 (5,071) (2,797)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 28,992 19,342
Discontinued operations 6 (770) (28,113)
Profit / (loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 28,222 (8,771)
Earnings / (loss) per ordinary share
From continuing operations
Basic 10 12.06p 8.97p
Diluted 10 11.89p 8.93p
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic 10 11.74p (4.07p)
Diluted 10 11.58p (4.07p) Report and Accounts 2010 52
Notes Year to Restated year to
28.02.2010 28.02.2009
£’000 £’000
Profit / (loss) for the year 28,222 (8,771)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations - (336)
Reversal of revaluation of land and buildings - (340)
Cash flow hedge (1,608) -
T ax on items relating to components of other comprehensive income 9 450 -
Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the year, net of tax (1,158) (676)
T otal comprehensive income / (loss) for the year 
attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 27,064 (9,447)
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  
For the year to 28 February 2010 Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
For the year to 28 February 2010
53 Stobart Group Limited
Notes 28.02.2010 28.02.2009
£’000 £’000
Non-current Assets
Property, plant and equipment
- Land and buildings 13 139,705 131,435
- Plant and machinery 13 15,835 15,302
- Fixtures, fittings and equipment 13 4,131 2,922
- Commercial vehicles 13 51,234 61,901
210,905 211,560
Investment property 15 2,000 -
Intangible assets 14 231,286 223,258
Other investments 10 22
444,201 434,840
Current Assets
Inventories 18 1,559 1,700
Trade and other receivables 19 84,411 72,104
Cash and cash equivalents 13,134 7,251
99,104 81,055
Assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 6 241 2,900
99,345 83,955
T otal Assets 543,546 518,795
Non-current Liabilities
Loans and borrowings 22 42,876 90,367
Other liabilities 21 10,941 15,420
Corporation tax 4,807 -
Deferred tax 24 34,243 34,269
92,867 140,056
Current Liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 74,204 57,559
Loans and borrowings 22 67,196 37,775
Corporation tax - 178
141,400 95,512
Liabilities directly associated with the assets classified as held for sale 6 3,923 3,997
145,323 99,509
T otal Liabilities 238,190 239,565
Net Assets 305,356 279,230 Report and Accounts 2010 54
Notes 28.02.2010 28.02.2009
£’000 £’000
Capital and reserves
Issued share capital 25 25,079 24,175
Share premium 25 164,255 155,805
Foreign currency exchange reserve 25 (468) (468)
Reserve for own shares held by EBT 25 (803) (803)
Hedge reserve 25 (1,158) -
Retained earnings 118,451 100,521
T otal Equity 305,356 279,230
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 12 May 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
Rodney Baker-Bates, Chairman Ben Whawell, Director Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  
For the year to 28 February 2010
55 Stobart Group Limited
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Issued Foreign currency Reserve for 
share Share exchange own shares Hedge Retained T otal
capital premium reserve held by EBT reserve earnings equity
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 March 2009 24,175 155,805 (468) (803) - 100,521 279,230
Profit for the year -- - - - 28,222 28,222
Other comprehensive expense for the year -- - - (1,158) - (1,158)
T otal comprehensive income for the year -- - - (1,158) 28,222 27,064
Proceeds on share issue 25 904 8,703 -- - - 9,607
Share issue costs - (253) -- - - (253)
Share based payment credit 23 -- - - - 2,262 2,262
T ax on share based payment -- - - - 439 439
Dividends 11 -- - - - (12,993) (12,993)
Balance at 28 February 2010 25,079 164,255 (468) (803) (1,158) 118,451 305,356
For the year to 28 February 2009 Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Issued Foreign currency Reserve for 
share Share exchange own shares Revaluation Retained T otal
capital premium reserve held by EBT reserve earnings equity
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 March 2008 16,063 70,535 (132) (803) 340 123,142 209,145
Loss for the year -- - - - (8,771) (8,771)
Other comprehensive expense for the year -- (336) - (340) - (676)
T otal comprehensive expense for the year -- (336) - (340) (8,771) (9,447)
Proceeds on share issue 25 8,112 88,366 -- - - 96,478
Share issue costs - (3,096) -- - - (3,096)
Share based payment credit 23 -- - - - 765 765
Dividends 11 -- - - - (14,615) (14,615)
Balance at 28 February 2009 24,175 155,805 (468) (803) - 100,521 279,230 Report and Accounts 2010 56
Notes Year to Year to
28.02.2010 28.02.2009
£’000 £’000
Cash generated from operations 27 39,823 47,946
Income taxes paid (2,384) (1,183)
Net cash flow from operating activities 37,439 46,763
Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses – net cash paid (240) (76,451)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (63,250) (54,738)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 72,807 4,777
Dividends received from joint ventures 256 614
Net loans repaid by / (advanced to) joint ventures 545 (2,807)
Interest received 928 650
Net cash flow from investing activities 11,046 (127,955)
Issue of ordinary shares less costs of issue 27 (253) 83,382
Dividend paid on ordinary shares 11 (12,993) (14,615)
Proceeds from new finance leases 17,683 33,860
Repayment of capital element of finance leases (20,672) (15,751)
Proceeds from new borrowings 34,000 4,581
Repayment of borrowings (63,574) (2,684)
Interest paid (6,685) (8,355)
Net cash flow from financing activities (52,494) 80,418
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (4,009) (774)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year (9,114) (8,340)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (13,123) (9,114)
Cash
- Continuing 13,134 7,251
- Included in disposal group 179 207
Overdraft (26,436) (16,572)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (13,123) (9,114)
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
For the year to 28 February 2010 Financial Statements
57 Stobart Group Limited
1. Accounting policies of Stobart Group Limited
Basis of preparation and Statement of Compliance
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements
are set out below. The policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented,
unless otherwise stated.
These Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations) issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by the European Union
("adopted IFRSs"). The financial statements for the Company are presented after the
financial statements for the Group.
The financial statements of the Group are also prepared in accordance with the
Companies (Guernsey) Law 2008.
Stobart Group Limited is a Guernsey registered company. The Company’s ordinary
shares and income shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange and the Channel
Islands Stock Exchange.
Restatement of prior year Income Statement
The prior year income statement and certain related notes have been restated
following the reclassification of a property asset, in to investment properties, which
was classified in discontinued operations in the prior year. Further details are set out
in note 15. 
Changes in Accounting Policy And Disclosures
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial
period except as follows:
(a) New standards, amendments to published accounts and interpretations to
existing standards adopted by the Group:
IFRS 8 Operating Segments. IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segment reporting (IAS 14).
The Group has concluded that its operating segments determined in
accordance with IFRS 8 are the same as the business segments previously
identified under IAS 14. IFRS 8 disclosures are shown in note 5, including the
related revised comparative information. 
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (Revised).The revised Standard has
required the reconciliation of movements in equity, previously disclosed in the
notes, to be presented as a primary statement entitled “Consolidated Statement
of Changes on Equity”. In addition, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense has been replaced with the Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income. The revised standard requires this statement to present
all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in
two linked statements. The Group has elected to present two statements. 
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (Amendment). The amended standard
requires additional disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
Fair value measurements related to items recorded at fair value are to be
disclosed by source of inputs using a three level fair value hierarchy, by class, for
all financial instruments recognised at fair value. The fair value measurement
disclosures are presented in Note 22. The Group has taken advantage of the
transitional provisions under this amendment and has therefore not provided
comparative information for 28 February 2009. The amendments also clarify the
requirements for liquidity risk disclosures with respect to derivative transactions
and assets used for liquidity management. The liquidity risk disclosures are not
significantly impacted by the amendments and are presented in Note 22. 
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment — Vesting Conditions and Cancellations
(Amendment). The amendment to IFRS 2 clarifies the definition of vesting conditions
and prescribes the treatment for an award that is cancelled. This amendment did not
have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
The following standards did not have a material impact on the Group's financial
statements:
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards —
Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate
(Amendments)
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements — Cost of an
Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate (Amendments). 
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial
Statements — Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on
Liquidation (Amendments)
Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards (issued May 2008)
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives and IAS 39 Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - Embedded Derivatives
(Amendments)
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers
(b) New standards and interpretations not applied:
The following standards and interpretations have an effective date after the
date of these financial statements: 
International Accounting Standards (IAS / IFRSs) Effective date* 
IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International 
Reporting Standards 1 July 2009 
IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 – Additional 
Exemptions for First-time Adopters 1 January 2010 
IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 – Limited 
Exemption from Comparative 
IFRS 7 disclosures 1 July 2010 
IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2 – 
Group Cash-settled Share-based 
Payment Transactions 1 January 2010 
IFRS 3 Business Combinations 
(revised January 2008) 1 July 2009 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: 
Classification & Measurement 1 January 2013 
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (revised) 1 January 2011 
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements (revised January 2008) 1 July 2009 
IAS 32 Amendment to IAS 32: 
Classification of Rights Issues 1 February 2010 
IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items 1 July 2009 
Improvements to IFRS (issued April 2009) Various dates 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) 
IFRIC 14 Amendment: Prepayments of a 
Minimum Funding Requirement 1 January 2011 
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash 
Assets to Owners 1 July 2009 
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities 
with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 
*The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IASB/IFRIC standards
and interpretations. As the Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application of new standards and
interpretations will be subject to their having been endorsed for use in the EU via the EU
Endorsement mechanism. In the majority of cases this will result in an effective date
consistent with that given in the original standard or interpretation but the need for
endorsement restricts the Group’s discretion to early adopt standards. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the year to 28 February 2010 Report and Accounts 2010 58
The Group has not early adopted the revised IFRS 3 and so will apply it prospectively
to all business combinations on or after 1 March 2010. Whilst it is not possible to
estimate the outcome of adoption, the key features of the revised IFRS 3 include a
requirement for acquisition-related costs to be expensed and not included in the
purchase price; and for contingent consideration to be recognised at fair value on the
acquisition date (with subsequent changes recognised in the income statement and
not as a change to goodwill). The standard also changes the treatment of non-
controlling interests (formerly minority interests) with an option to recognise these at
full fair value as at the acquisition date and a requirement for previously held minority
interests to be fair valued as at the date control is obtained, with gains and losses
recognised in the income statement. 
IAS 27 revised is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, in line
with the revised IFRS 3. The revised standard no longer restricts the allocation to
minority interest of losses incurred by a subsidiary to the amount of the minority equity
investment in the subsidiary. 
Any future partial disposal of equity interest in a subsidiary that does not result in a
loss of control will be accounted for as an equity transaction and will have no impact
on goodwill, nor will it give rise to any gain or loss. Where there is loss of control of a
subsidiary, any retained interest will have to be remeasured to fair value, which will
impact the gain or loss recognised on disposal. 
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the remaining standards and
interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Revenue
Revenue from the Eddie Stobart, Stobart Ports and Stobart Air business
segments and the rail freight revenue in the Stobart Rail segment is recognised
in the income statement as the fair value of consideration receivable on the
delivery of services delivered at the statement of financial position date net of
discounts and VAT .
Stobart Rail infrastructure engineering contract revenue is recognised to match
the sales value of work performed up to the statement of financial position date
based on stage of completion.
Revenue is analysed by segment in note 5.
Functional and Presentation Currency
The Company’s functional currency is Pounds Sterling (GBP) and it has adopted
Pounds Sterling (GBP) as its presentational currency.
Basis of Consolidation
Where the Company has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the financial
and operating policies of another entity or business so as to obtain benefits from its
activities, it is classified as a subsidiary. The consolidated financial statements
present the results of Stobart Group Limited and its subsidiaries ("the Group") as if
they formed a single entity. Intercompany transactions and balances between Group
companies are therefore eliminated in full.
Business Combinations
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business
combinations using the purchase method. In the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position, the acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. The
results of acquired operations are included in the consolidated income
statement from the date on which control is obtained.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the
interest in the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities
acquired. Cost comprises the fair values of assets given, liabilities assumed and
equity instruments issued, plus any direct costs of acquisition.
Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying
value being charged to the consolidated income statement. Where the fair
value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceed the fair
value of consideration paid, the excess is credited in full to the consolidated
income statement.
Impairment of Non-Financial Assets (excluding Inventories, Investment
Properties and Deferred T ax Assets)
Impairment tests on goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives
are undertaken at least annually at the financial year end and also if there are
indicators of impairment. Other non-financial assets are subject to impairment
tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying
amount may not be recoverable. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its
recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell),
the asset is written down accordingly.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset,
the impairment test is carried out on the asset's cash-generating unit (i.e. the
lowest group of assets in which the asset belongs for which there are separately
identifiable cash inflows). Goodwill is allocated on initial recognition to each of the
Group's cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of
the combination giving rise to the goodwill. 
Impairment charges are included in the operating expenses line item in the
consolidated income statement, except to the extent they reverse gains
previously recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive
income. Impairment losses except losses relating to goodwill can be reversed
in certain circumstances.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any
indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or
may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is
estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has
been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount
since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case the carrying
amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased
amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net
of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior
years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss unless the asset is carried at
revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to
allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a
systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand, demand deposits, and
highly liquid investments readily convertible to known amounts of cash and
subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial Instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to
hedge its cash flow risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. Derivative
financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value
at each reporting date. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is
positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of interest rate swaps are determined by reference to market values
for similar instruments.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is
desired, the hedging relationship is formally designated and documented at its
inception. This documentation identifies the risk management objective and
strategy for undertaking the hedge, the hedging instrument, the hedged item or
transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be
measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be
highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows and are assessed at the end of
each reporting period to determine that they actually effective throughout the
reporting period for which they were designated.
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging
instrument is recognised directly as other comprehensive income in the net
unrealised gains reserve, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the
income statement. Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are
transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects the
current period income statement. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
59 Stobart Group Limited
Foreign Currency
Transactions entered into by Group entities in a currency other than the currency
of the primary economic environment in which they operate (their "functional
currency") are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur. Foreign
currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the
statement of financial position date. 
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets
and liabilities are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the rate
of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial position date. The income
statements are translated at the average rate. The exchange differences arising on
the translation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
Financial Assets
Unless otherwise indicated, the carrying amounts of the Group’s financial assets
are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
Loans and Receivables
These assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable
payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise principally through
the provision of goods and services to customers (e.g. trade receivables), but also
incorporate other types of contractual monetary asset. They are initially recognised
at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or
issue and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate
method, less provision for impairment. 
Impairment provisions are recognised when there is objective evidence (such as
significant financial difficulties on the part of the counterparty or default or
significant delay in payment) that the Group will be unable to collect all of the
amounts due under the terms receivable, the amount of such a provision being
the difference between the net carrying amount and the present value of the future
expected cash flows associated with the impaired receivable.
For trade receivables, which are reported net, such provisions are recorded in a
separate allowance account with the loss being recognised within operating
expenses in the income statement. On confirmation that the trade receivable will
not be collectable, the gross carrying value of the asset is written off against the
associated provision.
Financial Liabilities
Unless otherwise indicated, the carrying amounts of the Group’s financial liabilities
are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
Loans, borrowings and the Group’s income shares are initially recognised at fair
value net of any transaction costs directly attributable to the issue of the
instrument. Such interest bearing liabilities are subsequently measured at
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, which ensures that any
interest expense over the period to repayment is at a constant rate on the balance
of the liability carried in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities are initially recognised
at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective
interest method.
Share Capital
Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent
that they do not meet the definition of a financial liability. The Group’s income
shares include a contractual obligation on the Company to deliver cash in the form
of the annual preference dividend and, in the absence of any other terms that
would indicate an equity element, have been classified wholly as a financial liability
(see ‘Income Shares’ below). The Group’s ordinary shares are classified as equity
instruments.
Own shares held by EBT
Stobart Group shares held by the Company are designated as own shares held,
classified in shareholders’ equity and recognised at cost. Consideration received
for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference
between the proceeds from sale and original cost taken to retained earnings.
Income Shares
Income Shares, which exhibit characteristics of liabilities, are recognised as liabilities
in the Statement of Financial Position in accordance with IAS32. Income Shares are
initially recognised at fair value less issue costs. After initial recognition, Income
Shares are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method. The corresponding distributions on these shares are charged as interest
expense in the Consolidated Income Statement over the term of these shares.
Retirement Benefits: Defined Contribution Schemes
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the
Consolidated Income Statement in the year to which they relate.
Share Based Payments
Where equity-settled share options are awarded to employees, the fair value of
the options at the date of grant is charged to the consolidated income statement
over the vesting period. Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by
adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each statement of
financial position date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over
the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. Market
vesting Conditions are factored into the fair value of the options granted. As long
as all other vesting conditions are satisfied, a charge is made irrespective of
whether the market vesting conditions are satisfied. The cumulative expense is
not adjusted for failure to achieve a market vesting condition.
At each statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative expense
is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and
management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market
conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the
case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as
described above. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous
statement of financial position date is recognised in the income statement, with a
corresponding entry in equity.
The Group has a share-based Long T erm Incentive Plan accounted for as set out above.
Leased Assets
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Assets held under finance
leases are recorded in the statement of financial position as tangible assets,
initially at fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments
and depreciated over their estimated useful lives as detailed in the depreciation
policy below. The interest element of leasing payments represents a constant
proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the income
statement over the period of the lease.
Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are not
transferred to the Group (an "operating lease"), the total rentals payable under the
lease are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis
over the lease term. The aggregate benefit of lease incentives is recognised as a
reduction of the rental expense over the lease term on a straight line basis.
The land and buildings elements of property leases are considered separately for
the purposes of lease classification.
Restructuring Costs
Restructuring costs comprise costs of integration plans and other business
reorganisation and restructuring undertaken by management including cost
rationalisation, brand harmonisation, directly related management time, asset write
downs and other related costs. These are principally expected to be one-off in nature.
Separately Disclosed Items
The Group presents separately on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement
material items of income and expense, which because of their nature infrequency or
occurrence, or the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow
shareholders to better understand the financial performance of the year .
Externally Acquired Intangible Assets (excluding Goodwill)
Externally acquired intangible assets are initially recognised at cost and
subsequently amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives. The
amortisation expense is included within the operating expenses line in the
consolidated income statement. Report and Accounts 2010 60
Intangible assets are recognised on business combinations if they are separable
from the acquired entity or give rise to other contractual/legal rights. The amounts
ascribed to such intangibles are arrived at by using appropriate valuation
techniques (see section related to significant accounting estimates, judgments and
assumptions below).
The significant intangibles recognised by the Group and their useful economic lives
are as follows:
Intangible asset Useful life
Brands Indefinite
Where there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which a brand is expected
to generate cash flows for the Group it will be considered to have an indefinite life.
Current T axation
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured
at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are
enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
Deferred T axation
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an
asset or liability in the statement of financial position differs to its tax base, except
for differences arising on:
> The initial recognition of goodwill;
> The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a busi-
ness combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting
or taxable profit; and
> Investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is
able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is probable that
the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable
that taxable profit will be available against which the difference can be utilised.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date and are
expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are settled/(recovered). 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally
enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax
assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on either:
> The same taxable Group company; or
> Different Group entities which intend either to settle current tax assets and lia-
bilities on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities
simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred
tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
Government Grants
Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the
grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with. Where the
grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the period
necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended
to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, it is credited to deferred
income and released to the income statement to match the depreciation on the
related asset. Where the related asset is sold, the remaining grant balance is taken
in to account in determining the carrying amount of the asset.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. In the case of interim
dividends to equity shareholders, this is when paid. In the case of final dividends, this
is when approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Dividends on the Income Shares, which are classified as financial liabilities, are treated
as finance costs and are recognised using the effective rate method when there is a
liability to pay at the statement of financial position date.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Freehold land and buildings and plant and equipment are stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment in value. Such cost
includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment when that cost is
incurred if the recognition criteria are met.
Depreciation is provided on items of property, plant and equipment, other than
land and assets under construction, to write off to their residual value the carrying
value of items over their expected useful lives. Useful lives and residual values are
reconsidered on an annual basis. Depreciation is applied at the following rates:
Buildings - 2% per annum straight line
Modular buildings - 7% per annum straight line
Long life plant and machinery - 5% per annum reducing balance
Other plant and machinery - 10-14% per annum straight line
Vehicles and trailers - 14-33% per annum straight line
Fixtures, fittings and equipment - 20% per annum straight line
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or
when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any
gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is
included in profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
Borrowing costs attributable to qualifying assets are capitalised.
Investment Properties
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs.
The carrying amount includes the cost of replacing part of an existing investment
property at the time that the cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met; and
excludes the cost of day to day servicing of an investment property. Subsequent
to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at fair value, which reflects
market conditions at the statement of financial position date. Gains or losses
arising from changes in the fair values of investment properties are included in the
Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period in which they arise.
Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been disposed
of or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn from use and no
future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.  Any gains or losses on
the retirement or disposal of an investment property are recognised in the
income statement in the period of retirement or disposal.
Rental income arising from operating leases on investment properties is
spread on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.  Where an
incentive (such as a rent free period) is given to a tenant, the carrying value of
the investment property excludes any amount reported as a separate asset as
a result of recognising rental income on this basis.
Inventories
Inventories are measured on a first in first out basis and are stated at the lower of
cost and net realisable value.
Non-Current Assets held for sale and Disposal Groups
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale when:
> They are available for immediate sale;
> Management is committed to a plan to sell;
> It is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan
will be withdrawn;
> An active programme to locate a buyer has been initiated;
> The asset or disposal group is being marketed at a reasonable price in relation
to its fair value; and
> A sale is expected to complete within 12 months from the date of classification
(or an extended period if the delay is caused by circumstances beyond the
entity’s control but the Group remains committed to the plan to sell the asset). Financial Statements
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured
at the lower of:
> Their carrying amount immediately prior to being classified as held for sale in
accordance with the Group’s accounting policy; and
> Fair value less costs to sell.
Following their classification as held for sale, non-current assets (including those
in a disposal group) are not depreciated.
The results of operations disposed of during the year are included in the
consolidated income statement up to the date of disposal.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group's business that represents
a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or a
subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale, that has been disposed of,
has been abandoned or that meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale. 
Discontinued operations are presented on the income statement (including the
comparative period) as a single line which comprises the post tax profit or loss of
the discontinued operation and the post tax gain or loss recognised on the re-
measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on disposal of the assets/disposal
groups constituting discontinued operations.
Associates
The Group’s investments in its associates are accounted for using the equity
method of accounting unless the investment is classified as held for sale.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and which is
neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at cost plus post acquisition changes
in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate. Goodwill relating to the
associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the
associate. Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the
associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when
applicable, in the statement of changes in equity and the statement of other
comprehensive income. Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the
Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to
recognise an additional impairment loss on the Group’s investment in its associates.
The Group determines at each statement of financial position date whether there is any
objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired. If this is the case
and there is a resulting impairment, the amount is recognised in the income statement.
Joint Ventures
Investments in joint ventures, which are jointly controlled entities, are included in
the financial statements using the equity method of accounting unless the
investment is classified as held for sale. 
Under the equity method, the interest in the joint venture is initially recorded at cost
and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Group’s share of net
assets of the joint venture. Goodwill relating to the joint venture is included in the
carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised. The income statement
reflects the share of the results of operations of the joint venture. Where there has
been a change recognised directly in the equity of the joint venture, the Group
recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the
statement of changes in equity and the statement of other comprehensive income.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint
ventures are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the joint venture.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is
necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Group’s investment
in its joint ventures. The Group determines at each statement of financial position
date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the joint
venture is impaired. If this is the case and there is a resulting impairment, the
amount is recognised in the income statement. 
2. Summary of significant accounting
judgments, estimates and assumptions
The Group makes judgements, estimates and assumptions regarding the future.
Judgements, estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated based on
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. In the future, actual
experience may differ from these estimates and assumptions. The judgements,
estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next
financial year are discussed below.
Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions
(a) Valuation of investment property
All property related assets held for sale are stated at lower of value at date
of classification and fair value, which have been determined based on
valuations performed by independent valuers or a qualified internal valuer
on the basis of open market value.
(b) Impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets
The Group is required to test, on an annual basis, whether goodwill has
suffered any impairment. The recoverable amount is determined based
on value in use calculations. The use of this method requires the
estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a discount rate in order
to calculate the present value of the cash flows. Actual outcomes may
vary. More information including carrying values is included in note 14.
(c) Useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are amortised or
depreciated over their useful lives. Useful lives are based on the Directors’
estimates of the period that the assets will generate revenue, which are
periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness. Changes to estimates can
result in significant variations in the carrying value and amounts charged to the
consolidated income statement in specific periods. More details including
carrying values are included in note 13 and note 14.
(d) Share-based payment
The Group has equity-settled share-based remuneration schemes for
employees and Directors. Employee and Director services received, and the
corresponding increase in equity, are measured by reference to the fair value
of the equity instruments at the date of grant, excluding the impact of any
non-market vesting conditions. The fair value of share options granted
without market based vesting conditions is estimated by using a Black-
Scholes model. The fair value of share options granted with market based
vesting conditions is estimated by using a Monte Carlo model. These
valuations are based on certain assumptions. Those assumptions are
described in note 23 and include, among others, the dividend yield, expected
volatility, expected life of the options and number of options expected to vest.
More details are disclosed in note 23.
(e) Determination of fair values of intangible assets acquired in business
combinations
The fair value of brands acquired in a business combination is based on the
discounted estimated royalty payments that have been avoided as a result of
the brands being owned.
(f) T axation
The taxation balances are calculated making certain tax assumptions about
the tax treatment of incomes and costs, and the availability of certain losses
for group relief. More details are disclosed in note 9.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
61 Stobart Group Limited Report and Accounts 2010 62
3. Operating Expenses
Operating expenses comprise the following:
28.02.2010 28.02.2009
Notes £’000 £’000
Employee benefits expenses excluding share based payments 149,092 147,805
Depreciation 15,668 13,430
Other purchases and external expenses 247,882 238,476
Operating expenses underlying 412,642 399,711
Share based payments on underlying operating profit 23 746 716
Restructuring costs 2,746 2,722
Credit for business purchase 12 - (3,609)
Operating expenses 416,134 399,540
Profit before interest and tax
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15,668 13,430
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (8,910) (678)
Release of government grants (302) (101)
Operating lease expense:
- Plant and machinery 15,037 14,194
- Property 14,823 11,813
Fees charged to the income statement for services provided by Group auditors
- Statutory audit fee relating to audit of Stobart Group Limited 50 58
- Statutory audit fee relating to audit of subsidiaries 125 142
- Other taxation services 28 59
- Services relating to corporate finance transactions 89 43
- Other services 27 28
319 330
Restructuring costs
Reorganisation and integration of James Irlam business 1,288 551
Reorganisation and integration of Chilled business 1,090 1,510
Reorganisation and integration of the Ports business - 661
Reorganisation and integration of the International business 177 -
Other 191 -
2,746 2,722
Restructuring costs include redundancy costs, site closure costs, certain short-term duplicated costs and other one-off costs related to the reorganisation and integration
of acquired businesses. Financial Statements
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment includes a net profit on disposal of the chilled distribution site and terminal at Widnes of £8,258,000 as set out below:
28.02.2010
£’000
Profit on disposal of Widnes assets (after direct costs but before directly associated costs) 11,190
Share based payment directly associated with the disposal (1,758)
Other costs directly associated with the disposal (1,174)
Net profit on disposal of Widnes assets (after costs) 8,258
The above costs are directly related to the disposal as they are incremental costs that would not have been incurred had the disposal not taken place.
4. Staff costs
28.02.2010 28.02.2009
Notes £’000 £’000
Staff costs
Staff costs (including Directors) comprise:
Wages and salaries 135,890 133,317
Social security costs 12,330 12,520
Other pension costs 2,046 1,968
Share based payment 23 2,513 716
152,779 148,521
28.02.2010 28.02.2009
Average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the period 4,919 4,977
Directors’ remuneration
28.02.2010 28.02.2009
£’000 £’000
Directors’ emoluments 785 774
Number of Directors accruing benefits under defined contribution pension schemes 44
Further details of the Directors’ remuneration are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
63 Stobart Group Limited Report and Accounts 2010 64
5. Segmental information
The operating segments within continuing operations are Eddie Stobart, Stobart Rail, Stobart Ports and Stobart Air including Air Freight.
The Eddie Stobart segment specialises in haulage, distribution, warehousing, property and process management services and merchandising.
The Stobart Rail segment specialises in infrastructure engineering and rail freight services.
The Stobart Ports segment specialises in inland port and waterport services, warehousing and distribution.
The Stobart Air segment specialises in operation of commercial airports including air freight.
The Board of Directors is regarded as the Chief Operational Decision Maker (CODM).  The Board  monitors the results of its operating segments separately for the purposes
of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss, which in certain respects, as
explained in the table below, is measured differently from profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements. The main segmental profit measure is earnings after fleet
financing costs but before restructuring costs.
Income taxes, restructuring costs, non-fleet finance costs and certain central costs are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The Group has overseas operations in Europe and Ireland which are not considered material for separate disclosure.
Further details of the discontinued segment are set out in note 6.
Period ended 28 February 2010 Eddie Stobart Stobart Stobart Adjustments and
Stobart Rail Ports Air eliminations Group
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External 381,539 45,636 13,919 6,567 - 447,661
Internal - 19,115 -- (19,115) -
T otal revenue 381,539 64,751 13,919 6,567 (19,115) 447,661
Depreciation and amortisation (13,446) (1,327) (563) (220) (112) (15,668)
Share based payments (294) (197) (1,811) (10) (192) (2,504)
Less: share based payments associated with 
the disposal of Widnes assets -- 1,758 -- 1,758
Share based payment on ordinary operations (294) (197) (53) (10) (192) (746)
Fleet financing costs (3,185) (161) (28) (3) - (3,377)
Net profit on disposal of Widnes assets 
(net of associated costs) -- 8,258 -- 8,258
Segment profit (after fleet financing costs) 26,434 5,036 12,449 178 (4,943) 39,154
Restructuring costs (2,746)
Other net finance costs (2,345)
Profit before tax 34,063
Assets
Additions to property, plant and equipment 19,635 602 33,100 23,066 999 77,403
Operating assets 358,526 24,643 87,571 68,784 4,022 543,546
Operating liabilities (141,464) (12,234) (71,628) (37,287) 24,423 (238,190)
Net assets 217,062 12,409 15,943 31,497 28,445 305,356
Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
Included in adjustments and eliminations are central costs of £4,629,000 (2009: £2,922,000) and intra-Group profit of £314,000 (2009: £347,000).
Also included in adjustments and eliminations are central assets and liabilities, inter company balances, and held for sale assets and liabilities. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
65 Stobart Group Limited
Period ended 28 February 2009 Eddie Stobart Stobart Stobart Adjustments and
Stobart Rail Ports Air eliminations Group
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External 387,249 27,539 14,574 1,690 - 431,062
Internal - 10,690 -- (10,690) -
T otal revenue 387,259 38,229 14,574 1,690 (10,690) 431,062
Depreciation and amortisation (11,959) (768) (586) (41) (76) (13,430)
Share based payment (306) (128) (49) - (233) (716)
Fleet financing costs (3,137) (5) (14) (1) - (3,157)
Segment profit (after fleet financing costs) 24,471 3,532 2,617 127 (5,072) 25,675
Restructuring costs (2,722)
Credit for business purchase 3,609
Other net finance costs (4,423)
Profit before tax 22,139
Assets
Additions to property, plant and equipment 61,809 4,375 14,844 36,557 645 118,230
Operating assets 365,113 26,728 100,795 37,880 (11,721) 518,795
Operating liabilities (145,187) (13,294) (101,919) (13,616) 34,451 (239,565)
Net assets 219,926 13,434 (1,124) 24,264 22,730 279,230
Also included in adjustments and eliminations are central assets and liabilities, inter company balances, and held for sale assets and liabilities.
The revenue from one customer amounts to more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue. The revenue from that customer was £116.7m for the year to 28 February 2010 and
this was reported in the Eddie Stobart segment and the Stobart Ports segment.  (2009: £103.1m).
Analysis of revenue
Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows:
28.02.2010 28.02.2009
£’000 £’000
Rendering of services – Continuing operations 447,661 431,062
Rendering of services – Discontinued operations - 731
Finance revenue 928 581
448,589 432,374 6. Discontinued operations
On 21 September 2007 the Group disposed of the substantial proportion of its investment property and related business. The remaining joint venture and associate
undertakings with investment property interests are classified as discontinued operations. The Directors intend to sell these properties within one year of the statement of
financial position date and are looking for purchasers. These assets remain classified as discontinued operations for an extended period as their potential commercial
disposal has been adversely affected by the downturn in the commercial property market which is outside the control of the Group. The Group remains committed to the
plan to sell the assets and expects to sell them within one year.
The investment property at Debden was classified as held for sale and included in discontinued operations in the prior year but has been reclassified in to continued
operations in the current year because the property is expected to be held for more than 12 months before it will be disposed. The comparative income statement
balances have been restated where appropriate.
Discontinued rail services are also included in discontinued activities.
The results of the discontinued operations are presented below:
Property trading business Discontinued rail services T otal
Restated Restated
2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue - 264 - 467 - 731
Expenses (64) (253) - (1,697) (64) (1,950)
Finance costs/income net (544) (247) -3 (544) (244)
Writedowns of associates and joint ventures (131) (26,650) -- (131) (26,650)
Loss before tax from discontinued operations (739) (26,886) (1,227) (739) (28,113)
T axation: related to the pre-tax loss (31) -- - (31) -
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (770) (26,886) - (1,227) (770) (28,113)
The net cash flows incurred by discontinued operations are as follows:
2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Operating activities 260 (153) - (175) 260 (328)
Investing activities -3 - 3 - 6
Financing activities (288) (250) - (71) (288) (321)
T otal (28) (400) - (243) (28) (643)
The major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal groups classified as held for sale as at 28 February 2010 are as follows:
Property trading business Discontinued rail services T otal
2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Investment property - 2,000 -- - 2,000
Investments in associates and joint ventures 2 641 -- 2 641
Debtors 60 52 -- 60 52
Cash and short term deposits 165 193 14 14 179 207
Assets classified as held for sale 227 2,886 14 14 241 2,900
Liabilities
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 3,002 2,928 (6,925) (6,925) (3,923) (3,997))
Net assets/(liabilities) directly associated 
with assets classified as held for sale 3,229 5,814 (6,911) (6,911) (3,682) (3,738)
Earnings per share 2010 2009
Basic and diluted, from discontinued operations (0.32p) (13.04p)
Report and Accounts 2010 66 Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
67 Stobart Group Limited
7. Finance income
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Bank interest receivable 928 581
T otal finance income 928 581
8. Finance costs
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Bank loans, loan notes and overdraft 2,822 4,553
Distributions on income shares 422 422
Amortisation of income shares issue costs 29 29
Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 3,377 3,157
T otal finance costs 6,650 8,161
During the year £659,000 (2009: £229,000) of interest was capitalised. 
9. T axation
T ax charged in the income statement 2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Current income tax:
UK Corporation tax
- Continuing operations 6,166 -
- Discontinued operations 31 -
Guernsey tax --
Adjustment in respect of prior years 103 (399)
T otal current tax 6,300 (399)
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,198 (1,149)
Impact of abolition of Industrial Buildings Allowances - 3,978
Adjustment in respect of prior years (2,396) 367
T otal deferred tax charge (1,198) 3,196
T otal charge in the income statement 5,102 2,797 Reconciliation of income taxation charge
A reconciliation of the income tax charge applicable to the results from ordinary activities at the statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Group’s effective
income tax rate for the year is as follows:
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Profit from continuing operations before taxation 34,063 22,139
Loss from discontinued operations before taxation (739) (28,113)
Net profit / (loss) before taxation 33,324 (5,974)
UK income tax at rate of 28% (2009: 28%) 9,331 (1,673)
Effects of:
T ax impact of disposal of land and buildings in the year (488)
Impact of abolition of Industrial Buildings Allowances (847) 3,978
Income not taxable including interest receivable and share of profits of associates and joint ventures - (1,062)
Land remediation relief (1,527)
Losses arising not relievable against current tax - 420
Expenses incurred not relievable against current tax 951 1,166
Adjustments in respect of prior years (2,293) (32)
Losses brought forward utilised in current period (56) -
T ax paid on discontinued operations 31 -
5,102 2,797
With effect from 1 March 2008, the Company’s affairs are conducted such that it is likely it will be considered to be resident in the UK for tax purposes. WPL Investments
Limited and WPL Ventures Limited are subject to taxation in Guernsey.
The income tax charge is stated after Group relief of £5.8m (2009: £25.5m) which originated from a valuation of property related assets held in Stobart Properties Limited,
a trading subsidiary undertaking. These property-related assets are principally classified as assets ‘held for sale’ in the Consolidated Statement of Financial position and
the related results are included in discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS. Group relief has been taken where appropriate for nil payment.
Westlink Group Limited, Stobart Holdings Limited, James Irlam & Sons Limited, Stobart Rail Limited (previously WA Developments Limited), Stobart Airports Limited, Stobart
Air Limited and their respective subsidiaries are subject to corporation tax in the UK.
Included in the statement of other comprehensive income is a credit of £450,000 in relation to a cash flow hedge instrument.
10. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of
ordinary 10p shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary
shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of shares that would have been issued on exercise of all the dilutive options into ordinary shares.
The following table reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations:
Restated Restated
Continuing Discontinued T otal Continuing Discontinued T otal
Operations Operations Operations Operations
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Numerator
Profit used for basic earnings 28,992 (770) 28,222 19,342 (28,113) (8,771)
Effect on earnings of dilutive potential ordinary shares 304 - 304 304 --
Diluted earnings 29,296 (770) 28,526 19,646 (28,113) (8,771)
Report and Accounts 2010 68 Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
69 Stobart Group Limited
The adjusted earnings per share before the profit on disposal of the Widnes assets is 8.6p (2009: 7.7p). The numerator used in calculating the normalised earnings per
share before the profit on disposal of the Widnes assets of £20,557,000 (2009: £16,600,000) is the profit before tax from continuing operations of £34,063,000 (2009:
£22,139,000) less the net profit on disposal of the Widnes assets (after costs) of £8,258,000 (2009: £ nil) less the credit for business purchase of £ nil (2009: £3,609,000),
less impairment of investment property of £ nil (2009: £1,803,000)  plus the restructuring costs of £2,746,000 (2009: £2,722,000) and allowing for tax at 28% of £7,994,000
(2009: £6,455,000).
The adjusted earnings per share after the profit on disposal of the Widnes assets is 11.0p (2009: 7.7p). The numerator used in calculating the normalised earnings per share
after the profit on disposal of the Widnes assets of £26,502,000 (2009: £16,600,000) is the profit before tax from continuing operations of £34,063,000 (2009: £22,139,000)
less the credit for business purchase of £ nil (2009: £3,609,000), less impairment of investment property of £ nil (2009: £1,803,000) plus the restructuring costs of £2,746,000
(2009: £2,722,000) and allowing for tax at 28% of £10,307,000 (2009: £6,455,000).
The adjusted earnings per share are shown to give a comparable measure of the underlying earnings per share.
Denominator 2010 2009
Number Number
Weighted average number of shares used in basic EPS 240,479,372 215,585,798
Effects of convertible Income Shares 4,502,013 4,502,013
Effects of employee share options 1,420,000 -
-
Weighted average number of shares used in diluted EPS 246,401,385 220,087,801
On 21 September 2007 1,504,120 options, with an exercise price of 166.2p, were granted. These are potentially dilutive instruments but were not included in the calculation
of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive for the year and prior period as the average market price of the shares was lower than the exercise price. 
The Income Shareholders had an option to convert their Income Shares into Ordinary shares at a rate of 0.854 Ordinary shares for each Income Share around 31 March
2010. These are therefore dilutive instruments at the year end date. On 9 April, 3,628,158 Income Shares were converted into 3,098,440 Ordinary shares.
On 10 March 2008, 3 July 2008 and 20 August 2009 respectively, 2.84m, 2.25m and 2.4m share options were granted to Directors and management under the Stobart
Executive Incentive Plan with an exercise price of£ nil. 1,420,000 of these share options are included as dilutive instruments because all of the vesting conditions are met.
The remaining share options are not dilutive instruments as the vesting conditions have not been met unconditionally at the year end date.
11. Dividends
Dividends Paid on Ordinary Shares 2010 2010 2009 2009
Rate Rate
p£ p £
Final dividend for 2009 paid 22 June 2009 3.3 7,977,629 --
Interim dividend paid 10 December 2009 2.0 5,015,766 --
Final dividend for 2008 paid 23 June 2008 -- 5.3 8,513,146
Interim dividend paid 28 November 2008 -- 2.7 6,101,808
Dividends paid 5.3 12,993,395 8.0 14,614,954
A final dividend of 4.0p per share totaling £10,606,596 was declared on 12 May 2010 and will be paid on 21 June 2010. This is not recognised as a liability as at 28 February 2010. Report and Accounts 2010 70
12. Business combinations
Acquisitions in the period from 1 March 2009 to 28 February 2010
Acquisition of Stobart Air Limited
On 30 May 2009 the Group acquired 100% of the voting rights of Stobart Air Limited, an unlisted company based in the United Kingdom, which operates a commercial airport.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Stobart Air Limited as at the date of acquisition and the corresponding carrying amounts immediately before the
acquisition were:
Fair value recognised on acquisition Previous carrying value
£’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment 14,153 4,746
Cash and cash equivalents 32 32
Trade and other receivables 224 224
Inventories 47 47
14,456 5,049
Trade payables (357) (357)
Other payables and deferred income due within one year (8,316) (6,816)
Non-current liabilities (3,932) (883)
(12,605) (8,056)
Net assets 1,851 (3,007)
Goodwill arising on acquisition 8,028
T otal consideration 9,879
The total cost of the combination was £9,879,000 and comprised the following:
£’000
Cash -
Shares issued 9,607
Costs associated with the acquisition 272
T otal 9,879
The Group issued 9,041,957 ordinary shares with a fair value of £1.0625 each. This price was the market value at the date of the acquisition.
The goodwill of £8,028,000 represents the fair value of the future earning potential of the business and other intangible assets, which cannot be individually separated and
reliably measured due to their nature, in excess of the fair value of net assets identified. These intangible assets include expected synergies available through development
of the site including transfer of the Carlisle transport depot to the airport site.
Included in other payables and deferred income were balances owed to the vendor of £4.6m which were repaid immediately following acquisition under the terms of the
option which stipulated that this part of the consideration was initially allocated to repayment of these balances.
The initial accounting for the acquisition is provisional due to ongoing negotiations regarding the airport tenants.
Stobart Air Ltd contributed revenue of £0.8m in the current period and profit before taxation of £0.0m.  If the acquisition had been effective from 1 March 2009, the contribution
to revenue would be £1.1m and the contribution to profit before tax would be £0.0m.
Completion of acquisitions in the previous period where the acquisition accounting was determined only provisionally
Acquisition of certain parts of the chilled and ambient operations of Innovate Logistics Limited
The accounting for the acquisition of certain parts of the chilled and ambient operations of Innovate Logistics Limited was completed in the period with no further adjustments
made.
Acquisition of London Southend Air Company Limited
The accounting for the acquisition of London Southend Air Company Limited was completed in the period with no further adjustments made. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
71 Stobart Group Limited
Acquisitions in the period from 1 March 2008 to 28 February 2009
Acquisition of James Irlam & Sons Limited and Irlam Storage LLP
On 3 April 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the voting rights of James Irlam & Sons Limited and the trade, assets and liabilities of Irlam Storage LLP which together
specialise in haulage, distribution, warehousing and process management services in the UK.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of James Irlam & Sons Limited and Irlam Storage LLP as at the date of acquisition and the corresponding carrying
amounts immediately before the acquisition were:
Fair value recognised on acquisition Previous carrying value
£’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment 23,621 27,953
Investments 22 22
Cash and cash equivalents 678 678
Trade and other receivables 13,199 13,431
Inventories 557 557
38,077 42,641
Bank loans and overdrafts (9,369) (9,369)
Trade payables (5,831) (5,822)
Other payables and deferred income (2,599) (2,599)
Finance leases (7,843) (7,843)
Corporation tax (1,080) 1
Deferred tax (1,228) (1,574)
(27,950) (27,206)
Net assets 10,127 15,435
Goodwill arising on acquisition 52,311
T otal consideration 62,438
The total cost of the combination was £62,438,000 and comprised the following:
£’000
Cash 50,229
Shares issued 10,000
Costs associated with the acquisition 2,209
T otal 62,438
The Group issued 7,692,306 ordinary shares with a fair value of £1.30 each. This price was the market value at the date of the acquisition.
The goodwill of £52,311,000 represents the fair value of the future earning potential of the business and other intangible assets, which cannot be individually separated and
reliably measured due to their nature, in excess of the fair value of net assets identified. This has resulted from expected synergies through integration with our existing
business, efficient location of properties, customer loyalty and the assembled workforce. Report and Accounts 2010 72
Acquisition of WA Developments Limited (now renamed Stobart Rail Limited)
On 4 April 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the voting rights of WA Developments Limited (now renamed Stobart Rail Limited) which specialises in transport infrastructure
engineering.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of WA Developments Limited as at the date of acquisition and the corresponding carrying amounts immediately before
the acquisition were:
Fair value recognised on acquisition Previous carrying value
£’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment 3,470 3,470
Investments 18 18
Cash and cash equivalents --
Trade receivables 12,190 12,516
Other receivables 1,501 1,501
Inventories 115 115
17,294 17,620
Bank loans and overdrafts (4,601) (4,601)
Trade payables (2,192) (2,192)
Other payables and deferred income (3,808) (3,808)
Finance leases (187) (187)
Corporation tax (361) (417)
Deferred tax (237) (228)
(11,386) (11,433)
Net assets 5,908 6,187
Goodwill arising on acquisition 4,375
T otal consideration 10,283
The total cost of the combination was £10,283,000 and comprised the following:
£’000
Cash 10,000
Costs associated with the acquisition 283
T otal 10,283
The goodwill of £4,375,000 represents the fair value of the future earning potential of the business and other intangible assets, which cannot be individually separated and
reliably measured due to their nature, in excess of the fair value of net assets identified. This has resulted from expected synergies with our existing business, especially in
managing Group engineering projects, customer loyalty and the assembled workforce. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
73 Stobart Group Limited
Acquisition of certain parts of the chilled and ambient operations of Innovate Logistics Limited
On 30 June 2008 and 4 July 2008 the Group acquired certain parts of the chilled and ambient operations of Innovate Logistics Limited which specialises in chilled and
ambient haulage, distribution, warehousing and process management services in the UK.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the business acquired at the dates of acquisition and the corresponding carrying amounts immediately before the
acquisition were:
Fair value recognised on acquisition Previous carrying value
£’000 £’000
Other receivables 633 -
Deferred tax 286 -
919 -
Other payables and deferred income (1,656) -
(1,656) -
Net assets (737) -
Goodwill arising on acquisition 1,684
T otal consideration 947
The total cost of the combination was £947,000 and comprised the following:
£’000
Costs associated with the acquisition 947
T otal 947
The goodwill of £1,684,000 represents the fair value of the future earning potential of the business and other intangible assets, which cannot be individually separated and
reliably measured due to their nature, in excess of the fair value of net assets identified. This includes synergies with our existing business, customer loyalty and the
assembled workforce. Report and Accounts 2010 74
Acquisition of London Southend Airport Company Limited
On 5 December 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the voting rights of London Southend Airport Company Limited which operates and manages a commercial airport.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of London Southend Airport Company Limited as at the date of acquisition and the corresponding carrying amounts
immediately before the acquisition were:
Fair value recognised on acquisition Previous carrying value
£’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment 36,439 2,484
Cash and cash equivalents 569 569
Trade receivables 753 763
Other receivables 560 560
Inventories 65 65
38,386 4,441
Bank loans and overdrafts (113) (113)
Trade payables (384) (384)
Other payables and deferred income (3,466) (3,233)
Finance leases --
Corporation tax 125 57
Deferred tax (9,507) -
(13,345) (3,673)
Net assets 25,041 768
Excess of net fair value acquired over cost (3,609)
T otal consideration 21,432
The total cost of the combination was £21,432,000 and comprised the following:
£’000
Cash 10,020
Deferred contingent cash consideration 5,000
Loan notes issued 6,000
Costs associated with the acquisition 412
T otal 21,432
The excess of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired over the cost of £3,609,000 represents a bargain purchase and has been recognised in the income
statement, shown as credit for business purchase.
The deferred contingent consideration is dependent upon planning permission for an extension to the runway and ancillary facilities.
Acquisition of Irish trailer operation
On 1 April 2008 the Group acquired certain parts of the business which was part of the Irish trailer operation of TDG. The consideration totalled £347,800 comprising cash
of £250,000 and fees of £97,800. Limited disclosures have been made in respect of this acquisition due its immateriality. Financial Statements
13. Property, Plant and Equipment
Year to 28 February 2010 Land and Plant and Fixtures, fittings Commercial T otal
buildings machinery and equipment vehicles
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 March 2009 132,707 18,800 4,245 86,689 242,441
Acquisition of subsidiaries 13,900 246 -7 14,153
Additions 44,314 3,323 2,195 13,418 63,250
Disposals (49,068) (1,302) (75) (25,732) (76,177)
At 28 February 2010 141,853 21,067 6,365 74,382 243,667
Aggregate depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 March 2009 1,272 3,498 1,323 24,788 30,881
Charge for the period 1,077 2,254 912 11,425 15,668
Disposals (201) (520) (1) (13,065) (13,787)
At 28 February 2010 2,148 5,232 2,234 23,148 32,762
Net book value at 28 February 2010 139,705 15,835 4,131 51,234 210,905
Year to 28 February 2009 Land and Plant and Fixtures, fittings Commercial T otal
buildings machinery and equipment vehicles
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 March 2008 72,228 10,901 1,931 53,212 138,272
Acquisition of subsidiaries 43,453 5,330 940 13,807 63,530
Additions 17,518 2,751 1,387 33,044 54,700
Disposals (152) (182) (13) (13,374) (13,721)
Revaluations (340) --- (340)
At 28 February 2009 132,707 18,800 4,245 86,689 242,441
Aggregate depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 March 2008 338 1,456 738 24,542 27,074
Charge for the period 1,034 2,105 585 9,706 13,430
Disposals (100) (63) - (9,460) (9,623)
At 28 February 2009 1,272 3,498 1,323 24,788 30,811
Net book value at 28 February 2009 131,435 15,302 2,922 61,901 211,560
Net book value at 29 February 2008 71,890 9,445 1,193 28,670 111,198
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
75 Stobart Group Limited Certain land and buildings were acquired through the business acquisitions and were subject to independent valuations as part of the fair value exercise, or were acquired
during the period at market value.
Bank borrowings are secured on the Group's freehold land and buildings.
Included in land and buildings at 28 February 2010 are assets under construction of £10.7m (2009: £7.5m).
The balance as at 1 January 2007 consisted only of land and buildings at Weston Point Docks in Runcorn, which were acquired through the acquisition of Westlink Group
Limited in the year ended 31 December 2006. These properties were revalued by Knight Frank, an independent valuer, in prior periods and a revaluation uplift of £340,000
was recorded. Following the acquisition of the Eddie Stobart business in September 2007, the Group’s policy is not to revalue operating land and buildings. Accordingly
this revaluation surplus was reversed in the year to 28 February 2009.
The net carrying amount of property, plant and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of assets held under finance leases and are secured on the related assets:
Land and Plant and Fixtures, fittings Commercial T otal
buildings machinery and equipment vehicles
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost - 7,686 1,762 64,838 74,286
Aggregate deprecation - (1,699) (203) (16,758) (18,660)
Net book value at 28 February 2010 - 5,987 1,559 48,080 55,626
Net book value at 28 February 2009 - 3,689 66 55,573 59,328
14. Intangible assets
Goodwill Brand names T otal
Cost
At 1 March 2008 104,540 60,000 164,540
Acquisition of James Irlam & Sons Limited and Irlam Storage LLP 52,311 - 52,311
Acquisition of WA Developments 4,375 - 4,375
Acquisition of certain parts of the chilled and ambient 
operations of Innovate Logistics Limited 1,684 - 1,684
Acquisition of Irish trailer operation 348 - 348
At 28 February 2009 163,258 60,000 223,258
Acquisition of Stobart Air Limited 8,028 - 8,028
At 28 February 2010 171,286 60,000 231,286
Impairment
At 1 March 2009 and 28 February 2010 -- -
Net book value
At 1 March 2008 104,540 60,000 164,540
At 28 February 2009 163,258 60,000 223,258
At 28 February 2010 171,286 60,000 231,286
There are no internally generated intangible assets.
Brand names consist of the Eddie Stobart brand and other Stobart-associated brands. This brand name is considered to have an indefinite useful life as there is no foreseeable
limit to the period over which it is expected to generate cash flows for the Group. The Group invests significant amounts to support the brand profile and development.
Further details of the accounting for the acquisition in the year are set out in note 12.
Report and Accounts 2010 76 Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives
The goodwill and brands with indefinite lives from business combinations have been allocated to three cash-generating units. Carrying amounts of goodwill and brands with
indefinite lives allocated to each cash generating unit are set out below:
Eddie Stobart Stobart Rail Stobart Ports T otal
2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Carrying amount of goodwill 141,642 133,614 4,375 4,375 25,269 25,269 171,286 163,258
Carrying amount of brands 
with indefinite useful lives 60,000 60,000 -- - - 60,000 60,000
Eddie Stobart cash-generating unit
The recoverable amount of the goodwill in the Eddie Stobart cash-generating unit has been based on value in use calculations using projections from financial forecasts
approved by senior management covering a 5-year (2009: 5 year) period. The main assumptions on which the forecasts were based include sales volumes and profit
margins. The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 7.3% (2009: 9.0%), taking in to account the cost of equity and debt for the CGU, and cash flows
beyond the 5-year period are deemed to be in perpetuity but no growth (2009: nil) is assumed in the calculations after 5 years.
No impairment losses have been recognised in the period or the prior period. The calculation of the value in use is most sensitive to the discount rate and sales volumes.
With regard to the assessment of value in the Eddie Stobart unit, management believes that no reasonably possible change in the discount rate or sales volumes would
cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
Stobart Rail cash-generating unit
The recoverable amount of the goodwill in the Stobart Rail cash-generating unit has been based on value in use calculations using projections from financial forecasts
approved by senior management covering a 5-year (2009: 5 year) period. The main assumptions on which the forecasts were based include Network Rail work volumes.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 8.4% (9.9%), taking in to account the cost of equity and debt for the CGU, and cash flows beyond the 5-
year period are deemed to be in perpetuity but no growth (2009: nil) is assumed in the calculations after 5 years.
No impairment losses have been recognised in the period or the prior period. The calculation of the value in use is most sensitive to the discount rate. With regard to the
assessment of value in the Stobart Rail unit, management believes that no reasonably possible change in the discount rate would cause the carrying value of the unit to
exceed its recoverable amount.
Stobart Ports cash-generating unit
The recoverable amount of the goodwill in the Stobart Ports cash-generating unit has been based on fair value less costs to sell calculations using estimated discounted
cash flows after tax and direct selling costs. The calculations are based on projections from financial forecasts approved by senior management covering a 5-year (2009:
5 year) period. The main assumptions on which the forecasts were based include container volumes and profit margins. The discount rate applied to the cash flow
projections is 6.2% (2009: 7.0%), based on the weighted average cost of capital of the division, and cash flows beyond the 5-year period are deemed to be in perpetuity
with a growth rate of 6.0% following the expected development of the port.
No impairment losses have been recognised in the period or the prior period. The calculation of the value in use is most sensitive to the discount rate, growth rate and container
volumes. The recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount by a significant amount. In order for the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount, the value of the
discount rate would need to be increased by approximately 50% and the value of the growth rate would need to be reduced by approximately 65%. 
15. Investment Property
Investment property in the prior year were carried at fair value and included in Assets Held for Sale, determined based on valuations performed by Knight Frank, an
accredited independent valuer, as at 28 February 2009 on the basis of open market value, supported by market evidence. The fair value represents the amount at which
the assets could be exchanged between a knowledgeable, willing buyer and a knowledgeable, willing seller in an arms length transaction at the date of the valuation. The
valuation was performed in accordance with the RICS Valuation Standards issued by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and is based on available market evidence.
The Directors consider that there has been no material change to the valuation in the year based on an in-house review of the valuation.
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Opening Balance - 3,803
Impairment charge in prior year - (1,803)
Reclassification to assets of disposal groups held for sale in the prior year - (2,000)
Reclassification from assets of disposal groups held for sale to investment property in the current year 2,000 -
Closing balance 2,000 -
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
77 Stobart Group Limited Report and Accounts 2010 78
In the prior year’s financial statements the Debden property had been classified as held for sale and included in discontinued operations. In the current year the Debden
property has been reclassified to Investment Properties in continuing operations as it is expected to be held for more than 12 months before disposal. The income statement
and certain notes have been restated  where appropriate in accordance with IFRS5.
At 28 February 2010, there were no restrictions on the realisability of investment property or remittance of income and proceeds of disposal (2009: none).
At 28 February 2010, contractual obligations to purchase investment property amounted to £ nil (2009: £ nil).
16. Investments in Subsidiary Companies
The financial statements include the financial statements of Stobart Group Limited and the principal subsidiaries listed in the following table:
Name of Subsidiary Place of incorporation Proportion of Proportion of Business Activity
ordinary shares ordinary shares
held directly held indirectly
Stobart Holdings Limited England 100% Holding company
Eddie Stobart Group Limited England 100% Contract logistics
Eddie Stobart Limited England 100% Contract logistics
Eddie Stobart Promotions Limited England 100% Corporate Merchandising
Eddie Stobart Belgium NV Belgium 100% Contract logistics
Eddie Stobart Insurance Limited Isle of Man 100% Insurance
Stobart (Ireland) Limited Ireland 100% Contract logistics
James Irlam & Sons Limited England 100% Contract logistics
Stobart Rail Limited England 100% Rail services
Victa Westlink Rail Limited England 100% Contract logistics
Westlink Group Limited England 100% Holding company
Inhoco 3185 Limited England 100% Holding company
Westlink Holdings Limited England 100% Property investment
Westlink Storage & Shipping Limited England 100% Contract logistics
AHC Westlink Limited England 100% Contract logistics
AHC (Isle of Man) Limited Isle of Man 100% Holding company
Marsh Maintenance Limited England 100% Property investment
O’Connor Group Management Limited England 100% Holding company
O’Connor Container Transport Limited England 100% Contract logistics
O’Connor Container Storage Limited England 100% Contract logistics
O’Connor Properties Limited England 100% Property investment
Stobart Airports Limited England 100% Holding company
London Southend Airport Company Limited England 100% Commercial airport
Stobart Air Limited England 100% Commercial airport
Stobart Properties Limited England 100% Trading company
SPD1 Limited England 100% Contract logistics
WPL Ventures Limited Guernsey 100% Holding company
WPL Investments Limited Guernsey 100% Holding company
Endeavour Guernsey Limited Guernsey 100% Property investment Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
79 Stobart Group Limited
17. Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 
Year end Issued Residence Percentage of 
Ordinary nominal value of
Shares of issued shares or 
£1 each members’ capital held
Ropewalks One LLP 30 September n/a UK 50%
One Plantation Place Unit Trust¹ 31 March n/a Jersey 22%
Westbury Fitness Limited 31 December 10,000 Guernsey 50%
Westbury Fitness Hull Limited 30 April 1 Isle of Man 50% (wholly owned by 
Westbury Fitness Limited)
Westar Limited 31 December 10,000 Guernsey 50%
Westar 2 Limited 31 December 10,000 Guernsey 50%
Burion Limited 31 December 2 Guernsey 50% (wholly owned
by Westar Limited)
The Synergy Gateshead Unit Trust 31 December n/a Jersey 50% (wholly owned 
by Westar Limited and
Burion Limited)
The Gateshead Unit Trust 31 December n/a Jersey Wholly owned by
The Synergy Gateshead
Unit Trust  
Endeavour Ware Limited
1
31 December 10,000 Guernsey 47.5%
Endeavour Guildford Limited 31 December 2 Guernsey 50%
Weston Point Studios Limited 31 August 2 UK 50%
Convoy Limited 5 April 2 Isle of Man 50%
Starion T ottenham Court Road Limited 30 April 1 Isle of Man 50%
1 These entities are associates, all others are joint ventures.
The businesses of all of the above associates and joint ventures are property related businesses. The assets and liabilities of these businesses are classified as held for
sale and they are classified as discontinued operations as they are all part of a co-ordinated plan to dispose of the property and related business operations. The
property related assets are written down to nil in the statement of financial position. The Group has been unable to sell these assets in the last year due to the fall in the
commercial property market but continues to look for opportunities to dispose of these assets on reasonable commercial terms. Disclosures in relation to discontinued
operations are set out in note 6.
The above holdings are all held indirectly by Stobart Group Limited.
18. Inventories
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Consumable supplies 1,365 1,528
Goods held for resale 194 172
1,559 1,700 Report and Accounts 2010 80
19. Trade and other receivables
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Trade receivables – net 60,687 55,658
Other receivables and prepayments 23,061 16,107
Corporation tax receivable 478 -
Loans to related parties 185 339
84,411 72,104
All receivables are due within one year of the statement of financial position date. The majority of our receivables are current. The amount of receivables past due but not
impaired, is not material.
A provision for £312,000 against a receivable amount has been made in the year after a customer, Jarvis plc, entered Administration after the year end. There were no other
material provisions against receivables in the year or prior year.
Movement in the provision for doubtful debts 2010 2009
£’000 £’000
At 1 March 27 -
Impairment losses recognised on receivables 766 27
At 28 February 793 27
The analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired was as follows:
2010 2010 2009 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Receivable Provision Receivable Provision
Current 54,358 - 51,083 -
1 month overdue 2,547 (355) 2,655 -
2 months overdue 3,457 - 1,853 (27)
3+ months overdue 1,118 (438) 94 -
61,480 (793) 55,685 (27)
The standard period for credit sales is up to 30 days. The Group assess credit worthiness of all trade debts on an ongoing basis. New customers are subject to stringent
credit checks.
20. Trade and other payables (current)
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Trade payables 29,227 26,364
Other taxes and social security 9,963 8,366
Other payables, accruals and deferred income 28,172 22,667
Government grants 234 162
Interest rate swap 1,608 -
Contingent consideration (note 12) 5,000 -
74,204 57,559
21. Non-current payables
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Contingent consideration (note 12) - 5,000
Other payables, accruals and deferred income 234 108
Government grants 2,280 1,483
Deferred lease liability 8,427 8,829
10,941 15,420 Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
81 Stobart Group Limited
22. Financial assets and liabilities
Loans and borrowings Interest Rate 2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Non-current
Fixed rate:
- Income shares 8% - 5,240
- Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts Various 31,509 35,583
Variable rate:
- Loan notes Various - 6,000
- Bank loans Various 11,367 43,544
42,876 90,367
Current
Fixed rate:
- Income shares 8% 5,269 -
- Other borrowings 7.36% - 658
- Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts Various 18,891 17,806
Variable rate
- Loan notes Various 6,000 -
- Overdrafts Various 26,436 16,572
- Bank loans Various 10,600 2,739
67,196 37,775
T otal loans and borrowings 110,072 128,142
Cash 13,313 7,458
Net debt 96,759 120,684
The Income Shares are entitled to a fixed preferential distribution of 8% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears. The holders of the Income Shares had options to redeem
at par or convert to Ordinary Shares or neither around 31 March 2010 and are therefore shown as due within one year. In April 2010, 789,058 Income Shares were redeemed
for £1 each and 3,628,158 were converted into 3,098,440 Ordinary Shares.  The holders of the remaining income shares are entitled to £1 of capital per income share ranking
ahead of the ordinary shares in the event of a liquidation.
The obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are taken out with various lenders at fixed interest rates prevailing at the inception of the contracts.
Interest is charged on the loan notes outstanding at the year end at a rate of LIBOR plus 8% until the amount is repaid in December 2010. The Group may repay loan notes early. 
The variable rate borrowings comprised a term loan, two property loans, a revolving credit facility, and overdraft facilities. The revolving credit facility was fully repaid before
the year end.
Interest is charged on the term loan and revolving credit facility based on a rate of LIBOR plus 1.5%. The term loan of £10.5m is to be partly repaid by £6,500,000 in 28
equal instalments payable quarterly commencing on 19 November 2007. A further £3,269,069 was repaid on 16 April 2010. In February 2013, the bank will obtain a valuation
of the properties for which the term loan was used to finance and shall use such valuation to determine the timing of the loan repayments to maturity in August 2014. The
loan will be repaid in full by 8 August 2014. The term loan may be prepaid (minimum £1m) by the Company by giving 10 business days’ notice to the lender. There are
certain financial covenants in the facility agreement.
Interest is charged on the property loans based on a rate of LIBOR plus 1.5%. The loans are repayable by equal quarterly instalments.
The overdraft facility is secured on working capital and bears interest at 1.5% above the Bank of England base rate.
The Group was in compliance with financial covenants throughout the year and the previous year.
£179,000 of the cash balance is included in the assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale. Cash included in continuing operations was £13,134,000. Report and Accounts 2010 82
The book value and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows:
Continuing Operations 2010 Book value Fair value
2010 2010
£’000 £’000
Financial assets
Cash 13,134 13,134
Trade and other receivables 60,872 60,872
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 29,227 29,227
Other payables 28,172 28,172
Overdrafts 26,436 26,436
Loans and borrowings 33,236 33,236
Finance leases and hire purchase arrangements 50,400 50,400
Interest rate swap 1,608 1,608
Continuing Operations 2009 Book value Fair value
2009 2009
£’000 £’000
Financial assets
Cash 7,251 7,251
Trade and other receivables 55,997 55,997
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 26,364 26,364
Other payables 22,667 22,667
Overdrafts 16,572 16,572
Loans and borrowings 58,181 58,181
Finance leases and hire purchase arrangements 53,389 53,389
For trade and other receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the carrying amount is considered to reflect the fair value.
The fair values of loans and borrowings have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique:
Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly; and
Level 3: T echniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorder fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Liabilities measured at fair value 28.02.2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Interest rate swap 1,608 - 1,608 -
During the reporting period ending 28 February 2010, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level
3 fair value measurements.
Financial instruments - Risk Management
The Group is exposed through its operations to the following financial risks:
> Credit risk > Fair value or cash flow interest rate risk
> Liquidity risk > Capital risk
In common with all other businesses, the Group is exposed to risks that arise from its use of financial instruments. This note describes the Group’s objectives, policies and
processes for managing those risks and the methods used to measure them. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
83 Stobart Group Limited
Principal financial instruments
The principal financial instruments used by the Group, from which financial instrument risk arises, are as follows:
> Trade receivables > Cash at bank
> Bank overdrafts > Trade and other payables
> Floating-rate bank loans > Income shares
> Finance leases > Loan notes
General objectives, policies and processes
The Board has overall responsibility for the determination of the Group’s risk management objectives and polices. 
The overall objective of the Board is to set polices that seek to reduce risk as far as possible without unduly affecting the Group’s competitiveness and flexibility. Further
details regarding these policies are set out below:
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. The Group is mainly
exposed to credit risk from credit sales. It is Group policy, implemented locally, to assess the credit risk of new customers before entering contracts. Such credit ratings are
taken into account by local business practices. 
All credit sales are made under Group payment and delivery terms and conditions and are mostly covered by insurance. All credit limits are formally set and are in agreement
with the bank. 
The recoverability of the net trade receivables book is considered highly likely. This is supported by the history of collection by the Group.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to cash flow interest risk from long-term borrowings and cash at variable rates. It is Group policy that finance lease borrowings are taken at variable
rates, previously these were fixed rates. There are loan facilities at variable rates. These borrowing policies are managed centrally. The Group has also used interest rate
caps and collars to manage the risk of interest rate fluctuations though there are none in place at the year end. Although the Board accepts that this policy neither protects
the Group entirely from the risk of paying rates in excess of current market rates nor eliminates fully cash flow risk associated with variability in interest payments, it considers
that it achieves an appropriate balance of exposure to these risks.
During 2010 and 2009, the Group’s borrowings at variable rate were denominated in Pounds Sterling.
At 28 February 2010, if interest rates on Pounds Sterling denominated borrowings had been 100 basis points higher/lower with all other variables held constant, the
annualised effect on the Group’s profit before tax from continuing operations would be £571,000 (2009: £613,000). The impact on retained earnings, reflecting the after tax
impact, would not be materially different.
During the year the Group has taken out an interest rate swap to manage its exposure to interest rate risk. The Group has chosen to hedge account for this swap under IAS 39.
Cash flow hedge
Financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are held at fair value in the statement of financial position.
At 28 February 2010, the Group held an interest rate swap contract which was designated as hedges against a proportion of the interest cash flow payable in respect of its
LIBOR floating rate borrowings.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts at 28 February 2010 is £1,608,000 (2009: £ nil).
The interest rate hedges of the expected future interest cash flows was assessed to be highly effective and an unrealised loss of £1,608,000, with a deferred tax credit of
£450,000 was included in other comprehensive income.
The principal amount of the swap was £28,825,000 at 28 February 2010 and reduces in equal quarterly installments of £175,000 to £25,500,000 by October 2014.
Capital management
The objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise
shareholder value. 
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratios. Gearing based on net debt divided by capital was 31.7% at 28 February 2010 (2009: 43.2%). Gearing excluding fleet
finance and financed fleet assets was 15.2% at 28 February 2010 (2009: 25.5%). The Group includes the following within borrowings; bank loans and overdrafts, finance
leases and hire purchase contracts, income shares and loan notes. Capital comprises equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent.
The Group uses share capital to partly fund major acquisitions where considered appropriate.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital restraints.
Dividends are payable out of distributable profits after considering the forecast funding requirements and headroom.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of working capital and the finance charges and principal repayments on its debt instruments. It is the risk that the Group
will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due. See also the maturity profile of loans and borrowings below.
The Group prepares rolling weekly 3-month cash flow projections and daily cash forecasts for the following week. Actual cash and debt positions along with available
facilities and headroom are reported weekly. Working capital levels including analyses of receivables and payables profiles are reported by Division weekly. These are
monitored by Group management. For the largest part of the business, cash is monitored against forecast and reported to Group management on a daily basis.
In addition, full annual 5-year forecasts are prepared including cash flow and headroom forecasts. These are full detailed forecasts built up by Division and consolidated for the Group.
The financial statements have been prepared using the going concern basis as the financial forecasts support the assumption that the Group will be able to meet its
obligations when they fall due. Report and Accounts 2010 84
The table below summarises the maturity analysis of loans and borrowings at 28 February 2010 based on contractual undiscounted payments:
< 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years T otal
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Period to 28 February 2010
Loans and borrowings 49,273 7,913 4,743 61,929
Finance lease borrowings 20,818 32,307 - 53,125
Trade payables 29,227 -- 29,227
Other payables 28,172 -- 28,172
Interest rate swap 1,608 -- 1,608
129,098 40,220 4,743 174,061
Period to 28 February 2009
Loans and borrowings 20,061 53,288 5,545 78,894
Finance lease borrowings 19,482 37,905 - 57,387
Trade payables 26,364 -- 26,364
Other payables 22,667 -- 22,667
88,574 91,193 5,545 185,312
23. Share-based payments
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Expenses arising from equity-settled share based payment transactions:
Share options 118 115
Long term incentive plan 2,144 650
Cash settled employer’s National Insurance charge on options under long term incentive plan that have vested 251 -
T otal expense arising from share-based payment transactions 2,513 765 
Of the share based payment charge above, £ nil (2009: £33,000) is included in restructuring costs, £9,000 (2009: £16,000) is included in discontinued activities, £1,758,000
(2009: nil) has been deducted in arriving at the net profit on disposal of the Widnes assets as directly related to that disposal (see note 3) and £746,000 (2009: £716,000)
is included on the face of the income statement as share based payments on underlying operating profit.
The share-based payment plans are described below.
Share options
On 21 September 2007 1,504,120 options over the 10p ordinary shares were granted with an exercise price of £1.66 each. The options vest over a 3 year period and there
are no performance conditions attached. These options lapse in September 2017.
Incentive Plan
On 10 March 2008, 2.84m share options were granted to Directors and management under the Stobart Executive Equity Incentive Plan (SEEIP). The exercise price of the
options is nil.
On 3 July 2008 2.25m share options were granted to Directors and management under the Stobart Executive Equity Incentive Plan (SEEIP). The exercise price of the options
is nil.
On 20 August 2009, 2.4m share options were granted to Directors and management under the Stobart Executive Equity Incentive Plan (SEEIP). The exercise price of the
options is nil.
The Incentive Plan is designed to provide incentives to key employees of the Group who are selected to participate by the Group’s remuneration committee. Participants
will be allocated units, each of which will represent one 10p ordinary share and will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant. Fifty, forty and forty percent of the units
granted 10 March 2008, 3 July 2008 and 20 August 2009 respectively will vest subject to the total shareholder return (“TSR”) of the Group measured over a three year
performance period from the date of grant relative to a comparator group. Fifty, sixty and sixty percent of the units granted 10 March 2008, 3 July 2008 and 20 August 2009
respectively will vest subject to the achievement of a specified increase in the Company’s earnings per share (“EPS”) over two, three and three consecutive financial years
respectively starting in the year in which the grant is made. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
85 Stobart Group Limited
The fair value of the options granted without market based vesting conditions are estimated using a Black-Scholes model taking in to account the terms and conditions
upon which the options were granted. The fair value of the options granted with market based vesting conditions are estimated using a Monte Carlo model taking into
account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
During the year, 1,420,000 of the March 2008 options became fully vested and are exercisable at the year end.
The options under the Incentive Plan have no lapse date. 
Movements in the period
The following table illustrates the number (No.) and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the period:
2010 2010 2009 2009
No.’000 WAEP No.’000 WAEP
Outstanding at 1 March 6,594 0.38 1,504 £1.66
Granted during the period 2,388 £ nil 5,090 £ nil
Outstanding at 28 February 8,982 £0.28 6,594 £0.37 
Exercisable at 28 February 1,420 -
The following table lists the inputs to the models used for the periods ended 28 February 2010 and 28 February 2009.
2009 Share options SEEIP options SEEIP options
subject to TSR subject to EPS
Dividend yield (%) 5.7 5.7
Expected volatility (%) 23 23
Risk-free interest rate (%) 1.82 1.82
Expected life of options (years) 33
Weighted average share price (£) 1.13 1.13
Model used Monte Carlo Black-Scholes
2008 Share options SEEIP options SEEIP options
subject to TSR subject to EPS
Dividend yield (%) 6.0 6.0
Expected volatility (%) 35 35
Risk-free interest rate (%) 4.0 4.0
Expected life of options (years) 3 2-3
Weighted average share price (£) 1.21 1.17
Model used Monte Carlo Black-Scholes
2007 Share options Share
options
Dividend yield (%) 5.4
Expected volatility (%) 30
Risk-free interest rate (%) 4.9
Expected life of options (years) 3
Weighted average share price (£) 1.66
Model used Black-Scholes
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption
that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of the share options granted in the year is 72p (2009: 81.5p). Report and Accounts 2010 86
24. Deferred tax
Deferred income tax liabilities 2010 2009
£'000 £'000
Accelerated allowances on plant and machinery 4,647 4,037
Rollover relief --
Revaluation of properties to fair value on acquisition 18,224 15,439
Brands recognised on acquisition 16,800 16,800
Other temporary differences (5,428) (2,007)
34,243 34,269 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of certain tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is probable that the
assets will be recovered.
Deferred tax totalling £8,420,537 has not been provided on trading losses carried forward in the Group on the basis that it is unlikely they will be relievable against chargeable
profits in future.
25. Issued share capital and reserves
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Authorised share capital – Ordinary Shares
Authorised – 300,000,000 (2009: 300,000,000) shares of 10p each 30,000 30,000
££
Authorised share capital – Deferred Shares
Authorised – 1,000 shares of 0.1p each 11
Number Share Number Share 
of shares capital of shares capital
2010 2010 2009 2009
000 £'000 £’000 £'000
Ordinary Shares of 10p each issued and fully paid
At beginning of period 241,746 24,175 160,625 16,063
Issued during the period 9,042 904 81,121 8,112
T otal share capital 250,788 25,079 241,746 24,175  
On 4 April 2008, 65,367,494 ordinary shares were issued in relation to the acquisition of the Irlam business and Stobart Rail Ltd. Of these, 7,692,306 ordinary shares were
issued as consideration to the vendors.  The remaining shares were issued for cash.
On 5 December 2008, 15,753,525 ordinary shares were issued in relation to the acquisition of London Southend Airport.
On 30 May 2009, 9,041,957 ordinary shares were issued in relation to the acquisition of Stobart Air Ltd.
Post year end, on 14 April 2010 a further 3,098,440 Ordinary shares were issued on conversion of 3,628,158 Income Shares.
Voting Rights
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to vote at all general meetings.
The Deferred Shares have no voting rights.
Capital Entitlement
The ordinary shareholders are entitled to all capital once the holders of Income Shares have been paid their entitlement of £1 of capital per Income Share. The deferred
shareholders are entitled to the repayment of the amounts paid up on the Deferred Shares after payment in respect of each Ordinary Share and £1m.
Nature and purpose of other reserves
Own shares held by EBT : This comprises the weighted average cost of own shares held by the employee benefit trust.
Foreign currency exchange reserve: Gains/losses arising on retranslating the net assets of overseas operations into Sterling.
Hedge reserve: The hedge reserve is used to record the effect of a cash flow hedge. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
87 Stobart Group Limited
26. Lease commitments
Group as lessee
The Group has operating lease agreements for land and buildings, used primarily for the provision of warehousing facilities to customers and as vehicle depot locations,
and in respect of the Group’s transport vehicle and trailer fleet. These leases typically have terms of renewal but do not contain purchase options. Property leases typically
include rent review clauses which allow for upward revision to the rental charge on a periodic basis, according to prevailing market conditions. Where escalation clauses
are present that stipulate specific increases to the rental amount the operating lease expense is recorded on a straight-line basis. Similarly, lease incentives are recorded
on a straight-line basis.
At the statement of financial position date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Property Vehicles, plant Property Vehicles, plant
and equipment and equipment
2010 2010 2009 2009
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Within one year 15,866 20,433 13,826 12,834
After one year but not more than five years 55,460 12,329 47,264 26,306
More than five years 75,636 597 60,491 43 
146,962 33,359 121,581 39,183  
Group as lessor
The Group has entered into commercial property leases on certain of its properties. These non-cancellable leases have remaining terms of between 1 and 30 years. All
leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge on an annual basis according to prevailing market conditions. Future minimum rentals receivable
under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Within one year 2,709 4,280
After one year but not more than five years 4,522 10,799
More than five years 8,496 581
15,727 15,660
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments:
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
Min. lease Interest Principal Min. lease Interest Principal
payments payments
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Within one year 20,818 (1,927) 18,891 19,482 (1,676) 17,806 
After one year but not more than five years 32,307 (798) 31,509 37,905 (2,322) 35,583 
53,125 (2,725) 50,400 57,387 (3,998) 53,389
Capital commitments:
At 28 February 2010, the Group had commitments of £23,956,091 (2009 - £9,832,159). Report and Accounts 2010 88
27. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement
Cash generated from operations Notes Year to Restated year to
28.02.2010 28.02.2009
£’000 £’000
Non-current
Profit before tax on continuing operations 34,063 22,139
Loss before tax on discontinued operations 6 (739) (28,113)
Profit / (Loss) before tax 33,324 (5,974)
Adjustments to reconcile (loss) / profit before tax to net cash flows:
Non-cash:
Movement in unrealised loss on revaluation of investment properties - 1,803
Realised profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (8,910) (678)
Writedown of associates and joint ventures 131 26,650
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 15,668 13,430
Investment income 7 (928) (650)
Interest expense 8 6,621 8,475
Amortisation of income share issue costs 29 29
Credit for business purchase 12 - (3,609)
Share option charge – excluding amounts included 
above within Realised profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 23 755 765
Working capital adjustments:
Decrease in inventories 188 157
(Increase) / Decrease in trade and other receivables (11,605) 4,440
Increase in trade and other payables 4,550 3,108
Cash generated from operations 39,823 47,946
Issue of ordinary shares - 86,478
Issue costs paid on issuance of ordinary shares (253) (3,096)
(253) 83,382 Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
89 Stobart Group Limited
28. Related Parties
Relationships of Common Control or Significant Influence
Stobart Rail Limited (formerly WA Developments Limited) was owned by A Tinkler and W Stobart who are significant shareholders and Directors of Stobart Group. On 4 April
2008, WA Developments Limited was acquired by the Group for £10m (see note 12).
WA Developments International Limited is owned by A Tinkler and W Stobart. The Group made purchases totaling £167,000 (2009: £375,000) from and sales totaling
(£69,000) (2009: £665,000) to WA Developments International Limited. £152,000 (2009: £624,000) was due from and £135,000 (2009: £9,000) was due to WA Developments
International Limited at the year end.
Stobart Air Limited was a subsidiary of WA Developments International Limited.  On 30 May 2009, Stobart Air Limited was acquired by the Group for £9.9m (see note 12).
During the period prior to acquisition, the Group made sales of £5,000 (2009: £436,000) to Stobart Air Limited of which £ nil (2009: £ nil) was outstanding owed to the Group
at the year end.
WA Developments International GMBH is a subsidiary of WA Developments International Limited. During the year, the Group made sales of £33,000 (2009: £174,000) to
WA Developments International GMBH of which £33,000 (2009: £ nil) was outstanding owed to the Group at the year end.
Moneypenny Limited is a subsidiary of WA Developments International Limited. During the year, the Group made purchases of £250,000 (2009: £232,000) from Moneypenny
Limited of which £ nil (2009: £29,000) was outstanding owed by the Group at the year end.
AstSigns Limited is 27% owned by W Stobart. During the year, the Group made purchases of £349,000 (2009: £297,000) from AstSigns Limited of which £28,000 (2009:
£4,000) was outstanding owed by the Group at the year end.
STA (2006) LLP is a joint venture of WA Developments International Limited. During the year the Group made sales of £9,000 (2009: £ nil) to STA (2006) LLP of which £9,000
(2009: £ nil) was outstanding owed to the Group at the year end.
Associates and Joint Ventures
The Group had loans outstanding from its joint venture interest, Starion T ottenham Court Road Limited of £2,053,000 (2009: £2,053,000) at the year end of which £2,053,000
(2009: £2,053,000) has been provided for.
The Group had loans due to its joint venture interest, Ropewalks One LLP of £33,190 (2009: £512,000 due from Ropewalks One LLP) at the year end.
The Group received a dividend of £ nil (2009: £490,000) from Endeavour Guildford Limited, £ nil (2009: £384,000) from Endeavor Ware Limited and £256,000 (2009:
£125,000) from Westbury Fitness Hull Limited. The Group had loans outstanding from Endeavour Guildford Limited of £ nil at the year end (2009: £ nil).
There were no other transactions between the Group and the joint ventures and associates during the year ended 28 February 2010 and the year ended 28 February 2009.
Key Management Personnel
Key management personnel are the Executive and Non-Executive Directors whose remuneration is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
During the year, A Tinkler made purchases of £97,000 (2009: £69,000), of which £166,000 (2009: £69,000) was outstanding owed to the Group at the year end. This was at
an arms length rate.
29. Post Balance Sheet Events
On 24 March 2010 Stobart Group Limited acquired a controlling interest in the newly formed Stobart Biomass Products Limited for £30m being half in shares and half in cash. Independent Auditor’s Report 
T o the Members of Stobart Group Limited 
Report and Accounts 2010 90
We have audited the Company Financial Statements of Stobart
Group Limited for the year ended 28 February 2010 which comprise
the Income Statement, the Statement of Comprehensive Income,
The Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Changes In
Equity, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes A to L. The
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body,
in accordance with section 262 of the Companies (Guernsey) Law,
2008. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state
to the company’s members those matters we are required to state
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. T o the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This
includes an assessment of; whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the
Directors; and the overall presentation of the FinancialStatements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements:
> Give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as
at 28 February 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended;
> Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union; and
> Have been properly prepared in accordance with the require-
ments of the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where:
Under  the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 2008 we are required to
report to you if, in our opinion:
> Proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company;
> The Company’s accounts are not in agreement with the account-
ing records; or
> We have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of
Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 28 February 2010.
Stuart Watson
For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Manchester
12 May 2010  Financial Statements
Stobart Group Limited Company Income Statement 
For the year to 28 February 2010
91 Stobart Group Limited
Notes Year to Year to
28.02.2010 28.02.2009
£’000 £’000
- Impairment of investment in subsidiary G- (37,579)
- Impairment of loans to subsidiary H (1,400) (21,646)
- Administrative expenses B (4,546) (2,314)
(Loss) before taxation and interest (5,946) (61,539)
Finance costs C (1,264) (603)
Finance income D 413 344
Dividends received from Group companies 39,903 -
Profit / (Loss) before tax 33,106 (61,798)
Income tax E (150) 200
Profit / (Loss) for the year 32,956 (61,598)
Stobart Group Limited Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 28 February 2010
The Company has no other comprehensive income to report for the year. (2009: £ nil).
The total comprehensive income recognised for the year is the profit for the year of £32,956,000 (2009: Loss of £61,598,000). Stobart Group Limited Company Statement of Financial Position 
As at 28 February 2010
Report and Accounts 2010 92
Notes 28.02.2010 28.02.2009
£’000 £’000
Non-current Assets
Investments in subsidiaries G 233,921 221,979
Loans to subsidiaries H 74,917 69,999
Property, plant and equipment I 1,677 634
T otal non-current assets 310,515 292,612
Current Assets
Other receivables 1,732 1,019
Cash and cash equivalents 8,299 2,968 
T otal current assets 10,031 3,987
T otal Assets 320,546 296,599
Non-current Liabilities
Loans and borrowings J 235 11,240
T otal non-current liabilities 235 11,240
Current Liabilities
Loans and borrowings J 16,947 449
Other payables K 11,316 24,432
T otal current liabilities 28,263 24,881
T otal Liabilities 28,498 36,121
T otal Net Assets 292,048 260,478
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company
Issued share capital 25 25,079 24,175
Share premium 25 164,255 155,805
Retained earnings 102,714 80,498
T otal Equity 292,048 260,478
The financial statements on pages 91 to 99 were approved at a meeting of the Board of Directors held on 12 May 2010 and signed on its behalf by:
Rodney Baker-Bates, Chairman Ben Whawell, Director Financial Statements
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 28 February 2010
93 Stobart Group Limited
Share Capital Share Premium Retained Earnings T otal
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 March 2009 24,175 155,805 80,498 260,478
Profit attributable to equity holders -- 32,956 32,956
T otal comprehensive income for the year -- 32,956 32,956
Share based payment -- 2,253 2,253
Proceeds on share issue 904 8,703 - 9,607
Share issue costs - (253) - (253)
Dividends on Ordinary Shares -- (12,993) (12,993)
Balance at 28 February 2010 25,079 164,255 102,714 292,048
Share Capital Share Premium Retained Earnings T otal
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 March 2008 16,063 70,535 155,946 242,544
Loss attributable to equity holders -- (61,598) (61,598)
T otal comprehensive income for the year -- (61,598) (61,598)
Share based payment -- 765 765
Proceeds on share issue 8,112 88,366 - 96,478
Share issue costs - (3,096) - (3,096)
Dividends on Ordinary Shares -- (14,615) (14,615)
Balance at 28 February 2009 24,175 155,805 80,498 260,478
The notes (identified alphabetically) are an integral part of these separate financial statements. 
Where the same items appear in the Group Financial Statements, reference is made to the notes (identified numerically).  Company Cash Flow Statement 
For the year ended 28 February 2010
Report and Accounts 2010 94
Notes 28.02.2010 28.02.2009
£’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit / (Loss) before taxation 33,106 (61,798)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 270 32
Investment income (413) (344)
Interest expense 1,235 574
Amortisation of income share issue costs 29 29
Share based payment 190 249
Impairment of investment in subsidiary 1,400 59,225
35,817 (2,033)
(Increase)/decrease in other receivables (51) 79
(Decrease)/increase in payables (630) 562
Cash generated from operations 35,136 (1,392)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of investments - (68,420)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,313) (645)
Repayment of loans advanced (from) / to subsidiaries (19,824) 4,132
Bank and other interest received 413 344
Interest paid (1,299) (454)
Net cash flows from investing activities (22,023) (65,043)
Financing activities
Issue of Ordinary Shares - 86,478
Issue costs paid on issuance of Ordinary Shares (253) (3,096)
Dividends paid on Ordinary Shares (12,993) (14,615)
Proceeds from new finance leases 1,290 577
Repayment of finance leases (826) (128)
Draw down of loan 5,000 -
Net cash flows from financing activities (7,782) 69,216
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,331 2,781
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 March 2,968 187
Cash and cash equivalents at 28 February 8,299 2,968 Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
95 Stobart Group Limited
A Accounting policies of Stobart Group Limited
Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations) issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by European Union (“adopted IFRSs”).
The separate financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling (GBP) and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£’000) except where otherwise stated.
The accounting policies that are used in the preparation of these separate financials statements are consistent with accounting policies used in the preparation of the
consolidated financial statements of Stobart Group Limited as set out in the consolidated financial statements. The Company’s accounting policies are set out in note 1
of the Group financial statements.
The additional accounting policies that are specific to the separate financial statements of the Company are set out below.
The financial statements of the Group and Company are also prepared in accordance with the Companies (Guernsey) Law 2008.
Judgements, estimates and assumptions
Investment in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any provision for impairment. Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, an
impairment is recognised.
Share Based payments
Where equity-settled share options are awarded to employees, the fair value of the options at the date of grant is charged to the income statement over the vesting
period. Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each statement of financial position date
so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest. Market vesting conditions are
factored into the fair value of the options granted. As long as all other vesting conditions are satisfied, a charge is made irrespective of whether the market vesting
conditions are satisfied. The cumulative expense is not adjusted for failure to achieve a market vesting condition.
B Administrative Expenses
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Other expenses comprise the following:
- Management charge to subsidiary companies (292) (40)
- Other expenses 4,591 1,468
- Share based payment 190 765
- Auditor remuneration – Audit of financial statements 50 99
- T ax consultancy fees 7 22
4,546 2,314
C Finance Costs
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Bank loans and loan notes:
Interest payable 813 152
Income Shares:
Distributions paid 422 422
Amortisation of issue costs 29 29
1,264 603 
D Finance Income
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Finance income comprises the following:
- Interest receivable from subsidiary companies 393 299
- Bank and other interest 20 45
413 344  Report and Accounts 2010 96
E T axation
T axation on profit on ordinary activities
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax --
Guernsey tax --
T otal current tax --
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 150 (200)
T otal deferred tax 150 (200)
T otal charge / (credit) in the income statement 150 (200)
Reconciliation of income taxation charge
A reconciliation of the income tax charge applicable to the results from ordinary activities at the statutory income tax rate to income tax for the year is as follows:
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Profit / (loss) before taxation 33,106 (61,798)
UK income tax rate at 28% (2009: 28%) 9,270 (17,303)
Effects of:
Income not taxable including dividends received from group companies (11,173) -
Group relief surrendered for nil consideration 1,661 720
Expenses incurred not relievable against current tax and other differences 392 16,383
150 (200)
The deferred tax included in the statement of financial position is as follows:
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Included in other receivables 50 200
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Accelerated allowances on plant and machinery (150) -
Other temporary differences 200 200
50 200
F Dividends
See note 11 of the Group financial statements. Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
For the year to 28 February 2010, continued
97 Stobart Group Limited
G Investments in Subsidiary Companies
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
WPL Ventures Limited 130 130
WPL Investments Limited 37,579 37,579
Westlink Group Limited 2,665 1,092
Stobart Holdings Limited 131,629 131,344
James Irlam & Sons Limited 57,570 57,570
Stobart Rail Limited 10,606 10,411
Stobart Airports Limited 21,432 21,432
Stobart Air Limited 9,889 -
Less provision for impairment (37,579) (37,579)
233,921 221,979
Cost or valuation 2010 2009
£’000 £’000
At 1 March 2009 259,558 169,622
Additions 9,879 89,420
Share based payment 2,063 516
At 28 February 2010 271,500 259,558
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Amounts provided:
At 1 March 2009 (37,579) -
Provision for impairment - (37,579)
At 28 February 2010 (37,579) (37,579)
Net book value at 28 February 2010 and 28 February 2009 233,921 221,979
Net book value at 28 February 2009 and 1 March 2008 221,979 169,622
A table listing all the subsidiaries owned by the Company is set out in note 16.
H Non current loans to Subsidiaries
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Westlink Group Limited 31,730 39,781
Westlink Holdings Limited 22,976 22,976
WPL Investments Limited 24,091 23,646
WPL Ventures Limited 552 1,013
Eddie Stobart Group Limited 6,181 5,309
Stobart Properties Limited 31 61
O’Connor Transport Limited -3
SPD1 Limited 147 -
Stobart Rail Limited 8,047 -
London Southend Airport Company Limited 5,708 356
Less provision for impairment (24,546) (23,146)
74,917 69,999 
As at 28 February 2010 and 28 February 2009 none of the amounts included above were past due.
Movements in the provision for impairment are as follows: 2010 2009
£’000 £’000
At 1 March 23,146 1,500
Amounts written off 1,400 21,646
At 28 February 2010 24,546 23,146
Interest charged for the year, included within the loan balances, amounted to £393,361 (2009: £298,835). Interest is charged on the loans at base rate plus a margin
between 2% and 3% (2009: between 2% and 3%). Report and Accounts 2010 98
I Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures, fittings Commercial T otal
and equipment vehicles
£'000 £'000 £'000
Cost
At 1 March 2008 - 21 21
Additions 634 11 645
At 28 February 2009 634 32 666
Additions 1,286 27 1,313
At 28 February 2010 1,920 59 1,979
Aggregate depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 March 2009 -- -
Charge 9 23 32
At 28 February 2010 9 23 32
Charge 241 29 270
At 28 February 2010 250 52 302
Net book amount at 28 February 2010 1,670 7 1,677
Net book amount at 28 February 2009 625 9 634
J Loans and borrowings
2010 2009
Interest Rate £’000 £’000
Non-current
Fixed rate borrowings
- Loan notes 8% - 6,000
- Income shares 8% - 5,240
- Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts Various 235 -
235 11,240 
Current
Fixed rate borrowings
- Loan notes 8% 6,000 -
- Bank loans Various 5,000 -
- Income shares 8% 5,269 -
- Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts Various 678 449
16,947 449 
Income shares
The Income Shares are entitled to a fixed preferential distribution of 8% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears. The holders of the Income Shares had options to redeem
at par or convert to Ordinary Shares or neither around 31 March 2010. In April 2010, 789,058 Income Shares were redeemed for £1 each and 3,628,158 were converted
into 3,098,440 Ordinary Shares.  The holders of the remaining income shares are entitled to £1 of capital per income share ranking ahead of the ordinary shares in the
event of a liquidation.
The obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are taken out with various lenders at fixed interest rates prevailing at the inception of the contracts.
Interest is charged on the loan notes outstanding at the year end at a rate of LIBOR plus 8%, until the amount is repaid in December 2010. The Group may repay loan
notes early.  1        Stobart Group Limited
Introduction Business Review Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Introduction
Chairman’s Statement                                                     2
Business Highlights 2009-2010                                       3
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement                              11
Business Review
Stobart Group Operations                                             17
Corporate Responsibility                                                29
Financial Review
Business Performance                                                   31
Risk Management                                                          37
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Profiles                                                           38
Directors’ Report                                                            40
Corporate Governance Report                                      43
Directors’ Remuneration Report                                    46
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report                                       50
Consolidated Income Statement                                   51
Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position                                                       53
Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity                                                          55
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement                              56
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements                               57
Independent Auditor’s Report                                       90
Company Financial Statements                                    91
3.9%
Revenue Growth
42.5%
EAFFC Growth
a
59.7%
PBT Growth
b
43.1%
EPS Growth
c
a Comprising underlying operating profit of £35.0m (2009: £31.4m) and net disposal profit on
Widnes assets of £8.2m less fleet financing costs of £3.4m (2009: £3.2m) and share based
payments of £0.7m (2009: £0.7m).
b Normalised PBT is before restructuring costs of £2,7m and includes net disposal profit
on Widnes assets of £8.2m.
c EPS is based on a PBT of £36.8m with a normalised tax charge of 28%. EPS excluding the
net disposal profit on Widnes assets is 8.6p.
d Reflects five months of trading for Eddie Stobart Division.
2010 2009 2008
d
£m £m £m
Revenue 447.7 431.1 101.8
Earnings After Fleet Financing Costs 39.1 27.5 5.4
Profit Before T ax (continuing) 36.8 23.1 3.5
Earnings Per Share (continuing) 11.0p 7.7p 2.1p Stobart Group Limited
Isabelle Chambers, Route Isabelle, St Peter Port
Guernsey, Channel Islands  GY1 3TX.
www.stobartgroup.com
Registered in Guernsey, registered number 39117.
Printed on environmentally friendly paper. ©2010 Stobart Group. Designed and produced by Carne Whitney 01228 596 895. Photography David Mulholland 07770 676766.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
