 Pursuing
Global growth
Synergy Health plc  
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Synergy Health delivers a range of specialist 
outsourced services to healthcare providers 
and other customers concerned with health 
management. Our services support our 
customers to improve the quality and efﬁciency 
of their activities, whilst reducing risks to their 
patients and clients.
Overview
01 Financial and operational highlights
02 Our business
12 Chairman’s statement
Business review
14 Our long-term strategy
15 Chief Executive’s review
16 Regional review
18 Finance Director’s report
23 Principal risks and uncertainties
26 Corporate Social Responsibility
Governance
30 Board of Directors
31 Our Executive Team
32 Directors’ report
35 Corporate Governance
40 Remuneration report
Financial Statements
45 Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Synergy Health plc
46 Consolidated income statement
47 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
48 Consolidated statement of 
ﬁnancial position
49 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
50 Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
51 Notes to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements
84 Company balance sheet
85 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
92 Financial calendar and Advisors
Front cover shows a cobalt-60 source rack from Synergy’s gamma irradiation sterilisation facility 
at Ede, in the Netherlands.
This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, 
performance and ﬁnancial position of Synergy Health. These forward-looking statements are subject 
to risks, uncertainties, and other factors which as a result could cause Synergy Health’s future 
ﬁnancial position, performance and results to differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations 
set out in the forward-looking statements. Such statements are made only as at the date of this 
document and, except to the extent legally required, Synergy Health undertakes no obligation 
to revise or update such forward-looking statements.
Contents
Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Revenue (£m)
+8.6%
Operating proﬁt
1
 (£m)
+1 3.8%
Proﬁt before tax
1
 (£m)
+1 3.4%
Operating cash ﬂow (£m)
+8.5%
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)
+1 2. 7%
Dividend per share (pence)
+1 3. 6%
287 .3
312.0
201 1 2012
38.3
43.4
201 1 2012
53.54
60.32
201 1 2012
43.0
49.0
201 1 2012
78.3
85.0
201 1 2012
15.84
18.00
201 1 2012
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   01
Business review Governance Financial Statements Overview
Delivering 
a strong 
performance
Financial and operational highlights
Financial
Headlines
Good underlying revenue growth across 
all regions with UK & Ireland at 9.7%; 
Europe & Middle East at 2.4%; 
Asia & Africa at 31.7% and Americas 
at 28.5% (pro forma)
Entry into the US hospital sterilisation 
market; good progress in China with 
development of hospital sterilisation 
opportunities
Increased global presence in Applied 
Sterilisation with acquisitions in the 
Americas, Malaysia and Switzerland
Strong organic underlying growth across 
key service lines with Applied Sterilisation 
T echnologies growing by 8.9% and 
Hospital Sterilisation Services by 10.1 %
Rationalisation of manufacturing and 
linen facilities driving margin 
improvement
All acquisitions integrated well and 
performing in line with expectations
In 2012, 9.8% of revenue was generated 
outside the UK & Ireland and Europe & 
Middle East regions
Our strategy to continue international 
expansion supports expectation of 
strong underlying revenue growth
Go to p16 for the Chief Executive’s 
regional review
Go to p14 for more on the Group’s 
strategy for pursuing future growth
Go to p21 for details of the Group’s 
four acquisitions in the year
1
  Before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and non-recurring 
items, as described in the Finance Director’s report. Integrity
We believe that the way we work is as important as what 
we do. We care deeply about the quality of our work and 
inspire trust by delivering on promises.
Innovation
We achieve the best possible results by working with 
customers to develop new ways of solving problems 
and reducing risk.
1vision 4values
Achievement
We believe our success comes from our focus on 
exceeding expectations and our commitment to go 
that extra mile, however small the difference.
Accountability
We take personal responsibility for our actions and 
are equipped to take the right course of action.
02   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Our business
A clear set of  
values to achieve  
our vision
Our values Our
vision
To build a lasting reputation as the trusted 
experts in global health-related markets by 
differentiating our services and products 
through the way we work.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   03
Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements 04   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Our business
Countries
15
Sites
 104
A presence in 
major markets 
around the world
We outlined a clear strategy four years ago to expand the 
business internationally. With its headquarters in the UK, 
Synergy has a global presence and employs over 4,600 
people across the world, where we focus our business 
in four key regions.
Our four regions provide us with a mix of established 
markets, where we continue to invest and improve our 
service offer to our customers, and growth markets, 
where we are establishing a signiﬁcant presence and 
building a strong reputation with local hospitals and 
healthcare organisations as a trusted sterilisation provider.
UK & Ireland
Synergy has 40 sites, 
offering the full portfolio of 
our services – Applied 
Sterilisation, Hospital 
Sterilisation, and  
Healthcare Solutions.
Asia & Africa
In 2009, we opened our 
ﬁrst facility in China, 
providing CSSD outsourcing 
and ethylene oxide 
sterilisation in the Suzhou 
area. We also have four sites 
in Malaysia, and one each 
in Thailand, South Africa, 
and Hong Kong.
Europe & Middle East
We have 51 sites situated 
in the Netherlands, 
Germany, France, 
Switzerland, Belgium and 
the United Arab Emirates.
The Americas
A new region, created by 
the acquisition in the year of 
BeamOne, the largest US 
provider of outsourced 
electron beam sterilisation 
services, and MSI Surgical 
Instruments, a small 
Hospital Sterilisation 
Services business.
2,300 employees 1,830 employees 290 employees 190 employees
Split of business by region
(revenue £m)
 UK & Ireland (£158.3) 
 Europe & Middle East (£123.3)
 Asia & Africa (£17.4)
 Americas (£13.0)
Our presence
Our business by geography Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   05
Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements
We are
global
International demand for high quality 
sterilisation services to the healthcare market 
will continue to grow, as organisations look to 
beneﬁt from the quality and efﬁciency beneﬁts 
of outsourced sterilisation services. We offer 
a highly technical and specialised service with 
an increasingly global outlook, as we invest 
and expand capacity in growth markets such 
as the US, China, Malaysia and Central America.
During the year Synergy established a presence in the US, 
giving the Group access to the world’s largest market for 
the manufacture and consumption of medical devices.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   05 Sterilisation technologies
5
Electron beam and x-ray beam 
irradiation, gamma irradiation, 
ethylene oxide, and steam.
06   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Our business
A range of best 
in class health 
related services
Professor Sir Bruce Keogh, Medical 
Director for the UK National Health 
Service, at the opening of Synergy’s  
new Leicester HSS super-centre. 
Synergy provides a comprehensive range of outsourced 
sterilisation services to the medical device market as well 
as hospitals and healthcare providers. In addition we 
provide outsourced services such as healthcare linen, 
pathology and specialist laboratory services.
Hospital Sterilisation Services
Outsourced hospital sterilisation provides a high quality 
instrument sterilisation service for reusable medical and 
surgical equipment used in operating theatres. This service 
also extends across other hospital departments, primary 
care facilities and orthopaedic loan set suppliers. 
Applied Sterilisation Technology
Synergy provides the full range of sterilisation technologies, 
including gamma irradiation; electron, ion beam and 
x-ray beam treatments; and ethylene oxide sterilisation. 
Our customers are drawn from medical device, 
pharmaceutical and industrial sectors. Synergy Health 
is the world’s second largest provider of outsourced 
applied sterilisation services.
Healthcare Solutions
Our Healthcare Solutions segment covers a range of 
services involved in managing the environment in a 
healthcare setting. The services primarily involve infection 
control with services such as linen management, hand 
hygiene and hard surface systems, occupational health 
and laboratory services.
Our services Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   07
Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements
We are
experts
Our position as a market leader in healthcare 
sterilisation has been established through 
a combination of using the world’s most innovative 
technologies and a unique combination of talents 
in our teams across the world. We believe strongly 
in working in partnership with our customers to 
ensure the services we provide are tailored to their 
needs. Our unique approach and investment in 
state-of-the-art facilities means we are one of 
few global sterilisation experts.
Synergy is the largest provider of outsourced hospital sterilisation 
services in Europe. This expertise is supporting our entry into the 
less developed US market, and our existing operations across 
Europe and Asia. 08   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Our business
 Investing to provide 
mission-critical 
facilities for the 
healthcare world
Our key investments
NB: Capital expenditure ﬁgures quoted are amounts spent in the year to 1 April 2012.
Construction of new hospital sterilisation facilities 
in Leicester and Shefﬁeld, UK. 
Following a successful accreditation audit, our new 
Leicester super-centre came into service in February, 
and our new Shefﬁeld facility will commence service 
transition in the summer of 2012.
£5.8m
Construction of new gamma irradiation facility 
in Marcoule, France.
Our new facility at Marcoule, near Avignon, will serve 
customers throughout southern and eastern France, 
and northern Italy. The facility is expected to commence 
operation in late 2012. 
£4.6m
Construction of new ethylene oxide facility and 
expanded capacity for electron beam irradiation 
in Costa Rica. 
A second electron beam sterilisation line has been 
installed, and a new ethylene oxide facility, the ﬁrst 
in Central America, has been built. 
£4.4m
Construction of new ethylene oxide facility 
in Florida, US. 
Synergy’s ﬁrst ethylene oxide facility in the US opened 
during the year, improving our capacity to service 
customers in the south-eastern US. 
£2.9m
Additional ethylene oxide capacity in Venlo, 
Netherlands. 
Our Venlo ethylene oxide sterilisation facility already 
operates four processing chambers. During the year, 
we commenced the installation of a ﬁfth chamber, 
to meet increased customer demand. 
£1.5m
Investment in additional cobalt-60 to increase gamma 
irradiation processing capacity, worldwide.
Our many gamma irradiation facilities worldwide 
utilise radioactive isotopes of cobalt to generate high 
energy gamma radiation. We have increased our 
irradiation capacity to meet increased global demand 
for our services.
£2.9m Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   09
We are
 highly 
technical
The services we provide are increasingly reliant 
on state-of-the-art facilities and technical expertise. 
Our level of investment capital expenditure in 
2012 was £27 .1 million. This investment will 
continue to position Synergy as a company 
with some of the most advanced and innovative 
facilities in the world. We also invest in research 
and development and talented people with the 
technical knowledge to ensure we always work 
at the cutting edge of sterilisation and continue 
to implement new developments in technology.
Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements
Synergy is the largest operator of cobalt-60 gamma irradiators 
outside the US, and we are the largest operator of pallet 
irradiators worldwide. Pallet irradiators allow for automated 
material handling and signiﬁcant labour cost efﬁciencies when 
compared to tote irradiators.  10   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Synergy’s graduate programme:
The translation of our vision and values into reality is 
only achievable through the inspiration and diligence 
of our 4,600 employees across the Group worldwide. 
We continuously strive to attract, develop, and retain 
the best people who wish to share in the mission, 
values, and success of the Group.
Our Human Resources department works closely with 
managers and employees to meet their aspirations for 
personal growth and development. In addition, we hold a 
number of internal development centres and workshops, 
and assist employees to create personal development plans. 
At our Senior Executive Board meetings, a minimum of 
four talent reviews are undertaken per year where the 
Board discusses the talent within the business with a view 
to how they can develop them further. We recruited a 
further seven graduates in 2011 across the UK & Ireland 
and Europe & Middle East regions, providing a powerful 
example of our strategy to grow and develop our 
talent pool.
Over the coming year we will be launching a new 
performance management system which will directly 
assess our employees against our leadership model, 
helping to identify our business leaders of the future.
The Company has a Senior Leadership Community, 
which involves 80 managers from across the Group. 
The Community was established to encourage cross-
functional working practices and ensure that information 
and expertise is shared across the different businesses. 
The Community also allows management to develop their 
leadership skills. We are looking to increase the visibility 
and interaction of senior management across the business. 
We pride ourselves on the fact that we differentiate 
ourselves from our competitors through our people. 
The scheme really does offer 
an individual the opportunity to 
become an all-rounder in terms 
of leadership. Teamwork is 
essential for idea generation 
and getting goals achieved 
efﬁciently and on time.
Oliver Moorhouse joined Synergy’s graduate development programme 
in 2010. He initially worked in an HSS operations position in London, 
before commencing a businesses development secondment to the US, 
focusing on patient hygiene, wound care, and surgical solution products. 
 Ensuring the quality 
of our people is a 
key differentiator
Our business
Our people We are
trusted 
partners
We work closely with our customers to understand 
their needs and tailor solutions for local requirements. 
This usually combines technical ability, healthcare 
expertise and the skill to provide customised logistics 
solutions across services which are often mission-
critical for our customers. It is essential that globally 
we attract, develop and retain talented people who 
work to inspire conﬁdence and deliver success to 
the organisations we partner.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   11
Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements 12   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Chairman’s 
statement
As Synergy Health celebrates its 20th 
anniversary, I am pleased to report that the 
Group has continued to grow and prosper 
despite challenging conditions in the UK 
and Europe. 
Notwithstanding these headwinds, we have 
continued to achieve good organic growth, 
as well as expand our geographic coverage 
as part of our strategy to become a leading 
global provider of outsourced sterilisation 
and other niche services. 
Results
Reported revenues for the year were £312.0 million (2011: 
£287 .3 million), up 8.6%. Underlying organic revenue growth on a 
constant currency basis was 5.4%, which is in line with expectations 
after allowing for a 53 week comparator last year. Adjusted operating 
margins were up 0.7% to 15.7% (2011: 15.0%) resulting in adjusted 
proﬁt before tax increasing by 13.4% to £43.4 million (2011: 
£38.3 million). 
Four acquisitions were made during the year and the costs of these 
were expensed as ‘non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs’. 
In addition, we closed and consolidated four facilities during the year, 
sustainably reducing operating costs. The combined effects of the 
acquisitions and the facility closures resulted in non-recurring costs 
of £3.5 million. After taking account of amortisation, non-recurring 
items and acquisition-related costs, proﬁt before tax decreased by 
11.6% to £32.5 million (2011: £36.7 million). Last year’s proﬁt before 
tax beneﬁted from an exceptional gain of £4.7 million, due primarily 
to the recognition of insurance proceeds arising from the Dunstable 
insurance claim.
Acquisitions
As part of our strategy to expand the geographic coverage of 
our Applied Sterilisation business, we acquired BeamOne LLC 
(‘BeamOne’) in the US, Sinagama II Technologies Sdn Bhd 
(‘Sterilgamma’) in Malaysia, and LEONI Studer Hard AG (‘LSH’) in 
Switzerland. These three acquisitions are consistent with Synergy’s 
strategy to expand its Applied Sterilisation business internationally. 
We also acquired MSI Surgical Solutions LLC (‘MSI’), a small hospital 
sterilisation business in the US, effectively accelerating our plan to 
enter the US market one year earlier than anticipated.
The four acquisitions had a combined consideration of £84.0 million 
(including deferred consideration) and were funded from operating 
cash ﬂow and an increased utilisation of our existing debt facilities. 
Net debt for the year increased by £61.2 million to £173.5 million 
(2011: £112.3 million), and we remain well within our bank 
facility covenants.
Robert E Lerwill 
Chairman
Our focus is on the provision of 
niche outsourcing services that create 
signiﬁcant value for our customers.
Overview Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   13
Synergy has announced today that it has entered into a Merger 
Agreement with SRI Surgical Express, Inc (‘SRI’) to acquire its 
fully-diluted share capital for US$3.70 per share, valuing SRI at 
US$25.1 million (£16.2 million). The consideration, including the 
assumption of its net debt, is approximately US$38.5 million 
(£24.9 million). SRI is a NASDAQ-listed service provider of sterile 
gown rental, instrument set rental and instrument processing 
services. The acquisition will provide Synergy with scale, broad 
market access and infrastructure in an attractive core service 
market for us.
EPS and dividend
Adjusted basic earnings per share before intangibles, amortisation, 
non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs were 60.32p 
(2011: 53.54p), an increase of 12.7%. After taking account of 
amortisation, non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs, 
basic earnings per share were 44.51p (2011: 52.10p), a decrease 
of 14.6%. 
The Board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 11.18p, which together 
with the interim dividend of 6.82p would give dividends for the year 
totalling 18.00p (2011: 15.84p) representing a 13.6% increase. 
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 6 September 2012 for 
shareholders on the register at 10 August 2012.
Our people
The translation of our vision and values into reality is only achievable 
through the inspiration and diligence of our 4,600 employees across 
the Group worldwide. We continuously strive to attract, develop, and 
retain the best people who wish to share in the mission, values, and 
success of the Group. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome all new employees to 
Synergy, in particular those based in the Americas, Switzerland and 
Malaysia who joined the Group through acquisitions during the year. 
The Board would further like to thank all our employees around the 
world for their dedication and commitment to making 2012 another 
successful year for Synergy Health.
The Board
Liz Hewitt joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 
1 September 2011 and is a welcome addition to the team. Liz is 
a chartered accountant and has become Chairman of the Audit 
Committee as well as being a member of both the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. Liz has previously held senior roles at Smith 
& Nephew plc and 3i Group plc and is also a non-executive Director 
and member of the Audit Committee of Novo Nordisk A/S.
As announced earlier this year, I retire from the Board on 7 June and 
am handing over to Sir Duncan Nichol. Duncan’s years of service on 
the Board, together with his broad business experience, ensures that 
there will be continuity of leadership. The Board plans to review its 
membership during the year taking into account the Group’s strategy 
of expanding internationally.
The Board has always recognised the paramount importance 
of having a wide range of views reﬂected at Board level and the 
Company’s commitment to diversity and the blend of the right skills 
and experience is shown in the make up of the Board whereby 
women comprise one third of its members. The Board hopes the 
Group should be in a position to maintain this level of representation 
when renewing Board membership over the coming years. 
The Board takes its Corporate Governance responsibilities very 
seriously, and I can conﬁrm that the Board is compliant with 
the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to 
leadership and effectiveness. The Board also continues to ensure 
that there is clear distinction between the Board and the Executive 
leadership of the Company lead by the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
Dr Richard Steeves. 
Detailed terms of reference for the Board and its committees clearly 
set out their respective responsibilities. There continues to be a 
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new 
Directors. The effectiveness of the Board, its committees, and 
Directors is assessed annually through a formal evaluation process. 
Further details of how we have applied the principles of the Code in 
this regard are set out in the Corporate Governance Report and the 
Directors’ report. 
Corporate responsibility
The Board recognises that Synergy’s ability to achieve its ﬁnancial 
objectives is based not simply on how Synergy makes its customers 
feel, but also how the wider communities in which it operates feel 
about the Group. The public’s perception of Synergy is determined 
by what we are able to give back to those communities. Details of the 
Group’s approach to Corporate Social Responsibility are given in the 
Operating review.
Outlook
I am proud of what Synergy has achieved since I joined the Board 
in January 2005. We are in a strong position and well prepared to 
tackle the challenges ahead. Our decision to invest in Asia and the 
Americas has proved an effective strategy to offset more challenging 
conditions in the UK and Europe. The decision to bring forward our 
investment in the hospital sterilisation market in the US increases our 
exposure to what we believe will be a fast growing market. 
We have to acknowledge that Europe’s difﬁculties could worsen 
in the coming year, with many EU countries mired in recession. 
We remain conﬁdent that our strategy to expand internationally 
adequately addresses these risks, and as a result we are cautiously 
optimistic that our current growth rates will be sustained, especially 
given our clear objectives, strong management, and talented 
employees. We anticipate continued good underlying earnings 
growth in this new ﬁnancial year. 
It just remains for me to express my appreciation to my fellow Board 
members for their contribution and support, not just during this year 
but since I have been Chairman, and to say how grateful I am for the 
conﬁdence of our shareholders, customers and suppliers. 
I save my ﬁnal words for our employees. In the challenging global 
economic climate of recent years, everyone within Synergy has 
shown resilience and dedication, and there is so much enthusiasm 
and commitment for what we do that it is impossible not to be 
inspired. I have greatly enjoyed my time at Synergy, and I wish the 
Group and all our employees every success in the future.
Robert Lerwill 
Chairman
7 June 2012
Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements 14   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
To achieve sustainable growth in shareholder value 
we have a strategy to provide niche, high value-added 
outsourcing services with global potential, to health-
related markets. Our present focus is on high growth 
markets including Asia and the Americas.
We deliver our services more efﬁciently than our 
competitors by employing a cost leadership strategy. 
We competitively differentiate ourselves through our 
people by the way we deliver our services, reﬂected 
in our core values of integrity, innovation, achievement 
and accountability.
1.  Expand the business internationally
2.  Focus on high value-added services
3.  Differentiation from our competitors 
through our people
4. Cost leadership
Our long-term 
strategy
Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   15
Chief Executive’s 
review
ﬁnal quarter began to recover sharply and we expect the business 
to achieve the Group’s minimum ﬁnancial targets in the new year. 
The Group is in a good position with an internationally diversiﬁed 
business providing high value-added services, underpinned by long 
term contracts and excellent cash generation. Our balance sheet 
remains strong, with gearing well below our internal ceiling for net 
debt to EBITDA of 2.5 times.
Strategy
The Board set out its strategy four years ago and believes the 
successful outcomes that have been achieved endorse the plan. 
To recap, there are four strands to the strategy: internationalisation; 
focus on high value-added services with high barriers to entry; 
differentiation through our people and the way we deliver our 
services; and cost leadership. 
Our core service is the provision of outsourced sterilisation for 
medical device manufacturers (‘Applied Sterilisation’) and for 
healthcare providers such as acute hospitals (‘Hospital Sterilisation’). 
In addition, we are a leading provider of linen services in the UK and 
the Netherlands, a manufacturer of infection control products and a 
provider of specialist laboratory services (‘Healthcare Solutions’). 
The growth of our Applied Sterilisation business has been a priority 
and this is reﬂected in global reported revenue for this service up 
36.1% to £95.4 million (2011: £70.1 million). Hospital Sterilisation 
revenue was up 10.5% to £62.8 million (2011: £56.9 million), whilst 
healthcare linen revenue was ﬂat at £112.0 million (2011: £112.9 
million). During the year we sold a small Scottish distribution business 
and we have seen the full year effect of rationalising non-core 
businesses. As a result, revenue within the combined Healthcare 
Solutions business declined to £153.7 million (2011: £160.4 million). 
Internationalisation 
Synergy operates its business as four geographic regions. The 
structure provides the depth and resilience necessary to operate 
a geographically diverse business, as well as providing responsive 
leadership as close to the customer as possible. The continuing 
strategy of internationalisation will also play an important role going 
forward, mitigating the impact of economic uncertainties in Europe, 
and also providing opportunities for growth in the faster growing 
regions of the world. Details of the Group’s trading performance 
and results by region are shown in the Regional review on the 
following pages.
Outlook
Synergy’s focus is on the provision of niche outsourcing services 
that create signiﬁcant value for our customers. Our outsourced 
sterilisation services are mission-critical to our customers and 
for this reason demand continues to hold up well, despite clear 
economic headwinds in certain parts of the world, particularly 
Europe. We are particularly excited by the opportunities that we have 
in China and the US for the expansion of our Hospital Sterilisation 
Services business, and we believe that the global demand for our 
Applied Sterilisation Technologies business will continue to be strong.
Our strategy to extend Synergy’s reach has progressed well with the 
expansion of our services in the Americas, Switzerland and Malaysia. 
The business is well positioned and we remain committed to strong 
underlying revenue growth with sustainable margins. 
Dr Richard Steeves 
Group CEO
7 June 2012
Dr Richard M Steeves 
Chief Executive
Introduction
Synergy is a global leader in outsourced sterilisation services using 
a range of technologies. In addition, Synergy provides other niche 
outsourced services such as healthcare linen, pathology and 
specialist laboratory services. All of our businesses have the beneﬁt 
of signiﬁcant barriers to entry, stable long term contracts, and good 
cash generation.
We have made further progress implementing our strategy through 
increasing investment in the faster growing Asian and American 
markets, expanding our geographic coverage with acquisitions in 
the US, Malaysia and Switzerland, and bringing forward our plans to 
enter the US hospital sterilisation market. We were also pleased that 
organic growth improved during the ﬁrst half of the year but this has 
since reduced slightly, reﬂecting the economic downturn in Europe. 
In response to the risk of declining growth, we took the opportunity in 
November to further reduce our cost base and that has fed through 
into sustainably improved operating margins.
The Group achieved reported revenue growth of 8.6%. Underlying 
organic revenue growth, excluding currency effects and non-core 
businesses, was 5.4%. After allowing for the 53rd week in last year’s 
comparator, organic growth was 7 .5% compared with 4.1% for the 
year ending 2011. The success of our strategy to internationalise 
Synergy is reﬂected in our reported growth rate. UK & Ireland and 
Europe & Middle East grew at 2.2% and 3.8% respectively. Asia & 
Africa and the Americas grew at 31.6% and 24.6% (pro forma) 
respectively. As we continue to implement our strategy, our reliance 
on the UK and Europe reduces, with Asia and the Americas 
accounting for 9.8% of total revenue compared to 4.7% last year. 
During the second half of the year we focused on reducing our 
cost base in the face of concerns around the macroeconomic 
environment in Europe. Four facilities were closed and their 
operations merged into other facilities. These closures, together with 
other efﬁciency gains, assisted in increasing margins to new levels for 
the Group. Gross margins were up by 1.7% to 39.9% (2011: 38.2%) 
and adjusted operating margin was up 0.7% on last year to 15.7% 
(2011: 15.0%). 
I am pleased to say that issues within our UK products based 
business are being resolved, and whilst this business did not make 
a material contribution to the overall Group proﬁt, margins in the 
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview 16   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
UK & Ireland Europe & Middle East
Regional review
The UK & Ireland businesses continued to perform well with both of the 
sterilisation businesses showing good growth in line with historic trends. 
The rationalisation of the UK products business, together with the 
disposal of a small non-core business, resulted in a reduced rate of 
revenue growth of 2.2%, with reported revenues of £158.3 million 
(2011: £154.9 million). Operating proﬁts increased by 13.0% to 
£28.3 million (2011: £25.0 million) with margins increasing 1.8% 
to 17 .9% (2011: 16.1 %).
During the year we opened a new hospital sterilisation facility in Shefﬁeld 
and began the construction of two more facilities, in Lincoln and Grimsby. 
Surgical volumes held up well with a number of waiting list initiatives 
undertaken throughout the year . The outsourcing of hospital sterilisation 
continues to be seen as attractive with a strong bid pipeline of 
approximately £17 million per annum. However , decision making has 
remained slow as the UK Government’s policies on the future of the NHS 
were delayed. During the year we sponsored a research paper on 
outsourcing in the public sector that was launched at the House of Lords, 
and this research, together with four case studies from our most recent 
facilities, will become a catalyst to expedite the conversion of current bids. 
Applied Sterilisation facilities continued to perform well, albeit with more 
limited capacity for growth. We have drafted plans for additional capacity 
in the region but we may delay implementation whilst there is some 
uncertainty around the outlook for Europe. 
The healthcare linen business continued to perform well with consistent 
margins and growth, primarily from price indexation. Our strategy is to 
maintain our existing customer base and limit bidding to the remaining 
NHS hospitals that are closing their in-house facilities. During the year 
we won an NHS outsourcing contract that commenced in the current 
ﬁnancial year . In parallel with the surgical volumes, overall hospital linen 
volumes have held up well.
The UK laboratory business returned to positive growth in both revenue 
and margin. Prospects for the pathology segment look positive, but during 
the second half of the year growth in occupational health testing slowed, 
reﬂecting the economic pressures in the UK.
Our UK products business, which manufactures infection control and 
other consumable products, was restructured in November and as a 
result has returned to proﬁtability. We remain committed to broadening its 
international market penetration, expanding the success we have enjoyed 
in the Middle East and in Asia to other parts of the world.
Revenue (£m)
+2.2%
154.9
158.3
2011 2012
158.0
2010
160.3
2009
135.0
2008
Europe has become a challenging market for Synergy, in part because 
of the region’s economic issues and in part because of very strong 
competitive conditions within the Dutch linen market. Our objectives 
remain unchanged, however , with an ambition to continue expanding 
our geographic coverage in both Applied Sterilisation T echnologies and 
Hospital Sterilisation Services.
Reported revenue for Europe & Middle East was up 3.8% to £123.3 
million (2011: £118.8 million). Operating proﬁts however were down 
5.1 % to £19.5 million (2011: £20.5 million) with margins decreasing 
1.5% to 15.8%.
The reduction in the regional margin reﬂects price erosion in the Dutch 
linen business. Although we maintained market share we have seen price 
deﬂation initiated by our major competitor in the Netherlands. T o address 
the competitive threat we closed two linen facilities, and as a result have 
seen margins recover . We also have the beneﬁt of cost synergies within 
the region and whilst organic growth will be held back again this year as a 
result of price deﬂation, we expect the restored margins to be maintained 
as a result of our aggressive cost management. 
This year , we have made further progress with our Applied Sterilisation 
business. Growth during the ﬁrst half of the year was very strong, resulting 
in most of our facilities coming up against capacity constraints. New 
capacity has now been added to the ethylene oxide facility in Venlo, 
the Netherlands, and the gamma radiation facility in Marcoule, France 
remains on track to open towards the end of 2012. Early in 2012 we 
acquired the LSH gamma radiation and x-ray facility from LEONI Group, 
as part of our objective to expand our geographic presence in Europe. 
Switzerland has a large, value-added medical device manufacturing 
market similar in size to Ireland’s, and it is important to have a presence in 
this market. The x-ray facility is the ﬁrst of its type in the world, and whilst 
utilisation is presently low, we expect that there will be a rapid adoption of 
this sterilisation technology by the manufacturers of high value-added 
medical devices.
During the year we invested in the sales and commercial development 
team of Hospital Sterilisation Services, with the objective of expanding 
beyond our two core services in the Netherlands and Belgium. We are 
making progress, with increased bidding activity in Germany and in 
T urkey, where we are in advanced negotiations on a large PFI hospital bid. 
However , across the continent the pace of development continues to be 
slower than expected. We will continue to market our services in Europe 
to raise Synergy’s proﬁle, but given the current economic climate, we are 
likely to direct resources to the opportunities opening up to us in the US. 
Revenue (£m)
+3.8%
118.8
123.3
2011 2012
117.4
2010
104.7
2009
82.7
2008
Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   17
Asia & Africa Americas
Revenue (£m)
+31.6%
13.3
17.4
2011 2012
11.0
2010
9.1
2009
7.3
2008
The Asia & Africa region continues to be one of our more promising 
opportunities for sustained growth. China in particular is seeing growth 
in healthcare expenditure of 18% to 20% per annum, more than double 
its GDP growth rate. The creation of a national health service, where 
basic services will be provided free by the state, will drive demand for 
our Hospital Sterilisation Services, as well as the consumption of sterile 
medical devices.
In addition to China, we have facilities in Malaysia, Thailand and 
South Africa. T o support our growth plans we recently announced the 
appointment of a new Regional CEO. His level of regional and industry 
experience will help us achieve our medium term objective for Asia to 
generate at least a quarter of the Group’s income.
Reported revenues in Asia & Africa were up 31.6% to £17 .4 million 
(2011: £13.3 million), with good growth across the region. Operating 
proﬁts were up 43.5% to £3.8 million (2011: £2.7 million) with operating 
margins up 1.9% to 22.0%.
In Malaysia we completed the acquisition of Sterilgamma from 
receivership in July, expanding our applied sterilisation services to Kuala 
Lumpur and Kulim. We now have four facilities in Malaysia, offering 
both gamma radiation and ethylene oxide services. During the year we 
evaluated the hospital sterilisation market and considered establishing a 
joint venture with a local Malaysian business, but our experience suggests 
that the market is not yet ready for outsourcing at this stage.
Our Applied Sterilisation operations in South Africa and Thailand continue 
to show steady growth. In South Africa we have expanded our services 
to include microbiological laboratory services and we are evaluating an 
increase in our capacity. 
In Suzhou, China, our ethylene oxide sterilisation facility continues to 
attract additional customers and we expect the facility to be largely full 
within the year . Under the guidance of the new Regional CEO we are 
actively looking to establish additional sites in strategic locations as part 
of our ambition to be a major outsourced sterilisation service provider 
in China. The Hospital Sterilisation Services business also continues 
to gain momentum. During the year we have continued to progress 
opportunities, on both a sole-bidder and joint venture basis, and have 
been selected to provide services for a large new PFI hospital campus 
in Shanghai, a private hospital group in Beijing, and a hospital group 
in Chengdu.
The Americas is another promising region, being the largest medical 
device manufacturing and consuming market in the world. We are 
very pleased with the level of growth in Applied Sterilisation revenue. 
The increase in capacity in Central America and our recent expansion 
into Hospital Sterilisation in the US sets the region up for a period of 
sustained growth.
Our Americas’ Applied Sterilisation business was acquired at the start of 
the ﬁnancial year . Reported revenues for the region were up 24.6% on 
a pro forma basis to £13.0 million (2011 pro forma: £10.4 million; 2011 
reported: £0.4 million). Operating proﬁts were up 49.9% on a pro forma 
basis to £3.3 million (2011 pro forma: £2.2 million; 2011 reported: 
£0.04 million). Operating margins improved 4.3% to 25.7% as a result 
of improved beneﬁts of scale from our capacity expansions.
Our Applied Sterilisation business beneﬁted from improved capacity 
utilisation, particularly in the Costa Rican facility. Our strategy is to 
continue to increase our capacity in the region. In July 2012 we will open 
a new electron beam facility and a new ethylene oxide facility. These two 
facilities, together with future investments planned in the region, will 
continue to support high levels of growth.
During the year we conducted a review of the hospital sterilisation 
market in the US, triggered by the FDA’s consultation on the regulatory 
environment in May 2011. Following our research, we decided to bring 
forward our investment in the US hospital sterilisation market with the 
acquisition of MSI in New York. The outsourced hospital sterilisation 
market is still in its infancy, and MSI represented the second largest of 
only two businesses active in the US. We are increasing our level of 
investment on the back of this acquisition, initially to promote education 
and awareness, but ultimately to create a more developed outsourcing 
market. We believe that Synergy’s expertise in this niche market 
will be well received by the healthcare market where high levels of 
ﬂash sterilisation are known to create signiﬁcant risk for patients 
undergoing surgery.
Revenue (£m)
+24.6%
(proforma)
0.4
13.0
2011 2012 2010 2009 2008
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview 18   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Synergy has a solid strategy and a robust 
business model. Our services are mission-
critical to our customers, and for this reason 
demand is expected to hold up well. 
The business is highly cash generative 
and conservatively ﬁnanced. We remain 
cautiously optimistic that current earnings 
growth will be sustained.
Overview
Our business delivered a good ﬁnancial performance in 2012 with 
reported revenue growing 8.6% to £312.0 million and adjusted 
operating proﬁt increasing by 13.8% to £49.0 million. Excluding 
currency effects and non-core businesses, underlying revenue 
growth was 12.3% (5.4% organic) and adjusted operating proﬁt 
growth was 13.4%. Our adjusted operating margin increased by 
70 basis points to 15.7%. Adjusted earnings per share grew by 
12.7% to 60.32p. 
We have recognised a non-recurring cost relating to the closure 
of certain operating and manufacturing facilities of £2.6 million. 
In addition, we have recognised acquisition-related costs of 
£0.9 million, of which £0.6 million relate to transaction costs. 
An increase in expected deferred contingent consideration payable 
for BeamOne LLC (‘BeamOne’), owing to its ﬁnancial performance 
being ahead of initial expectations, results in a charge to the 
income statement of £0.3 million under ‘IFRS 3 (Revised) Business 
combinations’. Under previous accounting guidance, this amount 
would have been treated as an increase to goodwill and would not 
have had any impact on the income statement.
Cash generated from operations (before non-recurring and 
acquisition-related costs) increased by 8.5% to £85.0 million 
(2011: £78.3 million) reﬂecting a conversion of adjusted EBITDA 
into operating cash of 97%. Funding for acquisitions increased 
net debt at the end of the year to £173.5 million, representing 
a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.95 times, comfortably within 
our banking covenant of net debt to EBITDA of 3.25 times.
Adjusted operating returns on average capital employed, on an 
annualised basis, increased to 11.5% (2011: 10.8%).
Adjusted operating proﬁt is stated before amortisation of acquired 
intangibles, non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs.
Gavin Hill 
Group Finance Director
We are excited by the opportunities that 
we have in China and the US for the 
expansion of our Hospital Sterilisation 
Services, and we believe that global 
demand for our Applied Sterilisation 
Technologies will remain strong.
Business review
Finance Director’s 
report Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   19
1. Income statement
The Group’s income statement is summarised in Table 1 below. 
T able 1: Income statement
Year ended 
1 April 2012  
£m
Year ended 
3 April 2011  
£m Change
Revenue 312.0 287 .3 +8.6%
Gross proﬁt 124.4 109.7 + 13.4%
Administrative expenses (75.4) (66.7)
Adjusted operating proﬁt 49.0 43.0 +13.8%
Net ﬁnance costs (5.6) (4.7)
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 43.4 38.3 +13.4%
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (7 .4) (6.3)
Non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs (3.5) 4.7
Proﬁt before tax 32.5 36.7 –11.6%
Tax (7 .7) (7 .9)
Proﬁt for the period 24.8 28.8 –13.8%
Effective tax rate
1
22.7% 22.7%
Adjusted earnings per share – basic 60.32p 53.54p +12.7%
Earnings per share – basic 44.51p 52.10p –14.6%
Adjusted earnings per share – diluted 59.24p 52.64p +12.5%
Earnings per share – diluted 43.71p 51.23p –14.7%
Dividend per share 18.00p 15.84p +13.6%
1
 The effective tax rate is calculated excluding amortisation on acquired intangibles, non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs.
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview 20   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
1.1 Revenue
Reported revenue of £312.0 million (2011: £287 .3 million) grew by 
8.6%, representing an underlying growth rate, excluding non-core 
businesses and currency effects, of 12.3% over the previous year. 
The Group had non-core businesses that we exited during the last 
ﬁnancial year. These were primarily in the UK products business 
and contributed revenues of £1.0 million (2011: £11.8 million).
The change in currency exchange rates over the last 12 months has 
had a small positive effect on reported revenues; the strengthening of 
the Euro against Sterling (against the comparative period) contributed 
to an increase in reported revenue due to currency movements of 
£1.4 million.
Underlying revenues grew across all our business segments, with 
the UK & Ireland at 9.7%, Europe & Middle East at 2.4% and 
Asia & Africa at 31.7%. On a pro forma basis, growth in our new 
Americas business was 28.5%. 
Underlying organic revenues, which exclude the impact of 
acquisitions, increased by 5.4%. On a like-for-like basis, excluding 
the impact of last year’s extra week, underlying organic growth 
was 7 .5%. Our main service lines experienced good organic and 
reported growth. Global underlying and organic growth for Applied 
Sterilisation Technologies were 35.8% and 8.9% respectively. 
Hospital Sterilisation Services grew, on an underlying basis, by 10.4%.
1.2 Gross proﬁt
Gross proﬁt increased by 13.4% to £124.4 million (2011: £109.7 
million), representing a gross proﬁt margin of 39.9%, an increase 
of 170 basis points over the previous year.
1.3 Adjusted operating proﬁt
Adjusted operating proﬁt increased by 13.8% to £49.0 million, 
representing an adjusted operating proﬁt margin of 15.7%, an 
increase of 70 basis points over last year. The beneﬁt of currency 
on adjusted operating proﬁt was £0.2 million.
1.4 Non-recurring items
Restructuring costs
During the year we closed two linen facilities in the Netherlands, 
incurring a charge of £1.5 million, principally relating to redundancy 
costs. We also rationalised manufacturing facilities within our UK 
products based business, resulting in the closure of two sites with 
an associated charge of £1.1 million. 
In the comparative period the Group recognised an exceptional gain 
of £4.7 million, due primarily to the recognition of insurance proceeds 
arising from the Dunstable insurance claim.
IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations
The acquisition of BeamOne took place on 7 April 2011. 
The consideration consisted of an initial outlay of £16.5 million 
together with a contingent cash consideration up to a maximum 
of £12.3 million dependent on the ﬁnancial performance of the 
business for the year ending 1 April 2012.
The acquired business had a strong ﬁnancial performance ending 
the year above that expected in the acquisition business case. Under 
‘IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations’ the difference between 
the contingent consideration payable and the acquisition date fair 
value is reﬂected in the income statement. This results in an increase 
to the level of contingent consideration payable against that previously 
estimated and an income statement charge of £0.3 million in 
non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs. Prior to the 
introduction of ‘IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations’, such an 
increase in deferred consideration would have been accounted 
for as an adjustment to goodwill, with no consequent income 
statement impact.
‘IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations’ also requires incremental 
acquisition related costs to be expensed; total costs relating to 
acquisitions made in the year were £0.6 million.
1.5 Net ﬁnance costs
The Group’s net ﬁnance costs totalled £5.6 million (2011: 
£4.7 million), an increase of £0.9 million. The principal reason for 
this increase is additional loans raised to ﬁnance acquisition activity, 
combined with an increase in margin paid on our core facility, following 
the reﬁnancing in July 2011. The average interest rate of the main 
syndicated facility and other Group facilities is approximately 4.2%.
1.6 Adjusted proﬁt before tax
Adjusted proﬁt before tax was £43.4 million (2011: £38.3 million), an 
increase of 13.4%. The adjusted proﬁt before tax margin was 13.9% 
(2011: 13.3%), an increase of 60 basis points. 
1.7 Amortisation of acquired intangibles
Amortisation of acquired intangibles relates to intangible assets 
identiﬁed on acquisitions, being the value of customer contracts and 
relationships. The increase over the previous year principally reﬂects 
the intangibles recognised with the acquisition of BeamOne.
1.8 Tax
The tax charge (excluding amortisation of acquired intangibles and 
non-recurring items) of £9.9 million (2011: £8.7 million) represents 
an effective rate of 22.7% (2011: 22.7%). Including amortisation 
of acquired intangibles and non-recurring items, the tax charge is 
£7 .7 million (2011: £7 .9 million). 
Our effective rate reﬂects proﬁts arising from a mix of territories, a 
number of which have a lower rate of taxation than the UK. Different 
territorial growth rates will change this mix of proﬁts, and the resulting 
tax rate, in the future. 
1.9 Earnings per share (EPS)
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings 
per share, after adjusting for amortisation of intangibles, increased 
by 12.7% and 12.5% respectively. After amortisation of acquired 
intangibles, non-recurring and acquisition-related costs, basic and 
diluted earnings per share decreased by 14.6% and 14.7% 
respectively.
2. Dividend
Our policy is to increase the total dividend each year in line with the 
increase in underlying earnings. The Board has proposed a ﬁnal 
dividend of 11.18p, representing an increase on the 2011 ﬁnal 
dividend of 13.6%, and bringing the total dividend for the year to 
18.00p, growth of 13.6%. The ﬁnal dividend will be paid, subject to 
shareholder approval, on 6 September 2012 to shareholders on the 
register as at 10 August 2012.
Business review
Financial review 
continued Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   21
3. Cash ﬂow
Table 2 summarises the Group cash ﬂow.
T able 2: Cash ﬂow
Year ended  
1 April 2012  
£m
Year ended  
3 April 2011 
£m
Adjusted operating proﬁt 49.0 43.0
Non-cash items 38.7 35.4
Adjusted EBITDA 87 .7 78.4
Working capital movement (2.7) (0.1)
Operating cash ﬂow before non-recurring 
and acquisition-related costs 85.0 78.3
Non-recurring and acquisition-related 
cash ﬂow movement (2.7) 5.4
Operating cash ﬂow after non-recurring 
and acquisition-related costs 82.3 83.7
Interest (5.1) (3.0)
Tax (13.0) (6.3)
Net maintenance expenditure on tangible 
and intangible assets (22.7) (21.8)
Free cash ﬂow 41.5 52.6
Acquisition of subsidiaries,  
net of cash acquired (66.2) (1.6)
Net investment expenditure on tangible 
and intangible assets (27 .1) (15.0)
Financing 43.2 3.9
Dividends paid (9.2) (7 .8)
Proceeds from share issues 1.4 1.2
Exchange differences (0.4) (0.8)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and 
cash equivalents (16.8) 32.5
Note: Adjusted EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, intangible 
amortisation and other non-cash items.
3.1 Cash generated from operations
Cash generated from operations (before non-recurring and 
acquisition-related costs) in the year increased by 8.5% to 
£85.0 million (2011: £78.3 million) reﬂecting a conversion of 
Adjusted EBITDA into cash of 97% (2011: 100%). 
3.2 Interest
Net interest paid increased to £5.1 million (2011: £3.0 million), 
principally reﬂecting higher net debt following acquisitions made 
in the period.
3.3 Tax
Tax paid was £13.0 million (2011: £6.3 million). The prior year 
comparative beneﬁted from the one-off recognition of tax 
repayments. Cash tax is higher than the equivalent income tax 
charge in the income statement as a result of timing differences 
on payments.
3.4 Net expenditure on tangible and intangible assets
The Group has continued to invest in new capacity during the course 
of the year, as well as continuing to upgrade and maintain its existing 
infrastructure. Total net capital additions of £49.8 million (2011: 
£36.8 million) were made during the year.
We analyse capital expenditure between ‘maintenance’ and 
‘investment’ expenditure. Maintenance capital expenditure is the 
capital required to replace the existing capital base. Investment 
capital expenditure enhances the capacity or efﬁciency of the 
Group’s capital base.
The main items of necessary ongoing capital expenditure are cobalt 
60 for Applied Sterilisation Technologies as the radiation source for 
gamma sterilisation plants, textiles for the linen business, and general 
replacement of plant and machinery around the Group.
Total maintenance capital expenditure was £22.7 million of which 
£6.6 million and £12.2 million was spent on cobalt and textiles 
respectively. The remaining balance of £3.9 million comprised plant 
and machinery, principally within the linen and Applied Sterilisation 
businesses. 
This year saw a rise in investment capital expenditure to support the 
growing Applied Sterilisation business. We incurred construction 
costs of £14.9 million on new and expanded facilities. Within the 
Americas we have spent £7 .3 million on two new ethylene oxide 
facilities, one in Costa Rica and the other in Florida, as well as an 
additional electron beam facility in Costa Rica. Investments in 
Europe consisted of £6.1 million for a new gamma radiation facility in 
Marcoule, France and an additional ethylene oxide chamber in Venlo, 
Netherlands. Costs have also been incurred on the construction of a 
new ethylene oxide chamber in Malaysia. 
Within the UK we have incurred costs of £5.8 million completing the 
new Shefﬁeld hospital sterilisation facility and constructing facilities to 
support the new contracts for the North Lincolnshire and Goole Trust 
and the United Lincoln Hospitals Trust. Other investments include 
£2.9 million of additional cobalt, £1.9 million on plant and machinery 
and £1.7 million on our ERP implementation project.
3.5 Financing
The movement in ﬁnancing is primarily due to acquisition funding.
4. Acquisitions
On 7 April 2011, the Group acquired BeamOne, the largest provider 
of outsourced electron beam services in the US. The initial cash cost 
of the acquisition was £16.5 million (US$26.7 million) together with 
deferred contingent cash consideration of up to a maximum of 
£12.3 million (US$20.0 million). The contingent cash payments are 
dependent on the delivery of ﬁnancial performance targets for the 
year to 1 April 2012. The acquisition gave rise to goodwill of 
£14.4 million. This is £1.4 million higher than the goodwill disclosed 
within our 2011 interim statements, due to two factors; a £3.1 million 
increase to our calculation of fair value ascribed to customer 
relationship intangible assets, and a £4.5 million increase to total 
consideration due to the incorrect inclusion of Florida ethylene oxide 
start-up costs within the assessment of the fair value of deferred 
contingent consideration payable at the acquisition date, which was 
concluded in the ﬁrst half of the year. In the 2012 interim statements 
we will restate the fair value of the acquisition resulting in an 
increase to goodwill of £4.5 million in the 2011 comparative period. 
Intangible assets arising on the acquisition have been recognised at 
£11.0 million and will be amortised on a straight-line basis over their 
expected lives.
On 11 July 2011, the Group acquired Sinagama II Technologies Sdn 
Bhd (‘Sterilgamma’), a provider of applied sterilisation services in 
Malaysia. The consideration was £12.3 million (MYR 59.3 million). 
The acquisition gave rise to goodwill of £1.1 million. Intangible assets 
arising on the acquisition have been recognised at £3.5 million and 
will be amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected lives.
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview 22   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
On 19 March 2012, the Group acquired LEONI Studer Hard (‘LSH’) 
from LEONI AG. LSH operates a gamma radiation and x-ray facility 
in Switzerland. The consideration was £41.0 million (€48.3 million). 
The acquisition gave rise to goodwill of £14.0 million. Intangible 
assets arising on the acquisition have been recognised at £9.9 million 
and will be amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected lives.
On 21 March 2012, the Group acquired MSI Surgical Solutions LLC 
(‘MSI’), an operator of a hospital sterilisation facility in the US for a 
cash consideration of £3.9 million (US$6.2 million). The acquisition 
gave rise to goodwill of £1.5 million. Intangible assets arising on 
the acquisition have been recognised at £1.9 million and will be 
amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected lives.
5. Net debt and funding
5.1 Net debt
Net debt increased by £61.2 million to £173.5 million. The increase 
was principally a result of funding the acquisitions of BeamOne, 
Sterilgamma, LSH and MSI. The acquisitions were funded from our 
committed bank facilities. 
The movement in the net debt is reconciled below:
T able 3: Movement in net debt
£m
Net debt as at 3 April 2011 112.3
Exchange rate impacts (3.0)
Free cash ﬂow (41.5)
Investment capital expenditure 27 .1
Acquisitions 70.8
Dividends paid 9.2
Proceeds from share issues (1.4)
Net debt as at 1 April 2012 173.5
5.2 Funding
The Group reﬁnanced its main committed bank facility in July 2011 
signing a new ﬁve year unsecured Multi-currency Revolving Facilities 
Agreement. Our new facilities consist of a Sterling denominated 
multi-currency facility of £105 million and a Euro denominated 
multi-currency facility of €130 million.
On the 1 June 2012, the Group signed a two year Euro denominated 
multi-currency facility of €18 million with the same covenants as in 
the July 2011 Agreement. 
The Group remains comfortably within its lending covenants.
The debt is held mainly in Sterling, Euros and United States Dollars, 
with the currency mix and the level of ﬁxed interest debt within each 
currency as at 1 April 2012 being as follows:
T able 4: Composition of gross debt as at 1 April 2012
Level of debt  
£m
Level of ﬁxed  
interest debt  
£m
Sterling 81.0 9.5
Euros 86.0 0.2
US Dollar 29.4 21.9
Other 0.8 –
Total 197 .2 31.6
6. Pensions
At the start of the year the Group operated ﬁve ﬁnal salary schemes; 
three in the UK, one in the Netherlands, and one in Germany. During 
the year, the acquisition of LSH in Switzerland brought an additional 
scheme into the Group. The Group also operates several deﬁned 
contribution schemes.
In the UK the Group is required to maintain a ﬁnal salary pension 
scheme for employees who have transferred from the NHS, which 
has to be acceptable to the Government Actuary’s Department. 
With the exception of NHS transfers and the scheme in Switzerland, 
the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are closed to new entrants. 
The three UK schemes are closed to future accruals with active 
members transferred to deferred status and invited to join the 
Group’s UK deﬁned contribution scheme.
At 1 April 2012, the net liability arising from our deﬁned beneﬁt 
scheme obligations was £18.3 million (2011: £12.3 million) on a 
pension scheme asset base of £51.9 million. A fall in the discount 
rate used to calculate the liabilities results in an increase in liabilities 
that is only partially offset by an increase in the asset base. The latest 
triennial review will be undertaken this year and we expect to agree 
any changes to funding levels with the Trustees by the end of 
March 2013.
T able 5: Deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes
Year ended  
1 April 2012  
£m
Year ended  
3 April 2011 
 £m
Synergy Healthcare plc Retirement 
Beneﬁts Scheme 1.9 1.2
Shiloh Group Pension Scheme 2.6 1.0
Vernon Carus Limited Pension and 
Assurance Scheme 10.6 8.2
Isotron BV Pension and 
Assurance Scheme 2.2 1.3
Germany – GSP 0.5 0.6
Switzerland – LSH 0.5 –
Balance sheet liabilities 18.3 12.3
Gavin Hill 
Group Finance Director
7 June 2012
Business review
Financial review 
continued Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   23
The beneﬁts and importance of robust and proactive risk 
management are clear, with risk management enabling the Group 
to achieve its strategic objectives and protect and enhance our 
assets and reputation. 
Over the last year additional health and safety resource has been 
introduced and a new Director of Risk Management appointed to 
strengthen the Group’s approach to managing risks effectively. 
We have commenced a thorough review and further development 
of our risk management systems, to improve global consistency 
and enhance business resilience.
Risk management at Synergy Health plc
The Senior Executive Board (‘SEB’) has the ultimate responsibility 
for risk management. This responsibility is cascaded into the 
organisation through the regional and functional leadership teams. 
Risk management supports the Group’s vision to build a lasting 
reputation and our core values by:
•  building and protecting the Group’s reputation by championing 
a responsible approach to business;
•  achieving brand and business resilience supported by effective 
risk management;
•  developing the culture and capability across the Group to manage 
changing risks and opportunities; and
•  ensuring the safety and well being of employees and others who 
could be affected by our business activities.
The risk management strategy is to enable and support each facility 
and business function to manage its own risks. This is accomplished 
by embedding risk management into the culture of the Group and 
translating risk management into operational ownership, deﬁning 
clear responsibilities and measuring risk management performance.
A review of health, safety and risk management systems has been 
completed and a number of enhancements have been proposed. 
The recommended improvements include a new risk management 
framework, developing risk management information and training 
platforms, enhancement of global business continuity plans and 
strengthening internal assurance processes.
Risk management achievements in the last year include:
•  Globalising the Group insurance programme, achieving consistency 
of cover and leveraging scale;
•  Implementing global incident and crisis reporting processes; and
•  Establishing a global work group advising the Group on the safe 
use of ethylene oxide.
Corporate risk management
Key risks within each business area are managed in a consistent and 
structured manner and reported at the SEB and the Group’s Audit 
Committee. Accountability for managing risks rests with the business 
leadership.
Corporate risk management provides tools, support and challenge to 
the leadership teams within the regions and functions in connection 
with managing risk. Corporate risk management processes are 
included in an ongoing review with the aims of:
•  challenging the quality of risks identiﬁed;
•  challenging the effectiveness of policies, standards, training and 
other controls; 
•  challenging the appropriateness of actions to improve the 
transparency of risk-based decision making; and,
•  maximising the value to the business of risk management beyond 
meeting compliance requirements. 
Health and safety
Staff safety remains a key priority for Synergy. We recognise the need 
to manage safety with a risk-based approach. Safety policies and risk 
management systems are in place. 
Although the Group has had safety standards and procedures 
in place for many years we constantly strive to improve. The risk 
management team, with the support of internal colleagues, has 
commenced a thorough review of existing safety standards with the 
objective of creating consistency across the Group. These standards 
will be supported by revised guidance materials and training. 
Incidents and claims
In spite of the risk management and safety systems that have been 
developed and deployed, a relatively small number of accidents, 
incidents and claims are inevitable. Minor accidents, including slips, 
trips and falls, cuts and lacerations, are the leading cause of injuries 
to employees and the risk management team is continuing to work 
in close partnership with the business and our insurers to focus on 
practical methods for further reducing this risk.
Risk ﬁnancing
The Group’s operations have become increasingly global. Within 
the last year the Group has embarked on the globalisation of its 
insurance programme with South Africa, China, Malaysia, Thailand, 
Netherlands AST, France, the United States and Switzerland being 
successfully incorporated in to the global programme.
The Group’s insurance programme was renewed on 30 April 2012. 
The globalisation of the programme is nearly complete with the 
remaining territories (Netherlands Linen, Germany and Costa Rica) 
joining the programme at their next renewal date. The Group 
insurance programme provides greater consistency of insurance 
cover as well as supporting cost leadership.
Bribery Act 2010
The Group is committed to carrying out our business ethically and 
in line with good business practices. Following the enactment of the 
Bribery Act 2010, the Group has fully reviewed its Code of Ethics and 
within that setting, the policies relating to anti-corruption, gifts and 
corporate hospitality, facilitation payments and political, charitable 
and sponsorship payments.
Bribery Act training has been comprehensively rolled out across the 
UK & Ireland by face-to-face meetings. Web-based training has been 
used to deliver the Bribery Act training to the other regions. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
The risk management strategy aims to address the risks and 
opportunities associated with the Group’s strategic plan. As part 
of the ongoing review and enhancement of the Group’s risk 
management systems, a new framework setting out how the Group 
identiﬁes, responds and reports on risk performance was agreed in 
March 2012. 
This strategy, which follows the broad requirements of ISO 31000 
‘Risk Management – Principles and Guidelines’, translates the 
ownership of risks and performance measurement into clear 
operational objectives.
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview
Principal risks 
and uncertainties  24   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
The established risk groups continue to support the regular review of 
the risks facing each business sector and this collective approach 
is also being developed further to bring global internal expertise 
together by means of technology-based working groups. The risk 
groups are intended to provide global and regional support on 
operational, project management, quality standards and risk 
management aspects of the relevant technology by offering 
a central repository of knowledge and best practice.
Strategic risk includes, but is not limited to, ﬁnancial, commercial, 
reputational, operational, property, people, project and compliance 
risks. Within these broad headings the key risks and controls include:
Financial
Acquisition risks 
As the Group continues to grow through acquisition, the risk of 
inheriting legacy liabilities and debts remains a key uncertainty. 
Existing exposures include UK ﬁnal salary pension scheme 
deﬁcits for the former Shiloh and Vernon Carus parts of our business 
and legacy employee compensation claims for noise-induced 
hearing loss.
The risks associated with potential acquisitions are mitigated 
through extensive due diligence checks to ensure that opportunities 
for strategic growth are balanced against ﬁnancial risks. Other 
associated mitigation activities have included the closure of the 
ﬁnal salary pension schemes and proactive identiﬁcation of 
relevant past insurers in order to effectively manage legacy 
employee liability claims. 
Financial control and reporting 
Global expansion into additional territories and markets increases the 
need for robust ﬁnancial control and reporting. Regional tax regimes 
and currency markets present additional complexities. Accurate 
ﬁnancial reporting, in line with Group requirements, is essential to 
ensuring that ﬁnancial performance and long-term shareholder value 
remain on track.
Mitigation is primarily based on ensuring that the Group invests in 
and retains employees with comprehensive ﬁnancial and regional 
experience. The Group’s recruitment and leadership programmes 
are an important element of recruiting and developing the right talent. 
Local professional advisors who have worked with the Group over 
a number of years provide additional assurance that regional 
requirements are fully complied with.
As the Group operates in a number of different countries and 
currencies, it is subject to movements in the exchange rates 
between a number of different currencies. The Group’s policy is to 
ensure that its income statement is not disproportionately impacted 
by such exchange rate movements. The method used to achieve 
this is to borrow in each major currency in proportion to earnings. 
Revaluations of foreign currency loans are hedged through reserves 
against the retranslation of the Group’s foreign denominated assets.
‘Project Olympic’ has seen the launch of a new global ﬁnancial 
system, the implementation of which will continue in 2012 providing 
enhanced ﬁnancial reporting and cost leadership.
The ﬁnancial performance of regional business units against the 
Group’s strategic objectives is subject to regular peer review through 
the regional management structure.
Commercial
Commodities 
The cost of energy and demand for raw materials continue to 
increase and are inﬂuenced by geopolitical unrest and natural 
catastrophes. The economic recession also continues to be 
challenging in respect of prices and margins across all business 
sectors and associated logistics services.
Mitigation includes energy management programmes and strategic 
commodity procurement in order to ensure continuity of essential 
supplies and effective cost management. 
Business retention and expansion 
Challenging trading conditions, cost cutting in healthcare sectors 
and the ongoing economic recession provide uncertainties but also 
opportunities for the Group. 
The risks are mitigated, and associated opportunities optimised, 
by the Group maintaining effective cost leadership combined with 
excellent levels of service and quality. Cost leadership, service levels 
and quality continue to be key differentiators in the healthcare 
market and the Group continues to attract and retain business.
Reputational
Loss of reputation 
Whilst damage to reputation may be considered a consequence of 
other risks materialising, the Group takes the broader view that brand 
reputation is critically important. Loss of reputation would signiﬁcantly 
impact on the Group’s ability to retain and grow the business.
Mitigation is primarily through maintaining and enhancing the 
Group’s existing good reputation through our commitment to being 
a responsible and ethical business. Protecting the brand in the event 
of a crisis is reliant on robust crisis response and business continuity 
planning; the global crisis response plan has been reviewed in the 
year, and business continuity plans will be subject to detailed review 
next year.
Operational
Quality assurance 
The Group provides services to highly regulated markets, which 
operate to a range of internationally recognised quality standards. 
Our business also relies on maintaining the highest level of quality 
assurance to protect patient safety. Failing to meet quality standards 
would have a signiﬁcant impact on our business and reputation.
Mitigation of these risks depends on having clearly established 
quality control processes in place, together with ongoing review 
and procedures for implementing corrective actions where issues 
or improvements are identiﬁed. The Group has developed a regional 
Quality Assurance structure which has been further enhanced this 
year by the appointment of a global Quality Director. The Group 
adopts an approach of continuous improvement of its quality 
assurance procedures.
Business continuity 
The loss of operational capacity due to the unexpected loss of one or 
more facilities is potentially signiﬁcant. Consequently stakeholders’ 
expectations regarding business continuity planning are increasingly 
critical elements of their assurance and contractual requirements.
Business review
Principal risks 
and uncertainties 
continued Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   25
Mitigation is achieved through the continual development, review 
and testing of business continuity planning. In addition to meeting 
required safe working, ﬁre safety and maintenance requirements, 
all facilities have localised emergency response plans in place which 
aim to minimise any disruption caused by incidents or plant failures. 
The risk management team is also working in partnership with 
insurers and other partners to review and enhance the Group’s 
business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
IT infrastructure 
Information Technology is an integral part of Synergy’s business 
and operational systems. The failure of key IT systems would have 
signiﬁcant impacts on business performance. There are a number 
of legacy and bespoke systems within the Group which have been 
assessed as higher risk in terms of becoming difﬁcult to support 
and providing the required level of consistency and capacity across 
the business.
Mitigation is being achieved through the new appointment of an 
IT Director at the end of 2011 and the implementation of refresh 
projects to address the greatest areas of concern. The key aim of 
these projects, which includes the second phase of ‘Project Olympic’ 
to migrate applied sterilisation control systems, is to ensure that 
critical systems can be fully supported, are sustainable and provide 
scalability as the business continues to grow. The projects also offer 
added value through improving consistency and cost leadership.
IT systems and procedures are in place to support business 
continuity through the secure backing up of data and ensuring 
information security.
Property 
Fire safety 
The principal property risk is ﬁre within linen management facilities. 
Owing to the abundance of fuel sources, a ﬁre incident at one of 
these sites could quickly escalate to a major conﬂagration leading 
to total loss of the property and equipment.
Mitigation relies on high standards of housekeeping and ﬁre 
protection. The Group has comprehensive ﬁre safety procedures 
and works closely with the ﬁre authorities to identify and control 
ﬁre hazards.
People
Loss of critical knowledge 
The Group has built its reputation on providing expertise across a 
range of specialist outsourced services. The Group differentiates itself 
by offering exceptional support to its customers and this demands 
that the Group attracts and retains the highest calibre of people 
across its businesses. Although employee turnover is very low, the 
impact of losing knowledge and experience from the Group is still 
considered sufﬁcient for this to remain a key risk. 
Mitigating this risk through providing an attractive and stimulating 
working environment with opportunities for individuals to grow and 
develop ensures that the Group is well placed to continue to grow 
successfully in both existing and new markets. The Group has 
well established graduate, leadership and personal development 
programmes and has recently supplemented these with a global 
employee performance review system.
Loss of key person 
Celebrating its 20th anniversary this year, the Group retains much of 
its original purpose and the founder of the Group remains the Group 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. In addition there are a number of other 
individuals who are integral to the business. The loss of any of these 
key people could impact on shareholder value and the future 
success of the business.
Whilst it is difﬁcult to fully mitigate the consequences of losing leaders 
and others who might be viewed by stakeholders as being essential 
to the business, the Group aims to reduce the potential impact on the 
Group through succession planning and maintaining a strong senior 
management team.
Project
Failure to complete projects on time or budget 
The success of major projects, for example Project Olympic, 
is deemed critical to meeting the Group’s strategic objectives. 
The failure of a project may have ﬁnancial, commercial, reputational, 
operational and compliance implications. Poor project planning 
also increases the opportunity for bribery and facilitation payment 
demands, which pose signiﬁcant exposure under increasingly strict 
anti-corruption legislation.
Mitigation 
The risks associated with all major projects need to be clearly 
identiﬁed and effectively controlled, including comprehensive 
planning and realistic timescales. The Group applies its established 
risk review processes to all major projects to ensure that risks are 
identiﬁed, evaluated and reviewed through the life of the project.
Compliance
Changes in legislation 
The Group operates across a number of territories with different laws 
and codes. In addition regulation, particularly relating to the 
environment, safety and corporate governance, is subject to change 
with increasingly higher levels of compliance required. Legislation 
including the Bribery Act 2010 is introducing higher standards for 
global companies and their ofﬁcers. Keeping pace with, and 
understanding, the changing requirements of local legislation across 
the regions, is essential to achieving compliance.
Mitigation depends on ensuring that the regions have ownership of 
local compliance supported by risk management oversight, to ensure 
that legislative changes are highlighted and effectively implemented. 
The Group’s aim is to ensure that its policies and standard operating 
procedures set best practice, thereby ensuring compliance 
with legislation.
Risk management journey and next steps
The changes in risk management at Synergy over the last year are 
intended to provide a greatly improved, increasingly proactive and 
embedded risk management capability across the organisation.
We will continue to strive for excellence in risk management and in 
the next year our key initiatives are to:
•  develop a framework for risk appetite and deﬁne the Group’s 
risk appetite;
•  develop and implement more consistent safety standards globally;
•  implement a risk management assurance process;
•  implement a risk management information and reporting system; and
•  implement a training platform and develop a blended learning offer.
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview 26   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
An introduction from the Group CEO
In 2011, I was delighted to announce the creation of two teams: one 
that covers Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’); and another that 
focuses on developing our internal brand identity. Both teams report 
to the plc and Senior Executive Boards, and have made strong 
progress in the past year.
Our CSR team is tasked with developing Group-wide policies that will 
see Synergy more engaged with its local communities, reducing the 
impact of its operations on the environment, and creating a positive 
workplace for its employees. As the employees at Synergy are those 
who make the real difference, we built our CSR strategy taking into 
account their thoughts and ideas.
Employees collectively chose not to support one sole charity, and 
the team instead focused its efforts on promoting charitable activity 
amongst the Group. I was pleased to see so many employees actively 
participating in fundraising events towards the end of last year, such 
as ‘Wear It Pink’ day for the Breast Cancer Campaign last November.
Our success is ultimately derived from the people that we have 
within our Group, and we are committed in ensuring they receive the 
training, support, and development opportunities which they deserve 
across all job roles and regions. In addition, we continue to review 
and strive to improve our working environment in support of our 
diversity policy. With these areas in mind, the Group has recently 
undertaken an employee engagement survey and collective 
responses will be measured against Synergy’s leadership model, 
which sits alongside our brand values.
One of the key objectives for our branding team was to develop our 
internal brand identity to create a sustainable, Group-wide culture 
that lives beyond a small number of senior leaders in our business. 
The internal branding project has been successfully rolled out across 
the Group, alongside the rebranding of our legacy brands, such as 
Isotron and Vernon Carus, into Synergy.
Synergy was awarded Carbon Trust accreditation in October 2010, 
and I am pleased to report that we have reduced our energy and 
carbon usage per unit once more in this ﬁnancial year. In addition, the 
team has begun to standardise waste and recycling controls across 
the Group, increasing the number of recycling facilities in our sites. 
For the upcoming ﬁnancial year, we will continue to improve 
our participation in charitable activity by establishing regional 
ambassadors to drive such events. In addition, we will use the 
employee engagement survey results to help deﬁne a strategy to 
make further progress towards living by the brand values we set. 
Community relationships
Charitable partnerships  
and giving
Employee fundraising
Community projects
Using our knowledge
Educating others
Help to healthcare
Workplace environment
Our values 
Training and development
Diversity 
Health and safety
Risk management
Quality management
Environmental issues
Energy and carbon reduction
Transport pollution
Recycling
Materials 
Waste management
Community relationships
The CSR team has focused on improving charitable activity within 
the Group, through promoting both individual and team events. 
The Company has launched its own JustGiving page to promote 
charitable activity internally, helping our employees reach 
charitable fundraising targets. You can visit our JustGiving page 
at www.justgiving.com/company/synergyhealthplc.
There have been a number of local and regional based fundraising 
events across the Group. Our main achievement was to raise over 
£1,200 for Breast Cancer Campaign, when our employees took 
part in ‘Wear It Pink’ day in November 2011.
Using our knowledge
Our vision is to build a lasting reputation as the trusted experts in 
global heath-related markets by differentiating our services and 
products through the way we work. 
Innovation is one of Synergy’s four core values, and we look to build 
strategic partnerships with healthcare organisations to promote 
continuous development in the industry. Globally, throughout the year 
we have been involved in many exhibitions, training and educational 
events, sharing our knowledge and expertise with the industry.
During the year, our Applied Sterilisation Technologies staff have 
presented at key conferences on a number of subjects, including 
risk management, cost of compliance, biodegradable polymers, 
alternative methods of contamination control and radiation effects.
Synergy’s ability to achieve its 
objectives is based not simply on 
how Synergy makes its customers feel, 
but also how the wider communities in 
which it operates feel about the Group.
Business review
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   27
For support to aid healthcare development in China, Synergy was 
invited to attend an award ceremony in London for the King Charles 
Medal 2011. In conjunction with this event, Synergy hosted a visit 
to our facilities in London organised with the China-Britain Business 
Council (CBBC).
Our facility in Thailand won an award for safety and environmental 
operations within the radiation industry. The award was issued by 
the Thai ofﬁce of Atoms for Peace (OAP) during its 50th anniversary. 
Synergy Health Thailand was the only contract irradiator who 
achieved the award, which was presented by the Minister of Science 
and Technology for Thailand.
One example of our work in the community is the student 
educational day held by our Applied Sterilisation Technologies 
team. The day was held in conjunction with the Swindon Academy; 
sixth-form students enjoyed a tour of our gamma irradiation facility 
and laboratories, as well as receiving presentations from key 
personnel from the business. In addition to our education days, 
our Senior Management team has been active in providing talks and 
advice for university students looking for recruitment opportunities in 
the upcoming year.
We look to build on these achievements by continuing to offer 
educational days for local schools, and by building stronger 
relationships with hospitals and other organisations in the 
healthcare industry.
Workplace environment
Our values
Achievement – We believe our success comes from our focus on 
exceeding expectations and our commitment to go that extra mile, 
however small the difference may seem.
Accountability – We take personal responsibility for our actions and 
are equipped to take the right course of action.
Integrity – We believe that the way we work is as important as what 
we do. We care deeply about the quality of our work and inspire trust 
by delivering on promises.
Innovation – We achieve the best possible results by working with 
customers to develop new ways of solving problems and reducing risk. 
Our ethics policy can be found online at:  
http://www.synergyhealthplc.com/investor-relations/code-of-ethics.aspx
Training and development
Our employees are a critical component of our continued success, 
and it is vital that we attract and retain talented and committed 
people. Our Human Resources department works closely with 
managers and employees to meet their aspirations for personal 
growth and development. Our organisation capability review has 
evolved to assess the management team’s performance against our 
leadership competencies. In addition, we hold a number of internal 
development centres and workshops, and assist them to create 
development plans. Our employees have semi-annual and annual 
performance reviews.
At our Senior Executive Board meetings, a minimum of four talent 
reviews are undertaken per year where the Board discusses the 
talent within the business with a view to how they can develop them 
further. We recruited a further seven graduates in 2011 across the 
UK & Ireland and Europe & Middle East regions, providing a powerful 
example of our strategy to grow and develop our talent pool.
We are expanding the use of 360-degree feedback in all business 
areas and using development centres to monitor the skills and 
development areas of our employees. Over the coming year we will 
be rolling out a new performance management system which will 
directly assess our employees against the leadership model, helping 
to identify future leaders for the business.
Employee engagement
Employee engagement is important to the success of our business 
and we have a number of systems in place that enable us to 
understand the views of our employees. These include employee 
forums, works councils and engagement surveys.
The CSR team contacted employees to understand how they felt 
the team should focus its efforts for the programme. We recently 
launched an employee engagement survey to understand the 
perception of our business in relation to our leadership model, 
which ﬁts alongside our brand values. 
The Company has a Senior Leadership Community, which involves 
80 managers from across the Group. The Community has been 
established to encourage cross-functional working practices and 
ensure that information and expertise is shared across the different 
businesses, along with engaging management to develop their 
leadership skills. We are looking to increase the visibility and 
interaction of senior management across the business. 
ACHIEVEMENT
ACCOUNTABILITY
INTEGRITY
INNOVATION
THINKING
Analytical thinking
Innovation
Information seeking
Organisational awareness 
and alignment
Technical and 
professional expertise
DRIVING
FORWARD 
Customer focus
Commercial accumen
Initiative and pro-activity
Planning and organising
Focusing on results
DEVELOPING SELF
AND OTHERS
Adaptability
Concern for accuracy
Decisiveness
Resilience
Self-development
Development and 
coaching others
LEADING AND
INTERACTING
Communication
Inﬂuencing and persuading
Interpersonal skills
Relationship building
Teamwork
Leadership
Our values
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview 28   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Diversity at work
Our leadership embraces diversity, creating the right environment 
for people from all walks of life to contribute to our pool of talent. 
We passionately believe that our future success is dependent on 
attracting and retaining people from a cross-section of our 
communities and that we will create competitive advantage for 
Synergy. We promote a supportive and inclusive culture for all our 
employees and third-party business partners. However, we also 
recognise that there is a need to create the right environment to 
support our diversity strategy, and the senior leadership of Synergy 
together with the CSR team are looking at how we develop our 
business to improve its attractiveness to new recruits, as well as 
to provide support networks for minority groups within our business, 
to positively support their personal development.
Senior Leadership
During the year, we welcomed both Constance Baroudel and Liz 
Hewitt to the plc Board. Within our Senior Leadership Community, 
which represents our top global 80 leaders, women represent just 
14% of the community. Although we are not intending to set targets, 
we are ensuring all that our people who have senior leadership 
potential are given adequate support, and that there are no artiﬁcial 
barriers to impede their career development within Synergy. We take 
a similar view towards ethnicity, where we believe we would beneﬁt 
from a much more diverse population of senior leaders.
Age
The age proﬁle by region is set out below, and the data is used for 
development and succession planning to ensure the long term 
sustainability of the Group.
UK & Ireland
Total
Europe &
Middle East
Asia & Africa
Americas
60 & over
50-59
40-49
30-39
Under 30
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0
Gender
We promote a supportive and inclusive culture within our business, 
with equal opportunities for both genders. Across the whole Group, 
53% of our workforce are women.
UK & Ireland
Total
Europe &
Middle East
Asia & Africa
Americas
Male
Female
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0
Quality management
Synergy is heavily regulated by international healthcare standards 
and our facilities are certiﬁed to the applicable standards by 
internationally recognised ‘Notiﬁed Bodies’ across all regions.
We are routinely inspected by regulatory bodies such as the 
US Food and Drug Administration and the Medicines and Healthcare 
products Regulatory Agency, and all our facilities across all regions 
have implemented effective quality management systems, which are 
maintained by full time quality professionals.
We take pride in the level of quality compliance we achieve, and 
this is valued by our customers, especially the hospitals and 
multinational healthcare medical device manufacturers that use 
our services.
All of our hospital sterilisation services sites are CE certiﬁed and 
comply with the appropriate clauses of the European Medical 
Device Directive.
Our Applied Sterilisation sites are certiﬁed to EN ISO 13485, which 
is mandatory for the processing of CE marked medical devices. 
In addition, each of the EN ISO 13485 certiﬁcates references, in the 
scope of certiﬁcation, the speciﬁc ISO sterilisation standard that is 
relevant to the sterilisation technology applied at the site. This gives 
added assurance to our customers of the authenticity and validity of 
the service we provide.
We are currently embarking on an initiative to harmonise the key 
elements of our Quality Management Systems across the Group to 
ensure consistent quality, irrespective of the location of the facility. 
During the process we will also identify areas of best practice 
across the Group and ensure implementation at all sites, creating a 
mechanism for continual improvement.
We have a pool of technical expertise within our management team, 
and we harness this expertise using technical working groups to 
continue to develop and improve our Quality Management System. 
In addition, this expertise can be called upon to help ﬁnd solutions 
for customers in relation to the processing of their product. At 
Synergy we have a philosophy of entering into a mutually beneﬁcial 
partnership with our customers to ensure that we deliver service 
excellence every time we process their products.
We have successfully certiﬁed several new Hospital Sterilisation 
Services sites this year in the UK, in Shefﬁeld, Grimsby and 
London. In Applied Sterilisation Technologies, we have developed 
new sites and increased the capacity of existing sites. Each of 
these developments has been subject to a rigorous process 
of commissioning and validation, prior to the commencement of 
customer product processing. We are fully committed to providing a 
quality service in all regions and all aspects of our business. We strive 
to continuously improve our quality systems to beneﬁt our wide and 
diverse customer base.
Business review
Corporate Social Responsibility  
continued Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   29
Environmental performance tables
Utility consumption (MWh) 2012 2011 Variance 
Electricity 54,200  43,700 24.0%
Gas 141,700  136,900 3.5%
Oil/diesel 1,100  1,300 –15.4%
Totals 197 ,000  181,900 8.3%
Carbon emissions (grams of CO2 per unit of output) 2012 2011 Variance 
UK & Ireland 203 215 (5.6%)
Europe & Middle East 207 220 (5.9%)
Asia & Africa 341 405 (15.8%)
Environmental issues
Energy and carbon reduction
We are committed to ensuring that our services minimise their impact 
on the environment. We will always have a need for a substantial level 
of energy use, given the nature of our services, but we continue to 
reduce carbon emissions and our environmental impact per unit. 
Our initiatives have resulted in some substantial reductions in our 
carbon footprint this year, as well as external recognition for our 
efforts and approach.
Utilities
On a like-for-like basis we have reduced total consumption of utilities 
by 1.2%. This is largely due to a fall in gas and oil consumption. 
However, our acquisitions in the US, Switzerland and Malaysia, as 
well as new facilities elsewhere, have acted to increase utility 
consumption by 8.3%.
Carbon management
Our key measure of progress in carbon management is the year on 
year change in relative emissions per unit of output. The performance 
in 2012 for reduction of relative carbon emissions continues to see 
good progress towards our overall goal of reducing relative emissions 
by 20% in 2013. Analysis shows that there has been signiﬁcant 
improvement in the relative emissions for each of our regions for 
which data is available. 
There has been a strong performance in the UK and Ireland region 
where relative emissions for 2012 are 5.6% better than the previous 
year. The improvement has been driven by signiﬁcant improvements 
in the AST and HSS businesses.
Overall performance in Europe & Middle East region across AST 
and Linen Management businesses saw a reduction in the relative 
emissions of 5.9%. Asia & Africa, despite the addition of a new 
business in Malaysia and an increasingly busy unit in Suzhou, 
has improved relative emissions by 15.8% over 2011.
No ﬁgures are presented for our Americas region, since it was only 
formed during 2012 with the acquisition of BeamOne and MSI, 
and therefore comparable data is not available. 
The table above shows relative carbon emissions across the 
business.
Transport pollution
Transportation is pivotal to our services, especially in ensuring a 
fast-track turnaround for our customers. Each of our facilities has an 
objective to provide our logistics services as efﬁciently as possible, 
and there have been a number of local projects to help operate our 
services more efﬁciently. The organisation continues to operate a 
company car policy which strictly deﬁnes required emission levels. 
The business continued to expand its video conferencing technology 
to reduce the need for travel. The Americas and the new corporate 
ofﬁce in Pall Mall have had video conferencing units installed to 
conduct long-distance meetings efﬁciently.
Recycling and waste management
The Group complies with its waste management obligations. 
More recycling facilities have been made available in the past year, 
and we will look to continue our efforts in the new ﬁnancial year. 
We are looking to standardise our waste and recycling contracts 
as they expire, to ensure all facilities have the recycling and waste 
collections that are necessary.
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview 30   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Governance
Board of 
Directors
Robert Lerwill  
Non-executive Chairman
Robert was appointed as a 
non-executive Director of the Company 
in January 2005 and Chairman in 
September 2010. He is currently a 
non-executive Director and Chairman 
of the audit committee of BAT plc and 
non-executive Director and Chairman 
of the audit committee of Transcom 
Worldwide SA. Until November 2008, 
Robert was Chief Executive of Aegis 
Group plc. Between 1997 and 2003 
Robert was an executive Director of 
Cable & Wireless plc, and prior to that 
was Group Finance Director of WPP 
Group plc. Robert qualiﬁed as a 
chartered accountant with Arthur 
Andersen. He is Chairman of the 
Company’s Nomination Committee 
and a member of the Remuneration 
Committee. Robert will retire from the 
Board on 7 June 2012.
Richard Steeves 
Group Chief Executive
Richard founded the business in 1991 
and was appointed Chief Executive 
in 1992. Previously he was corporate 
development manager for Braithwaite 
plc, a plant hire company, and 
associate consultant with strategic 
consultants, LEK Consulting. Richard 
has a PhD in biochemistry from 
St John’s College, Cambridge and 
a BSc (1st Class Hons) in human 
physiology from the University 
of British Columbia in Vancouver, 
Canada. Richard is a Companion of 
the Chartered Management Institute.
Gavin Hill 
Group Finance Director
Gavin joined the Group as Finance 
Director in April 2010. He was 
previously Director, Corporate Finance 
for Serco Group plc following a 
number of divisional Finance Director 
and Commercial roles. Prior to Serco, 
Gavin worked for Syngenta AG and 
AstraZeneca plc in both Finance 
and Corporate Treasury. Gavin is a 
chartered accountant and associate 
member of the Association of 
Corporate Treasurers.
Sir Duncan K Nichol 
Non-executive Director
Duncan became a non-executive 
Director in November 2002. He 
was Chief Executive of the National 
Health Service Management 
Executive between 1989 and 1994, 
and a non-executive Director of BUPA 
between 1994 and 2002. Duncan 
is currently Chairman of Lorica 
Employee Beneﬁts Ltd, and a 
non-executive director of Deltex 
Medical Group plc, the Christie NHS 
Foundation Trust, and UKAS. He is 
also Chairman of Skills for Justice and 
the Academy for Healthcare Science. 
He is a member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. Duncan will be 
appointed as Chairman of the 
Board on 7 June 2012.
Constance Baroudel 
Non-executive Director 
Constance was appointed to the 
Board as a non-executive Director 
in September 2010. She is currently 
the Group Director of Strategy and 
Business Development at De La 
Rue plc. Prior to De La Rue she was 
a senior consultant for Strategic 
Decisions Group. Constance attended 
l’Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris 
where she majored in corporate 
ﬁnance and international relations. 
Constance also has an MSc in 
International Accounting and 
Finance from the London School of 
Economics. Constance is Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee, 
and a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
Liz Hewitt 
Non-executive Director 
Liz Hewitt was appointed to the 
Board as a non-executive Director 
in September 2011 and is Chairman 
of the Audit Committee and a member 
of the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. She is also a non-
executive Director and member of 
the audit committee of Novo Nordisk 
A/S. She has previously been a 
non-executive Director of an NHS Trust 
and a Trustee of Cancer Research UK. 
Liz was Group Director Corporate 
Affairs of Smith & Nephew plc from 
2004 to 2011. She worked for 3i Group 
plc for 18 years as an investor and 
ﬁnally as Corporate Affairs Director. Liz 
was seconded to the UK Government 
in 2006 where she was involved in 
establishing the Enterprise Capital 
Fund. She qualiﬁed as a chartered 
accountant with Arthur Andersen & 
Co and has a degree in economics 
from University College London. Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   31
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview
Our Executive 
Team
Adrian Coward 
CEO UK & Ireland
Adrian joined the Group in 2004 as 
director of IT and was later appointed 
Managing Director for the UK HSS 
division. Adrian previously worked 
for a scientiﬁc and IT consultancy 
company providing solutions to 
engineering and R&D companies. 
Adrian has a BSc in mathematics and 
a PhD in applied mathematics. Adrian 
was appointed CEO UK & Ireland In 
June 2010.
Marcello Smit 
CEO Europe & Middle East
Marcello joined LIPS Textielservice 
Holdings B.V. (LTS) following 
completion of his post-graduate 
studies in economics at the University 
of Amsterdam. He has held various 
management positions in the 
organisation and was also a director of 
a joint venture healthcare foundation. 
Marcello was appointed Chief 
Executive of LTS in 1997 . He was a 
member of the plc Board between 
November 2005 and September 
2010. Marcello was appointed CEO 
Europe & Middle East in June 2010.
Niclas Olsson 
CEO Asia & Africa
Niclas was appointed CEO of the Asia 
& Africa region in June 2012. Niclas 
worked for Getinge Group for 10 years 
in a variety of management positions, 
culminating in ﬁve years as President 
of Getinge China. His speciality is 
infection control in emerging markets, 
with experience in Eastern Europe, 
India, South East Asia and China. 
Prior to joining Getinge, he was 
Marketing Director of Sanmina-SCI, 
a world leading outsourcing company, 
and Business Area Manager Industrial 
Automation for Mannesmann Rexroth 
in Sweden. Niclas has a mechanical 
engineering degree and is a graduate 
of the University of Lund.
Glenn Thibault 
CEO Americas
Glenn was appointed CEO of the 
Americas in April 2011. Glenn has 
over 20 years of experience in the 
medical device manufacturing and 
sterilisation arenas. His previous 
responsibilities included Manager 
of Quality Operations for the Denver, 
Colorado, Service Centre and 
Corporate Director of Quality. Prior 
to joining BeamOne, he was North 
American Medical Manager of TUV, 
as well as Quality Assurance Manager 
for Conmed/Aspen Labs. He has 
served as a member of the AAMI/ISO 
Radiation Sterilization board, AAMI/
ISO Microbiology board, and on the 
HIMA sub-committee on sterilisation. 
Glenn is a graduate of the University 
of North Carolina with a degree 
in Microbiology.
Paul Santing 
Group Commercial Director
Paul joined the Senior Executive 
Board of the Group in 2007 , following 
the acquisition of Isotron plc. 
As a qualiﬁed industrial pharmacist, 
Paul joined OPG-Group in 1985 
and for 13 years he was active in 
the Pharmaceutical Division in 
various manufacturing and sales 
and marketing roles and joined 
Gammaster Group in 1988 as 
Business Development Manager. 
From 2000 onwards he became 
President of the Gammaster Group 
and in 2002 joined the Executive 
board of Isotron plc. Paul has a 
Masters degree in pharmacy from the 
University of Amsterdam. Paul was 
appointed Group Commercial Director 
in June 2010.
Tim Mason 
Group Company Secretary
Tim joined the Group in September 
2009. He was previously Group 
Company Secretary of Compass 
Group plc as well as being director 
and company secretary of their UK 
and Ireland holding company. 
Previously Tim held senior corporate 
secretariat positions with HP Bulmer 
holdings plc, AMEC plc and Grand 
Metropolitan plc. Tim is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators and holds an MA in 
professional administration. Tim is also 
secretary of the Company’s Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees.
Richard Steeves  
Group Chief Executive
Gavin Hill  
Group Finance Director Directors’ report 
The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited consolidated 
accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 1 April 
2012. The Corporate Governance report set out on pages 35 to 39 forms 
part of the Directors’ report. 
Principal activities and business review 
Synergy Health plc is a holding company; its subsidiaries are grouped 
into four geographic regions and these are set out on pages 16 and 17. 
The principal activities are the provision of outsourced healthcare 
support services and contract sterilisation services. 
The Business review comprises the Chairman’s statement on page 12, 
the Chief Executive’s report on page 15 and the Finance Director’s report 
on page 18. 
A separate report on page 23 sets out the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group.  
A further separate report on page 26 sets out Corporate and Social 
Responsibility activities. 
The Chief Executive’s report on page 15 sets out the main trends and 
factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position 
of the Group’s business. 
Issues with regard to the financial risk management objectives and 
policies of the Group (including hedging policy) and the exposure of the 
Company to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are 
covered in the Finance Director’s report. 
Results and dividends 
There was a profit for the period after taxation amounting to 
£24,821,000 (2011: £28,799,000). An interim dividend of £3,774,177 
(2011: £3,298,000) was paid on 15 December 2011. A final dividend 
of £6,195,000 (2011: second interim £5,421,000) is proposed by 
the Board for the period ended 1 April 2012. The final dividend will, 
subject to shareholders’ approval, be paid on 6 September 2012 to 
shareholders on the register at 10 August 2012. A review of the Group’s 
performance for the period ended 1 April 2012 is contained in the 
Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review and the Finance 
Director’s report. 
Share capital 
As at 1 April 2012 the Company’s authorised share capital consisted 
of one class of 106,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.625p each of which 
there were 55,415,682 ordinary shares in issue. No shares were held 
in Treasury. At that date the authority granted to the Company for 
the purchase of up to 5,511,247 ordinary shares remained in force 
and unused.  
The rights and obligations attached to the Company’s ordinary shares, 
and restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in 
the Company’s Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained 
from Companies House in the UK or the Company Secretary.  
Shareholders are entitled to receive dividends, when declared; to receive 
the Company’s reports and financial statements; to attend and speak at 
general meetings of the Company; to appoint proxies; and to exercise 
voting rights.  
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with 
regard to control of the Company. The Company is not aware of any 
agreements between the holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. Unless 
expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the 
Company, the Company’s Articles of Association may be amended by 
a special resolution of the Company’s shareholders. 
The Company issued 324,900 ordinary shares of 0.625p each during 
the period for an aggregate consideration of £1,423,000 in respect of 
options exercised under the Company’s share option schemes. No other 
shares were allotted by the Company. 
Directors 
The present Directors of the Company are shown on page 30.  
E A Hewitt was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2011. No other 
Director served during the period. R E Lerwill retires from the Board 
on 7 June 2012. With effect from 7 June 2012 D K Nichol, senior 
independent Director, will take up the role of Chairman. R E Lerwill, the 
outgoing Chairman, was not involved in the appointment of D K Nichol 
as his successor. In accordance with the recommendations set out in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the elected Directors will submit 
themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting. E A Hewitt, 
having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, submits 
herself for election. Details of the Directors’ service contracts are given in 
the Remuneration report on page 40. 
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at 3 April 
2011 and 1 April 2012 were as follows: 
 
1 April 2012 
ordinary shares  
of 0.625p each 
3 April 2011*
ordinary shares   
of 0.625p each  
R M Steeves 607,815 2,477,674 
G Hill 24,300 16,300 
R E Lerwill  3,000 3,000 
D K Nichol  – 
C F Baroudel 735 – 
E A Hewitt 2,000 2,000 
(* or at date of appointment)  
There was no change in the shareholding of any Director between the 
end of the financial period and the date of this report. Details of options 
held by Directors are contained within the Remuneration report. 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual 
Report and the financial statements 
All the Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company financial statements for each financial period. Under that law 
the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) 
as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare 
the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).  
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit 
or loss for that period.  
 
32   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Governance  
 
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to: 
 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
 For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU; 
 For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and 
 Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company 
will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that 
its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have 
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to 
them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible 
for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those 
regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Employee engagement 
The Group recognises the impact that positive employee engagement 
has on developing a culture of excellence, maintaining organisational 
stability and fostering an environment in which people feel valued 
and included. 
The Group is an equal opportunities employer. Equal opportunities 
are offered to all regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, 
sex (including gender reassignment), marital or civil partnership 
status, disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age or trade 
union membership. 
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment from people with disabilities. The policy is to offer equal 
opportunity to all disabled candidates and employees who have a 
disability or become disabled in any way during the course of their 
employment. A full assessment of the individual’s needs is undertaken 
and reasonable adjustments are made to the work environment or 
practices in order to assist those with disabilities. 
All candidates and employees are treated equally in respect of 
recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies 
and conditions. All decisions are based on relative merits and abilities. 
The Board has held detailed discussions over the guidance issued by 
Lord Davies of Abersoch in his report ‘Women on Boards’ and the FRC’s 
subsequent consultation and forthcoming revisions to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Women currently comprise one third of the members 
of the Board. The Board hopes the Group shall be in a position to 
maintain this level of representation when renewing Board membership  
over the coming years. However, this will always be subject to the 
overriding need to ensure that appointments are made on merit 
and having regard to an appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge required on the Board. The Davies report 
also examines the gender diversity at management levels below the 
Board. The Group has a number of initiatives to improve diversity at a 
senior management level but recognises that these will take time to be 
reflected in the number of women in the senior management team. 
We will continue to review our approach on gender diversity, particularly 
in the context of any developing guidance in this area.  
The Group continues to employ multiple channels of communication 
and is committed to improving these channels so that all employees 
have access to information as well as having an opportunity to express 
their views and ideas on matters affecting their employment and 
the Group.  
Channels include: 
 Employee Forums and where appropriate, Works Councils; 
 ‘Touch Point’ the Group intranet site; 
 Regular Leadership briefings – followed by communication 
cascades/team briefings; 
 An Employee Satisfaction Survey; 
 Regular business updates via circulars; and 
 Communication via ‘Yammer’ a professional social networking tool. 
Employment policies are updated in a timely way to reflect legislative 
changes and training to communicate or embed change is developed 
and rolled out as appropriate. 
Training is provided as required to ensure that we have a skilled 
workforce – this requires a balance of training for the work our 
employees do now and developing and preparing people for the future. 
For several years the Company has operated a Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme, which gives employees an opportunity to enter into a 
savings contract for a fixed period, with an opportunity to acquire shares 
in the Company at the end of that period. 
Directors’ indemnity 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, Directors have 
been granted a continuing indemnity issued by the Company to the 
extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their 
office. The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that 
the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
During the period the Company maintained insurance cover for 
Directors’ and officers’ liability as permitted under the Companies 
Act 2006. 
Corporate and Social Responsibility 
The statement on Corporate and Social Responsibility on page 26 
contains disclosures concerning environmental matters, employee 
involvement and social and community issues.  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   33
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Directors’ report 
continued  
Substantial shareholders 
At the date of this report the Company had been notified of the following 
holdings of voting rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares of 
0.625p each in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules:  
Name Shareholding %
AXA S.A. 7,504,284 13.54%
Prudential plc group of companies 3,458,504 6.24%
Kames Capital 3,296,843 5.95%
INVESCO Asset Management Ltd 3,154,839 5.69%
F & C Asset Management plc 2,726,059 4.92%
Black Rock Advisors 2,705,645 4.88%
Artemis Investment Management Limited 2,688,327 4.85%
Old Mutual Asset Managers (UK) Limited 2,599,250 4.69%
Newton Investment Management 2,561,177 4.62%
Contractual relationships or other arrangements 
The Company has no contractual relationships or other arrangements 
with contractors, customers or suppliers that are critical to the business. 
The Company has a number of significant agreements, however the only 
agreements considered to be essential to the Group as a whole are its 
bank facilities, which include change of control provisions. In the event 
of a change in ownership of the Company, these provisions could result 
in renegotiation or withdrawal of the relevant facilities. 
Policy and practice on payment of creditors 
All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and 
conditions with their suppliers and it is Group policy that payments are 
made within such agreed terms and conditions. Trade creditors at the 
period end amount to 50 days (2011: 58 days) of average supplies for 
the period. 
Political and charitable donations 
During the period the Group made charitable donations totalling 
£20,000 (2011: £17,000). No political donations were made during 
the period (2011: £nil). Further information on the Group’s charitable 
donations is contained in the Corporate and Social Responsibility report 
on page 26. 
Treasury and risk management 
The Group’s treasury and financial risk management objectives, and 
details in respect of the Group’s exposure to these risks are detailed 
in note 19 to the financial statements. 
Going concern 
The Company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out in 
the Business review on pages 14 to 17. The financial position of the 
Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Finance Director’s report on pages 18 to 22. 
In addition, notes 18 to 19 to the financial statements include the 
Company’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its 
financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities; and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk. 
The Company has considerable financial resources together with 
long term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across 
different geographic areas and market places. As a consequence, the 
Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business 
risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.  
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements. 
This statement in respect of the business as a going concern has 
been prepared in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: 
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in October 2009. 
Disclosure of information to auditors 
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report 
confirm that so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and each 
Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to 
make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to ensure that 
the Group’s auditors are aware of that information. 
Auditors 
A resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit plc as auditors of the 
Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 26 July 2012 at the offices 
of Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP. The notice 
convening the meeting together with explanatory notes for the special 
business are set out in a shareholder circular, which will be posted with 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements and proxy voting papers. 
Full details of all the resolutions to be proposed are provided in the 
Notice of Meeting. 
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual 
financial report 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
 The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable 
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and 
 The Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face. 
On behalf of the Board 
 
T C Mason 
Group Company Secretary 
7 June 2012  
34   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Governance Corporate Governance 
 
UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance 
The Board is committed to the highest standards of Corporate 
Governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’). 
The Board is accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good 
governance and this report together with the Directors’ Remuneration 
report set out on pages 42 to 44 describe how the Board has applied the 
main principles of good governance set out in the Code during the year 
under review. 
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has been in 
compliance with the conditions of the Code up to the date of this report 
except where any non-compliance is disclosed and explained. 
The following statements set out the principles and methods to which 
they adhere. 
The statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual 
Report and the financial statements is set out in the Directors’ report 
on page 32. 
The Board 
As at 1 April 2012, and as at the date of this report, the Board of 
Directors was made up of six members, comprising a non-executive 
Chairman, three further non-executive Directors and two executive 
Directors. R E Lerwill will retire from the Board and step down as 
Chairman with effect from 7 June 2012. D K Nichol, senior independent 
Director, will take up the role as Chairman at that time. Notwithstanding 
that D K Nichol has been a non-executive Director since November 
2002, the Board believes D K Nichol is independent for the purposes 
of the Code and is a factor which came out strongly during the recent 
Board evaluation exercise. He brings to the Board significant experience 
of the wider health sector and by his conduct has displayed the highest 
Corporate Governance standards. Finally, the Board believes that 
D K Nichol will play a pivotal role in the development and succession 
planning in respect of the Board, particularly given the relatively recent 
appointments to the Board. 
Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown on page 
30. The Company’s policy relating to the terms of appointment and the 
remuneration of both executive and non-executive Directors is detailed in 
the Remuneration report on page 40. 
The procedure for appointing Directors is detailed in the Nomination 
Committee section below. 
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis 
as required. The Board met 16 times during the year, and attendance 
for each is set out on page 38. 
The Board’s primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and 
to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole. 
In addition, the Board sets the Group’s values and standards and 
ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders 
are understood and met. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, 
which it reviews and agrees annually, but also delegates specific 
responsibilities to a senior committee, the Senior Executive Board (‘SEB’) 
and certain Board committees. Specific responsibilities reserved for the 
Board include: 
 Setting and amending the Group’s overall business strategy, 
strategic business plan and the annual operating budget; 
 Approval of the Annual Report & Financial Statements, interim 
dividends and recommendation of the final dividend; 
 Approval of any changes to the Company’s capital structure 
including the raising of additional capital and the purchase of the 
Company’s shares; 
 Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies 
or practices; 
 Approval of contracts with annual revenue in excess of £5 million; 
 Approval of any investment or disposal of the share capital of another 
company greater than 5% of the Company’s share capital; 
 Approval of the acquisition of assets with a consideration in excess 
of £10 million, and any disposal of assets greater than £2.5 million; 
 Approval of any capital expenditure in excess of £10 million; 
 Major changes in the rules of the Company pension schemes, 
or changes of trustees or fund management arrangements; 
 Approval of changes to the employee share and other incentive 
schemes and the allocation of executive share options; 
 All Stock Exchange related issues including approval of 
communications to the Stock Exchange; 
 Establishing Board membership and powers including the 
appointment and removal of Board members and the Group 
Company Secretary; 
 Establishing Terms of Reference and membership of the 
Board committees; 
 Approval of all Related Party Transactions; 
 Setting the remuneration of the auditors and making 
recommendations for the appointment or removal of auditors; 
 Approving any major changes in policy with respect to risks covered 
by insurance;  
 Approving all treasury matters including the setting of policies to enter 
into contracts that are not in the ordinary course of business and 
authorising bank facilities (including bank borrowing, other loans and 
internal rate swaps), and approval of all foreign currency transactions 
in excess of £5 million; 
 Overseeing the Group’s main controls and their effectiveness; 
 Other matters including health and safety and risk management. 
The Board sets aside at least two consecutive days each year to conduct 
a review of its strategy with the SEB and other senior executives in 
attendance for certain sessions as appropriate. 
Directors receive papers several days in advance of Board meetings 
by means of an electronic Board pad facility, which provides greater 
flexibility for the Directors to access papers and also have access to 
the advice and services of the Company’s advisers. 
The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed 
necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in the furtherance of their duties. This is in addition to the 
access that every Director has to the Group Company Secretary.  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   35
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Corporate Governance 
continued  
 
The Company Secretary is charged with ensuring that the Board 
procedures are followed and that good corporate governance and 
compliance is implemented throughout the Group. Together with the 
Group Chief Executive and the Group Company Secretary, the Chairman 
ensures that the Board is kept properly informed and consulted on all 
issues reserved for it. 
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and 
clearly defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing 
and approved by the Board. The Chairman’s principal responsibilities 
are to chair the Board and shareholder meetings and to ensure the 
effective running of the Board. The Group Chief Executive’s principal 
responsibility is leading the SEB in the day-to-day running of the Group’s 
business. The Chairman and Group Chief Executive meet regularly 
between meetings. 
In accordance with best practice the Chairman addresses the 
developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to developing 
its effectiveness as a team and ensures that each Director refreshes 
and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge and expertise. 
During the year, the Board conducted a detailed evaluation of its own 
performance and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees by means of a written questionnaire to ensure that they 
continue to be effective and that each of the Directors demonstrates 
commitment to his or her respective role and has sufficient time to meet 
his or her commitment to the Company. The evaluation focused on 
several areas including Board structure, meeting administration, 
meetings (and their content), strategy, Board committees, 
communication and information, and governance. The results of the 
evaluation were considered and discussed by the Board. Performance 
evaluations, including skills brought to the Board and the contributions 
each Director made to it, were carried out for each Director.  
The non-executive Directors also held formal meetings to consider the 
Chairman’s performance. 
Meetings between the non-executive Directors both with and without the 
presence of the Group Chief Executive, take place regularly. The Board 
has arranged to hold Board meetings at Group business locations to 
help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business. 
This also provides senior managers from across the Group with the 
opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on 
more informal occasions. The non-executive Directors are also invited to 
attend the Group’s Leadership Conference, which is held annually. 
Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board rather than for a 
committee. The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one 
third of the Directors will seek re-election at the AGM every three years. 
However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors submit themselves 
for annual re-election by shareholders. New Directors may be appointed 
by the Board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the first 
opportunity after their appointment.  
Following their appointment, a formal comprehensive and tailored 
induction is given to all Directors, including visits to key locations 
within the Group and meetings with members of the SEB and other 
key executives. The induction also covers a review of the Group 
Governance policies, structures and business, including the details 
of the risks and operating issues facing the Group. 
Although the non-executive Directors are not formally required to meet 
the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at presentations of 
the annual and interim results is encouraged. 
 
The formal Terms of Reference for the main Board committees 
approved by the Board and complying with the Code, to assist in the 
discharge of its duties, are available from the Company Secretary and 
can also be found on the Company’s website at 
www.synergyhealthplc.com. The Terms of Reference of the main Board 
committees are reviewed annually and updated where necessary. 
The Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee and the Remuneration 
Committee have both been updated where required during the course 
of the year. 
Board committees 
Senior Executive Board  
The SEB is the key management committee and comprises the Group 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, the Group Company Secretary, 
the Group Commercial Director and the CEOs of each of the four 
geographic regions of the Group and meets regularly and at 
least monthly. 
The SEB is primarily responsible for: 
 The management of all the Group’s businesses; 
 Delivering the strategy and the agreed business plans and budgets 
which have been signed off by the Board; 
 Implementing Group policy; 
 Making key commercial decisions within the framework of the agreed 
business plan and strategy; 
 Monitoring all risks (operational, financial and reputational); 
 Reviewing and maintaining the effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal control on a day-to-day basis; and 
 Managing the business in a manner appropriate for a FTSE 250 
company. 
Remuneration Committee 
At the date of this report, the Remuneration Committee comprises  
C F Baroudel (Chairman) and the three non-executive Directors, 
R E Lerwill, D K Nichol and E A Hewitt, all of whom were independent, 
subject to the comments above in respect of the independence of 
D K Nichol in accordance with the definition set out in the Code. 
C F Baroudel has chaired the Remuneration Committee since 
25 January 2012. Prior to that date it was chaired by D K Nichol. 
The Committee met six times during the year and Directors’ attendance 
for each meeting is shown in the table on page 38. The Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to 
respond to any questions that might be raised on the Committee’s 
activities.  
The Remuneration Committee has the following key duties: 
 Reviewing and making recommendations on the Company’s 
framework of executive remuneration and cost including all 
emoluments, pension entitlements and other benefits of the  
executive Directors and as appropriate other senior executives. 
This includes agreeing the level of cash bonuses that are paid; 
 Determining, on behalf of the Board, the executive Directors’ 
remuneration by reference to individual performance and 
market data; 
 Setting and confirming the rewards under the Group’s Long Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP) and the LTIP Co-invest plan; and 
 Reviewing the operation of executive share option schemes and 
the granting of such options. 
36   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Governance  
Audit Committee 
At the date of this report the Audit Committee comprised E A Hewitt 
(Chairman) and also the two non-executive Directors D K Nichol and 
C F Baroudel who, subject to the comments above in respect of the 
independence of D K Nichol, are independent in accordance with 
the definition set out in the Code. 
Following the appointment of E A Hewitt to the Board as a non-executive 
Director, she was also appointed to the Audit Committee and was 
appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee on 9 November 2011. 
Prior to that date the Committee was chaired by R E Lerwill. The Board 
considers that E A Hewitt is suitably qualified to chair the Committee in 
accordance with the requirements of the Code. 
Each member of the Committee brings relevant financial experience 
from senior executive levels. The expertise and the experience of the 
members of the Committee are summarised on page 30. 
Audit Committee members are expected to have an understanding of 
the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting, including the 
applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended 
practice, key aspects of the Company’s policies, finance, internal control 
mechanisms and matters that require the use of judgement in the 
presentation of accounts as well as the role of the external auditors. 
The Committee met three times during the year and the Directors’ 
attendances for each meeting is shown in the table on page 38. Meeting 
agendas are linked to events in the Company’s financial calendar. 
Executive Directors are invited to attend meetings and provide reports 
as and when considered appropriate. The Committee meets with 
external auditors without management present at least once during 
the year. The Committee has direct access to the Group’s auditors 
and liaises with executive management to review the effectiveness 
of internal controls. 
KPMG Audit plc were appointed as Auditors to the Company in 2006, 
and are reappointed annually by shareholders. To ensure objectivity, 
key members of the audit team rotate off the Company’s audit. During 
the course of the year KPMG changed their Lead Engagement Partner 
in accordance with applicable UK rules. The Lead Engagement Partner 
changed following the 2011 Annual General Meeting. During the year, 
the Committee reviewed KPMG Audit plc’s fees, effectiveness and 
whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons for any 
variation from the plan. The Committee also considered its robustness 
and the degree to which KPMG Audit plc was able to assess key 
accounting and audit judgements and the content of the management 
letter. The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that the 
relationship and effectiveness of the external Auditor be kept under 
review. KPMG Audit plc also audits the subsidiaries of the Group.  
The total fees paid to KPMG Audit plc in the year ended 1 April 2012 
were £425,000 (2011: £438,000) of which £58,000 related to non-audit 
work (2011: £76,000). 
The Committee has developed and implemented a policy on the 
supply of non-audit services by the external auditors to ensure their 
continued objectivity and independence. The Committee is satisfied 
that the provision by KPMG Audit plc of non-audit services does not 
impair their independence or objectivity. The Committee has approved 
the range of services that may be provided by KPMG Audit plc. 
These include transaction due diligence and accountancy assistance 
on projects. Subject to approved authorisation limits, the services require 
prior authority from either the Group Finance Director, the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee or the full Audit Committee. The Chairman of 
the Audit Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond 
to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the 
Committee’s activities. 
 
The Audit Committee has the following key duties: 
 To review the annual financial statements and interim reports prior to 
approval, focusing on changes in accounting policies and practices, 
major judgemental areas, significant audit adjustments, going concern 
and compliance with accounting standards, Stock Exchange and 
legal requirements; 
 To monitor the Group’s systems of internal control; 
 To monitor the effectiveness of the external audit process; 
 Litigation and contingent liabilities; 
 Tax matters including compliance with statutory tax 
reporting obligations; 
 To consider the appointment of the auditors and their remuneration 
(including allocation of non-audit fees) to ensure that their 
independency and objectivity is maintained; 
 To meet with the auditors to discuss the scope of the audit issues 
arising from their work and any matters the auditors wish to raise; and 
 To review the Group’s corporate review procedures and any statement 
on internal controls prior to endorsement by the Board. 
In addition, the Audit Committee during the year: 
 Reviewed the Committee’s Terms of Reference; 
 Reviewed the Committee’s effectiveness; 
 Reviewed tax policy; and 
 Received and considered reports from the risk management function. 
The Company has reviewed and updated its policies in light of the 
enactment of the Bribery Act 2010 which came into force on 1 July 
2011. The Company remains committed to the highest standards of 
business conduct and insists all its employees act accordingly. 
The Company has reviewed and updated its whistle blowing policy and the 
policy is available on the Company’s website at www.synergyhealthplc.com.  
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee meets when required and at the date of this 
report comprised R E Lerwill (Chairman) and also the non-executive 
Directors D K Nichol, E A Hewitt and C F Baroudel. With effect from 
7 June 2012, D K Nichol, senior independent Director, will take up the 
role of Chairman of the Committee. Only members of the Committee 
are entitled to be present at meetings but others may be invited 
by the Committee to attend if appropriate. 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering all potential 
appointments to the Board and for making suitable proposals to the 
Board in relation to potential appointments. It meets as and when Board 
appointments or other senior positions within the Group are made. 
The Board has agreed formal, rigorous and transparent procedures 
to be followed by the Committee in making its recommendations 
and appointments to the Board. The Committee has access to such 
information and advice both within the Group and externally, at the 
cost of the Company, as it considers necessary. This may include the 
appointment of external executive search consultants where considered 
appropriate. The Committee met twice during the year. 
For the appointment of E A Hewitt as non-executive Director  
on 1 September 2011, the Company engaged a firm of external 
search consultants to handle the search and recruitment process. 
The Nomination Committee was fully involved with both the recruitment 
and assessment of potential candidates. A shortlist of candidates was 
put through a rigorous assessment process and final candidates were 
interviewed by the whole Nomination Committee. 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   37
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Corporate Governance 
continued  
 
The Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of 
the Group to enable it to compete effectively in the market place. 
The Nomination Committee also advises the Board on succession 
planning for executive Board appointments although the Board is itself 
responsible for succession generally. 
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to all 
Board Committees. 
Directors’ attendance record 
The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and its 
Committees was as follows: 
 Board  
Audit   
Committee  
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Total number of meetings 16  3  6 2
R E Lerwill 15 of 16  2 of 2
(i) 
5 of 6 1 of 2
R M Steeves 16 of 16  –  – –
G Hill 16 of 16  –  – –
D K Nichol 14 of 16  3 of 3  6 of 6 2 of 2
C F Baroudel 16 of 16  3 of 3  6 of 6 2 of 2
E A Hewitt
 
9 of 10
(ii)
2 of 2  2 of 2 –
Notes: 
(i) R E Lerwill stepped down as a member and Chairman on the Audit Committee on 
9 November 2011. 
(ii) E A Hewitt was only entitled to attend 10 Board meetings following her appointment as a 
Director on 1 September 2011. 
Directors’ conflict of interest 
There are procedures in place to deal with Directors’ conflict of interest 
arising under the Companies Act 2006 and such procedures have 
operated effectively during the year. 
Articles of Association 
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by Special 
Resolution at a General Meeting of shareholders. 
Internal control 
The Directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the 
Group systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of 
those controls. 
The Board has taken into account the relevant provisions of the Code, 
the Turnbull report and the Listing Rules and an ongoing process has 
been established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks 
faced by the Group. 
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure 
to achieve the Group’s objectives. The systems provide reasonable, 
not absolute, assurances against material mis-statement or loss. 
Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with changing 
circumstances. 
The Group does not have an internal audit function, although this is 
continually under review by the Board and the Audit Committee. The 
Board is presently of the view that having reviewed and considered the 
current control environment, it is still adequate given the Group’s size 
and range of businesses. 
The Group has a Group finance function that reports to the Group 
Finance Director and is independent of the business units to ensure 
objectivity and control when preparing Group financial information. 
The Group finance function undertakes financial reviews of the regional 
finance functions on an ad hoc basis and provides technical and 
commercial support when required. 
Assessment of business risk 
A system of business risk identification, assessment and evaluation 
has been in place during the year within the management process 
throughout the Group, through a formal risk management framework 
led by the Group Director of Risk Management. This is explained in the 
reports of Principal Risks and Uncertainties and Corporate and Social 
Responsibility on pages 23 and 25 respectively. The Board regularly 
reviews strategic risks. 
Control environment 
The Group’s operating procedures include a comprehensive system for 
reporting financial and non-financial information to the Board including: 
 The definition of authorisation limits, both financial and otherwise. 
Detailed appraisal documents are produced for any major 
capital projects; 
 A review of annual budgets and forecasts against budgets that are 
produced at least twice a year; 
 A review of monthly management accounts at Group and operational 
level, including financial performance, together with balance sheet 
and cash flow analysis, which are reported against budget, forecasts 
and prior year with major variances explained; and 
 A risk management report for each Board meeting, focusing on any 
new risks arising and management of existing risks. 
On an annual basis the Group finance function undertakes a review 
of financial controls as part of its year end process, which is considered 
by the Board. The annual review gives a comprehensive update on 
the previous year’s report and outlines actions taken to redress any 
weaknesses in each regional business and across Group functions. 
The review also highlights areas where improved controls have been 
implemented and key actions to be addressed in the coming financial 
year, which are monitored by both the Board and the Audit Committee. 
Control procedures 
Detailed operational procedures that embody key controls have been 
developed for each of the Group’s businesses. The implications 
of change in law and regulations are taken into account within 
those procedures. 
Monitoring process 
There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of key controls. 
The significant components are: 
 Cyclical and random reviews of operational and financial controls 
by the Director of Risk Management, the Group’s quality managers, 
the Head of IT, senior finance managers and the Group finance team; 
 Review by the Audit Committee of the process for identifying and 
assessing risks and of the effectiveness of controls via the work 
of external audit and direct access to Group and operational 
management. 
The Board confirms that it has considered the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal controls described above for the financial year 
and up to the date of this report. 
38   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Governance  
 
Compliance statement 
The Company applied all of the principles set out in the Code for the 
period under review and has throughout the year complied with the 
detailed provisions set out therein. The Company’s auditors, KPMG Audit 
plc, are required to review whether the above statement reflects the 
Company’s compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for its 
review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it 
does not reflect such compliance. No such report has been made. 
Relationship with shareholders 
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Group 
Company Secretary are responsible for ensuring effective 
communication with shareholders. The Company places considerable 
importance on communication with the shareholders, including its 
employee shareholders. 
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, the Company communicates 
with its shareholders by way of the Annual Report & Financial 
Statements, which are available to all shareholders either in paper 
form or electronically and can be accessed via the Company’s website 
http://www.synergyhealthplc.com. The Group’s annual and interim 
results, as well as all announcements issued by the London Stock 
Exchange, are published on the Company’s website. 
The Company also communicates with its institutional shareholders 
through a combination of analysts’ briefings throughout the year but 
particularly at the interim and year end results stage. 
Business at the Company’s Annual General Meeting will cover the 
Annual Report & Financial Statements, the Directors’ Remuneration 
report, the declaration of a final dividend, election and re-election 
of Directors, reappointment and remuneration of auditors, political 
donations and political expenditure, authority to allot shares, 
disapplication of pre-emption rights, purchase by the Company 
of its own shares and notice period for general meetings.  
Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set out in the 
Notice of Meeting. The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as 
well as abstentions, are counted before the Annual General Meeting and 
the results will be made available at the meeting after shareholders have 
voted on each resolution on a show of hands. All results, statements and 
Company announcements are accessible to all shareholders via the 
Group’s website http://www.synergyhealthplc.com. 
All shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting at which they 
have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   39
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Remuneration report 
 
The Board presents its Remuneration report, which has been prepared 
on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee and in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Composition of the Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee of the Board has been chaired by 
C F Baroudel since 25 January 2012. Prior to that date it was chaired 
by D K Nichol. It also comprises the non-executive Directors R E Lerwill, 
D K Nichol and E A Hewitt. When appropriate, the Remuneration 
Committee also invites the views of the Group Chief Executive, the Group 
Finance Director and the Group Company Secretary. Market data from 
Hewitt New Bridge Street was considered by the Committee. No other 
services were provided to the Company by Hewitt New Bridge Street. 
Remuneration policy 
The Group is committed to meeting best practice in areas of corporate 
governance and executive remuneration. The Company’s executive 
remuneration policy is in line with the Company’s overall practice on 
pay and benefits, which is to reward employees competitively. In setting 
executive salaries, the Committee takes into account a number of 
factors, including market conditions, salaries in comparable companies 
in similar industries, and affordability, in order to attract and retain 
competent executives. The Committee also considers general pay 
and employment conditions of all employees within the Group and is 
sensitive to them, to prevailing market conditions and to governance 
trends when assessing the level of salaries and the remuneration 
packages of executive Directors. Remuneration is considered with 
regard to personal performance, responsibilities and experience 
and this is benchmarked alongside independently compiled salary 
survey information. 
The Committee recognises the need to link an executive’s remuneration 
package to individual and corporate performance. There is an 
appropriate balance between the elements of the remuneration 
structure of: 
 Basic salary; 
 Performance related annual bonuses;  
 Co-investment element to the annual bonus encouraging prolonged 
share ownership; 
 Long term incentive awards; and 
 Pension contributions. 
This structure encourages longer term career planning within the Group 
and future participation in its growth. 
The Committee does not consider that the targets that are included 
in the executive’s remuneration package are incompatible with the 
Director’s responsibility for environmental, social and governance 
matters. Whilst the Committee’s terms of reference do not require 
specific targets on these matters, the Committee is obliged to ensure 
that, when setting remuneration policy, appropriate incentives are 
provided to encourage enhanced performance in a fair and 
reasonable manner.  
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the appropriate defined 
contribution pension schemes and other regular employee benefit plans 
including health and life insurance. Only base salary is included in the 
calculation of pension contributions. 
The details of individual components of the remuneration package and 
service contracts for the Directors are disclosed in the table headed 
‘Directors’ remuneration’ on page 42. These were the arrangements 
in place throughout the year and will remain unchanged for the next 
financial year. 
Components of executive Directors’ remuneration 
Overview 
The principal components of executive Directors’ remuneration 
packages are base salary, the annual bonus scheme with ‘LTIP  
Co-invest’ element, the long term incentive plan and pension benefits. 
Each of these components is explained further below. 
Salary 
The Committee meets at least once a year in order to consider and set 
the annual salaries for executive Directors. The Committee also reviews 
the policies adopted regarding remuneration across the Group. Last year 
the Committee initiated a benchmark exercise to ensure levels of 
Directors’ remuneration were competitive with the market. Following this 
exercise it was noted that the Chief Executive’s salary was positioned 
below the market competitive range however it was agreed that there 
would be no increase during the year. The salary of the Group Finance 
Director was also below the competitive market rate. In addition the 
Remuneration Committee felt that it did not reflect the change in 
role and increase in responsibilities which have arisen from recent 
acquisitions and further expansion into international markets. It was 
therefore agreed that G Hill’s salary be increased by 5% and that the 
Committee would keep the impact of this growing role under review 
going forward  
The base salaries of the executive Directors were therefore, with effect 
from 1 April 2011, £420,000 for R M Steeves and £252,000 for G Hill. 
Incentive arrangements 
Annual bonus scheme 
The executive Directors participate in the Group’s performance-related 
annual bonus scheme. Bonuses are currently awarded for achieving 
profit and cash flow targets set by the Board, together with an element 
related to achieving personal objectives during the year. The executive 
Directors are entitled to receive their full bonus if all of these objectives 
have been achieved. Maximum potential bonuses, as a percentage of 
annual base salary, were 100% in respect of R M Steeves and G Hill 
and will remain at this level for the year ending March 2013.  
The increase in bonus potential for G Hill (from 55% of salary) has been 
implemented as the previous bonus potential was out of line with short 
term incentive arrangements for similar roles in comparative companies 
and to ensure the incentive arrangements remain competitive. Directors 
have the opportunity to invest their bonus payments in Company shares 
as part of the Long-term Incentive Plan described below. 
The executive Directors earned 95% of their maximum potential bonus 
in 2011/12, reflecting a period of sustained growth and the successful 
acquisition of new businesses, together with a continued international 
development plan which contributed to the profit, cash flow targets and 
personal objectives, as set by the Remuneration Committee, being met. 
Long-term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) 
The LTIP for executive Directors and senior executives was approved by 
shareholders in 2005. The principal features are as follows:  
All executive Directors and senior executives nominated by the 
Committee are entitled to be considered for the grant of awards under 
the LTIP. The awards take the form of a nil cost option over shares 
(‘LTIP option’), where the vesting of the LTIP option is conditional upon 
the performance of the Company over the measurement period. 
The performance conditions were chosen because the Committee 
believes that these targets are aligned and compatible with the interests 
of shareholders and the creation of shareholder value. 
40   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Governance  
 
An award under the LTIP to a nominated participant will take two forms. 
(1) The first type of award is a right to acquire a specified number 
of shares by way of an LTIP option, with the vesting of the award 
conditional upon the performance of the Company over the 
measurement period. The Remuneration Committee has discretion 
to set the level of conditional award up to a maximum of 450% 
basic salary. However, awards are typically made at 100% of salary 
for the Group Finance Director and at 150% of salary for the 
Chief Executive Officer. 
The vesting of the shares will be dependent on the extent to which 
the following performance targets have been satisfied: 
(a)  50% of the LTIP Option is determined by a comparison of the 
earnings per share figure at the end of the measurement period with that 
at the start on an annual compound basis. For these purposes earnings 
per share will be adjusted for amortisation of intangibles, non-recurring 
items, share option charges and any other items deemed reasonable by 
the Committee. 
(b)  The other 50% of the LTIP Option is determined by the Total 
Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) generated by the Company in comparison to 
that generated by companies in the FTSE 250 Index. A table ranking the 
companies in order of performance will be produced in July of each year 
of the measurement period to establish the ranking of the Company.  
It should be noted that the targets are very demanding, notably that, in 
order to receive the maximum award relating to the part of the award 
described in note (a) above, the earnings per share must achieve an 
average annual compound growth rate of 20% over the three year 
measurement period. 
The shares in each element of the conditional award will vest in 
accordance with the following table: 
Awards made up to June 2008 
Vesting level 
Average annual 
compound EPS growth  Position in the TSR table 
Vesting at 100% 25% Top 10% 
Vesting on straight line basis 
between 50% and 100% 
Between 20%  
and 25% 
Top 25% but 
outside top 10% 
Vesting on straight line basis 
between 25% and 50% 
Between 15%  
and 20% 
Top 50% but 
outside top 25% 
None of the shares will vest Below 15% Below top 50% 
Awards made from July 2009 onwards 
Vesting level 
Average annual 
compound EPS growth  Position in the TSR table 
Vesting at 100% 20% Top 25% 
Vesting on straight line basis 
between 50% and 100% 
Between 15%  
and 20%  
Vesting on straight line basis 
between 25% and 50% 
Between 10%  
and 15%  
Vesting on straight line basis 
between 25% and 100%  
Top 50% but 
outside top 25% 
None of the shares will vest Below 10% Below top 50% 
In 2011 conditional LTIP awards were granted to R M Steeves based on 
150% of basic salary and to G Hill based on 100% of basic salary and it 
is the intention that these award levels will remain the same in 2012.  
(2) The second type of award takes the form of a ‘co-invest’ 
arrangement. Participants are encouraged to invest part or all of their 
annual bonus payment in shares in the Company to be retained 
throughout the measurement period (‘LTIP Co-invest’). At the end of the 
measurement period, depending upon the growth in earnings per share 
(adjusted as above) of the Company over the measurement period, the 
participant will receive a number of free ‘matching’ shares under the 
LTIP Co-invest. 
The number of matching shares will be determined in accordance with 
the following table: 
Growth in earnings per share Ratio of matching shares received 
Over 15% each year Two shares for each one purchased
Between 10% and 15% each year One share for each one purchased 
Pensions 
The Company makes pension contributions equivalent to 10% of the 
base annual salary for G Hill and 15% of the base annual salary for 
R M Steeves into defined contribution schemes. Where this amount 
exceeds the annual allowance then the balance is paid in lieu of pension 
as a taxable amount to the executive Director.  
Service contracts 
The Committee has determined that the Company’s executive Directors 
are appointed to the Board on terms of a contract that can be terminated 
by the Company with 12 months’ notice after the first year of service. The 
Committee believes that this arrangement provides a measure of stability 
in that it provides an opportunity for the recruitment of replacement 
executives and an orderly hand over of duties. 
The service contracts of all the executive Directors, which are rolling 
contracts, contain a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company, 
to pay an amount on early termination of employment. The Company will 
use the pay in lieu of notice provisions when the speed, certainty and 
protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such clauses are thought 
to be in the best interests of the Company and the circumstances 
surrounding the departure of the relevant Director justify their use. The 
Committee’s policy is that payments to Directors on termination should 
reflect the circumstances that prevail at the time, also taking account 
of, if applicable and appropriate, the Director’s duty to mitigate. The 
Committee continuously reviews its policies of executive remuneration 
and severance in the best interests of shareholders. Guidance on best 
practice expectations is taken into account prior to agreeing Directors’ 
contractual provisions. 
The contract details for the current executive Directors are as follows: 
 Effective date Unexpired term Notice period 
R M Steeves 1 November 1999 12 months 12 months 
G Hill 26 April 2010 12 months 12 months 
R M Steeves and G Hill will stand for re-election at the Company’s 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and the unexpired term of their 
service contracts is disclosed above. 
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   41
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Remuneration report  
continued 
 
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration 
The remuneration of non-executive Directors is established by the whole Board. Details of each non-executive Director’s remuneration is included 
below. The non-executive Directors do not receive any pension or other benefits. All non-executive Directors are engaged on letters of appointment 
that set out their duties and responsibilities and confirm their remuneration. In the event that either party wishes to terminate the appointment, three 
months’ notice is required. The Company may terminate each of these appointments at any time without the payment of compensation other than 
the notice payment. 
The appointment details for the current non-executive Directors are as follows: 
R E Lerwill  01.11.2010 
D K Nichol 01.11.2002 
E A Hewitt  01.09.2011 
C F Baroudel 01.09.2010 
The following information has been audited: 
Directors’ remuneration 
The remuneration of the Directors, who served throughout the period except where indicated, for the period to 1 April 2012 is as follows: 
 
Salary 
£’000
Bonus 
£’000
Benefit in kind 
£’000
2012 Total 
(Excl Pension) 
£’000
2011 Total  
(Excl Pension) 
£’000 
2012
Pension 
£’000
2011 
Pension 
£’000
R M Steeves
(4)
  420 399 11 830 850 63 63
G Hill
(1)
 252 239 21 512 374 25 22
  
C F Baroudel
(2) 
 45 – – 45 26 – –
R E Lerwill 80 – – 80 63 – –
D K Nichol 45 – – 45 45 – –
L Hewitt 
(3)
 26 – – 26 – – –
  
 868 638 31 1,538 1,358 88 85
Notes: 
(1) Appointed 26 April 2010.  
(2) Appointed 22 September 2010.  
(3) Appointed 1 September 2011. 
(4) Due to a reduction in the Annual Allowance, during this financial year £50,000 was paid into R M Steeves defined contribution plan and the balance was paid as a taxable sum in lieu of pension. 
The total Directors’ compensation in relation to other long term benefits, eg LTIP and other share-based payments was £930,000 (2011: £501,000), 
calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments. 
Share options 
Details of the Company’s share option schemes are set out in note 26 to the financial statements. 
The following Directors hold options over ordinary shares of 0.625p in the Company’s share option schemes as follows: 
 
Options held at 
3 April 2011 
Options 
granted 
during the 
period 
Options 
exercised  
during the 
period 
Options 
lapsed 
during the 
period
Options held at 
1 April 2012
Exercise 
price 
(pence)
Market value 
at date of 
exercise
Date from  
which exercisable Expiry date
R M Steeves     
Sharesave
(1)
 2,950 – – – 2,950 527p – 1 February 2015 1 August 2015
G Hill     
Sharesave
(1)
 2,313 – – – 2,313 658p – 1 February 2016 1 August 2016
Notes: 
(1) ‘Sharesave’ refers to the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.  
42   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Governance  
 
Directors’ interest in Long term Incentive Plan shares 
(a) LTIP options 
Date of award 
Maximum 
number of 
options as at  
3 April 2011 
Maximum 
number of 
options granted 
during the period 
Number of 
options exercised 
during the period
Number of 
options lapsing 
during 
the period
Maximum 
number of 
options as at 
1 April 2012
Mid-market 
share price  
on date  
of award 
Date from which 
the options are 
exercisable/expire  
Mid-market 
share price 
on date 
of exercise Note
R M Steeves     
30.6.2008 104,603 
 
– 14,500 70,514 19,589 738.5p 
30 June 
2011/2018 See note 5 1
14.7.2009 114,841 – – –114,841 504.5p 
14 June 
2012/2019 – 2
14.6.2010 101,559 – – –101,559620.33p 
14 June 
2013/2020  – 3
27.6.2011 – 70,286 ––70,286896.33p 
27 June 
2014/2021  – 4
G Hill     
14.6.2010 38,689 – – – 38,689620.33p 
14 June 
2013/2020 – 3
27.6.2011 – 28,114 ––28,114896.33p 
27 June 
2014/2021 – 4
Notes: 
(1) This award was made on 30 June 2008 over shares that have a value of 200% of the salary of R M Steeves. The measurement period for this award ran from this date to 30 June 2011. 
(2) This award was made on 14 July 2009 over shares that have a value of 150% of the salary of R M Steeves. The measurement period for this award runs from this date to 14 July 2012. 
(3) This award was made on 14 June 2010 over shares that have a value of 150% of the salary of R M Steeves and 100% of the salary of G Hill. The measurement period for this award runs from 
this date to 14 June 2013. 
(4) This award was made on 27 June 2011 over shares that have a value of 150% of the salary of R M Steeves and 100% of the salary of G Hill. The measurement period for this award runs from 
this date to 27 June 2014. 
(5) R M Steeves exercised these shares on 29 July 2011 when the mid-market price was 948.75p. 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   43
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Remuneration report  
continued 
 
(b) LTIP Co-invest 
Date of award 
Maximum number  
of matching  
options as at  
3 April 2011 
Maximum number 
of matching 
options granted 
during the period
Number of 
matching options 
exercised during 
the period
Number of 
matching options 
lapsing during 
the period
Maximum 
number  
of matching  
options as at  
1 April 2012 
Price paid by 
Director for 
co-invest shares
Mid-market 
price on date 
of exercise
R M Steeves   
30.6.2008 59,420 – 710.0p948.75p
21.7.2009 28,896 –––28,896 501.25p–
14.6.2010 86,890 –––86,890 668p–
14.7.2011 – 88,420––88,420 948.125p–
G Hill   
14.6.2010 32,600 – – – 32,600 See note 1 –
14.7.2011 – 16,000 – – 16,000 See note 2 –
Notes: 
The actual number of matching shares that will vest is contingent on the performance targets described earlier. 
(1) G Hill purchased shares on three separate occasions at prices of 656.0p, 674.0p and 675.0p.  
(2) G Hill purchased shares on three separate occasions at prices of 904.8p, 903.0p and 903.0p. 
The aggregate amount of gains made by the executive Directors on the exercise of share options was £419,000 (2011: £728,000). The market 
price of the 0.625p ordinary shares was 849.0p at 1 April 2012. The market price ranged from 799.5p to 1002.0p during the period. 
Performance graph 
The graph below shows the Group’s performance for the five year period to 1 April 2012 measured by TSR, compared with the performance 
of the FTSE 250 index (excluding investment trusts) also measured by TSR, which is defined as share price growth plus reinvested dividends. 
The FTSE 250 index has been chosen because it provides a basis for comparison against companies in a relevant broad-based equity index 
in which the Group would have been a constituent member if it had been on the full list of the London Stock Exchange for the whole 
measurement period.  
Synergy Health
FTSE 250 Ex Investment Trust
150
125
100
75
50
25
Source: Datastream
Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09
Share Price (p)
 
 
C F Baroudel 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
– 29,710 29,710 
44   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Governance Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Synergy Health plc  
 
We have audited the financial statements of Synergy Health plc for the 
period ended 1 April 2012 set out on pages 46 to 91. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK 
Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, 
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 34, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards 
for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 
on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
 The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 1 April 2012 and 
of the Group’s profit for the period then ended; 
 The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
 The Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; and 
 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
 The part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
 The information given in the Directors’ report for the financial period 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and 
 The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set 
out on page 38, with respect to internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share 
capital structures, is consistent with the financial statements.  
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion: 
 Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
 The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
 Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
 We have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; or 
 A Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the 
company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 The Directors’ statement, set out on page 34, in relation to going 
concern;  
 Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
Directors’ remuneration, and 
 The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 35 relating 
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Combined Code specified for our review. 
 
 
Tim Widdas (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
St Nicholas House 
Park Row 
Nottingham 
NG1 6FQ 
7 June 2012 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   45
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Consolidated  
income statement 
For the period ended 1 April 2012 
 2012 2011
 Note
Before
 amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles and 
non-recurring 
items
£’000
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles and 
non-recurring 
items
(note 4)
£’000
Total
£’000
Before 
 amortisation  
of acquired  
intangibles and  
non-recurring  
items 
£’000 
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles and 
non-recurring 
items
(note 4)
£’000
Total
£’000
Continuing operations  
Revenue 3 311,954 – 311,954287,314 –287,314
Cost of sales (187,577) – (187,577)(177,633) –(177,633)
Gross profit 124,377 – 124,377109,681 –109,681
Administrative expenses  
– Administration expenses excluding amortisation 
of acquired intangibles  (75,408) (3,476) (78,884) (66,637) 3,278 (63,359)
– Amortisation of acquired intangibles – (7,463) (7,463) – (6,265) (6,265)
 (75,408) (10,939) (86,347) (66,637) (2,987) (69,624)
Operating profit 48,969 (10,939) 38,030 43,044 (2,987) 40,057
Finance income 6 4,455 – 4,455 4,205 1,446 5,651
Finance costs 7 (10,008) – (10,008) (8,975) – (8,975)
Net finance costs (5,553) – (5,553) (4,770) 1,446 (3,324)
Profit before tax 4 43,416 (10,939) 32,477 38,274 (1,541) 36,733
Income tax 8 (9,858) 2,202 (7,656) (8,686) 752 (7,934)
Profit for the year 33,558 (8,737) 24,821 29,588 (789) 28,799
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent 33,333 (8,737) 24,596 29,406 (789) 28,617
Non-controlling interests 225 – 225 182 – 182
 33,558 (8,737) 24,821 29,588 (789) 28,799
Earnings per share  
Basic 10 44.51p 52.10p
Diluted 10 43.71p 51.23p
 
 
46   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income 
For the period ended 1 April 2012 
 
Note 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Profit for the year  24,821 28,799
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year:  
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  (9,210) (2,647)
Cash flow hedges   
– fair value movement in equity  (1,341) (112)
– reclassified and reported in net profit  112 550
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension plans 27 (7,941) 2,454
Provision for deferred tax on defined benefit pension plans 20 1,707 (932)
  (16,673) (687)
Total comprehensive income for the year  8,148 28,112
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  7,970 28,029
Non-controlling interests  178 83
  8,148 28,112
 
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   47
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Consolidated statement  
of financial position 
At 1 April 2012 
 
Note 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Non-current assets  
Goodwill 11 218,305 193,577
Other intangible assets 12 60,893 39,380
Property, plant and equipment 13 254,442 209,829
Investment property 14 960 970
Investments  637 –
Trade and other receivables 17 1,551 1,361
Total non-current assets  536,788 445,117
Current assets  
Inventories 16 11,211 13,513
Trade and other receivables 17 53,651 48,673
Cash and cash equivalents  21,986 38,781
Total current assets  86,848 100,967
Total assets  623,636 546,084
Capital and reserves attributable to the Group’s equity holders  
Share capital 23 346 344
Share premium account  64,952 63,531
Translation reserve  36,275 45,438
Cash flow hedging reserve  (1,341) (112)
Merger reserve  106,757 106,757
Retained earnings  83,842 72,634
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  290,831 288,592
Non-controlling interest  822 644
Total equity  291,653 289,236
Current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 6,398 139,414
Trade and other payables 21 84,012 60,254
Derivative financial instruments  1,341 112
Current tax liabilities  7,338 9,539
Short term provisions 22 3,385 375
Total current liabilities  102,474 209,694
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 189,051 11,689
Retirement benefit obligations 27 18,312 12,251
Deferred tax liabilities 20 11,536 12,171
Provisions 22 10,335 10,705
Deferred government grants  275 338
Total non-current liabilities  229,509 47,154
Total liabilities  331,983 256,848
Total equity and liabilities  623,636 546,084
The consolidated financial statements on pages 46 to 83 were approved by the Board on 7 June 2012 and signed on its behalf by: 
G Hill 
Director 
48   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements Consolidated cash flow  
statement  
For the period ended 1 April 2012 
 
Note 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Profit for the year  24,821 28,799
Adjustments  57,538 54,932
Cash generated from operations  82,359 83,731
Income tax paid  (12,976) (6,262)
Net cash generated from operating activities  69,383 77,469
Cash flows from investing activities  
Acquisition of subsidiary – net of cash  24 (66,208) (1,560)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (PPE)  (47,363) (37,599)
Purchase of intangible assets  (2,808) (569)
Proceeds from sale of PPE  265 1,293
Receipt of government grants  128 63
Interest received  1,652 2,856
Net cash used in investing activities  (114,334) (35,516)
Cash flows from financing activities  
Dividends paid  (9,206) (7,838)
Proceeds from borrowings  93,508 90,531
Repayment of borrowings  (47,497) (82,784)
Repayment of hire purchase loans and finance leases  (2,949) (3,880)
Interest paid  (6,713) (5,863)
Proceeds from issue of shares  1,421 1,189
Net cash used in financing activities  28,564 (8,645)
Net decrease/increase in cash and bank overdrafts  (16,387) 33,308
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of period  38,781 6,275
Exchange differences  (408) (802)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of period  21,986 38,781
 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Cash generated from operations 
Profit for the period 24,821 28,799
Adjustments for: 
– depreciation  35,254 33,799
– amortisation of intangible assets 7,803 6,591
– equity-settled share-based payments 2,306 1,088
– BeamOne consideration 290 –
– loss on sale of tangible fixed assets 817 156
– finance income (4,455) (5,651)
– finance costs 10,008 8,975
– income tax expense 7,656 7,934
Changes in working capital: 
– inventories 2,280 (769)
– trade and other receivables (2,722) (1,332)
– trade, other payables and provisions (2,252) 2,028
Cash generated from recurring operations 81,806 81,618
Increase in other payables from non-recurring items 553 2,113
Cash generated from operations 82,359 83,731
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   49
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity 
For the period 1 April 2012 
 
 
Share  
capital  
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
Cash flow 
hedging 
reserves 
£’000
Translation 
reserve 
£’000
Retained  
earnings  
£’000
Total  
attributable to 
equity holders  
of the parent  
£’000 
Non-
controlling 
interest
£’000
Total 
equity 
£’000
Balance at 28 March 2010 342 62,344 106,757 (550) 47,986 48,928 265,807 561 266,368
Total comprehensive income:   
Profit – ––––28,61728,617 18228,799
Other comprehensive income:   
Translation of foreign operations – – – – (2,548) – (2,548) (99) (2,647)
Net movements on cash flow 
hedges – ––438––438 –438
Actuarial movement  
net of tax – – – – – 1,522 1,522 – 1,522
Total comprehensive income 
for the year – – – 438 (2,548) 30,139 28,029 83 28,112
Transactions with owners of the  
Company recognised directly in equity:   
Dividends paid – –––– (7,838) (7,838) – (7,838)
Issue of shares 2 1,187 –––– 1,189 – 1,189
Share-based payments (net of tax) – –––– 1,405 1,405 – 1,405
Balance at 3 April 2011 344 63,531 106,757 (112) 45,438 72,634 288,592 644 289,236
Total comprehensive income:   
Profit – ––––24,59624,596 225 24,821
Other comprehensive income:   
Translation of foreign operations – – – –(9,163) –(9,163) (47)(9,210)
Net movements on cash flow 
hedges – – –(1,229) – –(1,229) –(1,229)
Actuarial movement  
net of tax – ––––(6,234) (6,234) – (6,234)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year – – –(1,229)(9,163)18,362 7,970 178 8,148
Transactions with owners of the  
Company recognised directly in equity:  
Dividends paid – ––––(9,206) (9,206) – (9,206)
Issue of shares 2 1,421 –––– 1,423 – 1,423
Share-based payments (net of tax) – –––– 2,052 2,052 – 2,052
Balance at 1 April 2012 346 64,952 106,757 (1,341) 36,275 83,842 290,831 822 291,653
The cash flow hedging reserve of £1,341,000 debit (2011: £112,000 debit and 2010: £550,000 debit) represents the fair value gains and losses on 
hedging arrangements that are effective and qualify for cash flow hedge accounting. The brought forward reserve of £112,000 debit unwound 
during the year and revaluation of existing instruments at the balance sheet date gave rise to the closing reserve. 
The share-based payment credit of £2,052,000 (2011: £1,405,000) includes a debit of £325,000 (2011: debit £211,000) relating to deferred 
taxation and a credit of £420,000 (2011: credit £481,000) relating to current taxation. 
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form part of these financial statements. 
 
50   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements  
For the period ended 1 April 2012 
 
1 General information 
Synergy Health plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘the Group’) deliver a range of specialist outsourced services to healthcare 
providers and other customers concerned with health management. The Company is registered in the United Kingdom under company registration 
number 3355631 and its registered office is Ground Floor Stella, Windmill Hill Business Park, Whitehill Way, Swindon, Wilts SN5 6NX. 
The financial statements are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds and have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the EU (‘IFRS’). The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP. These are presented on pages 84 to 91. 
2 Accounting policies 
Basis of accounting 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) 
made up to the nearest weekend to 31 March each year. The current accounting period is 52 weeks in length (2011: 53 weeks in length).  
Basis of consolidation 
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date 
of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of 
subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation. 
Jointly-controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement. The consolidated 
financial statements include the Group’s proportionate share of the entities’ assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, with items of a similar nature on 
a line-by-line basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases. 
Measurement convention 
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except as disclosed in the accounting policies set out below.  
Going concern 
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the Directors have considered the Group’s business activities as set out in 
the Strategic review and Regional review, the financial position of the Group and its cash flows and borrowing requirements, as set out in the Finance 
Director’s review, and the principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 23 to 25. Based on the Group’s cash flow forecasts and projections, 
the Board is satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Group 
continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements. 
Business combinations 
The Group applies IFRS 3 Business combinations (revised) in accounting for business combinations. The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted 
for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, 
liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. Provisional fair 
value allocations are reviewed and if necessary adjusted no later than one year from the acquisition date. Costs that the Group incurs in connection 
with a business combination, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services 
provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes. 
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of services but sometimes goods are also supplied, usually as part of a service offering. Revenue is 
recognised once the service has been completed and the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the 
buyer. The Group does not participate in activities which need to be accounted for under long term contract accounting rules. 
Non-recurring items 
Non-recurring income and expenses are those items that are one-off in nature and create significant volatility in reported earnings and are therefore 
reported separately in the income statement.  
Retirement benefit costs 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed 
retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are 
equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme. 
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being 
carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, and presented in the 
Statement of comprehensive income. Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   51
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for 
unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service 
cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme. 
Finance charges and income 
Interest charges and income are accounted for on an accruals basis. Financing transaction costs that relate to financial liabilities are charged 
to interest expense by reference to the effective interest rate method and are recognised within the carrying value of the related financial liability 
on the balance sheet. Fees paid for the arrangement of credit facilities are recognised through the finance expense over the term of the facility. 
Where assets or liabilities on the Group balance sheet are carried at net present value, the increase in the amount due to unwinding the 
discount is recognised as a finance expense or finance income as appropriate. 
Taxation 
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.  
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it 
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the liability method. Deferred tax 
liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits 
will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.  
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures except where the 
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. Deferred tax is not recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill or for temporary differences 
arising from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affect neither accounting nor 
taxable profit.  
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or 
credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt 
with in equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities 
on a net basis. 
Dividends 
Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Group’s shareholders. Interim dividends 
are recorded in the period in which they are approved and paid.  
Intangible assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less 
any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the 
income statement. 
Other intangible assets 
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are initially capitalised at fair value as at the date of the acquisition, and subsequently stated at 
carrying value less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: 
Customer-related intangibles  5–15 years 
Trade names  10 years 
Costs incurred in setting up long term agreements are capitalised as intangible assets and amortised over the life of the contract to which the costs 
relate. Technology licences are amortised from the date that they generate economic benefit and over the period of that benefit. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Land and buildings 
The Group’s policy is not to revalue property for accounting purposes.  
Depreciation 
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of tangible non-current assets (excluding cobalt), less estimated residual values, over their 
estimated useful lives in equal annual instalments as follows: 
Freehold land  Not depreciated  Plant and machinery   3–20 years 
Freehold property  50 years   Office equipment   3–5 years 
Leasehold improvements  Period of lease  Cobalt    15 years 
Assets in the course on construction Not depreciated  Circulating inventory   1–5 years 
 
52   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Cobalt is depreciated over 15 years as follows. The reducing balance is used for the first eight years, then the residual net book value is depreciated 
on a straight-line basis over seven years. Potential decommissioning costs are capitalised and amortised over 15 years on a straight-line basis. 
A corresponding provision is recognised in the balance sheet on acquisition.  
Circulating inventory mainly comprises linen textile assets provided to customers on a rental service basis. Assets held under finance leases are 
depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease. 
Assets held under leases 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases.  
Assets held under hire purchase contracts are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum 
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance 
lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability.  
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits received and 
receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets  
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order 
to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the 
Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is 
tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Any impairment in value is recognised in the income statement. 
Investment property 
Investment properties are properties (land and buildings) which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both. 
Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the buildings 
over 50 years. Land is not depreciated. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and 
those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to 
settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Director’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet 
date, and are discounted to present value where appropriate.  
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. 
Trade receivables  
Trade receivables are non-derivative financial assets which arise when the Group provides goods or services directly to a third party, and where there 
is no intention of trading the financial asset. The receivables are initially recognised at fair value. They are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. Any change in their value through impairment or reversal of impairment is 
recognised in the income statement. 
Provision against trade receivables is made when objective evidence is received that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due to it in 
accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write down is determined as the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. 
Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible 
to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are netted off against cash. 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments  
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   53
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Bank borrowings  
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including premiums payable 
on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method 
and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
Trade payables  
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method. 
Equity instruments  
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting  
The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group uses floating to 
fixed interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts to manage these exposures. Some of these contracts are designated as cash flow 
hedges under IAS 39. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments are 
measured at fair value.  
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows or against net investment 
in overseas subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. If the cash 
flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or 
liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial 
measurement of the asset or liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are 
recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as 
they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that time any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted 
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to 
the income statement. 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics 
are not clearly related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the income 
statement. 
Foreign currencies 
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it 
operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group 
company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated 
financial statements. 
In preparing the financial statement of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign 
currencies) are recorded at rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities 
that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. 
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income statement.  
In order to manage its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts and options (see above for the details 
of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments). 
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at exchange 
rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange 
rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if 
any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve.  
Share-based payments 
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payments. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied 
to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 3 April 2005. 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value 
(excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value of each award is expensed on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting 
conditions. The level of vesting is reviewed annually; the charge is adjusted to reflect actual and estimated levels of vesting.  
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model, except for the Long Term Incentive Plan awards which are subject to a Total Shareholder 
Return performance condition where a model following similar principles to the Monte Carlo approach is used. The expected life used in the model 
has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
54   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. Where estimates and associated assumptions are 
made they are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of 
which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Key areas of estimate uncertainty are set out below. 
• In relation to the Group’s cobalt provision, costs of future disposal are based on contractual arrangements with third parties and latest disposal 
cost estimates. 
• The Group cobalt depreciation policy is based on the actual physical decay of the cobalt 60 isotope. 
• In relation to the Group’s property, plant and equipment (note 13), useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been established 
using historical experience and an assessment of the nature of the assets involved.  
• Impairment tests have been undertaken with respect to goodwill (note 11) using commercial judgement and a number of assumptions and 
estimates have been made to support their carrying amounts. 
• In relation to the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, actuarial assumptions are established using relevant market benchmark data and 
with the advice of external qualified actuaries. 
• Customer related intangibles that are acquired as part of an acquisition are valued based on the forecast discounted cash flows arising from these 
customers taking account of historically observed customer attrition rates 
• The Group operates in a number of countries, all of which have their own tax legislation. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised at the 
current tax rate which may not be the tax rate at which they unwind. The Group has available tax losses, some of which have been recognised 
and some of which have not, based upon management’s best estimates of the ability of the Group to utilise those losses.  
Adoption of new standards: 
The following new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations must be applied for the first time by the Group for the period ending 
1 April 2012 but are not currently relevant: 
• IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRSs. 
• IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. 
• IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. 
• IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (revised 2009). 
• IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting. 
• IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes. 
• IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement. 
In addition to the above, amendments to a number of standards under the annual improvements project to IFRS, which are mandatory for the 
period ending 1 April 2012, have been adopted in the year. None of these amendments has had a material impact on the Group’s financial 
statements.  
The following standard has been published, endorsed by the EU, and is available for early adoption but has not yet been applied by the Group in 
these financial statements: 
• IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – amendments regards transfers of financial assets. 
Management is currently assessing the impact of these amendments on the financial statements; they are not expected to impact the 
Group significantly. 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   55
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
3 Segmental information 
The Group is organised into four operating segments, and information on these segments is reported to the chief operating decision maker (‘CODM’) 
for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of performance. The CODM has been identified as the Board of Directors. The four 
operating segments are: the UK & Ireland, Europe & Middle East, Asia & Africa, and the Americas.  
The segments derive their revenues from the same range of products and services – being the provision of Healthcare Services, Applied Sterilisation 
Services (formerly termed Medical Device Sterilisation Services), and Hospital Sterilisation Services. The CODM monitors the performance of the 
operating segments based on adjusted operating profit, being operating profit excluding the impact of amortisation on acquired intangibles and  
non-recurring items. 
Segment information about these divisions is presented below: 
UK & Ireland 
2012 
£’000
Europe &
Middle East 
2012 
£’000
Asia & Africa  
2012  
£’000 
Americas 
2012 
£’000
Total 
2012 
£’000
Revenue from external customers 158,254 123,254 17,444 13,002 311,954
Segment profit 28,272 19,493 3,831 3,213 54,809
Segment depreciation 12,323 17,946 4,176 834 35,279
Segment assets 237,101 252,832 85,384 48,319 623,636
The comparative figures for the previous year are shown below. The Americas segment has been created in the period by the acquisition of MSI and 
BeamOne (see note 24a and 24d); as a consequence, US revenues and profit disclosed within Asia in the prior year figure have been restated.  
UK & Ireland 
2011 
£’000
Europe &
Middle East 
2011
£’000
Asia & Africa  
2011  
£’000 
(restated) 
Americas 
2011 
£’000
Total 
2011 
£’000
Revenue from external customers 154,916 118,764 13,254 380 287,314
Segment profit 25,010 20,548 2,670 38 48,266
Segment depreciation 14,014 16,427 3,358 – 33,799
Segment assets 260,180207,485 78,419 –546,084
The table below reconciles the total segment profit above, to the Group’s operating profit and profit before tax: 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Total segment profit 54,809 48,266
Unallocated amounts:  
– Corporate expenses (5,840) (5,222)
– Non-recurring costs (3,476) 3,278
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (7,463) (6,265)
Operating profit 38,030 40,057
Net finance costs (5,553) (3,324)
Profit before tax 32,477 36,733
The table below analyses the Group’s revenues from external customers between the three principal product/service groups: 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Healthcare Solutions 153,745 160,380
Hospital Sterilisation Services 62,822 56,860
Applied Sterilisation Technologies 95,387 70,074
 311,954 287,314
IFRS 8 Operating segments requires the Group to disclose information about the extent of its reliance on its major customers. The Group has no 
single customer making up more than 10% of total revenues.  
56   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
3 Segmental information continued 
The table below analyses the Group’s revenue from external customers, and non-current assets other than financial instruments, investment 
properties, deferred taxation and rights under insurance, by geography: 
 2012  2011
 
Revenue 
£’000
Non-current  
assets  
£’000  
Revenue 
£’000
Non-current 
assets 
£’000
UK 143,511 148,611  141,732 146,926
Netherlands 104,042 128,022  104,547 135,312
Rest of World 64,401 258,558  41,035 161,909
 311,954 535,191  287,314 444,147
4 Profit before tax 
Profit before tax has been arrived at after charging/(crediting): 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Release of government grants received – (107)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 35,244 33,799
Depreciation of investment property 10 10
Amortisation of acquired intangibles  7,463 6,265
Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 340 326
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 35,615 39,858
Staff costs (note 5)  120,946 113,487
Foreign exchange gains (556) (190)
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services 377 362
Non-recurring items of £3,476,000 (2011: £3,278,000 credit) have been charged in arriving at operating profit. The table and accompanying notes 
provide further details: 
£’000
Closure of certain operating and manufacturing facilities  2,649
Costs incurred on the acquisition and disposal of businesses  565
Contingent consideration on acquisitions (note 24d) 290
Other (28)
2012 non-recurring charge 3,476
Transaction costs incurred on the acquisition of businesses have been recognised in the income statement. These costs relate primarily to the 
acquisition of four businesses: BeamOne, Sterilgamma, LSH, and MSI. These acquisitions are disclosed in more detail in notes 24a to 24d. 
Included in this charge is a loss of £70,000 recognised on the disposal of a subsidiary undertaking in July 2011. The discontinued activity relating 
to this disposal has been included in the income statement. The table below provides further details: 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Turnover 1,025 6,950
Operating profit 3 359
During the period the Group incurred costs in restructuring its Healthcare Solutions business in the UK and Europe. These costs related mainly to 
employee termination payments and property costs. 
As detailed in note 24d, the Group has a liability in respect of deferred contingent consideration of BeamOne. Based on BeamOne’s performance 
for the year, the amount of such consideration to be paid is in excess of that recognised at the date of acquisition. In accordance with IFRS 3 
(revised) ‘Business Combinations’, this increase has been recognised in the income statement.  
The total impact of non-recurring items on profit after tax is a charge of £3,393,000.  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   57
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
 
4 Profit before tax continued 
In the prior year, non-recurring items of £3,278,000 were credited in arriving at operating profit. The table and accompanying notes provide 
further details: 
£’000
Costs incurred on the acquisition and disposal of businesses 889
Gain (net of costs) on legal case (4,167)
2011 non-recurring credit (3,278)
Transaction costs incurred on the acquisition of businesses in the prior year have been recognised in the income statement. These costs related 
primarily to the acquisition of GSP in late 2010 and BeamOne, which completed early in the current year. These acquisitions are disclosed in more 
detail in notes 24e and 24d respectively.  
During the prior year the Group received a summary court judgement in our favour relating to an insurance claim arising from a fire at our Dunstable 
facility in early 2007. The non-recurring gain of £4,167,000 reflects the recognition of insurance proceeds received, less costs associated with the 
claim and final additional costs of working not previously written down. In addition to the above a non-recurring credit of £1,446,000 in respect of 
court awarded interest on the Dunstable insurance case was recognised in finance income.  
The total impact of non-recurring items to profit after tax in the prior year was a credit of £3,153,000. 
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration is provided below: 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Audit services 
– audit of these financial statements 60 62
– audit of financial statements of subsidiaries 317 300
 377 362
– audit-related regulatory reporting 18 18
– other services 40 58
5 Staff costs 
The average number of monthly employees employed by the Group during the year, including executive Directors, was as follows: 
 
2012 
Number
2011
Number
Production 3,794 3,632
Selling and distribution 96 101
Administration 509 568
 4,399 4,301
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 
 
2012
£’000
2011 
£’000
Wages and salaries 102,040 97,363
Social security costs 11,418 11,166
Share-based payments  2,306 1,088
Other pension costs 5,182 3,870
Total staff costs 120,946 113,487
6 Finance income 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Interest on bank deposits 1,652 1,410
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 2,803 2,795
Interest on insurance receipts – 1,446
Total financing income 4,455 5,651
 
58   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
7 Finance costs 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
On bank loans and overdrafts 5,037 4,683
Finance charges in respect of hire purchase loans 480 720
Other interest payable and similar charges 1,302 131
Total external borrowing costs 6,819 5,534
Unwinding of discount on provisions 103 266
Interest on defined benefit plan obligations 3,086 3,175
Total financing cost 10,008 8,975
8 Taxation 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Current tax: 
UK tax 2,727 4,598
Overseas tax  5,843 6,375
Adjustment in respect of prior years 953 (233)
Total current tax 9,523 10,740
Deferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 65 (109)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1,255) (1,856)
Effect of rate change (677) (841)
Total deferred tax (1,867) (2,806)
Total tax in income statement 7,656 7,934
UK corporation tax is calculated at 26% (2011: 28%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for overseas operations is calculated 
at the local prevailing rates.  
On 23 March 2012, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 24% with effect from 
1 April 2012. This change was enacted on 26 March 2012 under the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968. The effect of the rate reduction 
creates a reduction in the deferred tax liability which has been included in the figures above. 
On 23 March 2012, the Chancellor of the Exchequer also announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 23% for the year 
starting 1 April 2013. It is expected that this change will be substantially enacted in June or July 2012.  
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax per the income statement as follows: 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Profit before tax 32,477 36,733
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 26% (2011: 28%) 8,444 10,285
Effect of: 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 380 866
Different tax rates on overseas earnings (631) (1,096)
Overseas withholding tax 231 –
Adjustment in respect of prior years (294) (2,090)
Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate (474) (633)
Previously unrecognised unused tax losses – 602
Tax charge for year 7,656 7,934
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   59
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
 
9 Dividends 
 
2012
£’000
2011 
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: 
Final dividend for the year ended 3 April 2011 of 9.84p per share 5,432 –
Second interim dividend for the year ended 28 March 2010 of 8.3p per share – 4,540
Interim dividend for the period ended 1 April 2012 of 6.82p (2011: 6.0p) per share 3,774 3,298
 9,206 7,838
The Board of Directors will recommend to the shareholders a final dividend for the period ended 1 April 2012 of 11.18p (2011: 9.84p).  
10 Earnings per share 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Earnings 
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 24,596 28,617
 
 
Shares 
’000
Shares 
’000
Number of shares 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 55,257 54,923
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: 
Share options 1,013 940
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 56,270 55,863
Earnings per ordinary share 
Basic  44.51p 52.10p
Diluted  43.71p 51.23p
 
 £’000 £’000
Adjusted earnings per share 
Operating profit 38,030 40,057
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 7,463 6,265
Non-recurring items 3,476 (3,278)
Adjusted operating profit 48,969 43,044
Net finance costs (5,553) (4,770)
Adjusted profit on ordinary activities before taxation 43,416 38,274
Taxation on adjusted profit on ordinary activities (9,858) (8,686)
Non-controlling interest (225) (182)
Adjusted net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 33,333 29,406
Adjusted basic earnings per share  60.32p 53.54p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share  59.24p 52.64p
 
60   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
11 Goodwill 
 £’000
Cost and carrying amount 
At 28 March 2010  194,778
Exchange differences (1,858)
Recognised on acquisition of businesses 657
At 3 April 2011 193,577
Exchange differences (6,426)
Recognised on acquisition of businesses 31,154
At 1 April 2012 218,305
Goodwill acquired on a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) that are expected to benefit from that 
business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as shown in the table below. This table also provides the assumptions 
used by management in assessing the carrying value of these amounts.  
Goodwill arising on acquisitions during the year (as per notes 24a to 24e) has been allocated to the Rest of Europe sterilisation services segment 
(LSH), the Rest of World sterilisation services segment (Sterilgamma), and to the Americas sterilisation services segment (BeamOne and MSI). 
  2012 2011
 
Pre-tax 
discount  
rate  
(%) 
Mid-term 
growth 
rates 
(%)
Perpetuity 
growth 
rates 
(%) £’000
Pre-tax
discount 
rate 
(%)
Mid-term  
growth  
rates  
(%) 
Perpetuity 
growth 
rates 
(%) £’000
UK & Ireland segment   
Healthcare solutions 8.4 2 to 5 0 23,497 9.4 2–5 1 23,556
Hospital sterilisation services 7.8 10 1 4,654 9.2 5 1 4,654
Applied sterilisation technologies* 7.5 5 2 32,586 9.1 5 2 32,586
Europe & Middle East segment    
Healthcare solutions 7.8 2 0 27,727 8.9 3–4 0 29,314
Applied sterilisation technologies* 7.5 5 2 89,639 8.6 5 2 79,992
Americas segment 7.8 10 2 16,028 –– – –
Asia & Africa segment 7.8 8 2 24,174 8.9 5 2 23,475
  218,305 193,577
* Applied sterilisation technologies was termed medical device sterilisation services in the prior period 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. An impairment test is 
a comparison of the carrying value, of the assets of a CGU, to their recoverable amount based on a value in use calculation. Where the recoverable 
amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment results. During the year the goodwill for each CGU was separately assessed and tested for 
impairment, with £nil (2011: £nil) impairment charges resulting. 
As part of testing goodwill for impairment, detailed forecasts of operating cash flows for a period of five years are derived from the most recent 
financial forecasts approved by management. Cash flows for the period beyond the financial forecasts are extrapolated based on estimates of future 
growth rates as disclosed above. For each CGU the future growth rates used in the recoverable amount calculation do not exceed the long term 
average growth rates for the markets to which the CGU is dedicated.  
Discount rates have been estimated based on pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the CGU. In determining the discount rate management have sought to arrive at a pre-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) 
using the capital asset pricing model to determine the cost of equity and then weighting the overall cost of capital for the Group by equity and debt. 
The discount rates applied to each specific CGU are set out in the table above. 
A number of key assumptions are used as part of impairment testing. These key assumptions are made by management reflecting past experience 
combined with their knowledge as to future performance and relevant external sources of information. 
In determining the recoverable amount of each CGU the key assumptions are discount rate, long term growth rate, future sales prices and volumes, 
new business won and the cost structure of each business. 
Sensitivity analysis as at 1 April 2012 has indicated that no reasonable foreseeable change in the key assumptions used in the impairment model 
will result in a significant impairment charge being recorded in the financial statements. 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   61
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
 
12 Other intangible assets 
Trade 
name 
£’000
Customer  
contracts and 
relationships  
£’000 
Other 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost  
At 28 March 2010  9,563 55,283 3,066 67,912
Exchange differences (74) (537) – (611)
Additions – – 569 569
Acquired on acquisition of businesses – 1,767 – 1,767
At 3 April 2011 9,489 56,513 3,635 69,637
Exchange differences (243) (1,906) (66) (2,215)
Additions – – 2,808 2,808
Transfers – – 1,508 1,508
Acquired on acquisition of businesses –26,314 –26,314
At 1 April 2012 9,246 80,921 7,885 98,052
  
Amortisation  
At 28 March 2010 3,443 19,449 901 23,793
Exchange differences (9) (118) – (127)
Charge for the year 970 5,295 326 6,591
At 3 April 2011 4,404 24,626 1,227 30,257
Exchange differences (121) (813) – (934)
Transfers – – 33 33
Charge for the year 977 6,486 340 7,803
At 1 April 2012 5,260 30,299 1,600 37,159
  
Carrying amount  
At 1 April 2012 3,986 50,622 6,285 60,893
At 3 April 2011 5,085 31,887 2,408 39,380
At 28 March 2010  6,120 35,834 2,165 44,119
Amortisation of intangible assets is included in administrative expenses in the income statement. Other intangibles includes capitalised software.  
62   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
13 Property, plant and equipment 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
property 
£’000
Short 
leasehold 
property 
£’000
Plant, 
machinery 
and office 
equipment 
£’000
Cobalt 
£’000
Circulating  
inventory  
£’000 
Assets in 
course of 
construction 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost   
At 28 March 2010  68,532 7,079 134,728 63,760 41,493 7,321 322,913
Additions 4455,21212,2079,70710,486 42138,478
Acquisitions 1,884–4,1252,343– –8,352
Exchange differences (1,086) – (1,376) (629) (615) (219) (3,925)
Disposals (1,167)(6)(5,174)(3,119)(13,182) –(22,648)
Transfers (158)–693(20)691 (2,074)(868)
At 3 April 2011 68,450 12,285 145,203 72,042 38,873 5,449 342,302
Additions 3,087 2,682 11,979 10,519 12,706 10,054 51,027
Acquisitions 4,440 23,386 7,767 – 918 36,511
Exchange differences (2,545) (5,505) (3,377) (1,735) (59)(13,221)
Disposals (155) (700)(4,836)(1,517)(6,267) –(13,475)
Transfers – – 573 – – (2,081) (1,508)
At 1 April 2012 73,277 14,267 170,800 85,434 43,577 14,281 401,636
Accumulated depreciation and impairment  
At 28 March 2010 14,776 2,163 59,353 21,475 25,118 – 122,885
Charge for the year 2,414 2,153 12,195 6,640 10,397 – 33,799
Exchange differences (312) – (834) (567) (462) – (2,175)
Disposals (331)–(4,819)(2,863)(13,155) –(21,168)
Transfers 566–(1,434)–– –(868)
At 3 April 2011 17,113 4,31664,46124,68521,898 –132,473
Charge for the year 3,002 72413,106 7,65310,759 –35,244
Disposals (136) (487)(4,040)(1,501)(6,229) –(12,393)
Transfers  – – (33) – – – (33)
Exchange differences  (1,158) – (3,508)(2,416)(1,015) – (8,097)
At 1 April 2012 18,821 4,55369,98628,42125,413 –147,194
Carrying amount  
At 1 April 2012 54,456 9,714 100,814 57,013 18,164 14,281 254,442
At 3 April 2011 51,337 7,969 80,742 47,357 16,975 5,449 209,829
At 28 March 2010  53,756 4,916 75,375 42,285 16,375 7,321 200,028
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and equipment includes an amount of £14.2 million (2011: £12.2 million) in respect of assets held under 
hire purchase loan contracts. 
The Group has land and buildings a carrying value of £7.2 million pledged to secure banking facilities and other loans granted to the Group 
(2011: £13.9 million). 
At 1 April 2012, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 
£7.0 million (2011: £8.0 million). 
Included in the cost of property, plant and equipment is £805,000 (2011: £805,000) of capitalised interest. 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   63
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
 
14 Investment property 
 £’000
Cost 
At 28 March 2010, 3 April 2011 and 1 April 2012 1,000
Accumulated depreciation 
At 28 March 2010 20
Charge for the year 10
At 3 April 2011 30
Charge for the year 10
At 1 April 2012 40
Carrying amount 
At 1 April 2012 960
At 3 April 2011 970
At 28 March 2010 980
The Directors estimate the fair value of the investment property to be £1,500,000 (2011: £1,000,000). 
15 Interest in jointly-controlled entity  
As part of the acquisition of Isotron plc and its group in 2007, the Group obtained a 50% interest in a jointly-controlled entity, Isotron Logistics BV, 
whose principal activity is the provision of logistics consultancy. This jointly-controlled entity is incorporated and operates in the Netherlands and is 
proportionately consolidated into the Group financial statements on a line-by-line basis. Included in the consolidated financial statements are the 
following items that represent the Group’s interests in the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of the jointly-controlled entity: 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Current assets 109 117
Current liabilities (20) (48)
Net assets 89 69
Income 622 481
Expenses (including interest and tax) (514) (401)
Profit from operations 108 80
16 Inventories 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Raw materials 2,004 3,284
Work-in-progress 99 94
Finished goods 7,399 8,386
Process consumables 1,709 1,749
 11,211 13,513
The value of stock recognised as cost of sales is shown in note 4. The write down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £1,070,000 
(2011: £96,000). The write down is included in cost of sales. 
 
64   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
17 Trade and other receivables 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Current 
Amounts receivable for the sale of goods and services 46,419 43,000
Other receivables 3,114 1,907
Prepayments and accrued income 4,118 3,766
 53,651 48,673
Non-current 
Prepayments 1,551 1,361
Total 55,202 50,034
The average credit period taken on sales of goods and services is 46 days (2011: 47 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of 
trade and other receivables approximate their fair value. 
18 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about 
the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 19. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of the Group’s  
interest-bearing loans and borrowings approximates to their fair value. 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Current liabilities 
Bank loans 2,914 136,786
Other interest-bearing loans 465 397
Finance lease liabilities 3,019 2,231
 6,398 139,414
Long term liabilities 
Bank loans 180,878 4,793
Other interest-bearing loans 1,576 1,265
Finance lease liabilities 6,597 5,631
 189,051 11,689
Total 195,449 151,103
Analysis of borrowings by currency: 
 
Total 
£’000
Sterling 
£’000
Euros  
£’000 
US Dollars 
£’000
Chinese 
Renminbi 
£’000
2012  
Bank loans 183,792 69,678 83,913 29,415 786
Other interest-bearing loans 
Finance lease liabilities 9,616 9,545 71 – –
 195,449 79,223 86,025 29,415 786
2011  
Bank loans 141,579 46,407 63,344 23,519 8,309
Other interest-bearing loans 1,662 – 1,662 – –
Finance lease liabilities 7,862 7,238 624 – –
 151,10353,64565,630 23,5198,309
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: 
 
2012 
%
2011 
%
Bank overdrafts 2.3 2.3
Bank and other loans 4.2 3.5
 
2,041 – 2,041 – –
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   65
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
 
18 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued 
Terms and debt repayment schedule  
On 2 August 2011, the Group entered into new Revolving Credit Facilities with a club of banks. The new Revolving Credit Facilities were used to 
refinance the Group’s previous syndicated loan facility of £160 million, which had been due for repayment on 15 January 2012.  
The new Revolving Credit Facilities comprise one facility of £105 million, and a second facility of €130 million. Both Facilities are unsecured and 
attract a floating rate of interest, although fixing arrangements have been entered into as described in note 19.  
Certain Euro-denominated loans outside the main facilities totalling £3.3 million are secured by mortgages on certain Dutch freehold properties. 
The loans attract both floating and fixed rates of interest. 
At 1 April 2011, the Group had available £31.2 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities. In addition, the Group had undrawn overdraft and 
other uncommitted facilities totalling £12.2 million which it expects to renew during the financial year. 
Financial liabilities gross maturity 
The following are the contractual cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments: 
2012 
Carrying 
value 
£’000
Total 
£’000
0–6 months 
£’000
6–12 months  
£’000 
1–3 years 
£’000
>3 years 
£’000
Trade payables 21,40221,40221,402 – – –
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 48,57048,57048,570 – – –
Contingent consideration 14,04014,04010,389 3,651 – –
Bank loans less than one year 2,914 3,468 3,468 – – –
Other interest-bearing loans less than one year 465 469 469 – – –
Finance leases less than one year 3,019 3,308 1,819 1,489 – –
Bank loans greater than one year 180,878 198,315 1,862 1,862 7,447 187,144
Other interest-bearing loans greater than one year 1,576 1,631 18 18 1,595 –
Finance leases greater than one year 6,597 7,225 50 50 4,853 2,272
Financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) 279,461 298,428 88,047 7,070 13,895 189,416
Forward exchange contracts (9) (9) (5) (4) – –
Derivative financial assets 1,350 1,350 1,350 – – –
Financial liabilities 280,802 299,769 89,392 7,066 13,895 189,416
 
2011 
Carrying 
value 
£’000
Total 
£’000
0–6 months 
£’000
6–12 months  
£’000 
1–3 years 
£’000
>3 years 
£’000
Trade payables 21,007 21,007 21,007 – – –
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 39,247 39,247 39,247 – – –
Contingent consideration – – – – – –
Bank loans less than one year 136,786 139,350 1,368 137,982 – –
Other interest-bearing loans less than one year 397 406 225 181 – –
Finance leases less than one year 2,231 2,462 1,370 1,092 – –
Bank loans greater than one year 4,793 5,338 90 90 4,596 562
Other interest-bearing loans greater than one year 1,265 1,363 16 16 951 380
Finance leases greater than one year 5,631 5,829 – – 3,692 2,137
Financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) 211,357 215,002 63,323 139,361 9,239 3,079
Forward exchange contracts 27 27 24 3 – –
Interest rate swaps 85 85 5 80 – –
Financial liabilities 211,469 215,114 63,352 139,444 9,239 3,079
 
66   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
18 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued 
Finance lease liabilities 
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: 
2012 2011
Minimum lease 
payments 
£’000
Interest 
£’000
Principal 
£’000
Minimum 
lease  
payments  
£’000 
Interest 
£’000
Principal 
£’000
Less than one year 3,308 (289) 3,019 2,462 (231) 2,231
Between one and five years 7,225 (628) 6,597 5,829 (198) 5,631
 10,533 (917) 9,616 8,291 (429) 7,862
All finance lease liabilities are contracted at fixed rates of interest, in both years. 
19 Financial instruments 
Financial instruments carried at fair value are required to be measured by reference to the following levels: 
Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly 
(i.e. derived from prices) 
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 
All financial instruments have been measured by a Level 2 valuation method, with the exception of contingent consideration which is measured by a 
Level 3 valuation method.  
Under reasonably possible alternative valuation assumptions, the fair value of the BeamOne contingent consideration could increase or decrease 
by £725,000.  
The quantum of the LSH deferred contingent consideration will be determined by the extent to which a specific non-operating tax asset held by the 
acquired business is recovered. Overall, the Group is not exposed to any financial risk on this item.  
a) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans, finance leases and cash. The main purpose of these 
financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group also has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables 
and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations. 
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts. The purpose is to manage the 
interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. 
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. 
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Board 
reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below. 
b) Interest rate risk 
The Group is subject to fluctuations in interest rates on its loans and surplus cash deposits. At 1 April 2012 the Group held hedging arrangements in 
order to fix the interest charge on $35.0 million of its bank debt. 
The swap arrangements cover: 
Debt covered Millions Fixed rate Expiry
$35.0 2.50% March 2016
Amounts to be paid or received under these arrangements will be recognised in the interest expense consistent with the terms of the agreement. 
The expiry of each agreement is disclosed in the table above. 
The arrangements are fully effective in fixing the interest on the underlying debt. In revaluing them to fair value, the Group has recognised 
£1,350,000 (2011: £85,000) in current liabilities and equity. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in interest rates on the element of the total Group interest which is 
not subject to fixed interest arrangements. The reasonable change is based on the difference between current market interest rates and one year 
forward rates: 
Increase/(decrease)  
in basis points 
Effect on profit after tax and equity 
£’000
2012 49/(49) (611)/611
2011 97/(97) (874)/874
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   67
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
 
19 Financial instruments continued 
c) Foreign currency risk 
Whilst the exposure is limited, the Group’s principal currency exposure is to fluctuations in the exchange rate between Sterling and the Euro. 
The Group’s policy is to ensure that the proportion of interest cost in each currency is consistent with the proportion of earnings in that currency. 
By arranging its affairs in this manner, the Group seeks to ensure that there is no disproportionate impact on its results as a result of exchange 
rate movements. 
During the 12 months to March 2012 the average exchange rate for Sterling against the Euro weakened by 1% in comparison to the 12 month 
average to March 2011. A 1% strengthening in the average exchange rate for Sterling against the Euro over the entire year to March 2012 would 
have resulted in increased adjusted operating profit of £0.2 million (2011: a 4% strengthening, which would have led to a decrease of £1.0 million). 
This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant. A 1% strengthening in the average exchange rate for Sterling against the Euro would 
have an equal but opposite effect. 
Where the Group subsidiaries make significant purchases in non-functional currencies, such as US and Canadian Dollars, the Group enters 
into forward exchange currency contracts to manage this exposure. During the 12 months to March 2012 the average exchange rate for Sterling 
against the US Dollar has strengthened by 3% in comparison to the 12 months average to March 2011. A 3% strengthening in the average 
exchange rate for Sterling against the US Dollar over the entire year to March 2012 would have resulted in reduced adjusted operating profit of 
£0.1 million (2011: a 3% weakening, which would have led to a increase of £0.1 million). This analysis assumes all other variables remain constant. 
A 3% strengthening in the average exchange rate for Sterling against the US Dollar would have an equal but opposite effect. 
Currency derivatives: The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows in foreign currencies and 
is a party to a variety of foreign currency forward contracts in the management of its exchange rate exposures. The instruments purchased are 
denominated in the functional currencies of the Group’s trading entities and its suppliers. 
The Group does not trade in derivatives. The derivatives held hedge specific exposures and have maturities designed to match the exposures 
they are hedging. It is the intention to hold the financial instruments giving rise to the exposure and the underlying hedged item until maturity 
and therefore no net gain or loss is expected to be realised. 
Additionally, the Group holds net Euro- and US Dollar- denominated loans in UK companies totalling £59.0 million and £12.4 million (2011: 
£70.4 million and nil). This represents a fully effective designated net investment hedge against the first £59.0 million of the Group’s Euro-
denominated net assets of £112.3 million and £12.4 million of the Group’s US Dollar-denominated net assets of £37.4 million (2011: £70.4 million 
and nil). The revaluation of these loans resulted in a gain of £3.1 million (2011: loss of £2.2 million) which has been posted to the translation reserve. 
d) Credit risk 
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash and trade and other receivables. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable 
to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for impairment. 
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned 
by international credit rating agencies. 
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations 
and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers. 
Management has credit policies in place to manage risk and to monitor exposure to risk on an ongoing basis. These include the use of customer 
specific credit limits based on third party credit reports and in cases of customer default or requests for credit above agreed limits the use of pro 
forma invoices to secure payment in advance of delivery. Given these factors and based on extensive past experience, the Group believes that its 
financial assets are of good credit quality.  
Exposure to credit risk: The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. Therefore, the maximum exposure 
to credit risk at the balance sheet date was £71,519,000 (2011: £83,688,000) being the total trade and other receivables and cash and cash 
equivalents in the balance sheet. This figure is lower than last year as a result of cash drawn down before the 2011 year end to fund the acquisition 
of BeamOne. 
The Group’s customer base mainly comprises major medical device companies, commercial distributors, NHS Trusts and healthcare providers, 
including public sector, private sector and charitable organisations, throughout the world. No single customer or top 10 customer grouping accounts 
for a significant proportion of the Group’s trade receivables. The Group has in place an insurance policy to cover the majority of its Healthcare 
solutions UK export customers. 
Credit quality of trade receivables and impairment losses  
At the balance sheet date, the ageing of trade receivables was: 
Group 
2012 
Gross 
£’000
2011 
Gross 
£’000
Current 34,045 33,110
1–30 days overdue 8,780 7,740
31–60 days overdue 1,834 1,290
61–90 days overdue 1,450 573
More than 90 days overdue 310 287
 46,419 43,000
 
68   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
19 Financial instruments continued 
Financial assets are reviewed for impairment at the balance sheet date and a full provision for impairment is made against trade receivables that are 
not considered to be recoverable. The total provision against trade receivables at the period end was £947,000 (2011: £418,000). 
No further analysis has been provided for cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables from Group companies, other trade receivables and other 
financial assets as there is limited exposure to credit risk and no provisions for impairment have been recognised. 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. Details of the maturity of the Group’s financial 
liabilities are given in note 18. 
Capital management 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are: 
i. to safeguard the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits to other 
stakeholders, and 
ii. to provide an adequate return to shareholders by (a) pricing products and services commensurate with the level of risk and (b) ensuring returns 
on new investment programmes will maintain or increase shareholder returns. 
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares, if required. No changes 
were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the periods ended 1 April 2012 and 3 April 2011. 
The table below presents the quantitative data for the components the Group manages as capital: 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Shareholders’ funds 290,831 288,592
Finance leases 9,616 7,862
Bank loans 183,792 141,579
Other interest-bearing loans 2,041 1,662
 486,280 439,695
20 Deferred tax 
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior 
reporting period. 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£’000
Recognition of 
intangibles 
£’000
Share-based 
payments 
£’000
Other temporary  
differences  
£’000 
Pension 
schemes 
£’000
Total 
£’000
At 28 March 2010  9,752 10,644 (999) (1,391) (4,281) 13,725
Charge/(credit) to income (373) (2,246) (270) (334) 304 (2,919)
Charge/(credit) to equity – – 211 – 932 1,143
Acquired with business during the period – – – 499 (152) 347
Exchange differences (125) – – – – (125)
At 3 April 2011 9,254 8,398 (1,058) (1,226) (3,197) 12,171
Charge/(credit) to income 516 (1,500) (492) (989) 607 (1,858)
Charge/(credit) to equity – – 325 – (1,707) (1,382)
Acquired with business during the period 4,118 2,647 – (3,850) (124) 2,791
Exchange differences (212) – – – 26 (186)
At 1 April 2012 13,676 9,545 (1,225) (6,065) (4,395) 11,536
The Group has deferred tax assets of £4,246,000 (2011: £2,552,000) in respect of tax losses that have not been recognised as their recoverability 
is uncertain. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where appropriate. 
On 23 March 2012, the Chancellor announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012. 
The change was enacted on 26 March 2012 and therefore the effect of the rate reduction creates a reduction in the deferred tax liability which 
has been included in the figures included above.  
The Chancellor also proposed changes to further reduce the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per annum to 22% by 1 April 2014, but these 
changes have not yet been substantively enacted and therefore are not included in the figures above. 
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   69
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
 
21 Trade and other payables 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Trade payables 21,402 21,007
Deferred contingent consideration 14,040 –
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 48,570 39,247
 84,012 60,254
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken 
for trade purchases is 50 days (2011: 58 days). 
The deferred consideration provision relates to the BeamOne acquisition, as detailed in note 24d, and the LSH acquisition, as detailed in note 24b.  
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.  
22 Provisions  
Cobalt 
disposal costs
£’000
Environmental 
provision 
£’000 
Other 
provisions
£’000
Total
£’000
At 3 April 2011 4,182 3,399 3,499 11,080
Additional provision in the year 136 – 2,162 2,298
Unwinding of discounting – 166 – 166
Utilised in the year (169) (372) (339) (880)
Acquired with businesses during the period 633 – 760 1,393
Exchange differences (97) (226) (14) (337)
At 1 April 2012 4,685 2,967 6,068 13,720
Included in current liabilities  3,385
Included in non-current liabilities  10,335
  13,720
The cobalt disposal cost provision recognises a potential decommissioning liability in respect of particular types of cobalt used at certain applied 
sterilisation technology sites. It is anticipated that the provision will be utilised as the cobalt to which the provision relates reaches the end of its useful 
economic life. 
The environmental provision predominantly relates to liabilities acquired as part of the acquisition of Lips Textielservice Holding B.V. To the extent 
that the acquired environmental provision is not utilised by 30 July 2012, it is to be repaid to the vendor together with interest at the rate of Euribor 
plus 0.75%. Accordingly, the interest to date has been accrued and reflected in the income statement.  
Other provisions include provisions against vacated properties and other restructuring costs. These are expected to unwind over the next one to 
five years. 
23 Share capital 
 
2012 
£’000
2011 
£’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid 346 344
The Company has issued 324,900 ordinary shares (2011: 386,569 ordinary shares) of 0.625p during the year in respect of options exercised under 
share option schemes. Total share proceeds amounted to £1,421,000 (2011: £1,189,000). The difference between the total consideration and the 
total nominal value of shares issued has been credited to the share premium account. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Group. 
70   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
24 a) Acquisition of subsidiary – MSI 
With effect from 21 March 2012, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of MSI Surgical Solutions LLP (‘MSI’), a company incorporated 
in the US, as part of our strategy to enter the US hospital sterilisation market. Since acquisition the company has been renamed Synergy Health 
HSS LLC.  
The fair value of the net assets acquired and the related consideration were as follows: 
 
Fair value
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 255
Intangible assets 1,918
Inventories 28
Trade and other receivables 421
Cash and cash equivalents 41
Trade and other payables (136)
Loans (194)
Fair value of assets acquired 2,333
 
Cash consideration 3,874
Total consideration 3,874
 
Goodwill arising on acquisition 1,541
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of MSI is attributable to the assembled workforce and the synergies that can be generated following the 
integration of MSI into the Group. The goodwill arising will be tax deductible in the US.  
In accordance with ‘IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations’, management have made adjustments to the book value of net assets acquired 
to arrive at the fair values disclosed above. The most significant of these is the recognition of intangible assets (customer lists).  
Total acquisition costs of £32,000 were incurred in the acquisition of MSI and have been expensed within non-recurring items.  
The MSI business contributed £195,000 to revenue and £45,000 to operating profit for the period. Had the business been owned for the entire 
year, the contribution to revenue and operating profit would have been £2,600,000 and £600,000 respectively.  
Summary of cash flows associated with the acquisition of MSI: 
Cash consideration 3,874
Cash acquired with business (41)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – net of cash 3,833
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   71
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
 
24 b) Acquisition of subsidiary – LSH 
With effect from 19 March 2012, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of LEONI Studer Hard AG (‘LSH’), an applied sterilisation 
technology business incorporated in Switzerland, as part of our strategy to expand the geographic coverage of our Applied Sterilisation business. 
Since acquisition the company has been renamed Synergy Health Daniken AG.  
The fair value of the net assets acquired and the related consideration were as follows: 
 
Fair value
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 23,373
Intangible assets 9,912
Inventories 17
Trade and other receivables 1,088
Cash and cash equivalents 554
Trade and other payables (4,839)
Retirement benefit obligations (520)
Other provisions (633)
Deferred tax liabilities (966)
Corporation tax liabilities (991)
Fair value of assets acquired 26,995
 
Cash consideration 37,100
Deferred consideration 268
Deferred contingent consideration 3,651
Total consideration 41,019
 
Goodwill arising on acquisition 14,024
The deferred consideration is due for payment within one year.  
The quantum of the deferred contingent consideration will be determined by the extent to which a specific non-operating tax asset held by the 
acquired business is recovered. This tax asset is included within the deferred tax liability in the table above. Overall, the Group is not exposed to 
any financial risk on this item. It is anticipated that the deferred contingent consideration will fall due for payment within one year.  
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of LSH is attributable to the assembled workforce and the synergies that can be generated following the 
integration of LSH into the Group, and to gaining access to new sterilisation technologies.  
In accordance with ‘IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations’, management have made adjustments to the book value of net assets acquired 
to arrive at the fair values disclosed above. The most significant of these are the recognition of intangible assets (customer lists), the recognition of 
prospective tax assets, and provisions for dividends declared prior to acquisition.  
Total acquisition costs of £193,000 were incurred in the acquisition of LSH and have been expensed within non-recurring items.  
The LSH business contributed £691,000 to revenue and £212,000 to operating profit for the period. Had the business been owned for the entire 
year, the contribution to revenue and operating profit would have been £7,201,000 and £2,137,000 respectively.  
Summary of cash flows associated with the acquisition of LSH: 
Cash consideration 37,100
Cash acquired with business (554)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – net of cash 36,546
 
72   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
24 c) Acquisition of subsidiary – Sterilgamma 
On 11 July 2011, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Sinagama II Technologies Sdn Bhd (‘Sterilgamma’), a company incorporated 
in Malaysia, as part of our strategy to expand the geographic coverage of our Applied Sterilisation business. Since acquisition the company has been 
renamed Synergy Sterilisation KL (M) Sdn Bhd. Sterilgamma operates from a number of applied sterilisation technology plants across Malaysia.  
The fair value of the net assets acquired and the related consideration were as follows: 
 
Fair value
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 7,421
Intangible assets 3,531
Inventories 5
Trade and other receivables 1,380
Cash and cash equivalents 1,502
Trade and other payables (754)
Taxation liabilities (1,822)
Loans (76)
Fair value of assets acquired 11,187
 
Cash consideration 11,387
Assumption of vendor debt 883
Total consideration 12,270
 
Goodwill arising on acquisition 1,083
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Sterilgamma is attributable to the assembled workforce and the synergies that can be generated following 
the integration of Sterilgamma into the Group.  
In accordance with ‘IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations’, management have made adjustments to the book value of net assets acquired 
to arrive at the fair values disclosed above. The most significant of these are the recognition of intangible assets (customer lists) and adjustments 
to the carrying value of assets not deemed to be recoverable.  
Total acquisition costs of £34,000 were incurred in the acquisition of Sterilgamma and have been expensed within non-recurring items. 
The Sterilgamma business contributed £2,983,000 to revenue and £768,000 to operating profit for the period. Had the business been owned for 
the entire year, the contribution to revenue and operating profit would have been £4,152,000 and £1,353,000 respectively.  
Summary of cash flows associated with the acquisition of Sterilgamma: 
Cash consideration 11,387
Cash acquired with business (1,502)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – net of cash 9,885
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   73
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
24 d) Acquisition of subsidiary – BeamOne 
On 7 April 2011, the Group acquired all of the members’ interests of BeamOne LLC (‘BeamOne’), an applied sterilisation business incorporated in 
the US, as part of our strategy to expand the geographic coverage of our Applied Sterilisation business. Since acquisition the company has been 
renamed Synergy Health AST LLC. BeamOne operated from sites in San Diego, California; Denver, Colorado; Lima, Ohio; Saxonburg, Pennsylvania; 
and a fifth site in Costa Rica.  
The fair value of the net assets acquired and the related consideration were as follows: 
 
Fair value
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 5,462
Investments 429
Intangible assets 10,953
Trade and other receivables 2,558
Cash and cash equivalents 596
Trade and other payables (2,692)
Other provisions (760)
Loans (4,330)
Fair value of assets acquired 12,216
 
Cash consideration 16,540
Deferred consideration 10,339
Total consideration  26,879
Increase in deferred consideration recognised in income statement 290
 
Goodwill arising on acquisition 14,373
The acquisition of BeamOne was included as a post balance sheet event (note 29) in the prior year financial statements. When presenting this note, 
a number of estimates were made before the completion of a fair value exercise, which have since been replaced with actual fair value figures. 
The deferred contingent consideration is a multiple of first year EBITDA. The deferred contingent consideration is due for payment in June 2012. 
In accordance with ‘IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations’, the amount of consideration due to be paid has been estimated at the balance sheet 
date. The movement in this estimate from the date of acquisition has been recognised in non-recurring items within the income statement.  
The acquisition gave rise to goodwill of £14.4 million. This is £1.4 million higher than the goodwill disclosed within our 2011 interim statements, due 
to two factors; a £3.1 million increase to our calculation of fair value ascribed to customer relationship intangible assets, and a £4.5 million increase 
to total consideration due to the incorrect inclusion of Florida EtO start-up costs within the estimate of deferred consideration payable. In the 2012 
interim statements we will restate the fair value of the acquisition consideration, resulting in an increase to goodwill of £4.5 million in the 2011 
comparative period. 
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of BeamOne is attributable to the assembled workforce and the synergies that can be generated following the 
integration of BeamOne into the Group, and also to gaining access to the US market. The goodwill arising will be tax deductible in the US.  
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations (revised), management have made adjustments to the book value of net assets acquired to arrive 
at the fair values disclosed above. The most significant of these are the recognition of intangible assets (customer lists) and adjustments to the 
carrying value of property restitution provisions.  
Total acquisition costs in the period have been covered by accruals booked within non-recurring items in the prior year (2011: £608,000 charge).  
The BeamOne business contributed £12,121,000 to revenue and £3,166,000 to operating profit for the period.  
Summary of cash flows associated with the acquisition of BeamOne: 
Cash consideration 16,540
Cash acquired with business (596)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – net of cash 15,944
 
 
74   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
24 e) Acquisition of subsidiary – GSP 
With effect from 1 November 2010, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Gamma Service Producktbestrahlung GmbH (‘GSP’), a 
company incorporated in Germany, as part of our strategy to expand the geographic coverage of our Applied Sterilisation business. Since acquisition 
the company has been renamed Synergy Health (Radeberg) GmbH. The Company is located in Saxony and provides applied sterilisation 
technology services.  
The fair value of the net assets acquired and the related consideration were as follows: 
 
Fair value
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 8,352
Intangible assets 1,767
Inventories 33
Trade and other receivables 619
Cash and cash equivalents 1,310
Trade and other payables (284)
Retirement benefit obligations (539)
Other provisions (1,815)
Deferred tax liabilities (347)
Finance leases (150)
Loans (6,305)
Fair value of assets acquired 2,641
 
Cash consideration 2,870
Deferred consideration 560
Total consideration 3,430
 
Goodwill arising on acquisition 789
The deferred consideration due has been increased by £132,000 based on a re-assessment of circumstances which existed at the date of 
acquisition. All deferred consideration has now been paid. 
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of GSP is attributable to the assembled workforce and the synergies that can be generated following the 
integration of GSP into the Group.  
In accordance with ‘IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations’, management have made adjustments to the book value of net assets acquired 
to arrive at the fair values disclosed above. The most significant of these are the recognition of intangible assets (customer lists) and adjustments 
to the carrying value of provisions for the disposal of cobalt.  
Total acquisition costs of £44,000 (2011: £169,000) were incurred in the acquisition of GSP and have been expensed within non-recurring items. 
The GSP business contributed £2,492,000 to revenue and £439,000 to operating profit for the previous year.  
Summary of cash flows associated with the acquisition of GSP: 
Cash consideration 2,870
Cash acquired with business (1,310)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – net of cash 1,560
 
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   75
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
25 Operating lease arrangements 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year 5,272 4,685
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, 
which fall due as follows: 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
In one year or less 5,328 3,903
Between one and five years 15,123 7,824
In five years or more 16,530 14,851
 36,981 26,578
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties, vehicles and equipment.  
26 Share-based payments 
The Group recognised total expenses of £2,306,000 related to share-based payment transactions in the period (2011: £1,088,000). The Group 
operates seven separate share option schemes, as follows: 
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2007 
A new share option scheme was adopted on 3 July 2007 and was approved by the Inland Revenue on 12 July 2007. It is administered by the 
Board and is open to all employees, and to Directors who devote not less than 25 hours per week to their duties. 
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date 
of grant. The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options expire. 
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest except in the case of retirement, redundancy or similar situations. 
Options granted to a participating individual are Approved options to the extent that, when taken together with any other Approved options held 
by that individual, they do not exceed £30,000 in value. Any option granted in excess of that figure is Unapproved.  
Exercise of the options is subject to performance conditions determined by the Remuneration Committee linked to a sustained and significant 
improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company over a three year period. Options granted during the year will vest in 
accordance with an increase in the Company’s earnings per share, adjusted for the amortisation of acquired intangibles, and non-recurring items. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2012  2011
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted average 
exercise price 
 (£)  
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted average
exercise price
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 501,076 6.76  587,289 6.74
Granted during the period ––  9,049 7.49
Forfeited during the period (52,130) 6.70  (67,415) 6.85
Exercised during the period (101,323) 7.26  (27,847) 7.49
Outstanding at end of period 347,623 6.62  501,076 6.76
Exercisable at end of period 190,329 7.75  195,196 7.93
 
76   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
26 Share-based payments continued 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £8.84 (2011: £8.59).  
The options outstanding at 1 April 2012 were exercisable at prices between £6.82 and £7.96 and had a weighted average remaining contractual life 
of 6.5 years (2011: 7.3 years). During the year ended 1 April 2012 no options were granted. During the year ended 3 April 2011 options were 
granted on 6 July 2010. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates is £0.04 million. The weighted average fair 
value of options granted in the year is £nil (2011: £1.06). 
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model for grants during the year are as follows: 
 2012 2011
Weighted average share price £nil £6.72
Weighted average exercise price £nil £6.63
Expected volatility – 27.75%
Expected life in years – 3.0
Risk free rate – 1.38%
Dividend yield – 2.24%
The approved share option plan 
The approved share option plan was adopted on 13 July 2001 and was approved by the Inland Revenue on 3 August 2001. It is administered by 
the Board and was open to all employees, and to Directors who devote not less than 25 hours per week to their duties. No further options will be 
granted under this scheme. 
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date of 
grant. The vesting period is between three and four years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the 
options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2012  2011
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price  
 (£)  
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted 
average
exercise price 
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 38,370 4.12  91,829 4.08
Forfeited during the period ––  ––
Exercised during the period (17,569) 4.75  (53,459) 4.05
Outstanding at end of period 20,801 3.59  38,370 4.12
Exercisable at end of period 20,801 3.59  38,370 4.12
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £8.89 (2011: £7.20). 
The options outstanding at 1 April 2012 were exercisable at prices between £1.73 and £7.72 and had a weighted average remaining contractual life 
of 2.5 years (2011: 4.0 years).  
The unapproved share option plan 
The unapproved share option plan was adopted on 30 November 1999 and was not submitted for approval by the Board to the Inland Revenue. 
The scheme was open to all employees. No further options will be granted under this scheme. 
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date 
of grant. The vesting period is between three and four years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of seven years from the date of grant, 
the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   77
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
26 Share-based payments continued 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2012  2011
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price  
 (£)  
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted 
average
exercise price 
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 85,154 5.66  213,317 5.23
Forfeited during the period ––  (20,795) 6.80
Exercised during the period (51,408) 5.06  (107,368) 4.60
Outstanding at end of period 33,746 6.57  85,154 5.66
Exercisable at end of period 13,746 4.89  85,154 5.66
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £8.89 (2011: £7.63). 
The options outstanding at 1 April 2012 were exercisable at prices between £4.89 and £7.72 and had a weighted average remaining contractual life 
of 1.7 years (2011: 2.2 years).  
The Save As You Earn scheme 
The Save As You Earn scheme was adopted on 13 July 2001 and is open to all employees and full-time Directors who have at least six months 
service with the Group. Options are granted for a period of either three, five or seven years. 
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date 
of grant discounted by 20%. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest except in the case of retirement, 
redundancy or similar situations. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2012  2011
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price  
 (£)  
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted 
average
exercise price 
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 309,006 5.70  341,370 3.31
Granted during the period 110,111 6.93  88,834 6.58
Forfeited during the period (29,763) 5.87  (61,243) 5.79
Exercised during the period (65,076) 5.15  (59,955) 4.50
Outstanding at end of period 324,278 6.18  309,006 5.70
Exercisable at end of period 2,458 5.53  3,856 4.58
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £8.30 (2011: £8.03).  
The options outstanding at 1 April 2012 were exercisable at prices between £3.42 and £6.93 and had a weighted average remaining contractual 
life of 2.9 years (2011: 2.8 years). During the year ended 1 April 2012 options were granted on 1 February 2012. The aggregate of the estimated 
fair values of the options granted on this date is £0.2 million. During the year ended 3 April 2011 options were granted on 1 February 2011. 
The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on this date is £0.2 million. The weighted average fair value of options granted 
in the year is £1.95 (2011: £2.74). 
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model for grants during the year are as follows: 
 2012 2011
Weighted average share price £8.56 £8.94
Weighted average exercise price £6.93 £6.58
Expected volatility 23.10% 26.60%
Expected life in years 3.9 3.7
Risk free rate 0.72% 2.13%
Dividend yield 2.18% 2.24%
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
78   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
26 Share-based payments continued 
Long-term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) 
The LTIP for executive Directors and senior executives was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 28 June 2005 and is described in the 
Remuneration report on page 40.  
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2012 2011
Number of 
share options 
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
 (£)  
Number of 
share options 
 (£)
Weighted 
average
exercise price
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 1,073,654 0.01  1,059,766 0.01
Granted during the period 427,617 0.01  487,895 0.01
Forfeited during the period (282,537) 0.01  (342,720) 0.01
Exercised during the period (88,904) 0.01  (131,287) 0.01
Outstanding at end of period 1,129,830 0.01  1,073,654 0.01
Exercisable at end of period 22,744 0.01  ––
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £9.17 (2011: £6.31). 
The options outstanding at 1 April 2012 were exercisable at a price of £0.01, being the nominal value of the ordinary shares, and had a weighted 
average remaining contractual life of 1.4 years (2011: 1.4 years).  
During the year ended 1 April 2012 options were granted on 27 June 2011 and 29 July 2011. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the 
options granted on these dates is £1.7 million. During the year ended 3 April 2011 options were granted on 14 June 2010 and 14 July 2010. 
The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on these dates is £1.1 million. The weighted average fair value of options granted 
in the year is £7.40 (2011: £6.08). 
The fair value of an award of shares under the LTIP has been adjusted to take into account TSR as a market-based performance condition, using 
a pricing model that takes into account expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in the comparator group. The model 
follows similar principles as the Monte Carlo approach and takes into account that TSR vesting and share price performance are not independent. 
The inputs into the fair value models are as follows: 
 2012 2011
Weighted average share price £9.12 £6.52
Weighted average exercise price £0.01 £0.01
Expected volatility 24.50% 27.76%
Expected life in years 3.0 3.0
Risk free rate 1.11% 1.43%
Dividend yield 2.18% 2.24%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years at the date of grant. 
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Following the acquisition of Isotron plc, the Group allowed members of the Isotron PSP scheme to roll forward their entitlement into an identical 
scheme based on Synergy shares. The vesting period is three years. The vesting of 75% of the options was subject to the relative performance of 
Isotron’s Total Shareholder Return and 25% is subject to the Group achieving growth in earnings per share. Under the terms of the scheme, the 
vesting conditions were waived as a result of the acquisition by Synergy Health plc. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years 
from the date of grant the options expire. No new options will be granted under this scheme.  
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2012 2011
Number of 
share options 
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
 (£)  
Number of
 share options 
 (£)
Weighted 
average
exercise price
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 7,066 0.83  15,147 0.83
Forfeited during the period ––  (1,430) 0.83
Exercised during the period (628) 0.83  (6,651) 0.83
Outstanding at end of period 6,438 0.83  7,066 0.83
Exercisable at end of period 6,438 0.83  7,066 0.83
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for PSP options exercised during the period was £8.76 (2011: £8.69). 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   79
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
 
26 Share-based payments continued 
The options outstanding at 1 April 2012 were exercisable at an exercise price of 0.83p and had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 
4.25 years (2011: 5.3 years). No options have been granted under this scheme since the acquisition. The fair values of the options granted remain 
unchanged post-acquisition. 
‘Phantom’ Performance Share Plan (‘Phantom PSP’) 
Phantom PSP was adopted by the Group in a similar manner to the PSP scheme following the acquisition of Isotron plc. It is available to certain 
overseas employees of the Group. ‘Phantom’ options are issued and the vesting conditions of the scheme are identical to the PSP. No new options 
will be granted under this scheme. The scheme is cash-settled. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2012 2011
Number of 
share options 
(£)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
 (£)  
Number of 
share options 
 (£)
Weighted 
average
exercise price
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 23,015 0.83  37,310 0.83
Forfeited during the period ––  (851) 0.83
Exercised during the period (3,603) 0.83  (13,444) 0.83
Outstanding at end of period 19,412 0.83  23,015 0.83
Exercisable at end of period 19,412 0.83  23,015 0.83
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Phantom PSP options exercised during the period was £8.63 (2011: £7.42). 
The options outstanding at 1 April 2012 were exercisable at an exercise price of £0.83p and had a weighted average remaining contractual life 
of 4.0 years (2011: 5.0 years). No options have been granted under this scheme since acquisition.  
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
27 Retirement benefit schemes 
Defined contribution schemes 
The Group contributes towards a number of defined contribution and stakeholder schemes. The assets of these schemes are administered by 
trustees and held in funds independent from the assets of the Group. 
The total cost charged to income of £2,170,000 (2011: £2,118,000) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates 
specified in the rules of the plans.  
Defined benefit schemes 
At the start of the year, the Group participated in five defined benefit pension schemes; three in the UK, one in the Netherlands, and one in 
Germany. During the year, the acquisition of LSH in Switzerland brought one additional scheme into the Group. In addition, the Group participates 
in a multi-employer scheme in the Netherlands. 
Scheme 1 – Synergy Health plc Retirement Benefits Scheme The scheme is a defined benefit (final salary) funded pension scheme. Participation in 
this scheme is only offered to employees transferring their employment from NHS Trusts. A full actuarial valuation was carried out at 31 March 2009 
and updated to 1 April 2012 by a qualified actuary, independent of the scheme’s sponsoring employer.  
Scheme 2 – Shiloh Group Pension Scheme The scheme is a defined benefit (final salary) funded pension scheme, which is closed to new 
members and has ceased accrual of benefits for existing members. A full actuarial valuation was carried out at 31 March 2009 and updated 
to 1 April 2012 by a qualified actuary, independent of the scheme’s sponsoring employer.  
Scheme 3 – Vernon-Carus Limited Pension and Assurance Scheme The scheme is a defined benefit (final salary) funded pension scheme, which 
is closed to new members and has ceased accrual of benefits for existing members. A full actuarial valuation was carried out at 31 March 2009 
and updated to 1 April 2012 by a qualified actuary, independent of the scheme’s sponsoring employer. 
Scheme 4 – Isotron BV Pension Plan The scheme is a defined benefit (career average salary) funded pension scheme, which is closed to new 
entrants. An actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 1 April 2012 by a qualified independent actuary. 
Scheme 5 – GSP Scheme The scheme is a defined benefit funded pension scheme, which is closed to new entrants. A full actuarial valuation 
of the scheme was carried out at 1 April 2012 by a qualified independent actuary. 
Scheme 6 – LSH Scheme The scheme is a defined benefit funded pension scheme. A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out 
at 31 December 2011 by a qualified independent actuary.  
80   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
27 Retirement benefit schemes continued 
Scheme 7 – Lips Textielservice Our Dutch linen business participates in a multi-employer industry-wide defined benefit scheme. The plan is 
managed by the industry pension fund and obligations are reinsured. In the event that there is an under-funding position the trustees of the scheme 
can take a range of actions including increasing employee contributions and reducing member benefits as well as asking employers to increase 
their contributions. 
It is not possible to identify the share of the underlying assets, liabilities, and overall surplus/deficit of the plan attributable to the business, because 
the plan is industry-wide. However, to the extent that a surplus or deficit in the plan may affect the amount of future contributions, the Company will 
be required to recognise its share of these obligations. Under the specific exemptions within IAS 19, the scheme is therefore treated as a defined 
contribution scheme within the Group financial statements. The total cost charged to the income statement in respect of this scheme was 
£2,344,000 (2011: £2,482,000). 
IAS 19 disclosures 
Present values of defined benefit obligations, fair value of assets and surplus (deficit):  
2012 
£’000 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Fair value of scheme assets 51,869 43,665 41,320
Present value of defined benefit obligations (70,181) (55.916) (56,723)
Deficit in scheme (18,312) (12,251) (15,403)
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (18,312) (12,251) (15,403)
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the fair value of plan assets: 
2012 
£’000 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Fair value of plan assets at start of period 43,665 41,320 32,220
Expected return on scheme assets 2,803 2,795 2,116
Actuarial gains/(losses) 680 (1,437) 7,154
Contributions from sponsoring companies 3,241 2,627 1,948
Contributions from plan participants 183 251 254
Benefits paid (1,481) (1,889) (2,322)
Assets acquired in a business combination  2,963 51 –
Exchange adjustments (185) (53) (50)
Fair value of plan assets at end of period 51,869 43,665 41,320
The best estimate of contributions to be paid by the Group to the plan for the period beginning after 1 April 2012 is £3,365,000. 
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the present value of the defined benefit obligations:  
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Defined benefit obligations at start of period (55,916) (56,723)
Current service cost (668) (970)
Interest cost (3,086) (3,175)
Contributions from plan participants (183) (251)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (8,621) 3,891
Benefits paid 1,481 1,889
Losses on settlements and curtailments – (50)
Liabilities assumed in a business combination  (3,483) (593)
Exchange adjustments 295 66
Defined benefit obligations at end of period (70,181) (55,916)
Total expense recognised in the consolidated income statement: 
 
2012
£’000
2011
 £’000
Current service cost 668 1,020
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 3,086 3,175
Expected return on pension scheme assets (2,803) (2,795)
Net charge to income statement 951 1,400
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   81
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued 
27 Retirement benefit schemes continued 
Total amount recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 
 
2012
£’000
2011 
£’000
Difference between actual and expected return on pension scheme assets 680 (1,437)
Experience (loss)/gain arising on defined benefit obligations (419) –
Effects of changes in the demographic and financial assumptions underlying defined benefit obligations (8,202) 3,891
Total amount recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income  (7,941) 2,454
All actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income. The cumulative amount of actuarial income and 
expenses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income since adoption of IAS19 is £16.9 million (a loss).  
Analysis of the scheme assets and the expected rates of return:  
2012 2011  2010
Value
£’000
Rate of return 
%
Value 
£’000 
 Rate of return 
%
Value
£’000
Equities 689 8.5 15,490  8.0 23,532
Diversified growth 28,190 n/a –  n/a –
Bonds 16,821 5.1 19,060  5.5 11,552
Other assets 6,174 5.5 9,115  5.3 4,137
Cash (5) 4.5 –  0.5 2,099
Total market value of assets 51,869 43,665  41,320
The assets of these schemes are administered by trustees in funds independent from those of the Group. The scheme assets do not include 
investments issued by the Group nor any properties occupied by the Group. The overall expected rate of return on the scheme assets has been 
based on the average expected return for each asset class, weighted by the amount of assets in each class.  
Key weighted average assumptions used by the actuary and the Directors for the significant pension schemes:  
 
2012
%
2011
%
Rate of increase in salaries 2.8 3.4
Inflation 2.8 3.0
Discount rate for liabilities 4.6 5.6
Five year history of experience gains and losses: 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000
2008
£’000
Fair value of scheme assets 51,869 43,665 41,320 32,220 36,749
Present value of defined benefit obligations (70,181) (55,916) (56,723) (41,516) (40,692)
Deficit in the scheme (18,312) (12,251) (15,403) (9,296) (3,943)
  
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities: (419) – 589 1,578 6,831
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities (1%) 0% 1% 4% 17%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets: 678 (1,437) 7,154 (8,000) (4,157)
Percentage of scheme assets 1% (3%) 17% (25%) (11%)
 
82   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
28 Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note. The Group’s share of the net assets and income of the jointly-controlled entity are disclosed in note 15. 
One of the Group’s customers owns a minority share of one of the Group’s subsidiaries. During the year, revenue with this customer amounted 
to £468,000 (2011: £410,000). An amount payable of £1,131,000 is outstanding at the end of the year (2011: £974,000). During the year, 
the Group’s transactions with this subsidiary amounted to a management charge of $33,000 (2011: £974,000), all of which remains unpaid 
at the end of the year. 
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of key personnel (including Directors) of Synergy Health plc was: 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Short-term benefits 3,010 2,768
Post-employment benefits 213 219
Share-based payments 831 651
 4,054 3,638
Key personnel (including Directors) comprise the executive and non-executive Directors and six senior executives (2011: six). Four of the 
senior executives are directly responsible for the Group’s operating regions. The others are the Group Commercial Director and the Group 
Company Secretary. 
On 7 April 2011, the Group acquired all the members’ interests in BeamOne LLC (see note 24). Subsequently, one of these members assumed a 
role with the Group qualifying as ‘key personnel’. All acquisition-related transactions between this individual and the Group have been conducted on 
an arm’s-length basis and in accordance with the terms of the BeamOne Sale and Purchase Agreement.  
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   83
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Company balance sheet 
As at 1 April 2012 
Notes 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Fixed assets  
Intangible assets 4 1,826 –
Tangible assets 5 190 403
Investments 6 360,004 359,293
  362,020 359,696
Current assets  
Debtors 7 157,240 58,001
Cash at bank and in hand  1,452 –
  158,692 58,001
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (30,469) (157,016)
Net current (liabilities)/assets  128,223 (99,015)
Total assets less current liabilities  490,243 260,681
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 9 (182,179) –
Net assets  308,064 260,681
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital 10 346 344
Share premium account 11 64,955 63,531
Merger reserve 11 106,757 106,757
Cash flow hedging reserve 11 (1,341) (112)
Profit and loss account 11 137,347 90,161
Shareholders’ funds 12 308,064 260,681
The Company financial statements on pages 84 to 91 were approved by the Board on 7 June 2012 and signed on its behalf by: 
G Hill 
Director 
 
 
The notes on pages 85 to 91 form part of these financial statements 
 
84   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements 
 
1 Principal company accounting policies 
The term ‘Company’ refers to Synergy Health plc. The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies 
Act 2006 (‘the Act’). As permitted by the Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (‘UK GAAP’). 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items that are considered material in relation to the Company’s 
financial statements. 
Basis of accounting 
The financial statements presented under UK GAAP are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards. 
Under Section 408 of the Act, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. The Company’s profit 
for the financial year is disclosed in note 2. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Company are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Costs incurred 
in setting up long term arrangements are capitalised as intangible assets and amortised over the life of the contract to which the costs relate. 
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation 
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Freehold land is not depreciated. For all assets 
depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.  
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Leasehold improvements Period of lease 
Plant and Machinery  3–20 years  
Office equipment  3–5 years  
Deferred taxation 
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision, without discounting, is made for all timing differences between the 
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets 
are recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. 
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially stated at fair value. They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. 
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the 
effective interest rate method.  
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Company’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these 
exposures. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The use of financial derivatives is governed 
by the Company’s treasury policy as approved by the Board of Directors. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is either recognised immediately 
in the profit and loss account or, if the underlying derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, then the gain or loss is recognised in equity to 
the extent that the hedge is effective. 
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or a forecast transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset 
or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial 
measurement of the asset or liability. For cash flow hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity 
are recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged item affects the profit and loss account.  
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, 
the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. 
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately 
in the profit and loss account. 
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   85
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
1 Principal company accounting policies continued 
Retirement benefits 
Defined contribution pension schemes The pension costs charged against operating profits are the contributions payable to the schemes in respect 
of the accounting period.  
Leased assets 
Assets held under hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over their expected useful lives.  
The interest element of leasing payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the profit and loss 
account over the period of the lease. 
All other leases are regarded as operating leases and the payments made under them are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term. 
Investments 
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost except where they have experienced a permanent 
diminution in value. Where shares have been issued to acquire a subsidiary, the cost of the investment is the market value of the Company’s shares 
on the date the transaction took place.  
Share-based payments 
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based payment. The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value of options granted is recognised as 
an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The fair value is measured at the date of grant of the equity-settled share-based payments and is spread over the period during which the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using both the Black-Scholes and 
Monte Carlo models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense  
is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to growth in the Company’s total shareholder 
return not achieving the growth threshold for vesting.  
The Company also provides employees with the option to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares at a discount of 20% of market value on the date 
of grant. The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes model. 
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were 
unvested as of 3 April 2005. 
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises, in its individual financial statements, 
an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its consolidated 
financial statements, with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. 
Financial guarantees 
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. 
Cash flow and related party transactions 
Under the provisions of FRS 1 Cash flow statements (revised), the Company has not presented a cash flow statement because the consolidated 
financial statements contain a cash flow statement. 
Under the provisions of FRS 8 Related party disclosures, the Company has not disclosed details of inter-Group transactions because consolidated 
financial statements have been prepared. 
2 Profit and loss account 
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of the Act and not presented a profit and loss account for the 
Company alone. A profit of £54,024,000 (2011: profit £6,740,000) is included within the consolidated financial statements. Audit fees and 
expenses paid to the Company’s auditors were £59,505 (2011: £62,000).  
Amounts receivable by the Company’s auditor in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Company’s financial statements 
have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis in the consolidated financial statements. 
3 Dividends 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: 
Final dividend for the year ended 3 April 2011 of 9.84p per share 5,432 –
Second interim dividend for the year ended 28 March 2010 of 8.3p per share – 4,540
Interim dividend for the period ended 1 April 2012 of 6.82p (2011: 6.0p) per share 3,774 3,298
 9,206 7,838
The Board of Directors will recommend to the shareholders a final dividend for the period ended 1 April 2012 of 11.18p (2011: 9.84p).  
86   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
4 Intangible assets 
 
Software
£’000
Cost  
At 28 March 2010 and 3 April 2011  –
Additions  1,666
Transfers  160
Disposals  –
At 1 April 2012  1,826
Amortisation  
At 28 March 2010 and 3 April 2011  –
Charge for the year  –
Disposals  –
At 1 April 2012  –
Net book value at 1 April 2012  1,826
Net book value at 3 April 2011 and 28 March 2010  –
The entirety of the value held for intangible assets relates to an ERP application in development and not yet deployed at the balance sheet date.  
5 Tangible fixed assets 
Short leasehold 
properties 
£’000 
Plant, 
machinery
and office
equipment 
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost  
At 28 March 2010 78 688 766
Additions – 232 232
Disposals – (44) (44)
At 3 April 2011 78 876 954
Additions – 57 57
Transfers – (160) (160)
Disposals – (32) (32)
At 1 April 2012 78 741 819
Depreciation  
At 28 March 2010 78 359 437
Charge for the year – 114 114
Disposals – – –
At 3 April 2011 78 473 551
Charge for the year – 110 110
Disposals – (32) (32)
At 1 April 2012 78 551 629
Net book value at 1 April 2012 – 190 190
Net book value at 3 April 2011 – 403 403
Net book value at 28 March 2010 – 329 329
The net book value of Company plant, machinery and office equipment includes £nil (2011: £nil) in respect of assets held under finance leases.  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   87
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
 
6 Fixed asset investments 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings held by Synergy Health plc as at 1 April 2012 are: 
 
Shares in Group
undertakings
£’000
Balance at 3 April 2011 359,293
Additions 190,931
Disposals (190,220)
Balance at 1 April 2012 360,004
During the period, the Company transferred its 100% shareholding in Shiloh Limited and Synergy Sterilisation UK Limited to another subsidiary, 
Synergy Health Holdings Limited, in return for shares. Other additions comprise the cost of share options granted to employees of the 
Company’s subsidiaries.  
The Company holds, either directly or through subsidiary companies, 100% (except where shown) of the issued share capital of the following 
principal subsidiaries: 
Equity owned 
by the 
Company
 % Country of incorporation Principal activity
Synergy Health Holdings Limited 100 England Holding company
Synergy Health (UK) Limited 100 England Healthcare products and services
Synergy Health Sterilisation UK Limited 100 England Device sterilisation and holding company
Synergy Health Systems Limited 100 England Provision of IT services
Synergy Health Laboratory Services Limited 100 England Laboratory services
Synergy Health Holdings B.V. 100 The Netherlands Holding company
Synergy Health (Europe) B.V. 100 The Netherlands Healthcare products and services
Synergy Health Nederland B.V. 100 The Netherlands Holding company
Lips Alkmaar B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Bergen op Zoom B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Bombeke B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Synergy Health Utrecht BV 100 The Netherlands Laboratory services
Lips Emmen B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Duiven B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Gemert B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Gezondheidszorg B.V. 100 The Netherlands Holding company
Lips Goes B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Hoorn B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Linnenmanagement B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Rijnmond B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Salland B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Sittard B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Tiel B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Tilburg B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Voorburg B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Hengelo B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Kerkhoffs B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Synergy Health Belgium N.V. 100 Belgium Healthcare products and services
Synergy Health Radeberg GmbH 100 Germany Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Health Allershausen GmbH  62.5 Germany Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Health Investments Limited 100England Holding company
Synergy Health Ireland Limited 100 Republic of Ireland Medical device sterilisation 
Synergy Health Westport Limited  100 Republic of Ireland Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Health Ede B.V.  100 The Netherlands Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Health France S.A.S. 100 France Holding company
Synergy Health Marseille S.A.S. 100 France Medical device sterilisation
88   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
6 Fixed asset investments continued 
Synergy Sterilisation (M) Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Sterilisation KL (M) Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Sterilisation Kulim (M) Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Sterilisation Rawang (M) Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Decontamination (M) Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Hospital sterilisation
Synergy Health (Thailand) Limited 100 Thailand Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Sterilisation South Africa (Pty) Limited 100 South Africa Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Health (Suzhou) Limited 100 China Hospital sterilisation
Synergy Health (Suzhou) Sterilisation Technologies Limited 100 China Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Health Logistics B.V. 50 The Netherlands Logistics consultant
Synergy Health AST LLC 100 US Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Health HSS LLP 100 US Hospital sterilisation
Synergy Health AST S.R.L. 100 Costa Rica Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Health Daniken AG 100 Switzerland Medical device sterilisation
A full list of the Group companies is available for inspection at the Company’s registered office. All the above companies are included in the 
consolidated financial statements. 
7 Debtors 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year: 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 143,148 53,474
Prepayments and accrued income 2,816 586
Corporation tax receivable 10,678 3,357
Deferred taxation 598 584
 157,240 58,001
Deferred taxation 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Balance at 3 April 2011 584 558
Credit to the profit and loss account 339 9
Charge to equity (325) 17
Balance at 1 April 2012 598 584
The amounts provided for deferred taxation for the Company are analysed below: 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Accelerated capital allowances 49 81
Share-based payments 516 28
Other timing differences 33 475
 598 584
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   89
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
 
8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Bank overdraft – 2,689
Bank loans – 126,522
Trade creditors 103 61
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 26,774 26,666
Other creditors including taxation and social security 105 378
Accruals and deferred income 2,146 588
Derivative financial instruments 1,341 112
 30,469 157,016
9 Creditors: amounts falling due after one year  
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Loans 182,179 –
Obligations under bank loans 
Amounts falling due: 
Between one and two years – –
Between two and five years 182,179 –
 182,179 –
Bank overdraft facilities of £3 million (2010: £3 million) were available to the Company subject to the Group overdraft pool not exceeding  
£3 million (2011: £3 million). The Group pool is shared with other UK subsidiaries. Overall, none of the UK overdraft pool was utilised at  
1 April 2012 (2010: £nil). Interest rates payable are disclosed in note 19 of the consolidated financial statements.  
10 Share capital 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Issued, called up and fully paid 
55,415,682 ordinary shares (2011: 55,090,782) of 0.625p each  346 344
The consideration received in respect of the ordinary shares issued under the share option schemes was £1,426,000 (2011: £1,191,000). 
11 Reserves 
Share premium
account 
£’000
Merger reserve 
£’000 
Cash flow 
hedging
reserve
£’000
Profit and loss
account
£’000
Balance at 28 March 2010 62,344 106,757 (550) 90,043
Profit for the financial year – – – 6,740
Dividends – – – (7,838)
Arising on issue of new share capital 1,187 – – –
Cash flow hedges – derivative instruments – – 438 –
Expense in relation to equity-settled share-based payments – – – 1,216
Balance at 3 April 2011 63,531106,757 (112) 90,161
Profit for the financial year – – –54,024
Dividends – – –(9,207)
Arising on issue of new share capital 1,424 – – –
Cash flow hedges – derivative instruments – – (1,229) –
Expense in relation to equity-settled share-based payments – – – 2,369
Balance at 1 April 2012 64,955 106,757 (1,341) 137,347
The profit in the Company is £54,024,000 (2011: profit £6,740,000) after tax and before dividends.  
In the year to 30 March 2008, a surplus arose on a Group reorganisation in the sum of £73,629,000 which was credited to profit and loss account 
but was considered to be unrealised and therefore non-distributable.  
90   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements  
 
12 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
 
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Profit for the financial year 54,024 6,740
Dividends (9,207) (7,838)
 44,817 (1,098)
New share capital 1,426 1,189
Expense in relation to share-based payments 2,369 1,216
Cash flow hedges – derivative instruments (1,229) 438
Net increase in shareholders’ funds 47,383 1,745
Opening shareholders’ funds  260,681 258,936
Closing shareholders’ funds 308,064 260,681
13 Financial instruments 
The disclosure requirements of FRS 25 are covered by the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures. Financial 
instruments included in the Company are included in the Group disclosure in note 19 of the consolidated financial statements. 
As at 3 April 2011, the Company held forward exchange contracts which are deemed to be fully effective in managing the foreign exchange 
exposures to which they relate. On revaluing the contracts to fair value the Company has recognised £9,000 in current assets and equity 
(2011: £27,000 in current liabilities).  
Elements of the interest hedging arrangements described in note 19b to the consolidated financial statements were held in the name of Synergy 
Health plc. The arrangements are deemed to be fully effective in fixing the interest on the underlying debt and in revaluing them to fair value. 
The Company has recognised £1,350,000 in current liabilities and equity (2011: £85,000). 
The Directors consider that the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities is equivalent to the value at which they are carried in the 
Company’s financial statements. 
14 Other commitments 
Financial guarantees 
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. 
15 Pensions 
The Company operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes for all eligible employees. Company contributions are charged to the 
profit and loss account in the period in which they relate. The charge for the period in respect of the defined contribution schemes was £166,000 
(2011: £151,000).  
16 Share-based payments 
The requirements of FRS 20 Share-based payment have been applied to grants of equity instruments made since 7 November 2002 outstanding at 
3 April 2005. The disclosure requirements of FRS 20 are identical to those of IFRS 2 Share-based payment and share-based payments included in 
the Company are included in the Group disclosure. Full IFRS 2 disclosures are provided in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The charge in the Company only accounts in relation to equity-settled share-based payments was £1,590,000 (2011: £514,000). In addition the 
Company recognised £716,000 (2011: £574,000) in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries which relates to the equity-settled share-based 
payment charge recognised in its consolidated financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. 
 
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   91
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview Financial calendar 
 
 
AGM 26 July 2012
Group results 
Interim results announced November 2012
Full year results announced June 2013
Dividend dates 
Interim dividend for 2013 announced November 2012
Interim dividend for 2013 payable January 2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company registration number: 
3355631  
Advisors 
 
 
Registered office: 
Ground Floor Stella 
Windmill Hill Business Park 
Whitehill Way 
Swindon  
Wiltshire SN5 6NX 
 
Lead Banker: 
Barclays Bank plc  
Park House  
Newbrick Road  
Stoke Gifford  
Bristol BS34 8YU 
 
Registrars: 
Computershare 
Investor Services plc 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
Secretary: 
T C Mason MA, FCIS, MCIPD  
 
Cash Management Providers: 
National Westminster Bank  
Third Floor, 3 Temple Back  
East Bristol BS1 6DZ 
 
Solicitors: 
Taylor Wessing LLP 
5 New Street Square 
Blackfriars 
London EC4A 3TW 
 
 
Brokers: 
Investec Bank (UK) Ltd  
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP  
DLA Piper UK LLP 
Victoria Square House 
Victoria Square 
Birmingham B2 4DL 
 
 
Auditors: 
KPMG Audit plc 
St Nicholas House 
Park Row 
Nottingham NG1 6FQ  
 
 
92   Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Financial Statements Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
C002617 Synergy Health plc www.synergyhealthplc.com
Group Head Ofﬁce 
Ground Floor Stella 
Windmill Hill Business Park 
Whitehill Way 
Swindon, Wiltshire  
SN5 6NX
Tel  + 44 (0) 1793 891880 
Fax + 44 (0) 1793 891892
enquiries@synergyhealthplc.com
Registrars 
Computershare 
Investor Services plc 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ
Helpline 0870 7036273
www.computershare.com
