 Synergy Health plc www.synergyhealthplc.com
Group Head Office
Ground Floor Stella 
Windmill Hill Business Park 
Whitehill Way 
Swindon, Wiltshire  
SN5 6NX
Tel  + 44 (0) 1793 891880 
Fax + 44 (0) 1793 891892
enquiries@synergyhealthplc.com
Registrars
Computershare 
Investor Services plc 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ
Helpline 0870 7036273
www.computershare.com
Synergy Health plc  
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011
a global leader  
in outsourced 
sterilisation 
services
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Financial calendar 
 
AGM 27 July 2011
Group results 
Interim results announced November 2011
Full year results announced June 2012
Dividend dates 
Interim dividend for 2012 announced November 2011
Interim dividend for 2012 payable January 2012
 
70 million
reusable surgical 
instruments 
processed  
every year
99 sites
across 13 
countries
2nd largest
global provider 
of outsourced 
sterilisation 
services
0.5 million
items of healthcare 
linen processed 
every day
Synergy Health delivers a range of specialist 
outsourced services to healthcare providers 
and other customers concerned with health 
management. These services are aimed  
at supporting our customers to improve the 
quality and efﬁciency of their activities, whilst 
reducing risks to their patients and clients. 
Governance Financials Operating and ﬁnancial review Our strategy Who we are
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
89
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 1 Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and non-recurring items.  
visit www.synergyhealthplc.com for more information
Our strategy Operating and financial review Governance Financials Who we are
Financial highlights
Who we are
01  Financial highlights
02 Strong track record
03 Chairman’s statement
04 An overview
Our strategy
06 Chief Executive’s review
09 Delivering our strategy
10 Internationalisation
12 High value added services
14 Differentiation through our people
 
Operating and financial review
16 Chief Executive’s review 
 – Regional review
18 Finance Director’s report
22 Principal risks and uncertainties
24 Corporate Social Responsibility
Governance
30 Board of Directors and Advisors
32 Report of the Directors
34 Corporate Governance 
39 Remuneration report
Financials 
44  Independent auditors’ report
45 Consolidated income statement
46  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 
47 Consolidated statement of   
 financial position
48    Consolidated cash flow statement
49 Statement of changes in equity
50  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
81 Company balance sheet
82  Notes to the financial statements
89 Financial calendar
Financial
Revenues up 0.3% to £287 .3 million 
(2010: £286.4 million) 
Operating profit
1
 up 8.3% to £43.0 million 
(2010: £39.7 million) 
Profit before tax
1
 up 17 .3% to £38.3 million 
(2010: £32.6 million)
EBITDA up 4.7% to £78.4 million 
(2010: £74.9 million) 
Cash generated from operations up 9.5% to £83.7 million 
(2010: £76.5 million) 
Adjusted basic earnings per share up 17 .1 % to 53.54p 
(2010: 45.74p)
Basic reported earnings per share up 28.5% to 52.10p 
(2010: 40.56p) 
Dividend per share for the full year up 20% to 15.84p 
(2010: 13.2p)
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 1 Strong track record
1 Compound Annual Growth Rate
Higher revenue growth rates, 
supported by sustainable improved 
margins and strong cash generation, 
leave the business well positioned 
to continue to deliver
11 287.3
286.4
274.1
225.0
152.6
10
09
08
07
£287.3
17.1%CAGR
1
Turnover £m
11 38.3
32.6
26.1
24.9
16.9
10
09
08
07
£38.3
22.7%CAGR
1
Proﬁt before taxation, amortisation and non-recurring item £m
11 53.54
45.74
37.1
35.5
29.2
10
09
08
07
53.54p
16.4%CAGR
1
Adjusted basic earnings per share pence
11 83.7
76.5
60.1
46.8
35.5
10
09
08
07
£83.7
23.9%CAGR
1
Cash generated from operations £m
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 2 Our strategy Operating and financial review Governance Financials Who we are
Chairman’s statement
Our focus on outsourced sterilisation 
services to the medical device and 
healthcare industries is serving the 
business well
2011 has been a good year for Synergy Health, continuing the 
improvement in operating performance and at the same time making 
incremental progress towards our strategy of becoming a leading 
global provider of outsourced sterilisation and other niche services. 
Despite the markets in Europe and the UK remaining challenging 
due to restrained public expenditure, our business has performed 
well with good underlying growth in each of our regions. 
Reported revenues for the period were £287 .3 million (2010: £286.4 
million). Underlying revenue growth, after currency effects and the 
removal of non-core businesses, was 4.1%. Adjusted operating 
margins were up by 1.1% to 15.0% (2010: 13.9%) resulting in 
profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items increasing 
by 17.3% to £38.3 million (2010: £32.6 million). 
In late 2010 we won a court case in respect of a fire at our Dunstable 
linen operation in 2007 resulting in an exceptional pre-tax gain of £5.6 
million. In addition, two acquisitions were undertaken and the costs of 
these were expensed as non-recurring items. After taking account of 
amortisation and non-recurring items, profit before tax increased by 
49.7% to £36.7 million (2010: £24.5 million).
As part of a strategy to continue to expand our international network, 
during the year we acquired Gamma Service Produktbestrahlung 
GmbH (‘GSP’), a gamma and electron beam sterilisation business 
in Germany. We took a further step just after the year end with the 
acquisition of BeamOne LLC (‘BeamOne’) in the USA, making Synergy 
the second largest global provider of outsourced sterilisation services. 
Both businesses have been integrated successfully and are performing 
ahead of expectations.
The acquisitions were funded from operating cash flow, enabling us to 
retain a strong balance sheet at the year end. Net debt has reduced by 
£21.1 million to £112.3 million (2010: £133.4 million) but remained 
similar to last year’s net debt position after taking into account the 
BeamOne acquisition completed on the 7 April 2011. We will shortly 
be completing new unsecured five year revolving credit facilities, to 
replace the existing facility which is due to mature in January 2012. 
During the year, new contracts and contract renewals of £114 million 
have been achieved, increasing the forward order book to £920 million. 
EPS and dividend
Adjusted basic earnings per share (before amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and non-recurring items) were 53.54p (2010: 45.74p), 
an increase of 17 .1%. After taking account of amortisation and 
non-recurring items, basic earnings per share were 52.10p 
(2010: 40.56p), an increase of 28.5%. 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 9.84p, which together with 
the interim dividend of 6.00p would give dividends for the year totalling 
15.84p (2010: 13.2p) representing a 20% increase. If approved, the 
dividend will be paid on 6 September 2011 to shareholders on the 
register at 12 August 2011.
Employees
To ensure the long term sustainability of the business we have 
continued to invest in our teams with the expansion of our talent 
management programme. Our ability to support the growth of our 
business through internal appointments is being greatly enhanced 
by the evolution of our graduate programme, increased investment 
in front line management programmes, and the development of our 
senior leadership community. We are also taking steps to improve the 
attractiveness of Synergy to new recruits from a broader range of the 
community, with a clear and well executed diversity strategy. 
The Board continues to be impressed with the efforts and 
commitment of our teams and this is very much reflected in the 
improved operating and financial performance that we have achieved 
during the year. We would also like to welcome our new colleagues 
from GSP in Germany and from BeamOne in the USA and Costa Rica. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for 
their continued dedication and their achievements during the year. 
Outlook
Our underlying growth rate is progressing, supported by our strategy 
to further internationalise the business. In Europe and the UK we are 
not anticipating any significant change in the economic environment 
and as a result we expect to see a similar trading performance in the 
current financial year, whilst in Asia and the Americas we continue 
to see much stronger growth.
Our focus on outsourced sterilisation services to the medical device 
and healthcare industries is serving the business well, with the new 
financial year having started strongly. We anticipate a similarly strong 
performance in this new financial year. 
Robert E Lerwill 
Chairman
7 June 2011
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 3 Core services
Global footprint
UK & Ireland Europe & Middle East
Hospital sterilisation
Outsourced hospital sterilisation provides a decontamination service for 
reusable medical and surgical equipment used in operating theatres. This 
service also extends across other hospital departments, primary care facilities 
and orthopaedic loan set suppliers. Synergy Health is the largest provider of 
outsourced decontamination services in Europe.
Healthcare solutions
Healthcare solutions provides a range of services involved in managing the 
environment in a healthcare setting. The services primarily involve infection 
control with services such as linen management, hand hygiene and hard 
surface systems, occupational health and laboratory services.
Medical device sterilisation
Outsourced sterilisation services are provided for businesses including a large 
number of multinational medical device manufacturers using a full range 
of sterilisation technologies, including gamma radiation, electron beam 
and ethylene oxide. Its customers are mainly drawn from the medical, 
pharmaceuticals and biological markets. Synergy Health is the world’s 
second largest provider of outsourced medical device sterilisation services.
£9.6m p.a.
Annualised value of new contracts won in the UK this year
£1.8m p.a. 
Annualised value of new contracts won in China this year
No 1 
Market leader in Dutch healthcare linen management
–  2,300 employees
–  40 sites across the UK and Ireland
–  Market leader in outsourced hospital sterilisation
–  Strong medical device sterilisation growth
–  1,800 employees
–  50 sites in the Netherlands, France, Germany, 
Belgium and the UAE
– Expanding capacity at Venlo, the Netherlands
–  Construction of new gamma facility started at 
Marcoule, France
–  Acquisition of GSP in Dresden, Germany
An overview
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 4 Our strategy Operating and financial review Governance Financials Who we are
Asia & Africa North & Central America
Activity
Sterilisation of reusable medical devices, 
equipment and surgical instrumentation, 
and related outsourced services
Markets
Acute, community and private hospitals
Primary care providers
Surgical instrument suppliers
Dentistry
Facility locations
UK 
Belgium
The Netherlands
China
Activity
Sterilisation, validation and related outsourced 
services from an extensive international network
Markets
Medical devices
Pharmaceuticals
Industrial
Veterinary
Food
Cosmetics
Laboratories
Facility locations
UK   Ireland
France Germany
The Netherlands Malaysia
China South Africa
Thailand Costa Rica
USA 
Activity
Infection control 
Linen management
Patient hygiene
Wound care
Surgical
Occupational health
Pathology, toxicology and microbiology
Markets
Acute and community hospitals
Primary care providers
Residential homes
Laboratories, clean rooms
Occupational health
Blue chip corporates
Government bodies 
Facility locations
UK 
The Netherlands
Middle East
–  220 employees
–  4 sites in China, Malaysia, Thailand and South Africa
–  Hospital sterilisation progressing well, servicing over 
30 Chinese hospitals
–  Additional medical device sterilisation capacity has 
been commissioned
–  BeamOne acquired post year end
–  130 employees
–  4 sites in the USA and 1 in Costa Rica
–  Strong management team to support growth plans
–  Close relationship with US-based medical 
device manufacturers
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 5 Chief Executive’s review
Our services are mission-critical 
to our customers, and for 
this reason the demand 
for outsourcing is growing
Synergy Health is an expert in outsourced sterilisation 
services to the medical device market as well as to 
hospitals and other healthcare providers. In addition, 
the business provides other outsourced services such as 
healthcare linen, pathology and specialist laboratory services. 
By focusing on niche outsourced services, the Group has 
the benefit of significant barriers to entry, good cash 
generation and long term contracts.
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 6 Operating and financial review Governance Financials Our strategy Who we are
£70.1m £56.9m +13.9% +13.8%
Introduction
During the year we exceeded our expectations in terms of margin 
progression, but the uplift in revenue growth was slower to come 
through. We have now seen growth filtering through during the early 
part of this new financial year. 
The Group performed well during the year, meeting our expectations 
in all areas with the exception of our products based business in the 
UK. Underlying revenues were up 4.1% on last year after taking into 
account currency effects and the closure of non-core businesses. 
Gross margins were up by 2.0% to 38.2% (2010: 36.2%) and 
adjusted operating margin was up 1.1% on last year to 15.0% (2010: 
13.9%). The strategy is serving the business well with solid underlying 
growth, geographic diversification and a focus on niche outsourcing 
services, which will enable us to sustain our operating margins at the 
current levels.
There are however still challenges to be faced, and we are taking 
proactive steps to address these. Growth in Europe and the UK is 
more subdued as a result of our mature linen businesses operating in 
mature markets, and the general state of the economy. Our strategy of 
focusing more resources on Asia is paying off with growth outstripping 
the other two regions. Asia and Africa make up 4.7% of global 
revenues, up from 3.8% last year. Meanwhile, Europe and the Middle 
East’s contribution was steady at 41.3% (2010: 41.0%), and the UK 
and Ireland’s share reduced to 53.9% from 55.2%. Asia’s share of 
revenue generation is increasing in line with our strategy. Our entry into 
the Americas will provide further opportunity for fast growth within our 
core services, as well as supporting our Asian business through closer 
links with large US-based medical device manufacturers. Another 
challenge is our products based business, which faced a further 
decline in revenues in the UK this year, holding back Group revenue 
growth. We are focusing very heavily on cost leadership within the UK 
and directing investment into our international markets where growth 
will be stronger.
Overall, the Group is in good shape with an internationally diversified 
business providing long term contracted, high value added services 
with a forward order book of £920 million (2010: £850 million). The 
business has a strong balance sheet and excellent cash generation.
Strategy
We set out a strategy three years ago that has resulted in Synergy 
becoming one of the leading global providers of niche outsourced 
services to health related markets. Our core service is the provision 
of outsourced sterilisation for medical device manufacturers and for 
healthcare providers such as acute hospitals. In addition, we are 
leading providers of healthcare linen services in the UK and the 
Netherlands, manufacturers of infection control products and 
providers of specialist laboratory services. 
Underlying global revenues (excluding non-core businesses) for 
medical device sterilisation and hospital sterilisation were up 13.9% 
and 13.8% respectively. Our healthcare solutions businesses declined 
by 2.9%, reflecting our strategy to direct our investments towards 
sterilisation services, as well as some difficult trading in the UK 
products business.
Looking ahead, our strategic objectives are threefold. Firstly, we will 
continue to expand the business internationally, making Synergy a 
truly global business. Secondly, we will focus on high value added 
outsourced services that have high barriers to entry. Thirdly, we will 
differentiate Synergy from its competitors through its people, and at 
the same time maintain a cost leadership strategy to ensure that we 
achieve greater levels of efficiency. 
1. Internationalisation
Synergy is the leading provider of sterilisation services to hospitals, 
having created the market in the UK in 1996. Today we have facilities 
in the UK, Europe, and China, and our strategy is to continue to 
increase our total market share in each country as well as to continue 
our international expansion in Asia and in due course in the 
United States.
Following the recent acquisitions of GSP and BeamOne, we are now 
the second largest global provider of sterilisation services to medical 
device manufacturers. Our strategy is to continue to expand our 
presence in Asia where multinational medical device companies are 
focusing their investments, and healthcare providers are focusing on 
reducing infection risks. We are targeting a quarter of our income to 
come from the Asian region. At the same time we will be extending 
our presence in the Americas, with the expansion of our sterilisation 
services for both medical device manufacturers, and for healthcare 
providers. In the short term, we are focusing on medical device 
opportunities in Central America, with a medium term objective to 
develop our hospital sterilisation services in the United States. In the 
medium term we expect to see a quarter of our income coming from 
the Americas region.
We are leading providers of healthcare linen services in the 
Netherlands and in the UK. Our intention is to operate these 
businesses efficiently but not to expand them outside of these two 
countries. Similarly our small laboratory businesses, which operate 
in the UK and in the Netherlands, will continue to be developed 
within these countries.
We also manufacture infection control and other consumable 
products for the international healthcare market. This business has 
encountered a number of challenges over the last three years and 
continues to face considerable headwinds. The business is partway 
through a restructuring programme to lower its cost base to support 
a predominantly internationally based growth strategy. 
2. High Value Added Services
Our strategy is to focus solely on niche services that have high 
barriers to entry, significant value added content and a global potential. 
Presently just under three quarters of our income is derived from 
sterilisation services to the medical device and hospital markets. 
The outsourcing of these services is driven by an increasing regulatory 
burden that makes outsourcing to highly specialised providers such 
as Synergy economically effective. 
The barriers to entry within the sterilisation businesses are 
considerable. For example, the service we provide to the global 
medical device manufacturers requires Synergy to have experience, 
competence and a network to provide mission-critical services. 
Synergy is recognised as one of the world’s leading providers of 
medical device sterilisation services with an extremely positive 
reputation for the quality of its services. In addition, we are the world’s 
largest operator of radiation sterilisation facilities, relatively protected 
by licensing requirements which are becoming ever more stringent. 
There are similarly high barriers to entry for the sterilisation of reusable 
medical devices for hospitals. The service is again mission-critical, with 
much of the challenge based on managing the complex logistics of 
supplying thousands of different types of surgical instruments. Synergy 
has addressed and met the challenge with our proprietary software 
systems that manage the logistics and ensure that the inherent risks 
in the service are controlled. Synergy has an unparalleled record of 
service delivery, reflecting its strong position in the UK and its 
expanding services in Europe and China.
Global medical device sterilisation revenue Global hospital sterilisation revenue
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 7 Chief Executive’s review
We have very strong and defendable positions with our linen services 
in the Netherlands and the UK, where we are number one and two 
respectively. As the markets have been consolidated down to two 
players in each case, there are significant barriers to entry with scale 
and experience, as well as with customers being contracted on five to 
seven year terms.
Looking further ahead, we are researching other niche areas where 
Synergy’s core competencies could be used to create similarly 
attractive operating models. We are attracted to services that integrate 
more closely with clinical service provision and where there are 
benefits from scale and expertise. 
3. Differentiation and cost leadership
Two of Synergy’s longstanding strategic principles have been to 
operate a cost leadership programme as well as to competitively 
differentiate certain aspects of our services. We continue to 
benchmark our performance against competitors including in-house 
services, and with our investments in technology and innovation, 
we continue to lead our markets in the cost-effective delivery of 
outsourced services.
In parallel we continue to invest in our teams to expand and deepen 
a talent pool that will enable Synergy to differentiate itself from its 
competitors through its people. Our partnerships with Warwick 
Business School and the Chartered Management Institute are 
important investments that enable us to create sustainable leadership, 
as well as a culture that differentiates Synergy based on the quality of 
its people. We have a global senior leadership community that plays an 
active role in the implementation of our strategy. In addition we have 
an expanding graduate programme that is recruiting a new talent pool 
from which to develop our future leaders. 
Outlook
Last year we decided to make a transition to a regionally managed 
business, enabling us to have greater strategic oversight of each 
region, to improve efficiencies by extracting cost synergies, and to 
build a management structure that would facilitate the creation of 
a fourth region in the Americas. All of these objectives were fulfilled 
during the year, with margins sustainably restored to an appropriate 
level, improved oversight of both organic and acquisitive growth 
opportunities, and, just after the year end, the establishment of the 
Americas region with the acquisition of BeamOne. 
Synergy’s focus is on the provision of niche outsourcing services 
that create significant value for our customers. Our services are 
mission-critical to our customers and for this reason the demand 
for outsourcing is growing. Looking ahead we expect that rising 
regulatory and technical standards will continue to underpin 
demand together with the cost efficiency of Synergy’s services.
Our strategy to expand Synergy’s reach with the objective of becoming 
a global business is also working well. We are continuing to see 
stronger growth in Asia compared to our traditional markets and 
we expect this trend to continue. Our recent expansion into the 
Americas also provides a second source of significant growth for 
Synergy. For example, we have agreed an exclusive supply agreement 
in Costa Rica for sterilisation services to an important medical device 
business park, enabling us to double our electron beam capacity as 
well as add EtO services over the next year. Growth in the Americas, 
in combination with Asia, will see the Group’s overall revenue growth 
edge up towards double digit rates over the next 12 to 18 months. 
Higher revenue growth rates, supported by sustainable margins and 
strong cash generation, leave the business well positioned to continue 
to deliver its earnings objectives.
Dr Richard M Steeves 
Chief Executive
£920m 2010: £850m
Forward order book
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 8 Operating and financial review Governance Financials Our strategy Who we are
Delivering our strategy
1.  to expand the business 
internationally
2.  to focus on high value 
added services
3.  differentiation from our 
competitors through 
our people 
9
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Internationalisation
 Expanding our 
global footprint
At the start of the year, we signalled our 
intention to increase capacity and enter 
new markets via both organic growth and 
bolt-on acquisitions. 
In late 2010, we acquired Gamma Service 
Produktbestrahlung GmbH (‘GSP’), an electron 
beam and gamma irradiation business based in 
Saxony, Germany. 
This acquisition builds our capacity in Germany, 
and enables Synergy to add electron beam 
processing to our service offering in mainland 
Europe. In addition, GSP’s proximity to Poland 
and the Czech Republic provides Synergy with 
a route to enter new markets in eastern Europe. 
Germany could become a key market for Synergy 
and we are actively bidding for a number of 
hospital sterilisation contracts there.
In April 2011, after the end of the financial 
period, we acquired BeamOne LLC (‘BeamOne’). 
BeamOne is the largest provider of outsourced 
electron beam medical device sterilisation 
services in the USA. BeamOne has FDA 
approved sites in San Diego, California; Denver, 
Colorado; Lima, Ohio; Saxonburg, Pennsylvania; 
and a fifth site in Costa Rica.
The acquisition of BeamOne is Synergy’s first 
expansion into the US sterilisation market, 
estimated to be worth US$600 million per 
annum. As well as acquiring a well established 
and growing business in a key market, 
BeamOne’s respected relationships with US-
based, global medical device manufacturers, 
should enable Synergy to deepen further its 
relationships and capture greater sterilisation 
business for its operations in Asia, and in 
particular China. 
Furthermore, the acquisition will provide a 
platform from which Synergy can start to research 
and develop the provision of its world-class 
hospital sterilisation services to American 
hospitals and healthcare providers.
This is a significant step for Synergy, providing us 
with an entry into one of the world’s largest and 
most established sterilisation markets. BeamOne 
is the leading electron beam sterilisation provider 
in the USA, and by adding it to our network 
we have created the second largest global 
outsourced sterilisation business in the world.
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 10 Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials Our strategy Who we are
€9.5 million
Enterprise value of Gamma 
Service Produktbestrahlung 
GmbH (‘GSP’) when acquired.
4 Irradiation facilities 
Built according to GSP’s own 
plans as modern and highly 
productive service centres.
 1 bis 10 kGy/h 
Dose rate at the Gamma 
Irradiation Facility GS 60.
 1st entry
To North and Central America.
 10 MeV 
Energy output of BeamOne’s 5 
electron beam irradiators.
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 11 With over 30 years’ experience in the sterilisation 
industry, Synergy Health has a wealth of 
knowledge to share with its customers. Offering a 
complete range of sterilisation technologies, we 
are able to offer advice on the development of 
new products and materials, and on the seamless 
integration of our services into our customers’ 
manufacturing process. In the past year we have 
hosted a number of education days across our 
businesses, to share this knowledge.
As an example, in 2011 we held an event in Ireland 
to help medical device manufacturers understand 
the effects of electron beam irradiation on 
commonly used polymers, and our approach to 
processing and validation. Manufacturers gained 
an understanding of emerging technologies, taking 
into account material compatibility and packaging 
requirements. We were delighted to welcome 
speakers from AIT, RAPRA, Boston Scientific and 
SteriPack, as well as in-house experts from both 
our UK and Ireland sites. In the UK we held a 
similar event which focused on ethylene oxide 
sterilisation.
This year we broadened the education events to 
our hospital sterilisation customers, providing an 
insight into the principles and regulations of good 
cleanroom practice. Our laboratory business also 
provided similar insights into microbiological 
validation and compliance. 
These events have been well received, and when 
combined with our record of operational excellence, 
have proved a catalyst for achieving joint success.
A foundation 
for joint success
High value added services
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 12 Operating and financial review Governance Financials Our strategy Who we are
6m
Capable of processing 6 million instruments per year
1,472m
2
 
(nearly 16,000ft
2
) sterile service 
‘supercentre’
60 
Employs over 60 people
Focus on hospital sterilisation
Leicester
Opened in February 2011, our new 1,472m
2
 
(nearly 16,000ft
2
) sterile service ‘supercentre’ is 
capable of processing 6 million instruments per 
year and will employ over 60 people. It is already 
handling Leicester Royal Infirmary’s full output, 
plus key areas of Leicester General Hospital, with 
Glenfield General Hospital due to follow in April 
2012. Operating 24 hours per day, the unit is 
capable of processing more than three times the 
daily demand from these three main hospitals.
Built to service the University Hospitals of Leicester 
NHS Trust’s sterilisation requirements for the next 
15 years, the unit is Synergy’s most efficient yet in 
respect of carbon consumption per instrument 
processed. Synergy worked together with principal 
contractor Merit Merrell Technology and equipment 
supplier Getinge to develop a facility that combines 
optimal energy consumption with the best possible 
process flow.
Following completion of the main building works, 
a ‘soft opening’ took place in November 2010 when 
Trust stakeholders were invited to view the facility 
and appreciate its capabilities. It was also the 
first opportunity for many Trust employees to 
experience their new place of work. Before the 
Leicester site could process any instruments, 
it required an audit to assess compliance with 
the Medical Device Directive and appropriate 
international standards.
The auditor commented that in the thirteen years 
he had been performing inspections, Synergy’s 
Leicester facility was his very first site with ZERO 
non-conformances. 
The new Synergy unit will take over the activity of 
two existing Sterile Services Departments (SSDs), 
delivering services to the three hospitals within 
the Trust. The first SSD to transfer was based at 
Leicester Royal Infirmary, while the workload from 
the Glenfield General Hospital SSD will follow in two 
months’ time.
Leicester’s Low Carbon Footprint
•  Steam boilers that recover waste heat and 
transfer it back to the boiler water feed
•  A ‘free air’ steriliser cooling capability that 
utilises low ambient air temperatures to 
supplement the cooler capacity
•  A ‘sleep’ mode for the control system when 
the cleanroom is unoccupied and air flow 
rates that can be adjusted to reflect varying 
occupancy levels
•  Lighting that maximises energy efficiency 
throughout the unit 
•  Compressors that are 35% more efficient 
than standard models
High value added services
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 13 On the button
with talent
management
Differentiation through our people
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 14 Operating and financial review Governance Financials Our strategy Who we are
Synergy aims to attract, retain and develop 
talented people to ensure we are ready to deliver 
the business strategy and take advantage of 
business opportunities. 
Last year our focus was on building leadership 
capability, and ensuring that we have the 
competence and performance management 
frameworks in place through which to manage 
and develop our Senior Leadership Community. 
We have achieved this in relation to the Leadership 
Community, where 95% of senior leaders from 
UK, Europe and Asia have been through our 
Leadership Development centres. A leadership 
competence model has enabled us to assess 
levels of competence and track performance 
improvement to develop leadership potential 
and plan for future succession. 
Focused graduate recruitment resulted in an 
increased graduate intake in September, with plans 
to increase the number of places on the programme 
each year to continue to feed into the talent pipeline. 
These initiatives will contribute to a global talent 
management programme with development aligned 
to the organisational strategy and objectives and 
ensure that talent management and development 
remain as priorities for the business. 
During the year, we identified a need to further 
invest in the supervisors and team leaders within our 
hospital sterilisation and linen divisions, to engage 
and develop them for the future. We have delivered 
a training programme covering 100% of the target 
population during the year. 
We are committed to ongoing investment in 
developing our senior manager and graduate 
communities to improve their leadership capability. 
To deliver this, we have established management 
development programmes with the Chartered 
Management Institute, with Warwick Business 
School, and also with Henley Management College.
 
A leadership competence model 
has enabled us to assess levels 
of competence and track 
performance improvement to 
develop leadership potential
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 15 Chief Executive’s review  
Regional review
Despite modest underlying growth in the region of 2.3%, the 
core sterilisation business has grown strongly at 12.0%. Reported 
revenues were held back by the closure of £12 million of non-core 
businesses, poor winter weather, and further declines in our product 
manufacturing business. Reported revenues were £154.9 million 
(2010: £158.0 million). Operating profits increased by 7 .2% to £25.0 
million (2010: £23.3 million) with margins increasing by 1.3% to 16.1% 
(2010: 14.8%).
Sterilisation revenues for both the medical device and hospital markets 
were strong, both recording double digit growth. Within the medical 
device sector we have seen further capacity utilisation of the new 
electron beam facility in Ireland, and good underlying growth in the 
majority of our existing sterilisation facilities. We anticipate that we will 
need to add further sterilisation capacity in the region towards the end 
of the year.
Our hospital sterilisation service in the UK benefited from opening the 
Leicester facility in February, and growth will be sustained with a further 
three new facilities in the new financial year. This year we have won new 
contracts with an annual value of £9.6 million. The bid pipeline remains 
strong in the UK, and with the NHS clearly having to seek ways of 
improving efficiency, we see further momentum in this service 
particularly once the current political and structural uncertainties are 
addressed. An outstanding bid for hospital sterilisation in Ireland is 
unlikely to proceed at the present time because of the economic 
troubles in the country. 
The UK linen business has focused on restoring operating margins 
during the year and as a result revenues were flat. The business is 
operating well and has been successful in competitively differentiating 
itself by focusing on quality. Customer retention is strong and we expect 
to see some modest growth in circumstances where customers place 
a higher value on quality than price.
The laboratory business, which had previously seen a reduction in 
demand because of its dependence on the UK economy, has returned 
to growth. Prospects for pathology and occupational health testing 
remain positive.
Our Healthcare Solutions business, which manufactures infection 
control and other consumable healthcare products, has struggled with 
an over reliance on the UK market, which has seen very challenging 
trading conditions. The team is currently restructuring its operations, 
and lowering the cost base by reducing the number of sites from four 
to two. In addition, changes to the senior management structure are 
facilitating a much more internationally focused growth strategy that 
in combination with more progressive cost leadership should 
see a return to revenue growth.
UK and Ireland
The strategy for this region is primarily organically driven; promoting 
outsourcing that generates improved quality and efficiency.
Last year we restructured the business into three 
geographic regions: the UK and Ireland; Europe and 
the Middle East; and Asia and Africa. The creation 
of these regions has resulted in cost synergies as well 
as improving our local market understanding and 
responsiveness.
Following the acquisition of BeamOne in the United 
States and Costa Rica, we will be reporting a fourth 
region – the Americas. 
11 154.9
158.0
160.3
135.0
10
09
08
Revenue £m
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 16 Our strategy Governance Financials Operating and financial review Who we are
Underlying revenues for Europe and the Middle East were up 5.4% 
before currency effects. Reported revenues were £118.8 million (2010: 
£117 .4 million). Operating profits were up 15.6% to £20.5 million (2010: 
£17 .8 million) with margins increasing by 2.2% to 17 .3% (2010: 15.1%), 
reflecting the increased cost synergies from the new regional structure.
The Dutch linen business continued to operate efficiently and effectively. 
As the market leader, our scale advantage has enabled us to improve 
cost efficiencies and cash generation. Throughout the year our primary 
competitor has been using a price-driven strategy in an attempt to gain 
market share but this is being countered by our relentless focus on 
quality and efficiency. 
Revenue growth was primarily derived from the sterilisation business, 
principally the medical device market. Synergy is the leading provider of 
medical device sterilisation services in this region. We have a particular 
strength in gamma radiation but we have been expanding our services 
to include ethylene oxide (EtO) and electron beam. Our first Continental 
EtO facility in Venlo reached capacity during the year, and additional 
capacity has now been commissioned. To support further growth we 
have started building a new gamma facility in Marcoule, France, which 
will significantly improve our competitive position in southern Europe. 
In addition, we acquired GSP , near Dresden, Germany, giving us our first 
Continental electron beam facility in the region, as well as much needed 
gamma capacity to service the eastern European market. The 
acquisition has integrated well and outperformed expectations to date.
Our hospital sterilisation business operates from two of the largest 
hospitals in the Netherlands and Belgium. Whilst we are operating 
successful services, the markets have been slow to develop. We 
continue to bid on a selective basis for additional contracts with a 
particular focus on Germany, but progress has been slower than we had 
anticipated, in part because we have prioritised the expansion of our 
medical device sterilisation network. However, we are continuing to look 
for opportunities to further expand our hospital sterilisation business in 
Europe and the Middle East, and we may consider an acquisition to 
accelerate market entry.
Our facilities are located in South Africa, Malaysia, Thailand and China. Our 
strategy is to invest in each of these countries to support continued organic 
growth as well as to expand our geographic presence across the region.
Underlying revenues in Asia and Africa were up 16.3% before currency 
effects. Revenues were £13.6 million (2010: £11.0 million) with good 
growth across the region. Operating profits were up 25.1% to £2.7 million 
(2010: £2.2 million) with operating margins flat at 19.9% (2010: 19.8%).
The region’s revenues are derived from sterilisation services to both the 
medical device and hospital sterilisation markets. The medical device 
volumes have improved again on last year, demonstrating a robust 
recovery from the impact of the financial crisis two years ago. We have 
made progress improving the capacity utilisation of our new facility in 
Suzhou, China, and we expect to have the site operating at near 
to capacity within the next 18 months. The majority of our Suzhou 
customers are subsidiaries of large multinational manufacturers 
headquartered in the United States. For example, we are contracting with 
two of the top ten largest US manufacturers for work with an annualised 
value of £1.8 million. The acquisition of BeamOne was an important 
step to deepen our relationships with these customers. We have also 
commissioned additional capacity in our existing Malaysian facility and 
we intend to broaden our reach by establishing capacity in Kuala Lumpur. 
We have also seen reasonable growth in Thailand although there is 
presently a surplus of gamma capacity in the country. We are planning 
to broaden our technology offering as a means of further differentiating 
Synergy and to meet the requirements of our existing customers.
Our hospital sterilisation volumes have improved in China. We now 
process equipment through the Suzhou facility for over 30 hospitals and 
smaller healthcare institutions. Our service is widely recognised by the 
Chinese Provincial Government as playing a key role in lifting sterilisation 
standards and reducing infection risks particularly in medium sized, class 
two hospitals. However, we have not been able to make sufficient progress 
expanding our network beyond Suzhou and our plans for expansion will 
take longer than initially anticipated. One of the key issues is that the 
Chinese healthcare market is going through a major transition driven by 
the Government’s new five year plan that will see China become one 
of the world’s largest national health systems by the end of the decade. 
Whereas three years ago healthcare policy makers were focusing on risk 
management, today the focus of attention is on the RMB 12.3 billion 
(£1.2 billion) investment to expand capacity. We are still committed to 
achieving our medium term objectives of establishing a sizeable network 
in China and we are increasing our investment to support the project.
Elsewhere in Asia we are developing a strategy to expand our hospital 
sterilisation services. In Malaysia for example, the Government has 
initiated a pilot outsourcing project and Synergy has been actively 
engaged with local companies that could ultimately become long term 
partners in the region.
Asia and Africa
The Asia and Africa region is one of our most promising, with 
a combination of very positive macroeconomics as well as an 
underlying demand by certain Asian countries to dramatically 
improve the quality of their healthcare services. 
Europe and the Middle East
Our strategy in Europe is to expand the full range of our sterilisation 
services to hospitals and medical device manufacturers, primarily 
through organic growth. 
11 118.8
117.4
104.7
82.7
10
09
08
Revenue £m
11 13.6
11.0
9.1
7.3
10
09
08
Revenue £m
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 17 Overall, Synergy is in a good shape, 
with an internationally diversified 
business providing high value added 
services on long term contracts, 
and an order book of nearly 
£1.0 billion
Finance Director’s report 
Overview
Our business delivered a good financial performance in 2011 with reported revenue 
growing 0.3% to £287 .3 million and adjusted operating profit increasing by 8.3% to 
£43.0 million. Adjusted operating margin increased by 110 basis points to 15.0%.
Our results were impacted by currency and non-core businesses; excluding these, 
underlying revenue growth was 4.1% and adjusted operating profit growth was 12.1%. 
Adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax are stated before amortisation 
of acquired intangibles and non-recurring items.
Adjusted earnings per share grew by 17 .1% to 53.54p. We have also recognised a  
non-recurring gain of £4.7 million relating to the settlement of our Dunstable insurance 
claim less acquisition transaction costs expensed to the income statement as required 
under ‘IFRS 3 (Revised) Business combinations’. 
Cash generated from operations increased by 9.5% to £83.7 million (2010: £76.5 
million) contributing to a reduction of net debt by £21.1 million to £112.3 million from 
the 2010 year end position. After including debt to fund the acquisition of BeamOne 
(completed 7 April 2011), net debt was broadly unchanged at £133.8 million (2010: 
£133.4 million). Adjusted operating returns on average capital employed increased to 
10.8% (2010: 9.7%).
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 18 Our strategy Governance Financials Operating and financial review Who we are
1. Income statement
Synergy’s income statement is summarised in figure 1, below. 
Figure 1: Income statement
Year ended  
3 April 2011  
£m
Year ended  
28 March 2010  
£m Change
Revenue 287.3 286.4 +0.3%
Gross profit 109.7 103.6 +5.8%
Administrative expenses (66.7) (63.9)
Adjusted operating profit 43.0 39.7 +8.3%
Net finance costs (4.7) (7.1)
Adjusted profit before tax 38.3 32.6 +17.3%
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (6.3) (6.2)
Non-recurring items 4.7 (1.9)
Profit before tax 36.7 24.5 +49.7%
Tax (7.9) (2.4)
Profit for the period 28.8 22.1 +30.0%
Effective tax rate
1
22.7% 23.5%
Adjusted earnings per share – basic 53.54p 45.74p +17.1%
Earnings per share – basic 52.10p 40.56p +28.5%
Adjusted earnings per share – diluted 52.64p 44.99p +17.0%
Earnings per share – diluted 51.23p 39.90p +28.4%
Dividend per share 15.84p 13.20p +20.0%
1 The effective tax rate is calculated excluding amortisation on acquired intangibles and non-recurring items.
1.1 Revenue
Revenue of £287.3 million (2010: £286.4 million) represents a growth 
rate, excluding non-core businesses and currency effects, of 4.1% over 
the previous year. The Group has revenue from operations that we are 
winding down and exiting, primarily relating to business streams within 
the UK’s Healthcare Solutions products business. During the year 
these business streams contributed revenues of £11.8 million (2010: 
£18.0 million). The change in currency exchange rates over the last 12 
months has had a negative effect on reported revenues; the weakening 
of the Euro against Sterling contributed to a reduction in reported 
revenue due to currency movements of £3.8 million.
Underlying revenues grew across all our business segments (excluding 
non-core business and currency effects) with the UK and Ireland at 
2.3%, Europe and Middle East at 5.4%, and Asia and Africa at 16.3%. 
Growth in the UK and Ireland was 9.2% when we exclude the 
Healthcare Solutions products business. Global growth in our two main 
service lines remained strong with hospital sterilisation growing at 
13.8% and medical device sterilisation at 13.9%. Device sterilisation 
benefited from the acquisition of GSP at the end of the third quarter; 
excluding this acquisition, medical device sterilisation sales grew by 
9.9% over the previous year.
1.2 Gross profit
Gross profit increased by 5.8% to £109.7 million (2010: £103.6 
million), representing a gross profit margin of 38.2%, an increase 
of 200 basis points over the previous year.
1.3 Adjusted operating profit
Adjusted operating profit increased by 8.3% to £43.0 million, 
representing an adjusted operating profit margin of 15.0%, an 
increase of 110 basis points over last year.
1.4 Non-recurring items
During the year we received a summary court judgement in our favour 
on the insurance claim arising from the fire at the Dunstable facility 
in early 2007. Following an unsuccessful appeal process by the 
defendants, we are in a position to report non-recurring profit and 
cash proceeds as part of our year end results. A non-recurring gain of 
£5.6 million reflects the recognition of insurance proceeds received, 
less costs associated with the claim and final additional costs of 
working not previously written down. The insurance claim included 
court awarded recovery of interest income of £1.4 million. 
As per ‘IFRS 3 (Revised) Business combinations’ we have recognised 
transaction fees of £0.9 million in the income statement. These costs 
relate primarily to the acquisition of GSP in late 2010 and BeamOne, 
which completed just after the year end. 
1.5 Net finance costs
The Group’s adjusted net finance costs were £4.7 million compared 
with £7.1 million in the previous year, a decrease of £2.4 million. The 
decrease is largely due to a reduction in average borrowings during the 
year and the natural cessation of fixing arrangements taken out when 
interest rates were significantly higher. The average interest rate of the 
main syndicated facility and other Group facilities is estimated at 3.7%.
1.6 Adjusted profit before tax
Adjusted profit before tax was £38.3 million (2009: £32.6 million), an 
increase of 17.3%. The adjusted profit before tax margin was 13.3% 
(2010: 11.4%), an increase of 190 basis points. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 19 1.7 Amortisation of acquired intangibles
Amortisation of acquired intangibles relates to intangible assets 
identified on acquisitions, being the value of trade names and 
customer contracts and relationships.
1.8 Tax
The tax charge (excluding amortisation of acquired intangibles and 
non-recurring items) of £8.7 million (2010: £7 .7 million) represents 
an effective rate of 22.7% (2010: 23.5%). Including amortisation 
of acquired intangibles and non-recurring items, the tax charge is 
£7.9 million (2010: £2.4 million), with the increase mostly due to 
a non-recurring tax credit realised in the prior year. 
Our effective rate reflects profits arising from a mix of territories, a 
number of which have a lower rate of taxation than the UK. Different 
territorial growth rates and our recent entry into the Americas will 
change this mix of profits in the future.
1.9 Earnings per share (EPS)
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings 
per share, after adjusting for amortisation of intangibles, increased 
by 17.1% and 17.0% respectively. After amortisation of acquired 
intangibles, basic and diluted earnings per share increased by 28.5% 
and 28.4% respectively.
2. Dividend
Our policy is to increase the total dividend each year in line with the 
increase in underlying earnings. The Board has proposed a final 
dividend of 9.84p, representing an increase on the 2010 dividend of 
18.6%, and bringing the total dividend for the year to 15.84p, growth 
of 20.0%.
3. Cash flow
Figure 2 summarises the Group cash flow.
Figure 2: Cash flow
Year ended  
3 April 2011  
£m
Year ended  
28 March 2010 
£m
Adjusted operating profit 43.0 39.7
Non cash items 35.4 35.2
Adjusted EBITDA 78.4 74.9
Working capital movement (0.1) 2.5
Non-recurring cash flow movement 5.4 (0.9)
Cash generated from operations 83.7 76.5
Interest (3.0) (7.4)
Tax (6.3) (2.4)
Net maintenance expenditure on tangible 
and intangible assets (21.8) (19.4)
Free cash flow 52.6 47.3
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash 
acquired (1.6) –
Net investment expenditure on tangible 
and intangible assets (15.0) (7.7)
Financing 3.9 (34.0)
Dividends paid (7.8) (6.4)
Proceeds from share issues 1.2 1.5
Exchange differences (0.8) –
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 32.5 0.7
Note: Adjusted EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, 
intangible amortisation and other non-cash items.
3.1 Cash generated from operations
Cash generated from operations in the year increased by 9.5% to 
£83.7 million (2010: £76.5 million) reflecting a conversion of EBITDA 
into cash of 107% (2010: 102%). 
3.2 Interest
Net interest paid was £3.0 million (2010: £7.4 million), reflecting 
lower borrowing costs and a reduction in net debt. This amount 
includes the receipt of £1.4 million interest relating to the Dunstable 
insurance settlement.
3.3 Tax
Tax paid was £6.3 million (2010: £2.4 million). Cash tax is below 
the equivalent charge in the income statement as a result of timing 
differences in respect of tangible assets and on payments made on 
account. Over time we would expect cash tax to move closer to the 
income statement charge.
3.4 Net expenditure on tangible and intangible assets
The Group has continued to invest in new capacity during the course 
of the year, as well as continuing to upgrade and maintain its existing 
infrastructure. Total net capital additions of £36.8 million (2010: 
£27.1 million) were made during the year.
We analyse capital expenditure between ‘maintenance’ and 
‘investment’ expenditure. Maintenance capital expenditure is the 
capital required to replace the existing capital base. Investment 
capital expenditure enhances the capacity or efficiency of the 
Group’s capital base.
The main items of necessary ongoing capital expenditure are cobalt 
60 for medical device sterilisation services as the radiation source 
for gamma sterilisation plants, textiles for the linen business, and 
general replacement of plant and machinery around the Group. 
Total maintenance capital expenditure was £21.8 million of which 
£4.7 million and £10.7 million were spent on cobalt and textiles 
respectively. The remaining balance comprised plant and machinery 
and IT. 
Total investment capital expenditure was £15.0 million, of which 
£7.3 million relates to construction of new UK hospital sterilisation 
facilities, £4.6 million relates to cobalt and £3.1 million was spent on 
textiles, plant and machinery, and IT capital expenditure.
We expect to see investment capital expenditure increase in the 
current year as we expand global sterilisation capacity, continue 
to build new hospital sterilisation facilities in the UK and invest in 
standardised IT systems to support the business as it grows 
internationally.
3.5 Financing
The movement in financing resulted primarily from a small net 
drawdown of borrowings on the revolving credit facility.
Finance Director’s report
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 20 Who we are Our strategy Governance Financials Operating and financial review
4. Net debt and funding
4.1 Net debt
Strong cash generation contributed to the reduction in net debt during 
the period from £133.4 million to £112.3 million.
The movement in the net debt is reconciled below:
Figure 3: Movement in net debt
£m
Net debt as at 28 March 2010 133.4
Exchange rate impacts 1.8
Free cash flow (52.6)
Investment capital expenditure 15.0
Acquisitions 8.1
Dividends paid 7.8
Proceeds from share issues (1.2)
Net debt as at 3 April 2011 112.3
4.2 Funding
Existing facility
The Group’s current banking agreement comprises a facility of 
£160 million split equally between a bullet facility and revolving credit 
facility. Under the terms of that agreement the Group can borrow up 
to £232 million, provided this does not exceed 3.0 times EBITDA. 
This facility is due to expire in January 2012. The Group is, and 
confidently expects to remain, well within its banking covenant 
limits for the remainder of the facility term.
As at 3 April 2011, the Group had total available facilities of 
£197 million of which £151 million was drawn. The drawn amount 
included £127 million under the main facility, together with finance 
leases, local lending lines in overseas subsidiaries and overdrafts.
The debt is held mainly in Sterling, Euros and US Dollars, with the 
currency mix and the level of fixed interest debt within each currency 
as at 3 April 2011 being as follows:
Figure 4: Composition of gross debt as at 3 April 2011
Level of debt  
£m
Level of fixed  
interest debt  
£m
Sterling 53.6 9.2
Euros 65.6 10.5
US Dollar 23.6 –
Chinese Yuan 8.3 –
Total 151.1 19.7
Gross debt at 3 April 2011 was significantly higher than net debt due 
to funds having been drawn for the anticipated completion of the 
acquisition of BeamOne.
Refinancing
We are in advanced discussions with an identified club of banks 
in respect of new unsecured five year revolving credit facilities to 
replace the existing facility. The main points of the new multi-currency 
facilities agreement have been agreed and the legal documentation 
is being finalised. 
5. Pensions
The Group operates three final salary schemes in the UK, one in 
the Netherlands, and one in Germany, following the acquisition of GSP . 
The Group also operates several defined contribution schemes.
The movement in defined benefit pension scheme liabilities 
is shown below:
Figure 5: Defined benefit pension schemes
Year ended  
3 April 2011  
£m
Year ended  
28 March 2010 
£m
Synergy Healthcare plc Retirement 
Benefits Scheme 1.2 1.5
Shiloh Group Pension Scheme 1.0 1.9
Vernon Carus Limited Pension and 
Assurance Scheme 8.2 10.3
Isotron BV Pension and Assurance 
Scheme 1.3 1.7
GSP 0.6 –
Balance sheet liabilities 12.3 15.4
In the UK the Group is required to maintain a final salary pension 
scheme for employees who have transferred from the NHS, which has 
to be acceptable to the Government’s Actuary Department. With the 
exception of NHS transfers, the Group’s defined benefit schemes are 
closed to new entrants. Effective from 1 April 2011 we have closed the 
three UK schemes to future accruals; active members have been 
transferred to deferred status and invited to join the Group’s UK 
defined contribution scheme.
At 3 April 2011, the net liability arising from our defined benefit scheme 
obligations was £12.3 million (2010: £15.4 million). An increase in the 
asset base and a small reduction in liabilities due to a change in 
inflation assumptions are the primary reasons for the fall in the 
total deficit.
Gavin Hill 
Group Finance Director
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 21 Principal risks and uncertainties 
Since 2007 the Group has continued to expand and enhance its 
Risk Management efforts that identify, assess and mitigate against 
the main challenges it faces. This effort is led by the Director of Risk 
Management who works closely with the senior directors and 
managers around the Group to find the best solutions to the risks 
that arise in a rapidly changing business environment.
The Senior Executive Board (‘SEB’) is responsible for setting and 
communicating an acceptable level of risk. They are also responsible 
for ensuring that systems remain in place, through appropriate 
delegation into the management chain, for managing risks whilst 
avoiding actions that could stifle business expansion.
Well established risk groups exist in each business sector and carry 
out regular reviews of the specific risks they face. These groups 
produce detailed risk registers that clearly identify the most serious 
threats to the business and communicate this message back to the 
SEB. The groups are also responsible for developing and implementing 
solutions and contingency plans to reduce all risks to a level that 
matches the Group’s risk appetite. 
Progress is monitored by the SEB to ensure that actions are taken 
within agreed timescales. The process is fully contained and self 
regulating through the processes of review, report, action, monitor and 
report again. As individual risk scores drop to become less significant 
they are archived and then go into a two year review cycle. As a result, 
the risk registers do not become too large, and focus on the most 
significant current challenges facing the business.
During the past year the turmoil in the world markets continued to 
throw up situations that required us to modify our risk programme. 
Those which have been deemed to pose the highest threat are listed 
below under the following headings:
• Commercial 
• Financial
• Operational
• Legal compliance
• People
Commercial
Business retention and expansion
A number of different factors come together to make trading conditions 
more uncertain across our different sectors. The serious economic 
conditions in Ireland could pose a threat to our medical device 
sterilisation services business should any fiscal changes make it a less 
attractive market for US multinational device manufacturers to do 
business there. Low cost imports and changing buying patterns in the 
NHS pose a threat to our Healthcare Solutions business in retaining 
and expanding its product offerings. Similarly, the UK Government’s 
proposals to replace 152 primary care trusts with GP consortia will 
require us to understand how we can maintain our success in offering 
outsourced sterilisation services to hospitals.
Mitigation
By ensuring that we maintain our cost leadership approach and can 
demonstrate value for money combined with excellence of service, 
there is no reason why we cannot continue to capture new business. 
The recent acquisition of GSP gives our Europe and Middle East region 
access to new markets and expansion opportunities. Rationalising 
and consolidating our manufacturing processes should also drive 
down costs and improve quality and delivery.
Commodity prices
Increasing demand, especially from Asia, for oil and other raw 
materials, coupled with natural disasters, and unrest in the Middle 
East, has resulted in sharp price increases. At the same time economic 
recession is putting downward pressure on prices and squeezing 
margins. The recent floods in Pakistan resulted in the loss of much 
of the cotton harvest and our linen businesses in the UK and the 
Netherlands are seeing rising costs and less availability. Oil prices 
continue to rise making energy dependent processes and distribution 
operations more expensive.
Mitigation
A two fold strategy on energy has enabled us to contain some of the 
recent increases. Our efforts to drive down energy use through a 
structured energy management programme combined with hedging 
a proportion of our energy costs have been effective in this regard. 
Further, certain of our customer contracts allow for prices to be 
index-linked to utility prices. Our competitors are facing the same 
pressures and it is our challenge to out-perform them and be in a 
position to capture new business based on cost and quality of service.
Financial
New business – financial control and reporting
As the Group expands into new markets and jurisdictions, the risk 
of not being able to maintain adequate financial controls increases. 
This risk includes potential local tax problems, as well as ensuring 
that new investments realise their anticipated potential. Making sure 
that financial reporting from new businesses is accurate and complies 
with current approved practices will be key elements in avoiding 
financial under-performance and impact on profits and long term 
shareholder value.
Mitigation
The teams in our Asia and Africa and Americas regions, where the 
fastest growth is expected, include employees with extensive financial 
experience who have worked in the region over many years. We also 
take local professional advice and have well established relationships 
in all territories. Improvements, including peer reviews, are planned 
for 2012. Both in Asia and elsewhere, Synergy closely evaluates the 
strategic effects of its investments by forming multidisciplinary teams 
who are tasked with ensuring that new ventures are compatible with 
the long term goals of the business.
Legacy risks
As an acquisitive business, Synergy faces the risk of inheriting 
outstanding debts and liabilities. One area where we face some 
exposure is in the UK final salary pension scheme deficits for the 
former Shiloh, Vernon Carus and Synergy Healthcare parts of 
our business. 
Mitigation
We have been actively developing a strategy of deficit reduction 
through better and more proactive management of the schemes. 
With the exception of NHS transfers, the Group’s defined benefit 
schemes are closed to new entrants and with effect from 1 April 2011, 
we have closed all three UK schemes to future accruals; active 
members have been transferred to deferred status, and invited to join 
the Group’s defined contribution scheme. 
In other areas, extensive due diligence is carried out to make sure that 
any acquisitions, whilst offering opportunities for growth, represent 
a sound investment and will not threaten the financial health of 
the Group. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 22 Who we are Our strategy Governance Financials Operating and financial review
Operational
Security and safety of critical facilities
Cost leadership requires us to carefully consider all new investment 
and to maximise the return we can obtain from existing assets. Our 
success in capturing new business across all our operational sectors 
increases the pressure on individual facilities to maintain high levels of 
service. The sudden unexpected loss of a facility, due to fire or natural 
disaster, could impact on service and compromise the Group’s ability 
to meet customer expectations. Customers are becoming more 
sophisticated in evaluating their suppliers in areas such as contingency 
planning, and we need to be able to demonstrate that our response to 
disaster will be adequate to satisfy their requirements.
Mitigation
Throughout the past year we have continued to evaluate and develop 
our Business Continuity Planning. We remain committed to treating 
this as an area of continual improvement, so we can not only meet but 
exceed the expectations of our customers. Throughout the coming 
year we will work with our risk management partners to find better 
solutions to potential scenarios where we may need to initiate disaster 
recovery processes. Combined with this programme, we also strive to 
improve our control of the working environment and implement risk 
reduction measures to minimise the likelihood of any loss occurring. 
Information Technology (‘IT’)
The increasing size and sophistication of the Group’s operations 
inevitably leads to a greater dependence on IT systems. These 
systems include financial and ERP systems which are used widely 
across the business, integrating with plant control software that may 
have its use limited to a single site or key piece of plant. Inevitably, 
these systems and the platforms they rely on can become outdated, 
redundant or unable to cope with the increased demand resulting 
from business growth. The Group is exposed to risks arising from 
outdated systems inherited through acquisitions, which could slow 
its growth and development.
Mitigation
The Group has initiated ‘Project Olympic’, which is designed to deliver 
a new worldwide financial system, to replace our older ERP systems 
and some operational control systems, and to provide central support 
on a modern platform that will be able to expand as the Group grows. 
A project board sponsored by the Group Finance Director has been set 
up to complete this project in 2012. The completion of this project is 
expected to eliminate many of the potential IT-related concerns and 
improve the efficiency of financial reporting. It will also create 
opportunities for improved innovation, scalability and cost reduction.
Quality risks
Our business relies on maintaining the highest level of quality 
assurance to protect patient safety. There can be no compromises 
in our commitment to deliver world class quality by developing and 
implementing procedures and training. When errors do occur, it is 
essential that lessons are learnt and where necessary, procedures and 
work methods are adapted to prevent repetition. Failure to achieve this 
would result in a loss of confidence by our customers and increasing 
difficulty in retaining existing business and attracting new customers. 
Mitigation
The Group continues to invest in improving its quality assurance 
programmes. The appointment of a Quality Director for the UK and 
Ireland emphasises this commitment towards excellence. Synergy will 
continue to evaluate and develop both its human and technological 
resources so it can exceed the minimum requirements set under 
international standards and those expected by our customers.
Legal compliance
Changes in legislation
Maintaining legal compliance in respect of financial, environmental, 
health and safety, and other requirements, worldwide, is a significant 
challenge. European Directives set the framework for national laws 
within the EU but the interpretation and application can vary widely 
in differing national jurisdictions. Responding inappropriately to new 
regulations can expose the Group to censure and uninsurable losses 
if fines are imposed. In the UK, the Corporate Manslaughter and 
Corporate Homicide Act 2007 and The Bribery Act 2010 impose risk 
exposures on the Company and its officers. Understanding and 
reacting correctly to these new laws will be an essential requirement in 
avoiding legal sanction.
Mitigation
The Group has appointed senior directors and managers to take 
responsibility for maintaining legal compliance within the different 
jurisdictions where we operate. This extends to corporate governance, 
safety and environmental areas. Our Company Secretary, in 
partnership with selected specialist advisers, ensures that our 
standards of corporate governance reach the highest standards. 
Though our risk management processes the implications of new 
regulations are assessed and required changes and mitigation put 
in place.
People risks
Loss of critical knowledge
The Group operates in a number of specialist areas providing 
outsourced services for companies who do not wish to invest directly 
in the expertise and technology required to carry out these services for 
themselves. As such Synergy has an interest in attracting and retaining 
the best people. Failure to continue to do this could compromise the 
successful growth of the Group into new markets and impact on 
long term shareholder value.
Mitigation
Synergy has long recognised the importance of its employees and has 
sought to provide an attractive and exciting environment for individuals 
to develop and prosper by contributing to the success of the business. 
The introduction of development and leadership programmes, along 
with our graduate recruitment programme underline this commitment. 
In 2011 we have appointed a Group Talent Manager to co-ordinate and 
improve our current efforts further.
 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 23 Corporate Social Responsibility
Overview
Synergy is expanding its engagement with issues of 
Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’), recognising the 
importance of managing day-to-day activities in a 
responsible way, being accountable for the impact of all 
operational activities on the environment and our local 
communities, and creating a working environment in which 
our colleagues can ﬂourish. CSR is a business approach 
that creates value by embracing opportunities and 
managing risks deriving from economic, environmental 
and social developments whilst maintaining global 
competitiveness and brand reputation.
We recently received a rating of 87/100 in the FTSE4good index, 
which is designed to measure the performance of companies that 
meet globally recognised corporate social responsibility standards. 
In early 2011, we developed a Group CEO-led team to implement a 
CSR Programme, which consists of representatives from different 
areas of our business. To ensure the standards are cascaded 
effectively throughout our business, the plc and Senior Executive 
Boards are updated on progress within the programme on a 
regular basis.
In the past year, a second team has worked on a project to link 
Synergy’s core values to its brand, with the objective of creating a 
sustainable culture and leadership environment. We chose our 
name Synergy as an expression of the way we can work together 
with our colleagues, customers and other stakeholders. We want to 
achieve improved business outcomes by working collaboratively, and 
it is important that we share common values as we expand globally. 
We have taken into account the needs of our stakeholders and 
prioritised the key areas within our CSR programme listed below.
Community relationships Using our knowledge
Charitable partnerships and giving Educating others
Employee fundraising Help to healthcare
Community projects
Workplace environment Environmental issues
Diversity at work Energy and carbon reduction
Employee training and development Transport pollution
Health of employees Recycling
Employee retention Materials 
Health and safety Waste management
Risk management
Quality management
We have also analysed our current performance to create a list of 
objectives to meet the responsibilities of our business:
•  Involving our business and employees in supporting the community
•  Supporting healthcare related charities
•  Using our knowledge and experience to interact at healthcare 
related events 
•  Enhancing our internal communication methods, which will assist 
in improving our business performance
•  Using employee engagement surveys to understand the areas of 
improvement to continue our successful employee relationships
•  Continuing the improvement of our health and safety performance
•  Managing and minimising the waste and use of materials from 
our services
•  Continuing to improve the efficiency of our energy use globally
Synergy Health was announced as the proud winner of  
the Greater China Rising Star Award at the Greater China 
Achievement in International Trade Awards organised by 
the UK Trade Investment (UKTI) on Friday 4th February 
at the Lowry Theatre in Salford, UK.
The panel of judges praised Synergy Health, who have 
developed local partnerships with Chinese hospitals to 
help them comply with healthcare standards introduced 
by the Chinese Ministry of Health in 2009.
Employee success 
Winning the Greater China Business Award
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 24 Our strategy Governance Financials Operating and financial review Who we are
Talent management 
Training across the business
An introduction from the Chief Executive
Corporate Social Responsibility is integral to the future of our business, 
and we have developed both Internal Branding and Corporate Social 
Responsibility teams to progress these aspects of our business. 
I am pleased to sponsor both of these programmes and to provide 
supportive leadership. 
Our internal branding team has been responsible for defining and 
articulating the values that define Synergy and then set out a 
programme that will see these values embedded within the Synergy 
Health brand. One of the key objectives of developing our internal 
brand identity is to create a sustainable, Group-wide culture that lives 
beyond a small number of senior leaders in our business. In time we 
also expect that this will create a source of competitive advantage as 
we seek to differentiate Synergy through the actions of our people.
Our CSR team is tasked with developing Group-wide policies that will 
see Synergy more engaged with its local communities, reducing the 
impact of its operations on the environment and creating a positive 
environment for its employees. 
We are delighted at the success of our education days in the past year 
for external audiences. Building relationships is very important to our 
business, and we would like to see improvements in establishing 
community relationships, along with more involvement in charitable 
work. We shall be encouraging our employees to choose a Company 
charity in the coming months.
Our success over the past 20 years has been derived from the 
creative, committed and talented people that we have within our 
Group. We continue to make a commitment to broaden the training, 
support, and development opportunities that our employees deserve 
at all levels of the business. In addition we are committed to reviewing 
and improving the working environment in support of our diversity 
policy and our objectives of ensuring that we attract and retain the 
very best people. 
We have made progress in the past few years to improve the effect of 
our services environmentally, which has resulted in reducing the level 
of total carbon emissions by over 7% in the past financial year, in part 
resulting in the award of the Carbon Trust Standard. Looking ahead we 
will continue to improve our energy utilisation and broaden our efforts 
in 2012 to make progress on improving our waste management 
controls, enabling the business to reduce the levels of absolute waste, 
along with providing and using more recycling facilities. This will give us 
a great base to continue to improve our environmental performance.
Despite the challenging economic climate and the broader ambitions 
of the Group, we are pleased to have achieved so much progress in 
the past year, and we look forward to making further progress in the 
coming year. 
Community relationships
Charitable relationships
There are many examples of Synergy’s employees organising 
charitable events internally. The Company has also supported 
charitable activities such as donating funds for important 
healthcare equipment.
There is scope for further development within this area, which will 
start by the implementation of a Company charity to be chosen by 
employees. To ensure the partnership is effective, the Company is 
donating employee time for charitable activities. 
Even though there will be a designated Company charity, we will 
continue to support employees who are involved in other fundraising 
exercises. In the past individual facilities have arranged fundraising 
events and we are encouraging this to continue in the future.
Work in the community
We believe in supporting and building relationships within local 
communities. We feel it is important for more people to understand the 
work we do and to understand the commitment we have to improving 
safety and reducing risk through our high quality services. 
A prime example is our sterilisation business, which recently held a 
student educational day in conjunction with the Swindon Academy. 
Sixth-form students from the academy were provided with a tour of 
the Gamma site at Elgin and the South Marston laboratory, as well 
as receiving presentations from key personnel in the business. 
Additionally, our Senior Management team has been active in 
providing talks and advice for university students looking for 
recruitment opportunities in the upcoming year.
We look to build on these achievements by continuing to offer such 
educational days for local schools, and build stronger relationships with 
hospitals in return for their continued support of our services.
Thought leadership
Help to healthcare
Our vision is to build a lasting reputation as the trusted experts in 
global health-related markets by differentiating our services and 
products through the way we work. The healthcare sector has 
provided a platform to build a successful business, and we would like 
to continue to work within the industry to share ideas and energy to 
inspire continuous improvement through innovative change.
We work within a wide range of locations with different standards of 
healthcare, and there are plenty of opportunities for us to improve 
these standards on a global basis. We are proud of our work in China 
to aid the development of safety standards in Chinese hospitals. 
We recently entered into a formal partnership with the China Britain 
Education Centre in a project to promote mutual exchanges in ideas, 
knowledge and innovation amongst medical professions.
To underline our achievements in this area, we have been awarded the 
‘Greater China Rising Star Award’ at the Greater China Achievement in 
International Trade ceremony, and the ‘Most Promising New Business 
Award’ by the British Chamber of Commerce in China. We were 
praised for developing local partnerships with Chinese hospitals to help 
them comply with healthcare standards introduced by the Chinese 
Ministry of Health in 2009, and the unique proposition to China’s 
Synergy continues to invest in its 
teams to expand and deepen the 
Group’s talent pool.
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 25 healthcare community as well as commitment to developing the 
Chinese management skills through our graduate programme.
We are targeting closer working relationships with selected universities 
to aid development within the healthcare sector, and provide 
opportunities to help medical professionals with their development. 
For example, we have been working in partnership with Queen’s 
University, Belfast providing electron beam services for a research 
project on bioresorbable polymers. After our recent American 
acquisition, we intend to develop a strategy to help reduce infection 
rates within the USA, and continue our work to improve healthcare 
standards in China.
Educating stakeholders in our markets
Since the Company was formed in 1991, our business and employees 
have built up a wide range of knowledge in sterilisation, infection 
control and other health related areas. We are committed to sharing 
this knowledge with a variety of people to educate them in the fields 
of our services.
For example, in the past year our sterilisation business has held a 
series of education days to broaden knowledge in this complex field 
and to ultimately raise standards within the healthcare sector. These 
education days have included:
•  Microbiological validation and compliance for medical devices
•  Electron beam featuring a tour of our Tullamore facility
•  A Good Cleanroom Practice and Environmental Monitoring day
•  An analysis of the various sterilisation processing techniques, 
along with discussing effects on polymers and the usage of 
electronic components
•  Ethylene oxide education day introducing theory and technology 
as well as a practical insight into the validation process
Looking ahead we shall continue to hold our successful education 
days as well as broaden our contribution and thought leadership to 
both global and local healthcare markets. 
Workplace environment
Our values
To progress the Branding and CSR Programmes, we have outlined 
the common values in our business. A leadership model has been 
developed that includes our four core values and our intention is to 
have these values embedded within the Synergy brand.
Thinking
Analytical thinking
Innovation
Information seeking
Oraganisation awareness 
and alignment
Technical and 
professional expertise
Driving forward
Customer focus
Commercial acumen
Initiative and pro-activity
Planning and organising
Focusing on results
Developing  
self & others
Adaptability
Concern for accuracy
Decisiveness
Resilience
Self-development and 
coaching others
Leading  
& interacting
Communication
Inﬂuencing and 
persuading
Interpersonal skills
Relationship building
Teamwork
Leadership
Achievement
Integrity
Innovation
Accountability
Achievement – We believe our success comes from our focus on 
exceeding expectations and our commitment to go that extra mile, 
however small the difference may seem.
Accountability – We take personal responsibility for our actions and 
are equipped to take the right course of action.
Integrity – We believe that the way we work is as important as what we 
do. We care deeply about the quality of our work and inspire trust by 
delivering on promises.
Innovation – We achieve the best possible results by working with 
customers to develop new ways of solving problems and reducing risk. 
Our ethics policy can be found online at:  
http://www.synergyhealthplc.com/investor-relations/code-of-ethics.aspx
Corporate Social Responsibility
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 26 Our strategy Governance Financials Operating and financial review Who we are
Training and development
It takes a certain type of person to work at Synergy, one who 
understands the importance of the work we do, recognises the 
implications of their actions, and can make a difference with the 
development of the business. We understand that our employees 
are a core asset to our continued success, and we are focused on 
attracting and retaining talented and committed personnel. Strong 
growth within the business has given opportunities for our employees 
to develop their skills, and progress their career within the business. 
Our Human Resources department works closely with managers 
and employees to meet their aspirations for personal growth and 
development. We perform an organisational capability review to assess 
the management team’s performance against the skills required, along 
with development centres to access their potential, and assist them to 
create development plans. Our employees have semi-annual and 
annual performance reviews. 
At our Senior Executive Board meetings, a minimum of four talent 
reviews are undertaken per year where the Board discusses the talent 
within the business with a view to how they can develop further. 
An example of our desire to grow and develop our talent pool is our 
Graduate Management Training Programme, which has been in place 
since 2008 to recruit and develop high calibre graduates.
We are expanding the use of 360-degree feedback in all business 
areas and using development centres to monitor the skills and 
development areas of our employees. We aim to put KPIs in place 
which measure people’s mobility in the Company. As part of our 
diversity programme we have informal mentoring schemes in place, 
and we will be setting out support networks to assist women and other 
specific groups in the business to further advance their careers.
Employee opinions
Employee engagement is important and we have a number of systems 
in place that enable us to understand the views of our employees. 
These include employee forums, works councils and engagement 
surveys. The next major survey is in 2011 where we intend to more 
fully understand the perception of our business in relation to our 
brand values.
The Company has a Senior Leadership Community, which involves the 
top 65 managers from across the Group. The community is in place to 
build cross-divisional working practices and ensure that information 
and expertise is shared across the different businesses, along with 
engaging management, and developing their leadership skills. We are 
looking to increase the visibility and interaction of senior management 
across the business. 
Diversity at work
Our leadership embraces diversity, creating the right environment 
for people from all walks of life to contribute to our pool of talent. 
We passionately believe that our future success is dependent on 
attracting and retaining people from a cross section of our communities 
and in doing so, we will create competitive advantage for Synergy. We 
promote a supportive and inclusive culture for all our employees and 
third-party business partners. However, we also recognise that there is 
a need to create the right environment to support our diversity strategy, 
and the senior leadership of Synergy together with the CSR team are 
looking at how we develop our business to improve its attractiveness to 
new recruits as well as to provide support networks for minority groups 
within our business to positively support their personal development.
Senior leadership
This year we welcomed Constance Baroudel to the plc Board as the 
first of two appointments that will see a more appropriate balance 
between men and women on the Board. Within our Senior Leadership 
Community, which represents our top global 65 leaders, women 
represent just 17% of the community. Whilst we are not intending to 
set targets per se, we are putting in place support networks to ensure 
that all of our people who have senior leadership potential are given 
adequate support and to ensure that there are not artificial barriers that 
would impede their career development within Synergy. We take a 
similar view towards ethnicity, where we believe we would benefit from 
a much more diverse population of senior leaders.
Ethnicity
There is a wide range of ethnic groups within the business, largely 
due to our spread of facilities around the globe. The UK and Ireland, 
and Europe in particular consist of mainly white employees, and as 
these regions account for a high proportion of our workforce, it 
disproportionately influences the overall ethnic diversity of our Group. 
The Group is looking to introduce a mobility policy with the intention 
of broadening employees’ international experience and creating the 
opportunity for minority groups to achieve senior leadership roles.
Age
Our business possesses a number of strong teams to carry out and 
improve our day-to-day services. The age profile by region is set out 
below, and the data is used for development and succession planning 
to ensure the long term sustainability of the Group.
UK & Ireland
Europe & Middle East
Asia & Africa
Americas
Total
Ethnicity %
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
White Asian Black Asian
(Chinese,
Thai)
Hispanic Mixed 
Race/
Other
UK & Ireland
Europe & Middle East
Asia & Africa
Americas
Total
Age comparison %
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Under 30 30-39 40-49 50-59 Over 60
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 27 Gender
We promote a supportive and inclusive culture within our business, 
with equal opportunities for both genders. 54% of our workforce 
are women.
Health and safety
Synergy is committed to upholding high standards of health and safety 
consistently around the globe. Our track record is strong, meeting and 
in most cases exceeding externally benchmarked standards.
Our Group Safety Standard was introduced in 2009 to assist managers 
to understand and implement safe systems of work across the Group. 
Core activities, such as hazard assessment, manual handling, and 
contractor control are seen as essential requirements in attaining a 
safe workplace. Training has been provided to managers and other 
employees to further improve performance. We have continued to 
implement an independent audit system across our sites, with every 
site fully inspected and reports prepared that clearly identify where 
improvements can be achieved.
The CSR Programme will aid our progress in raising health and 
safety standards with our healthcare customers as well as reinforce 
our diligence within the business. We are improving the availability 
of health and safety data to our employees and will use these statistics 
to help identify and achieve best practice. 
Environmental issues
Energy and carbon reduction
We are committed to ensuring that our services minimise their impact 
on the environment. There will always be a need for a substantial level 
of energy use given the nature of our services; however it is important 
that we continue to reduce carbon emissions and our environmental 
impact. Our initiatives have resulted in some substantial reductions 
in our carbon footprint this year as well as recognition for our efforts 
and approach.
In October 2010 we were accredited with the Carbon Trust Standard. 
The accreditation was awarded following Company wide dedication to 
achieving carbon emission reductions. The level of carbon emissions 
from the business has fallen between 2010 and 2011, and the changes 
in consumption by type of utility are shown in the table below.
In relative terms the change in emissions per unit of activity (weighted 
to total energy consumption) across the Group is down 7.1%. The 
overall reduction in tonnes of CO2 per £ of revenue is 2.9% in real 
terms after adjusting for price inflation. Each measure indicates that 
our carbon emission reduction targets for 2011 have been exceeded. 
The outcomes from this year indicate a growing and sustainable 
carbon management and reduction culture in our organisation as a 
whole. The table below shows the absolute carbon emissions along 
with the total utility usage.
2009/10 2010/11 Variance Variance %
Absolute Carbon 
Emissions (tC02) 48,700 46,200 (2,500) (5.1%)
– UK and Ireland 14,000 12,100 (1,900) (13.4%)
–  Europe and 
Middle East 30,500 29,400 (1,100) (3.4%)
– Asia and Africa 4,200 4,600 405 9.7%
Total Utilities 
(mWh) 190,300 181,900 (8,400) (4.4%)
– Electricity 47,000 43,700 (3,300) (7.1%)
– Gas 141,700 136,900 (4,800) (3.4%)
– Oil 1,600 1,300 (300) (18.8%)
The use of gas accounts for 75% of our total energy consumption with 
the majority of the 4.4% reduction in overall energy coming from gas 
and electricity. The reduction in gas was led by changes in production 
within our Dutch linen business (-6%) and Thorne sterilisation facility 
(-16%). Electricity consumption fell 7% by 3.3 million kWh, almost half 
of which came from reconfiguring work in our sterilisation facilities. 
We are pleased with our achievement in reducing our energy use 
and carbon emissions and we will continue to work at reducing these 
levels. We are analysing our operational performance to identify areas 
in which to minimise our usage further.
UK & Ireland
Europe & Middle East
Asia & Africa
Americas
Total
Gender comparison %
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Male Female
Corporate Social Responsibility
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 28 Our strategy Governance Financials Operating and financial review Who we are
Transport
Transportation is pivotal to our services, especially in ensuring a fast- 
track turnaround for medical instruments to our hospital customers. 
Each of our facilities has an objective to provide our logistics services 
as efficiently as possible with a minimum impact on the environment. 
Our vehicle capacity utilisation rates are monitored, trucks are 
increasingly fitted with wind deflectors and we are investigating 
alternative energy sources. We have adopted a company car policy 
which has reduced the number of cars and C02 levels between 2010 
and 2011. The following table shows statistics on our car and 
commercial fleet usage levels.
Cars
Commercial  
fleet
2010 2011 2010 2011
Number of cars 78 66 72 77
Average C02 
per vehicle 306 270 324 297
Total C02 
for fleet 11,940 8,900 23,327 22,850
The business has expanded its video conferencing technology to 
reduce the need for travel, and further conferencing units will be 
installed at existing sites, as well as our recently acquired BeamOne 
facilities in the USA and Costa Rica.
Recycling and waste management
This year the CSR team has launched a new initiative to reduce 
the amount of waste that the Group generates and to increase 
the level of recycling. Whilst the Group complies with its waste 
management obligations, this new initiative will set targets to reduce 
waste production, further reducing the impact our business has on 
the environment.
Quality management
Our businesses are heavily regulated by local and international 
standards. An independent Quality Management System (QMS) 
has been developed within each sector of the business, with 
experienced quality management professionals working closely with 
their operational colleagues to implement documented systems that 
comply with all applicable standards. All our sites are certified to 
the appropriate standards, giving our customers the assurance that 
they are receiving a quality service. Our hospital sterilisation sites are 
CE certified for medical device processing, and our medical device 
sterilisation facilities are approved to the necessary ISO standards. 
This commitment to quality was demonstrated when our site at Suzhou 
became the first hospital sterilisation facility in China to be accredited 
to ISO 13485 and ISO 9001.
There are a number of internal audits implemented throughout the 
year, which provide the opportunity to implement best practice and 
reduce non-compliance rates to the lowest practicable levels possible. 
We recognise the long term success of the Group depends on its 
ability to consistently provide services of the highest quality. Last year 
this approach resulted in a number of successful new business 
projects including:
•  The certification of a new hospital sterilisation site in Leicester.
•  The granting of a pharmaceutical manufacturing licence to our 
Healthcare Solutions facility in Chorley.
These developments prove our commitment to quality and our ability 
to obtain all necessary regulatory approval required by the business, 
and by our customers.
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 29
Environmental accreditation 
The Carbon Trust Standard
Synergy Health plc has been accredited 
with the prestigious Carbon Trust Standard. 
The accreditation was awarded to the 
specialist outsourced service provider 
following company wide dedication to 
achieving carbon emission reductions.
In order to achieve the Standard, 
the company established a Carbon 
Management Team comprising of 
representatives from each division.  Board of Directors
1 Robert Lerwill
Non-executive Chairman
Robert was appointed as a non-executive 
Director of the Company in January 2005 and 
Chairman in September 2010. He is currently 
a non-executive Director and Chairman of the 
audit committee of BAT plc and non-executive 
Director and Chairman of the audit committee 
of Transcom Worldwide SA. Until November 
2008, Robert was Chief Executive of Aegis 
Group plc. Between 1997 and 2003 Robert 
was an executive Director of Cable & Wireless 
plc, and prior to that was Group Finance 
Director of WPP Group plc. Robert qualified as 
a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen. 
He is Chairman of the Company’s Nomination 
and Audit Committees and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
2 Richard Steeves
Group Chief Executive
Richard founded the business in 1991 and 
was appointed Chief Executive in 1992. 
Previously he was corporate development 
manager for Braithwaite plc, a plant hire 
company, and associate consultant with 
strategic consultants, LEK Consulting. 
Richard has a PhD in biochemistry from 
St John’s College, Cambridge and a BSc 
(1st Class Hons) in human physiology from 
the University of British Columbia in 
Vancouver, Canada. Richard is a Companion 
of the Chartered Management Institute.
3 Gavin Hill
Group Finance Director
Gavin joined the Group as Finance Director 
in April 2010. He was previously Director, 
Corporate Finance for Serco Group plc 
following a number of divisional Finance 
Director and Commercial roles. Prior to 
Serco, Gavin worked for Syngenta AG and 
AstraZeneca plc in both Finance and 
Corporate Treasury. Gavin is a chartered 
accountant and associate member of the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers.
4 Sir Duncan K Nichol
Non-executive Director
Duncan became a non-executive Director in 
November 2002. He was Chief Executive of 
the National Health Service Management 
Executive between 1989 and 1994, and a 
non-executive Director of BUPA between 
1994 and 2002. Duncan is currently a 
non-executive Director of Lorica Group, 
Deltex Medical Group plc, the Christie NHS 
Foundation Trust and UKAS. He is also 
Chairman of Skills for Justice. Duncan was 
Chairman of HM Courts Service Board for 
England and Wales between April 2008 
and March 2011. He is Chairman of the 
Company’s Remuneration Committee and 
a member of the Audit and Nomination 
Committees.
5 Constance Baroudel
Non-executive Director
Constance was appointed to the Board as a 
non-executive Director in September 2010. 
She is the Group Director of Strategic 
Marketing at De La Rue plc. Prior to De La 
Rue she was a senior consultant for Strategic 
Decisions Group. Constance attended 
l’Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris where 
she majored in corporate finance and 
international relations. Constance also has 
an MSc in International Accounting and 
Finance from the London School of 
Economics. Constance is a member of 
the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees.
1 2 3 5 4
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 30 Who we are Our strategy Operating and financial review Financials Governance
Senior Executive Board and Advisors
6 7 8 9 10
Senior Executive Board
Richard Steeves
Group Chief Executive
Gavin Hill
Group Finance Director
6 Marcello Smit
 CEO Europe and Middle East
7 Paul Santing
 Group Commercial Director
8 Tim Mason
 Group Company Secretary
9 Glenn Thibault
 CEO Americas
10 Adrian Coward
 CEO UK and Ireland
 Paul Wynne
 CEO Asia and Africa
Company registration number: 
3355631
Registered office: 
Ground Floor Stella 
Windmill Hill Business Park 
Whitehill Way 
Swindon Wiltshire SN5 6NX
Secretary:
T C Mason MA, FCIS, MCIPD 
Advisors
Bankers:
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
25 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7HN
The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc  
Third Floor 
3 Temple Back East 
Bristol BS1 6DZ
Joint brokers:
Investec Bank 
(UK) Ltd  
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP
Morgan Stanley & Co 
International plc 
20 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4AD
Auditors:
KPMG Audit plc 
St Nicholas House 
Park Row 
Nottingham NG1 6FQ
Registrars:
Computershare 
Investor Services plc 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Solicitors:
Taylor Wessing LLP 
5 New Street Square 
Blackfriars 
London EC4A 3TW
DLA Piper UK LLP 
Victoria Square House 
Victoria Square 
Birmingham B2 4DL
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 31 Report of the Directors 
The Directors present their management report together with financial 
statements for the period ended 3 April 2011. 
Principal activity  
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of outsourced 
healthcare support services and contract sterilisation services.  
Business review  
The Business Review comprises the chairman’s statement on page 3, 
the Chief Executive’s review on page 6 and the Finance Director’s report 
on page 18. 
A separate report on page 22 sets out the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group.  
A further separate report on page 24 sets out Corporate and Social 
Responsibility activities. 
The Chief Executive’s report on page 6 sets out the main trends and 
factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position 
of the Group’s business. 
Results and dividends 
There was a profit for the period after taxation amounting to 
£28,799,000 (2010: £22,159,000). An interim dividend of £3,298,000 
(2010:£2,676,000) was paid on 10 December 2010. A final dividend 
of £5,421,000 (2010: second interim £4,540,000) is proposed by 
the Board for the period ended 3 April 2011. The final dividend will, 
subject to shareholders’ approval, be paid on 6 September 2011 to 
shareholders on the register at 12 August 2011. A review of the Group’s 
performance for the period ended 3 April 2011 is contained in the 
Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review and the Finance 
Director’s report. 
Share capital 
As at 3 April 2011 the Company’s authorised share capital consisted 
of one class of 106,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.625 pence each of 
which there were 55,090,782 ordinary shares in issue. No shares were 
held in Treasury. At that date the authority granted to the Company 
for the purchase of up to 5,479,520 ordinary shares remained in force 
and unused.  
The rights and obligations attached to the Company’s ordinary shares, 
and restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in 
the Company’s Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained 
from Companies House in the UK or the Company Secretary. 
Shareholders are entitled to receive dividends, when declared; to receive
the Company’s reports and accounts; to attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company; to appoint proxies; and to exercise voting 
rights.  
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with 
regard to control of the Company. The Company is not aware of any 
agreements between the holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. Unless 
expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the 
Company, the Company’s Articles of Association may be amended by 
a special resolution of the Company’s shareholders. 
The Company issued 386,569 ordinary shares of 0.625p each during 
the period for an aggregate consideration of £1,189,000 in respect of 
options exercised under the Company’s share option schemes.  
Directors 
The present Directors of the Company are shown on pages 30 and 31. 
G Hill was appointed to the Board on 26 April 2010 and I M Jacques 
resigned on that date. C F Baroudel was appointed to the Board on 
22 September 2010 and both S G Wilson and M L M Smit resigned 
on that date. No other Director served during the period. In accordance 
with the recommendations set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, all the elected Directors will submit themselves for re-election 
at the Annual General Meeting. C F Baroudel, having been appointed 
since the last Annual General Meeting, submits herself for election. 
Details of the Directors’ service contracts are given in the Remuneration 
report on page 39. 
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at 3 April 
2011 and 28 March 2010 were as follows: 
 
3 April 2011 
ordinary shares  
of 0.625p each 
28 March 2010*
 ordinary shares 
of 0.625p each
R M Steeves 2,477,674 2,455,934
G Hill 16,300 –
R E Lerwill  3,000 3,000
D K Nichol – –
C F Baroudel – –
*or at date of appointment.  
There was no change in the shareholding of any Director between the 
end of the financial period and the date of this report. Details of options 
held by Directors are contained within the Remuneration report. 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual 
Report and the financial statements 
All the Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company financial statements for each financial period. Under that law 
the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as 
adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the 
Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).  
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit 
or loss for that period.  
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to: 
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
• For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
• For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and 
• Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company 
will continue in business. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 32
 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They 
have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open 
to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible 
for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those 
regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Employee engagement 
The Group recognises the impact that positive employee engagement 
has on developing a culture of excellence, maintaining organisational 
stability and fostering an environment in which people feel valued and 
included. 
The Group is an equal opportunities employer. Equal opportunities are 
offered to all regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, sex 
(including gender reassignment), marital or civil partnership status, 
disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age or trade union 
membership. 
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment from people with disabilities. The policy is to offer equal 
opportunity to all disabled candidates and employees who have a 
disability or become disabled in any way during the course of their 
employment. A full assessment of the individual’s needs is undertaken 
and reasonable adjustments are made to the work environment or 
practices in order to assist those with disabilities. 
All candidates and employees are treated equally in respect of 
recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies 
and conditions. All decisions are based on relative merits and abilities. 
The Group continues to employ multiple channels of communication 
and is committed to improving these channels so that all employees 
have access to information, as well as having an opportunity to express 
their views and ideas on matters affecting their employment and the 
Group. Channels include: 
• Employee Forums and where appropriate, Works Councils 
• ‘Touch Point’ the Group intranet site 
• Regular Leadership briefings – followed by communication 
cascades/team briefings 
• An Employee Satisfaction Survey 
• Regular business updates via circulars 
Employment policies are updated in a timely way to reflect legislative 
changes and training to communicate or embed change is developed 
and rolled out as appropriate. 
Training is provided as required to ensure that we have a skilled 
workforce – this requires a balance of training for the work our 
employees do now and developing and preparing people for the future. 
 
For several years the Company has operated a Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme, which gives employees an opportunity to enter into a 
savings contract for a fixed period with an opportunity to acquire shares 
in the Company at the end of that period. 
Directors’ indemnity 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, Directors 
have been granted a continuing indemnity issued by the Company to 
the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of 
their office. The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent 
that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
During the period the Company maintained insurance cover for 
Directors’ and officers’ liability as permitted under Section 233 of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
Corporate and Social Responsibility 
The statement on Corporate and Social Responsibility on page 24 
contains disclosures concerning environmental matters, employee 
involvement and social and community issues.  
Substantial shareholders 
At the date of this report the Company had been notified of the following 
holdings of voting rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares of 
0.625p each in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules:  
Name Shareholding%
AXA S.A. 7,660,171 13.90
Prudential plc group of companies 3,458,504 6.28
Global AEGON Asset Management Group 3,296,843 5.98
INVESCO Asset Management Ltd 3,154,839 5.73
F & C Asset Management plc 2,726,059 4.95
Black Rock Advisors 2,705,645 4.91
Artemis Investment Management Limited 2,688,327 4.88
Old Mutual Asset Managers (UK) Limited 2,599,250 4.72
Newton Investment Management 2,561,177 4.65
R M Steeves 2,477,674 4.50
Legal & General Group plc 2,084,368 3.78
Contractual relationships or other arrangements 
The Company has no contractual relationships or other arrangements 
with contractors, customers or suppliers that are critical to the business. 
Policy and practice on payment of creditors 
All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and 
conditions with their suppliers and it is Group policy that payments are 
made within such agreed terms and conditions. Trade creditors at the 
period end amount to 58 days (2010: 57 days) of average supplies for 
the period. 
Political and charitable donations 
During the period the Group made charitable donations totalling 
£17,000 (2010: £5,000). No political donations were made during 
the period (2010: £nil). Further information on the Group’s charitable 
donations is contained in the Corporate and Social Responsibility report 
on page 24. 
Treasury and risk management 
The Group’s treasury and financial risk management objectives, and 
details in respect of the Group’s exposure to these risks are detailed in 
note 19 to the financial statements. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Financials Governance
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 33
 Report of the Directors Corporate Governance 
Going concern 
The Company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out in 
the Business Review on pages 4 to 17. The financial position of the 
Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Finance Director’s Report on pages 18 to 21. 
In addition, notes 18 to 19 to the financial statements include the 
Company’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; 
its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to credit risk 
and liquidity risk. 
The Company has considerable financial resources together with  
long term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across 
different geographic areas and market places. As a consequence, the 
Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its 
business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic 
outlook. The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements. 
This statement in respect of the business as a going concern has 
been prepared in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: 
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in October 2009. 
Disclosure of information to auditors 
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report 
confirm that so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and each 
Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to 
make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Group’s auditors are aware of that information. 
Auditors 
A resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the 
Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 27 July 2011 at the offices 
of Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP. The notice 
convening the meeting together with explanatory notes for the special 
business are set out in a shareholder circular, which will be posted with 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements and proxy voting papers. 
Full details of all the resolutions to be proposed are provided in the 
Notice of Meeting. 
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual 
financial report 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable 
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and 
• The Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face. 
On behalf of the Board 
T C Mason 
Group Company Secretary 
7 June 2011  
Combined Code Compliance 
The Board is committed to the highest standards of Corporate 
Governance, the system by which the Company is directed, managed 
and controlled in the interests of its stakeholders. In the year to 3 April 
2011, the Company was subject to the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (‘Combined Code’) published in June 2008 by the 
Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’). The Directors are of the opinion 
that the Company has been in compliance with the conditions of the 
Combined Code up to the date of this report except where any non-
compliance is disclosed and explained. 
In May 2010, the FRC published its new corporate governance code 
(dated June 2010) replacing the Combined Code which will now be 
known as the UK Corporate Governance Code. From 4 April 2011, 
the Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The Board has carefully considered the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and is confident that its corporate governance policies and procedures 
are appropriate and will ensure that it remains able to comply with (or 
explain clearly any divergences from) the proposed new UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
The following statements set out the principles and methods to which 
they adhere. 
The statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual 
Report and the financial statements is set out in the Report of the 
Directors on page 32. 
The Board 
As at 3 April 2011, and as at the date of this report, the Board of 
Directors was made up of five members, comprising a non-executive 
chairman, two further non-executive Directors and two executive 
Directors. The non-executive Directors are considered by the Board 
to be independent of management and free of any relationship which 
could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. The non-executive Directors are considered to reflect 
a suitable breadth of skills, knowledge and experience. D K Nichol is 
the senior independent Director. 
Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown on 
page 30. The Company’s policy relating to the terms of appointment 
and the remuneration of both executive and non-executive Directors is 
detailed in the Remuneration Report on page 39. 
The procedure for appointing Directors is detailed in the Nomination 
Committee section below. 
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis 
as required. The Board met 11 times during the year, and attendance 
for each is set out on page 37. 
The Board’s primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and 
to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole. 
In addition the Board sets the Group’s values and standards and 
ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders 
are understood and met. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, 
which it reviews and agrees annually but also delegates specific 
responsibilities to a senior committee, the Senior Executive Board 
(‘SEB’) and certain Board committees.
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 34
  
Specific responsibilities reserved for the Board include: 
• Setting and amending the Group’s overall business strategy, 
strategic business plan and the annual operating budget. 
• Approval of the Annual Report & Financial Statements, interim 
dividends and recommendation of the final dividend. 
• Approval of any changes to the Company’s capital structure 
including the raising of additional capital and the purchase of the 
Company’s shares. 
• Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies 
or practices. 
• Approval of contracts with annual revenue in excess of £5 million. 
• Approval of any investment or disposal of the share capital of another 
company greater than 5% of the Company’s share capital. 
• Approval of the acquisition of assets with a consideration in excess 
of £10 million, and any disposal of assets greater than £2.5 million. 
• Approval of any capital expenditure in excess of £10 million. 
• Major changes in the rules of the company pension schemes, 
or changes of trustees or fund management arrangements. 
• Approval of changes to the employee share and other incentive 
schemes and the allocation of executive share options. 
• All Stock Exchange related issues including approval of 
communications to the Stock Exchange. 
• Establishing Board membership and powers including the 
appointment and removal of Board members and the Group 
Company Secretary. 
• Establishing Terms of Reference and membership of the 
Board committees. 
• Approval of all Related Party Transactions. 
• Setting the remuneration of the auditors and making 
recommendations for the appointment or removal of auditors. 
• Approving any major changes in policy with respect to risks covered 
by insurance. 
• Approving all treasury matters including the setting of policies to enter 
into contracts that are not in the ordinary course of business and 
authorising bank facilities (including bank borrowing, other loans and 
internal rate swaps), and approval of all foreign currency transactions 
in excess of £5 million. 
• Overseeing the Group’s main controls and their effectiveness. 
• Other matters including health and safety and risk management. 
The Board sets aside at least two consecutive days each year to 
conduct a review of its strategy with the SEB and other senior executives 
in attendance for certain sessions as appropriate. 
Directors receive papers several days in advance of Board meetings and 
also have access to the advice and services of the Company’s advisers. 
The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed 
necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in the furtherance of their duties. This is in addition to the 
access that every Director has to the Group Company Secretary,  
who is charged with ensuring that the Board procedures are followed 
and that good corporate governance and compliance is implemented 
within the Group. Together with the Group Chief Executive and the 
Group Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is 
kept properly informed and consulted on all issues reserved for it. 
The role of Chairman and Group Chief Executive is separate and 
clearly defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing 
and approved by the Board. The Chairman’s principal responsibilities 
are to chair the Board and shareholder meetings and to ensure the 
effective running of the Board. The Group Chief Executive’s principal 
responsibility is leading the SEB in the day to day running of the Group’s 
business. The Chairman and Group Chief Executive meet regularly 
between meetings. 
In accordance with best practice the Chairman addresses the 
developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to developing 
its effectiveness as a team and ensures that each Director refreshes and 
updates his or her individual skills, knowledge and expertise. 
During the year, the Board conducted a detailed evaluation of its own 
performance and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees by means of a written questionnaire. The evaluation 
focused on several areas including Board structure, meeting 
administration, meetings (and their content), strategy, Board 
committees, communication and information, and governance. 
The results of the evaluation were considered and discussed by 
the Board. Performance evaluations, including skills brought to the 
Board and the contributions each Director made to it, were carried 
out for each Director.  
There was a change in Chairman during the year. The non-executive 
Directors have not yet held formal meetings to consider the Chairman’s 
performance but this will be undertaken during the forthcoming 
financial year. 
The Board has arranged to hold Board meetings at Group business 
locations to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the 
business. This also provides senior managers from across the Group 
with the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the 
Directors on more informal occasions. The non-executive Directors 
are also invited to attend the Group’s Leadership Conference, which 
is held annually. 
Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board rather than for a 
committee. The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one 
third of the Directors will seek re-election at the AGM every three years. 
However, all Directors will now submit themselves for annual re-election 
by shareholders at the Company’s AGM in accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Additionally, new Directors may be 
appointed by the Board but are subject to election by shareholders 
at the first opportunity after their appointment. 
Following their appointment, a formal comprehensive and tailored 
induction is given to all Directors, including visits to key locations 
within the Group and meetings with members of the SEB and other 
key executives. 
Although the non-executive Directors are not formally required to meet 
the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at presentations of 
the annual and interim results is encouraged. 
 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Financials Governance
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 35
 Corporate Governance  
Board committees 
The SEB comprises the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, 
the Group Company Secretary, the Group Commercial Director and the 
CEOs of each of the Regions of the Group and meets at least monthly. 
The SEB is primarily responsible for: 
• The management of all the Group’s businesses; 
• Delivering the strategy and the agreed business plans and budgets 
which have been signed off by the Board; 
• Making key commercial decisions within the framework of the agreed 
business plan and strategy; 
• Monitoring all risks (operational, financial and reputational); 
• Reviewing and maintaining the effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal control on a day to day basis; and 
• Managing the business in a manner appropriate for a FTSE 250 
company. 
Remuneration Committee 
At the date of this report, the Remuneration Committee comprises  
D K Nichol (Chairman) and the two non-executive Directors, R E Lerwill 
and C F Baroudel, all of whom were independent in accordance with 
the definition set out in the Combined Code. The Committee met four 
times during the year and Directors’ attendance for each meeting is 
shown in the table on page 37. The Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any 
questions that might be raised on the Committee’s activities.  
The Remuneration Committee has the following key duties: 
• Reviewing and making recommendations on the Company’s 
framework of executive remuneration and cost including all 
emoluments, pension entitlements and other benefits of the  
executive Directors and as appropriate other senior executives. 
This includes agreeing the level of cash bonuses that are paid; 
• Determining, on behalf of the Board, the executive Directors’ 
remuneration by reference to individual performance and 
market data; 
• Setting and confirming the rewards under the Group’s Long Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP); and 
• Reviewing the operation of executive share option schemes and the 
granting of such options. 
Audit Committee 
At the date of this report the Audit Committee comprised R E Lerwill 
(Chairman) and also the two non-executive Directors D K Nichol and  
C F Baroudel all of whom were independent in accordance with the 
definition set out in the Combined Code. 
The Company recognises the fact that in accordance with the 
Combined Code, following his appointment as Chairman of the 
Company, R E Lerwill should not also chair the Audit Committee. 
An additional suitably qualified non-executive Director is being sought 
via external recruitment consultants, to chair the Audit Committee.  
It is hoped that an appointment will be made in the near future. 
The appointment of an additional non-executive Director will be 
considered within the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee. 
Each member of the Committee brings relevant financial experience 
from senior executive levels. The expertise and the experience of the 
members of the Committee are summarised on page 30. 
The Committee met three times during the year and the Directors’ 
attendances for each meeting is shown in the table below. Executive 
Directors are invited to attend meetings and provide reports as and 
when considered appropriate. The Committee meets with external 
auditors without management present at least once during the year. 
The Committee has direct access to the Group’s auditors and liaises 
with executive management to review the effectiveness of internal 
controls. 
KPMG Audit plc were appointed as Auditors to the Company in 2006, 
and are re-appointed annually by shareholders. To ensure objectivity, 
key members of the audit team rotate off the Company’s audit. During 
the year, the Committee reviewed KPMG Audit plc’s fees, effectiveness 
and whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons 
for any variation from the plan. The Committee also considered its 
robustness and the degree to which KPMG Audit plc was able to 
assess key accounting and audit judgements and the content of the 
management letter. The Committee concluded that the audit was 
effective and that the relationship and effectiveness of the external 
Auditor be kept under review. KPMG Audit plc also audits the 
subsidiaries of the Group.  
The Committee has developed and implemented a policy on the 
supply of non-audit services by the external auditors to ensure their 
continued objectivity and independence. The Committee is satisfied 
that the provision by KPMG Audit plc of non-audit services does not 
impair their independence or objectivity. The Committee has approved 
the range of services that may be provided by KPMG Audit plc. 
These include transaction due diligence and accountancy assistance 
on projects. Subject to approved authorisation limits, the services 
require prior authority from either the Group Finance Director, the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee or the full Audit Committee. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the Annual General 
Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised 
on the Committee’s activities. 
The Audit Committee has the following key duties: 
• To review the annual financial statements and interim reports prior to 
approval, focusing on changes in accounting policies and practices, 
major judgemental areas, significant audit adjustments, going 
concern and compliance with accounting standards, Stock Exchange 
and legal requirements; 
• To monitor the Group’s systems of internal control; 
• To consider the appointment of the auditors and their remuneration 
(including allocation of non-audit fees) to ensure that their 
independency and objectivity is maintained; 
• To meet with the auditors to discuss the scope of the audit issues 
arising from their work and any matters the auditors wish to raise; and 
• To review the Group’s corporate review procedures and any 
statement on internal controls prior to endorsement by the Board. 
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee meets when required and at the date of this 
report comprised R E Lerwill (Chairman) and also the non-executive 
Directors D K Nichol and C F Baroudel. Only members of the 
Committee are entitled to be present at meetings but others may be 
invited by the Committee to attend if appropriate. 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering all potential 
appointments to the Board and for making suitable proposals to the 
Board in relation to potential appointments. It meets as and when Board 
appointments or other senior positions within the Group are made. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 36
  
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure 
to achieve the Group’s objectives. The systems provide reasonable, 
not absolute, assurances against material mis-statement or loss. 
Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with changing 
circumstances. 
The Group does not have an internal audit function, although this is 
continually under review by the Board and the Audit Committee. The 
Board is presently of the view that having reviewed and considered the 
current control environment, it is still adequate given the Group’s size 
and range of businesses. 
The Group has a Group finance function that reports to the Group 
Finance Director and is independent of the business units to ensure 
objectivity and control when preparing Group financial information. 
The Group finance function undertakes financial reviews of the regional 
finance functions on an ad hoc basis and provides technical and 
commercial support when required. 
Assessment of business risk 
A system of business risk identification, assessment and evaluation 
has been in place during the year within the management process 
throughout the Group, through a formal risk management framework 
led by the Group Director of Risk Management. This is explained in the 
reports of Principal Risks and Uncertainties and Corporate and Social 
Responsibility on pages 22 and 24 respectively. The Board regularly 
reviews strategic risks. 
Control environment 
The Group’s operating procedures include a comprehensive system for 
reporting financial and non-financial information to the Board including: 
• The definition of authorisation limits, both financial and otherwise. 
Detailed appraisal documents are produced for any major capital 
projects; 
• A review of annual budgets and forecasts against budgets that are 
produced at least twice a year; 
• A review of monthly management accounts at Group and operational 
level, including financial performance, together with balance sheet 
and cash flow analysis, which are reported against budget, forecasts 
and prior year with major variances explained; 
• A risk management report for each Board meeting, focusing on any 
new risks arising and management of existing risks. 
On an annual basis the Group finance function undertakes a review 
of financial controls as part of its year end process, which is considered 
by the Board. The annual review gives a comprehensive update on 
the previous year’s report and outlines actions taken to redress any 
weaknesses in each regional business and across Group functions. 
The review also highlights areas where improved controls have been 
implemented and key actions to be addressed in the coming financial 
year, which are monitored by both the Board and the Audit Committee. 
Control procedures 
Detailed operational procedures that embody key controls have been 
developed for each of the Group’s businesses. The implications of 
change in law and regulations are taken into account within those 
procedures. 
The Board has agreed formal, rigorous and transparent procedures 
to be followed by the Committee in making its recommendations 
and appointments to the Board. The Committee has access to such 
information and advice both within the Group and externally, at the 
cost of the Company, as it considers necessary. This may include the 
appointment of external executive search consultants where considered 
appropriate. The Committee met twice during the year. 
For the appointment of C F Baroudel as non-executive Director  
on 22 September 2010, the Company engaged a firm of external 
search consultants, to handle the search and recruitment process. 
The Nomination Committee was fully involved with both the recruitment 
and assessment of potential candidates. A shortlist of candidates was 
put through a rigorous assessment process and final candidates were 
interviewed by the whole Nomination Committee. 
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board 
committees. 
Directors’ attendance record 
The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and its 
Committees was as follows: 
 Board
Audit  
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Total number of meetings 11 3 4 2
R E Lerwill 10 of 11 3 of 3 4 of 4 2 of 2
R M Steeves 11 of 11 – – –
G Hill
(i)
 10 of 10 – – –
D K Nichol 11 of 11 2 of 3 4 of 4 2 of 2
C F Baroudel
(ii)
 4 of 6 2 of 2 1 of 1 –
I M Jacques
(iii)
 0 of 1 – – –
S G Wilson
(iv)
 3 of 5 1 of 1 1 of 3 2 of 2
M L M Smit
(v)
 2 of 5 – – –
Notes: 
(i) G Hill was only entitled to attend 10 Board meetings following his appointment as a 
Director on 26 April 2010. 
(ii) C F Baroudel was only entitled to attend 6 Board meetings following her appointment as a 
Director on 22 September 2010. 
(iii) I M Jacques resigned as a Director on 26 April 2010. 
(iv) S G Wilson resigned as a Director on 22 September 2010. 
(v) M L Smit resigned as a Director on 22 September 2010. 
Directors’ conflict of interest 
There are procedures in place to deal with Directors’ conflict of interest 
arising under Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 and such 
procedures have operated effectively during the year. 
Articles of Association 
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by Special 
Resolution at a General Meeting of shareholders. 
Internal control 
The Directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the 
Group systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of 
those controls. 
The Board has taken into account the relevant provisions of the 
Combined Code, the Turnbull report and the Listing Rules and an 
ongoing process has been established for identifying, managing and 
evaluating the risks faced by the Group. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Financials Governance
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 37
 Corporate Governance  
Monitoring process 
There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of key controls. 
The significant components are: 
• Cyclical and random reviews of operational and financial controls 
by the Director of Risk Management, the Group’s quality managers, 
the Head of IT, senior finance managers and the Group finance team; 
• Review by the Audit Committee of the process for identifying and 
assessing risks and of the effectiveness of controls via the work 
of external audit and direct access to Group and operational 
management. 
The Board confirms that it has considered the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal controls described above for the financial 
year and up to the date of this report. 
Relationship with shareholders 
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Group 
Company Secretary are responsible for ensuring effective 
communication with shareholders. The Company places considerable 
importance on communication with the shareholders, including its 
employee shareholders. 
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, the Company communicates 
with its shareholders by way of the Annual Report & Financial 
Statements, which are available to all shareholders either in paper 
form or electronically and can be accessed via the Company’s website 
http://www.synergyhealthplc.com. The Group’s annual and interim 
results, as well as all announcements issued by the London Stock 
Exchange, are published on the Company’s website. 
The Company also communicates with its institutional shareholders 
through a combination of analysts’ briefings throughout the year but 
particularly at the interim and year end results stage. 
Business at the Company’s Annual General Meeting will cover the 
Annual Report & Financial Statements, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, election and re-election of Directors, re-appointment and 
remuneration of auditors, political donations and political expenditure, 
authority to allot shares, disapplication of pre-emption rights, purchase 
by the Company of its own shares, notice period for general meetings 
and re-approval of the Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme. 
Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set out in the 
Notice of Meeting. The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as 
well as abstentions are counted before the Annual General Meeting and 
the results will be made available at the meeting after shareholders have 
voted on each resolution on a show of hands. All results, statements and 
Company announcements are accessible to all shareholders via the 
Group’s website http://www.synergyhealthplc.com. 
All shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting at which they 
have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 38
 Remuneration report 
The Board presents its Remuneration report, which has been prepared 
on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee and in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Composition of the Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee of the Board is chaired by D K Nichol 
and also comprises the non-executive Directors, R E Lerwill and  
C F Baroudel. S G Wilson served on the Committee until 22 September 
2010. When appropriate, the Committee also invites the views of the 
Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Company 
Secretary. 
Remuneration policy 
The Group is committed to meeting best practice in areas of corporate 
governance and executive remuneration. The Company’s executive 
remuneration policy is in line with the Company’s overall practice on 
pay and benefits, which is to reward employees competitively. In setting 
executive salaries, the Committee takes into account a number of 
factors, including market conditions, salaries in comparable companies 
in similar industries, and affordability, in order to attract and retain 
competent executives. The Committee also considers general pay 
and employment conditions of all employees within the Group and is 
sensitive to them, to prevailing market conditions and to governance 
trends when assessing the level of salaries and the remuneration 
packages of executive Directors. Remuneration is considered with 
regard to personal performance, responsibilities and experience and 
this is benchmarked alongside independently compiled salary survey 
information. 
The Committee recognises the need to link an executive’s remuneration 
package to individual and corporate performance and considers it has 
achieved a balance between basic salary, annual bonuses to reward 
individual performance during the period and share options and long 
term incentive plans to encourage longer term career planning within 
the Group and future participation in its growth. 
The Committee does not consider that the targets that are included 
in the executive’s remuneration package are incompatible with the 
Director’s responsibility for environmental, social and governance 
matters. Whilst the Committee’s terms of reference do not require 
specific targets on these matters, the Committee is obliged to ensure 
that, when setting remuneration policy, appropriate incentives are 
provided to encourage enhanced performance in a fair and reasonable 
manner.  
The Committee has determined that the Company’s executive Directors 
are appointed to the Board on terms of a contract that can be 
terminated by the Company with 12 months’ notice after the first year 
of service. The Committee believes that this arrangement provides a 
measure of stability in that it provides an opportunity for the recruitment 
of replacement executives and an orderly hand over of duties. 
The service contracts of all the executive Directors, which are rolling 
contracts, contain a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company, 
to pay an amount on early termination of employment. The Company 
will use the pay in lieu of notice provisions when the speed, certainty 
and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such clauses are 
thought to be in the best interests of the Company and the 
circumstances surrounding the departure of the relevant Director justify 
their use. The Committee’s policy is that payments to Directors on 
termination should reflect the circumstances that prevail at the time, 
also taking account of, if applicable and appropriate, the Director’s duty 
to mitigate. The Committee continuously reviews its policies of executive 
remuneration and severance in the best interests of shareholders. 
Guidance on best practice expectations is taken into account prior to 
agreeing Directors’ contractual provisions. 
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the appropriate defined 
contribution pension schemes and other regular employee benefit plans 
including health and life insurance. Only base salary is included in the 
calculation of pension contributions. 
The details of individual components of the remuneration package and 
service contracts are disclosed below. 
Components of executive Directors’ remuneration 
Overview 
The principal components of executive Directors’ remuneration 
packages are base salary, which is the only element of pay on which 
pension benefits are calculated, annual bonus scheme, long term 
incentive plan and pension benefits. Each of these components is 
explained further below. 
Salary 
The Committee meets at least once a year in order to consider and set 
the annual salaries for executive Directors. The Committee also reviews 
the policies adopted regarding remuneration across the Group. Last 
year the Committee initiated a benchmark exercise to ensure levels of 
Directors’ Remuneration were competitive with the market. The guide 
adopted was the Hewitt New Bridge Street guide for FTSE 250 
remuneration for 2009 with the appropriate benchmark for the 
Company being the FTSE 250 bottom half, with a median market 
capitalisation of £375 million. 
Incentive arrangements 
Annual bonus scheme 
The executive Directors participate in the Group’s performance-related 
annual bonus scheme. Bonuses are currently awarded for achieving 
profit and cash flow targets set by the Board, together with an element 
related to achieving personal objectives during the year. The executive 
Directors are entitled to receive their full bonus if all of these objectives 
have been achieved. Maximum potential bonuses, as a percentage of 
annual base salary, were 100% in respect of R M Steeves and 55% in 
respect of G Hill. No bonus payments are pensionable.  
The Board aims to achieve a balance between short term targets that 
are rewarded by an annual cash bonus payment and longer term 
targets that are rewarded by share-based incentives. 
Long term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
The Long term Incentive Plan for executive Directors and senior 
executives was approved by shareholders in 2005. The principal 
features are as follows:  
All executive Directors and senior executives nominated by the 
Committee are entitled to be considered for the grant of awards under 
the LTIP. The awards take the form of an option over shares (‘LTIP 
option’), where granting the option is conditional upon the performance 
of the Company over the measurement period. 
The performance conditions were chosen because the Committee 
believes that these targets are aligned and compatible with the interests 
of shareholders and the creation of shareholder value. 
An award under the LTIP to a nominated participant will take two forms. 
(1) The first type of award is a right to acquire a specified number of 
shares by way of an option (‘LTIP Option’), with award conditional upon 
the performance of the Company over the measurement period. The 
Remuneration Committee has discretion to set the level of conditional 
award up to a maximum of 450% of basic salary. The initial conditional 
award granted in June 2005 in respect of R M Steeves and I M Jacques 
was 450% of basic salary and that of M L M Smit was 150% of basic 
salary. The maximum conditional awards for 2006 and 2007 did not  
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Financials Governance
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 39
 Remuneration report  
(2) The second type of award takes the form of a ‘co-invest’ 
arrangement and requires that the participant to whom the award is 
to be made invests in shares in the Company and continues to hold 
those shares throughout the measurement period (‘LTIP Co-invest’). 
At the end of the measurement period, depending upon the growth 
in earnings per share (adjusted as above) of the Company over the 
measurement period, the participant will receive a number of free 
‘matching’ shares under the LTIP Co-invest. 
The maximum amount that a participant may invest is the bonus 
achieved under the annual bonus scheme during the previous 
financial period. 
The number of matching shares will be determined in accordance with 
the following table: 
Growth in earnings per share Ratio of matching shares received 
Over 15% each year Two shares for each one purchased
Between 10% and 15% each year One share for each one purchased 
Before the end of the last financial period the Committee consulted with 
the Company’s advisors in view of the changes to U.K. taxation 
arrangements coming into effect on 6 April 2010. Having received 
appropriate advice and having conservatively estimated the likely level 
of awards under the scheme in July 2010, the Committee amended the 
rules of the LTIP scheme to permit the early exercise of awards under 
the EPS element of the LTIP Option and the option under the LTIP  
Co-invest arrangements, subject to a clawback agreement in the event 
that the option did not vest fully following the completion of the audit of 
the accounts. Accordingly, options were exercised by R M Steeves and 
I M Jacques as described in the detailed schedules below.  
Pensions 
The Company makes pension contributions equivalent to 10% of the 
base annual salary for G Hill and 15% of the base annual salary for  
R M Steeves into defined contribution schemes. 
M L M Smit participated in a multi-employer industry-wide defined 
benefits scheme. As the Company’s share of the underlying assets 
and liabilities of the scheme cannot be accurately determined the 
Company’s share of the overall surplus/deficit of the scheme is treated 
as defined contribution in nature. Pension contributions in respect of 
M L M Smit were equivalent to 17% of his basic salary. 
Service contracts 
The contract details for the current executive Directors are as follows: 
 Effective date Unexpired term Notice period 
R M Steeves 1 November 1999 12 months 12 months 
G Hill 26 April 2010 12 months 12 months 
I M Jacques, who resigned as a Director on 26 April 2010, also had 
a service contract with 12 months’ notice on which he gave notice 
to terminate in November 2009. Mr Jacques left the Company on 
30 October 2010. He was paid the balance of his contracted salary 
entitlement on that date. 
M L M Smit, who resigned from the Board on 22 September 2010 but 
continues to be a member of the Company’s Senior Executive Board 
has a service contract that requires six months’ notice to be given to the 
Company and 12 months’ notice to be given by the Company. If the 
Company serves notice then in addition to such notice M L M Smit is 
entitled to compensation of not less then 24 months’ salary and 
benefits, plus the bonus for the previous calendar year.  
exceed 150% of basic salary. In accordance with the conclusion of the 
Remuneration Committee reported in last year’s Remuneration report 
that a conditional award of 200% of basic salary is appropriate for the 
Chief Executive, a conditional award of 200% of salary was made to  
R M Steeves. Conditional awards of 150% of salary were made to  
I M Jacques and M L M Smit.  
The Remuneration Committee carried out a detailed review of the level 
of awards under this scheme in July 2009 and adjusted the levels of the 
award so that Conditional awards were reduced to 150% of salary in 
respect of R M Steeves and 125% of salary in respect of I M Jacques 
and M L M Smit. Performance targets were also amended as detailed 
in the table below. The Committee considered that in the current 
economic conditions the targets needed to be achievable in order to 
provide the necessary motivation for the executive Directors. It should 
be noted that the targets remain very demanding, notably that, in order 
to receive the maximum award relating to the part of the award 
described in note (a) below, the earnings per share must grow by 
20% on a compound basis over the three year measurement period.  
These changes were made following consultation with the Company’s 
top ten shareholders, who all confirmed that they were supportive of the 
proposed changes. 
The vesting of the shares will be dependent on the extent to which 
the following performance targets have been satisfied: 
(a)  50% of the LTIP Option is determined by a comparison of the 
earnings per share figure at the end of the measurement period with 
that at the start. For these purposes earnings per share will be adjusted 
for amortisation of intangibles, non-recurring items, share option 
charges and any other items deemed reasonable by the Committee. 
(b)  The other 50% of the LTIP Option is determined by the Total 
Shareholder Return generated by the Company in comparison to that 
generated by companies in the FTSE 250 Index. A table ranking the 
companies in order of performance will be produced in July of each 
year of the measurement period to establish the ranking of the 
Company. Awards in previous years used the FTSE Small Companies 
(excluding investment trusts) index, but the FTSE 250 Index is now 
considered more appropriate following the Company’s admission to 
the Full List in July 2008.  
The shares in each element of the conditional award will vest in 
accordance with the following table: 
Awards made up to June 2008 
Vesting level EPS growth  Position in the TSR table 
Vesting at 100% 25% Top 10% 
Vesting on straight line basis 
between 50% and 100% 
Between 20%  
and 25% 
Top 25% but 
outside top 10% 
Vesting on straight line basis 
between 25% and 50% 
Between 15%  
and 20% 
Top 50% but 
outside top 25% 
None of the shares will vest Below 15% Below top 50% 
Awards made from July 2009 onwards 
Vesting level EPS growth  Position in the TSR table 
Vesting at 100% 20% Top 25% 
Vesting on straight line basis 
between 50% and 100% 
Between 15%  
and 20%  
Vesting on straight line basis 
between 25% and 50% 
Between 10%  
and 15%  
Vesting on straight line basis 
between 25% and 100%  
Top 50% but 
outside top 25% 
None of the shares will vest Below 10% Below top 50% 
 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 40
  
R M Steeves and G Hill will stand for re-election at the Company’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting and the unexpired term of their service 
contracts is disclosed above. 
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration 
The remuneration of non-executive Directors is established by the whole Board. Details of each non-executive Director’s remuneration is included 
below. The non-executive Directors do not receive any pension or other benefits. All non-executive Directors are engaged on letters of appointment 
that set out their duties and responsibilities and confirm their remuneration. In the event that either party wishes to terminate the appointment, 
six months’ notice is required. The Company may terminate each of these appointments at any time without the payment of compensation other 
than the notice payment. 
The following information has been audited: 
Directors’ remuneration 
The remuneration of the Directors, who served throughout the period except where indicated, for the period to 3 April 2011, is as follows: 
 
Salary 
£’000
Bonus 
£’000
Benefit in kind 
£’000
2011 Total  
(Excl Pension) 
£’000
2010 Total  
(Excl Pension) 
£’000 
2011
Pension 
£’000
2010 
Pension 
£’000
R M Steeves
(5)
  420 420 10 850 563 63 181
G Hill
(1)
 225 132 17 374 – 22 –
I M Jacques
(2) 
 150 – 4 154 392 15 24
C F Baroudel
(3) 
 26 – – 26 – – –
R E Lerwill 63 – – 63 32 – –
D K Nichol 45 – – 45 32 – –
M L M Smit
(4) 
 92 31 9 132 326 18 41
S G Wilson
(4)
 35 – – 35 44 – –
 1,056 583 40 1,679 1,389 118 246
Notes: 
(1) Appointed 26 April 2010. (2)  Resigned 26 April 2010. (3)  Appointed 22 September 2010. (4)  Resigned 22 September 2010. (5)  During the previous financial year R M Steeves sacrificed 
salary and bonus related emoluments amounting to £123,000 which were paid into his pension scheme. Without that sacrifice the disclosures for total remuneration and pension would have 
been £686,000 and £58,000 respectively. 
The Committee considered the performance of the executive Directors against each of the elements of the targets set for them and concluded that 
the maximum bonus was payable in each case. For M L M Smit the disclosure relates to that part of the bonus earned during the period in which 
he was a Director of the Company. 
The total Directors’ compensation in relation to other long term benefits (LTIP) and other share-based payments was £501,000 (2010: £745,000), 
calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 Share based payments. 
R M Steeves also served as non-executive Deputy Chairman of CareTech Holdings plc until his resignation from this position on 15 April 2010. 
He received a fee of £3,000 (2010: £39,000) for his services.  
Share options 
Details of the Company’s share option schemes are set out in note 26 to the financial statements. 
The following Directors hold options over ordinary shares of 0.625p in the Company’s share option schemes as follows: 
 
Options held at 
28 March 2010 
Options granted 
during the period 
Options 
exercised 
during the period
Options lapsed 
during the period
Options held at 
3 April 2011
Exercise price 
(pence)
Market value at 
date of exercise Date from which exercisable Expiry date
R M Steeves    
Sharesave
(1)
 2,950 – – – 2,950 527p – 1 February 2015 1 August 2015
G Hill    
Sharesave
(1)
 – 2,313 – – 2,313 658p – 1 February 2016 1 August 2016
I M Jacques    
Sharesave
(1)
 1,377 – – 1,377 – 686p – 1 November 2010 1 May 2011
Approved scheme
(2)
 4,000 – 4,000 – – 279p 625p 1 December 2005 1 December 2013
Notes: 
(1) ‘Sharesave’ refers to the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.  
(2) ‘Approved scheme’ refers to the Approved Share Option Plan. 
These schemes are described in detail in note 26 to the accounts. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Financials Governance
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 41
 Remuneration report  
Directors’ interest in Long term Incentive Plan shares 
(a) LTIP options 
Date of award 
Maximum number 
of options as at  
28 March 2010 
Maximum number 
of options granted 
during the period
Number of options 
exercised during 
the period
Number of options 
lapsing during 
the period
Maximum number 
of options as at 
3 April 2011
Mid-market share 
price on date  
of award 
Mid-market share 
price on date 
of exercise Note
R M Steeves   
12.6.2007 72,487 – 35,240 37,247 – 776.0p See note 5 1
30.6.2008 104,603 –––104,603738.5p –2
14.7.2009 114,841 –––114,841504.5p –3
14.6.2010 – 101,559––101,559620.33p –4
G Hill   
14.6.2010 – 38,689––38,689620.33p –4
I M Jacques   
12.6.2007 45,425 – 22,084 23,341 – 776.0p See note 6 1
30.6.2008 49,163 ––49,163–738.5p –2
14.7.2009 59,972 ––59,972–504.5p –3
M L M Smit   
12.6.2007 28,117 – 13,669 14,448 – 776.0p See note 7 1
30.6.2008 38,370 –––38,370738.5p –2
14.7.2009 50,339 –––50,339504.5p –3
14.6.2010 – 43,030––43,030620.33p –4
Notes: 
(1) This award was made on 12 June 2007 over shares that have a value of 150% of the relevant Director’s salary. The measurement period for this award ran from this date to 12 June 2010. 
(2) This award was made on 30 June 2008 over shares that have a value of 200% of the salary of R M Steeves and 150% of the salary of I M Jacques and M L M Smit. The measurement 
period for this award runs from this date to 30 June 2011. 
(3) This award was made on 14 July 2009 over shares that have a value of 150% of the relevant Director’s salary. The measurement period for this award runs from this date to 14 July 2012. 
(4) This award was made on 14 June 2010 over shares that have a value of 150% of the salary of R M Steeves, 125% of the salary of M L M Smit and 100% of the salary of G Hill. 
The measurement period for this award runs from this date to 14 June 2013. 
(5) R M Steeves exercised 16,310 of these shares on 31 March 2010 under the arrangements described earlier when the mid market price was 600.75 and 18,930 on 30 June 2010 when the 
mid market price was 646.25p. 
(6) I M Jacques exercised 10,221 of these shares on 31 March 2010 under the arrangements described earlier when the mid market price was 600.75 and 11,863 on 15 July 2010 when the 
mid market price was 670p. 
(7) M L M Smit exercised these shares on 14 July 2010 when the mid market price was 666.5p. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 42
  
(b) LTIP co-invest 
Date of award 
Maximum number 
of matching 
options as at 
28 March 2010 
Maximum number 
of matching 
options granted 
during the period
Number of matching 
options exercised 
during the period
Number of matching 
options lapsing during 
the period
Maximum number  
of matching  
options as at  
3 April 2011 
Price paid by Director 
for co-invest shares
Mid-market 
price on date 
of exercise
R M Steeves   
12.6.2007 36,500 –36,500–– 790.0p600.75p
30.6.2008 59,420 –––59,420 710.0p–
21.7.2009 28,896 –––28,896 501.25p–
14.6.2010 – 86,890––86,890 668p–
G Hill   
14.6.2010 – 32,600 – – 32,600 See note 2 –
I M Jacques   
12.6.2007 5,000 –5,000–– 790.0p600.75p
30.6.2008 5,000 ––5,000– 710.0p–
30.10.2008 20,000 ––20,000– 350.0p–
M L M Smit   
12.6.2007 2,000 –2,000–– 858.0p666.5p
30.10.2008 28,000 –––28,000 350.0p–
22.7.2009 1,500 –––1,500 510.0p–
14.6.2010 – 17,976––17,976 667p–
Notes: 
(1) The actual number of matching shares that will vest is contingent on the performance targets described earlier. 
(2) G Hill purchased shares on three separate occasions at prices of 656p, 674p and 675p.  
The aggregate amount of gains made by the executive Directors on the exercise of share options was £728,000 (2010: £2,107,000). The market 
price of the 0.625p ordinary shares was 823p at 3 April 2011. The market price ranged from 562.5p to 948p during the period. 
Performance graph 
The graph below shows the Group’s performance for the five-year period to 3 April 2011 measured by total shareholder return (‘TSR’), compared 
with the performance of the FTSE Small Cap index (excluding investment trusts) also measured by TSR, which is defined as share price growth 
plus reinvested dividends. The FTSE Small Cap index has been chosen because it provides a basis for comparison against companies in a relevant 
broad based equity index in which the Group would have been a constituent member if it had been on the full list of the London Stock Exchange 
for the whole measurement period.  
Synergy Health
FTSE 250 Ex Investment Trust
250
200
150
100
50
Apr-06
Source: Datastream
Apr-10 Oct-10 Mar-11 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09
Share Price (p)
 
 
D K Nichol 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Financials Governance
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 43
 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Synergy Health plc  
We have audited the financial statements of Synergy Health plc for the 
period ended 3 April 2011 set out on pages 45 to 89. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK 
Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, 
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 32, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards 
for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 
on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
• The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 3 April 2011 and 
of the Group’s profit for the period then ended; 
• The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
• The Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; and 
• The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• The part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
• The information given in the Directors’ report for the financial period 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and 
• The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set 
out on page 34, with respect to internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share 
capital structures, is consistent with the financial statements.  
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
• Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
• The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
• Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
• We have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; or 
• A Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the 
company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• The Directors’ statement, set out on page 34, in relation to going 
concern;  
• Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
Directors’ remuneration, and 
• The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 34 relating 
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 
2008 Combined Code specified for our review. 
 
 
Wayne Cox (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
St Nicholas House 
Park Row 
Nottingham 
NG1 6FQ 
7 June 2011 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 44
 Consolidated income statement 
For the period ended 3 April 2011 
2011 2010
Note
Before
 amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles and 
non-recurring 
items
£’000
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles and 
non-recurring 
items
(note 4)
£’000
Total
£’000
Before 
 amortisation  
of acquired 
intangibles and 
non-recurring  
items 
£’000 
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles and 
non-recurring 
items
(note 4)
£’000
Total
£’000
Continuing operations  
Revenue 3 287,314 – 287,314286,421 –286,421
Cost of sales (177,633) – (177,633)(182,736) –(182,736)
Gross profit 109,681 – 109,681103,685 –103,685
Administrative expenses  
– Administration expenses excluding amortisation 
of acquired intangibles  (66,637) 3,278 (63,359) (63,943) (1,903) (65,846)
– Amortisation of acquired intangibles – (6,265) (6,265) – (6,200) (6,200)
 (66,637) (2,987) (69,624) (63,943) (8,103) (72,046)
Operating profit 43,044 (2,987) 40,057 39,742 (8,103) 31,639
Finance income 6 4,205 1,446 5,651 2,579 – 2,579
Finance costs 7 (8,975) – (8,975) (9,687) – (9,687)
Net finance costs (4,770) 1,446 (3,324) (7,108) – (7,108)
Profit before tax 4 38,274 (1,541) 36,733 32,634 (8,103) 24,531
Income tax 8 (8,686) 752 (7,934) (7,661) 5,289 (2,372)
Profit for the year 29,588 (789) 28,799 24,973 (2,814) 22,159
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent 29,406 (789) 28,617 24,846 (2,814) 22,032
Non-controlling interests 182 – 182 127 – 127
 29,588 (789) 28,799 24,973 (2,814) 22,159
Earnings per share  
Basic 10 52.10p 40.56p
Diluted 10 51.23p 39.90p
 
 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 45
 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
For the period ended 3 April 2011 
Note 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Profit for the year  28,799 22,159
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year:  
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  (2,647) (3,068)
Cash flow hedges – derivative instrument effective portion  438 2,029
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pension plans 27 2,454 (6,695)
Provision for deferred tax on defined benefit pension plans  (932) 1,875
  (687) (5,859)
Total comprehensive income for the year  28,112 16,300
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent  28,029 16,287
Non-controlling interests  83 13
  28,112 16,300
 
 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 46
 Consolidated statement of financial position 
At 3 April 2011 
 Note 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Non-current assets  
Goodwill 11 193,577 194,778
Other intangible assets 12 39,380 44,119
Property, plant and equipment 13 209,829 200,028
Investment property 14 970 980
Trade and other receivables 17 1,361 1,144
Total non-current assets  445,117 441,049
Current assets  
Inventories 16 13,513 12,717
Trade and other receivables 17 48,673 47,162
Cash and cash equivalents  38,781 6,275
Total current assets  100,967 66,154
Total assets  546,084 507,203
Capital and reserves attributable to the Group’s equity holders  
Share capital 23 344 342
Share premium account  63,531 62,344
Translation reserve  45,438 47,986
Cash flow hedging reserve  (112) (550)
Merger reserve  106,757 106,757
Retained earnings  72,634 48,928
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  288,592 265,807
Non-controlling interest  644 561
Total equity  289,236 266,368
Current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 139,414 12,998
Trade and other payables 21 60,254 56,728
Derivative financial instruments  112 550
Current tax liabilities  9,539 5,308
Short term provisions 22 375 631
Total current liabilities  209,694 76,215
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 11,689 126,705
Retirement benefit obligations 27 12,251 15,403
Deferred tax liabilities 20 12,171 13,725
Provisions 22 10,705 8,405
Deferred government grants  338 382
Total non-current liabilities  47,154 164,620
Total liabilities  256,848 240,835
Total equity and liabilities  546,084 507,203
The consolidated financial statements on pages 45 to 80 were approved by the Board on 7 June 2011 and signed on its behalf by: 
R M Steeves   G Hill 
Director    Director 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 47
 Consolidated cash flow statement  
For the period ended 3 April 2011 
Note 
2011
£’000
2010
(restated) 
£’000
Profit for the year  28,799 22,159
Adjustments  54,932 54,340
Cash generated from operations  83,731 76,499
Income tax paid  (6,262) (2,414)
Net cash generated from operating activities  77,469 74,085
Cash flows from investing activities  
Acquisition of subsidiary – net of cash  24 (1,560) –
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (PPE)  (37,599) (27,911)
Purchase of intangible assets  (569) (275)
Proceeds from sale of PPE  1,293 1,047
Receipt of government grants  63 63
Interest received  2,856 112
Net cash used in investing activities  (35,516) (26,964)
Cash flows from financing activities  
Dividends paid  (7,838) (6,372)
Proceeds from borrowings  90,531 4,261
Repayment of borrowings  (82,784) (35,634)
Repayment of hire purchase loans and finance leases  (3,880) (2,558)
Interest paid  (5,863) (7,560)
Proceeds from issue of shares  1,189 1,469
Net cash used in financing activities  (8,645) (46,394)
Net increase in cash and bank overdrafts 33,308 727
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of period  6,275 5,542
Exchange differences  (802) 6
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of period 38,781 6,275
 
 
2011 
£’000
2010
£’000
Cash generated from operations 
Profit for the period 28,799 22,159
Adjustments for: 
– depreciation and impairments 33,799 33,665
– amortisation of intangible assets 6,591 6,445
– equity-settled share-based payments 1,088 1,506
– loss/(gain) on sale of tangible fixed assets 156 (271)
– finance income (5,651) (2,579)
– finance costs 8,975 9,687
– income tax expense 7,934 2,372
Changes in working capital: 
– inventories (769) 153
– trade and other receivables (1,332) (1,146)
– trade, other payables and provisions 2,028 3,501
Cash generated from recurring operations 81,618 75,492
Increase in other payables from non-recurring items 2,113 1,007
Cash generated from operations 83,731 76,499
The comparative has been restated to reclassify interest paid from operating activities to financing activities. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 48
 Share  
capital  
£’000 
Share 
premium 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
Cash flow 
hedging 
reserves 
£’000
Translation 
reserve 
£’000
Retained  
earnings  
£’000 
Total  
attributable to 
equity holders  
of the parent  
£’000 
Non-controlling 
interest
£’000
Total 
equity 
£’000
Balance at 29 March 2009 337 60,880 106,757 (2,579) 50,940 35,905 252,240 548 252,788
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income – – – 2,029(2,954)17,212 16,287 1316,300
Dividends paid – – – – – (6,372) (6,372) – (6,372)
Issue of shares 5 1,464 – – – – 1,469 – 1,469
Share-based payments (net of tax) – – – – – 2,183 2,183 – 2,183
Balance at 28 March 2010 342 62,344 106,757 (550) 47,986 48,928 265,807 561 266,368
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income – – – 438(2,548)30,139 28,029 8328,112
Dividends paid – – – – – (7,838) (7,838) – (7,838)
Issue of shares 2 1,187 – – – – 1,189 – 1,189
Share-based payments (net of tax) – – – – – 1,405 1,405 – 1,405
Balance at 3 April 2011 344 63,531 106,757 (112) 45,438 72,634 288,592 644 289,236
The cash flow hedging reserve of £112,000 debit (2010: £550,000 debit and 2009: £2,579,000 debit) represents the fair value gains and losses 
on hedging arrangements that are effective and qualify for cash flow hedge accounting. The brought forward reserve of £550,000 debit unwound 
during the year and revaluation of existing instruments at the balance sheet date gave rise to the closing reserve. 
The share-based payment credit of £1,405,000 (2010: £2,183,000) includes a debit of £211,000 (2010: credit £110,000) relating to deferred 
taxation and a credit of £481,000 (2010: credit £567,000) relating to current taxation. 
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form part of these financial statements. 
 
Statement of changes in equity 
For the period 3 April 2011 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 49
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
For the period ended 3 April 2011 
1 General information 
Synergy Health plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘the Group’) deliver a range of specialist outsourced services to healthcare 
providers and other customers concerned with health management. The Company is registered in the United Kingdom under company 
registration number 3355631 and its registered office is Ground Floor Stella, Windmill Hill Business Park, Whitehill Way, Swindon, Wilts, SN5 6NX. 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries) made up to the nearest weekend to 31 March each year. The current accounting period is 53 weeks in length 
(2010: 52 weeks in length).  
The financial statements are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds and have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the EU (‘IFRS’). The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP. These are presented on pages 81 to 89. 
2 Accounting policies 
Basis of accounting 
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.  
Basis of consolidation 
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date 
of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those 
used by the Group. 
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. 
Jointly-controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement. 
The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s proportionate share of the entities’ assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, 
with items of a similar nature on a line-by-line basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases. 
Measurement convention 
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, which are stated at their fair value 
through profit and loss.  
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief 
Executive’s review, and the financial position of the Group and its cash flows and borrowing requirements are described in the Finance Director’s 
report, both of which are set out in the Business review section of the Annual Report. The Finance Director’s report and note 19 to the financial 
statements include the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risks and hedging activities together with its 
exposure to credit and liquidity risks. 
The current global economic conditions create uncertainty particularly over the level of demand for the Group’s products, the price of its raw 
materials for certain business areas, and the carrying value of Group debt denominated in foreign currency. 
The Directors have reviewed the Group’s medium term forecasts through to June 2012 and beyond, along with reasonable possible changes 
in trading performance and foreign exchange rates arising from these uncertainties to determine whether the committed banking facilities are 
sufficient to support the Group’s projected liquidity requirements, and whether the forecast earnings are sufficient to meet the covenants associated 
with the banking facilities. 
The Group’s committed banking facilities are due for renewal in January 2012 and the Directors have good reasons to believe that they will 
be renewed. The Group is in advanced discussions with an identified club of banks in respect of new unsecured five year revolving credit facilities 
to replace the existing facility. The main points of the new multi-currency facilities agreement have been agreed and the legal documentation is 
being finalised. 
Business combinations 
From 28 March 2010 the Group has applied IFRS 3 Business combinations (revised) in accounting for business combinations. The acquisition 
of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date 
of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. 
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at 
the acquisition date. Provisional fair value allocations are reviewed and if necessary adjusted no later than one year from the acquisition date. 
Costs relating to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with 
a business combination, are expensed as incurred. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 50
  
2 Accounting policies continued 
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets 
and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less 
any accumulated impairment losses.  
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss 
and is not subsequently reversed. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of 
the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently where there is 
an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the 
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to other assets of the unit pro rata on 
the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.  
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested 
for impairment at that date.  
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are initially capitalised at fair value as at the date of the acquisition, and subsequently stated at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are 
indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date. Intangible assets with 
a finite life are tested for impairment if there is indication of impairment. Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. 
The estimated useful lives of the identified intangible assets are as follows: 
Customer-related intangibles   5–15 years 
Trade names    10 years 
Costs incurred in setting up long term agreements are capitalised as intangible assets and amortised over the life of the contract to which the costs 
relate. Technology licences are amortised from the date that they generate economic benefit and over the period of that benefit. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services 
provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes. 
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of services but sometimes goods are also supplied, usually as part of a service offering. Revenue 
is recognised once the service has been completed and the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to 
the buyer. The Group does not participate in activities which need to be accounted for under long term contract accounting rules. 
Finance charges and income 
Interest charges and income are accounted for on an accruals basis. Financing transaction costs that relate to financial liabilities are charged 
to interest expense by reference to the effective interest rate method and are recognised within the carrying value of the related financial liability 
on the balance sheet. Fees paid for the arrangement of credit facilities are recognised through the finance expense over the term of the facility. 
Where assets or liabilities on the Group balance sheet are carried at net present value, the increase in the amount due to unwinding the 
discount is recognised as a finance expense or finance income as appropriate. 
Leasing 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases.  
Assets held under hire purchase contracts are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum 
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as 
a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve 
a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.  
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.  
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Foreign currencies 
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group 
company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 51
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
2 Accounting policies continued 
In preparing the financial statement of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign 
currencies) are recorded at rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities 
that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. 
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for 
the period.  
In order to manage its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts and options (see below for the details 
of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments). 
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at 
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, 
unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used. Exchange 
differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised 
as income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.  
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a 
substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the assets are substantially 
ready for their intended use.  
Government grants 
Government grants towards staff retraining costs are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs and 
are deducted in reporting the related expense.  
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to profit or loss over the expected useful 
lives of the assets concerned. 
Operating profit 
Operating profit is stated before investment income and finance costs and before any profit/losses on business disposals. 
Retirement benefit costs 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed 
retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are 
equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme. 
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being 
carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, and presented in the 
Statement of comprehensive income. 
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis 
over the average period until the benefits become vested. 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for 
unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past 
service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme. 
Tax 
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. 
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it 
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the liability method. Deferred tax 
liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits 
will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.  
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures except where the 
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. Deferred tax is not recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill or for temporary differences 
arising from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affect neither accounting nor 
taxable profit.  
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or 
credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt 
with in equity. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 52
  
2 Accounting policies continued 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and 
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of services or goods, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at 
their book value, being cost less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.  
Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. 
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method (with the 
exception of cobalt), on the following bases: 
Freehold property 50 years 
Leasehold improvements Period of lease 
Plant and machinery 3–20 years 
Office equipment 3–5 years 
Cobalt 15 years 
Circulating inventory 1–5 years 
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the 
same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease. 
Cobalt is depreciated over 15 years as follows. The reducing balance is used for the first eight years. The residual net book value at the end of year 
eight is then depreciated on a straight-line basis over the remaining seven years of the asset’s useful life. Potential decommissioning costs are 
capitalised and amortised over the estimated residual working life of the cobalt on a straight-line basis. A corresponding provision is recognised 
in the balance sheet. Circulating inventory mainly comprises linen textile assets provided to customers on a rental service basis. 
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill 
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in 
order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, 
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life 
is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined 
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as 
income immediately. 
Investment property 
Investment properties are properties (land and buildings) which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both. 
Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the buildings 
over 50 years. Land is not depreciated. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and 
those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 53
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Trade receivables Trade receivables are non-derivative financial assets which arise when the Group provides goods or services directly to a third 
party, and where there is no intention of trading the financial asset. The receivables are initially recognised at fair value. They are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. Any change in their value through impairment 
or reversal of impairment is recognised in the income statement. 
Provision against trade receivables is made when objective evidence is received that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due to it in 
accordance with the original terms of those receivables. The amount of the write down is determined as the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. 
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short term highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are netted off against cash. 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual 
arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of 
its liabilities. 
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including 
premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in profit or loss using the effective 
interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
rate method. 
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates and interest rates. The Group uses floating to fixed interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts to manage these 
exposures. Some of these contracts are designated as cash flow hedges under IAS 39. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments 
for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.  
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows or against net 
investment in overseas subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time 
the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the 
initial measurement of the asset or liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are 
recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as 
they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that time any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted 
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the 
income statement. 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics 
are not clearly related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the income 
statement. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to 
settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet 
date, and are discounted to present value where appropriate. 
Share-based payments 
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payments. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied 
to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 3 April 2005. 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value 
(excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled 
share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest 
and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. 
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model, except for the Long-Term Incentive Plan awards which are subject to a Total Shareholder 
Return performance condition where a model following similar principles to the Monte Carlo approach is used. The expected life used in the model 
has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural 
considerations. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 54
  
2 Accounting policies continued 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. Where estimates and associated assumptions are 
made they are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of 
which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Key areas of estimate uncertainty are set out below. 
• In relation to the Group’s cobalt provision, costs of future disposal are based on contractual arrangements with third parties and latest disposal  
cost estimates. 
• The Group cobalt depreciation policy is based on the actual physical decay of the cobalt 60 isotope. 
• In relation to the Group’s property, plant and equipment (note 13), useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been established 
using historical experience and an assessment of the nature of the assets involved.  
• Impairment tests have been undertaken with respect to goodwill (note 11) using commercial judgement and a number of assumptions and 
estimates have been made to support their carrying amounts. 
• In relation to the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, actuarial assumptions are established using relevant market benchmark data and 
with the advice of external qualified actuaries. 
• In relation to compensation received from third parties for insurance receipts, it can be uncertain how the amount received relates to specific 
items of property, plant and equipment that were impaired, lost or given up. 
Adoption of new standards: 
In the current year, the Group has adopted the following new standards and interpretations: 
• IFRS 3 Business combinations (revised), IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, and consequential amendments to IAS 27 
‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’ and IAS 31 ‘Interests in Joint Ventures’.  
The following new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations must be applied for the first time by the Group for the period ending 
3 April 2011 but are not currently relevant: 
• Amendments to IFRS 2 Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions. 
• Amendments to IAS 32 Rights of issue. 
• Amendments to IAS 39 Embedded derivatives. 
• IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate. 
• IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners. 
• IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers. 
• IAS 28 Investments in associates. 
In addition to the above, amendments to a number of standards under the annual improvements project to IFRS, which are mandatory for the 
period ending 3 April 2011, have been adopted in the year. None of these amendments has had a material impact on the Group’s financial 
statements. 
The following standards and interpretations have been published, endorsed by the EU, and are available for early adoption but have not yet been 
applied by the Group in these financial statements: 
• IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments – deals with how entities should measure equity instruments issued in a debt 
for equity swap. It addresses the accounting for such a transaction by the debtor only. 
• IAS 24 Related parties – effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2011 – provides an exemption to all government related entities, 
which is not applicable to the Group, however the revised standard also amends the definition of a related party, which will be applicable. 
Management is currently assessing the impact of these standards and interpretations on the financial statements. These amendments and the 
new standards are not expected to impact the Group significantly, although additional disclosure may be required. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 55
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
3 Segmental information 
The Group is organised into three operating segments, and information on these segments is reported to the chief operating decision maker 
(‘CODM’) for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of performance. The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the 
Board of Directors. These three operating segments are: the UK and Ireland, Europe and Middle East, and Asia and Africa. Subsequent to the 
balance sheet date, the Americas was created as a fourth operating segment, due to the acquisition of BeamOne.  
The segments derive their revenues from the same range of products and services – being the provision of healthcare services, medical device 
sterilisation services, and hospital sterilisation services. The CODM monitors the performance of the operating segments based on adjusted 
operating profit, being operating profit excluding the impact of amortisation on acquired intangibles and non-recurring items. 
Segment information about these divisions is presented below: 
UK and Ireland 
2011 
£’000
Europe and  
Middle East  
2011  
£’000 
Asia and Africa 
2011 
£’000
Total 
2011 
£’000
Revenue from external customers 154,916 118,764 13,634 287,314
Segment profit 25,010 20,548 2,708 48,266
Segment depreciation 14,014 16,427 3,358 33,799
Segment assets 260,180 207,485 78,419 546,084
The comparative figures for the previous year are shown below: 
UK and Ireland 
2010 
£’000
Europe and  
Middle East  
2010 
£’000 
Asia and Africa 
2010 
£’000
Total 
2010 
£’000
Revenue from external customers 158,034 117,426 10,961 286,421
Segment profit 23,327 17,769 2,165 43,261
Segment depreciation 12,612 16,560 2,726 31,898
Segment assets 234,491 203,128 69,584 507,203
The table below reconciles the total segment profit above, to the Group’s operating profit and profit before tax: 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Total segment profit 48,266 43,261
Unallocated amounts:  
– Corporate expenses (5,222) (3,519)
– Non-recurring costs 3,278 (1,903)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (6,265) (6,200)
Operating profit 40,057 31,639
Net finance costs (3,324) (7,108)
Profit before tax 36,733 24,531
The table below analyses the Group’s revenues from external customers between the three principal product/service groups: 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Healthcare solutions 160,380 174,631
Hospital sterilisation services 56,860 50,004
Medical device sterilisation services 70,074 61,786
 287,314 286,421
IFRS 8 Operating segments requires the Group to disclose information about the extent of its reliance on its major customers. The Group has no 
single customer making up more than 10% of total revenues.  
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 56
  
3 Segmental information continued 
The table below analyses the Group’s revenues from external customers, and non-current assets other than financial instruments, investment 
properties, deferred taxation and rights under insurance, by geography: 
 2011  2010
 
Revenue 
£’000
Non-current  
assets  
£’000  
Revenue 
£’000
Non-current 
assets 
£’000
UK 141,732 146,926  146,394 143,785
Netherlands 104,547 135,312  106,145 142,034
Rest of World 41,035 161,909  33,882 154,250
 287,314 444,147  286,421 440,069
4 Profit before tax 
Profit before tax has been arrived at after charging/(crediting): 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Release of government grants received (107) (61)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 33,799 31,898
Depreciation of investment property 10 10
Amortisation of acquired intangibles  6,265 6,200
Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 326 245
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 39,858 48,936
Staff costs (note 5)  113,487 105,860
Foreign exchange gains (190) (280)
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services 362 344
Non-recurring items of £3,278,000 (2010: £1,903,000 charge) have been credited in arriving at operating profit. The table and accompanying 
notes provide further details: 
£’000
 
Costs incurred on the acquisition of businesses 889
Gain (net of costs) on legal case (4,167)
 (3,278)
Transaction costs incurred on the acquisition of businesses have been recognised in the income statement. These costs relate primarily to the 
acquisition of GSP in late 2010 and BeamOne, which completed just after the year end. These acquisitions are disclosed in more detail in notes 24 
and 29 respectively.  
During the year the Group received a summary court judgment in our favour relating to an insurance claim arising from a fire at our Dunstable 
facility in early 2007. The non-recurring gain of £4,167,000 reflects the recognition of insurance proceeds received, less costs associated with the 
claim and final additional costs of working not previously written down.  
In addition to the above, a non-recurring credit of £1,446,000 (2010: £nil) relating to court awarded interest on the Dunstable insurance case has 
been recognised in finance income.  
The total impact of non-recurring items on profit after tax is a credit of £3,153,000.  
In the prior year, non-recurring items of £1,903,000 were charged in arriving at operating profit. The table and accompanying notes provide 
further details: 
£’000
Partial closure of Harwell sterilisation plant 609
Closure of a UK linen management facility 400
Closure of Dutch treasury operation 252
Other restructuring costs 642
 1,903
 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 57
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
4 Profit before tax continued 
The costs associated with closing a UK linen management facility increased on the amounts reported in 2009, due to the deterioration in the 
UK commercial property market. The costs included future liabilities under the property lease. The costs associated with the partial closure of the 
Harwell medical device sterilisation facility include staff redundancy costs, decommissioning costs, and future liabilities under the property lease. 
Both closures are part of a programme of cost rationalisation in the UK business. 
Other restructuring costs were incurred to generate ongoing reductions in the operating cost base in order to restore operating margins throughout 
the Group’s businesses. 
In the prior year we also recognised a non-recurring tax credit of £3,020,000. This relates to a tax credit received on a foreign exchange movement 
on inter-company Sterling borrowings within a Euro-denominated legal entity. Tax clearances have been received by the Dutch and UK authorities, 
and we have also received the associated repayment. The foreign exchange movement on which the tax credit was derived was taken direct to 
equity in accordance with applicable international accounting standards.  
The total impact of non-recurring items to profit after tax in the prior year was a credit of £1,700,000. 
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration is provided below: 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Audit services 
– audit of these financial statements 62 62
– audit of financial statements of subsidiaries 300 282
 362 344
– audit-related regulatory reporting 18 2
– other services 58 18
5 Staff costs 
The average number of monthly employees employed by the Group during the year, including executive Directors, was as follows: 
 
2011 
Number
2010
Number
Production 3,632 3,485
Selling and distribution 101 85
Administration 568 427
 4,301 3,997
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 
 
2011
£’000
2010 
£’000
Wages and salaries 97,363 89,134
Social security costs 11,166 9,887
Share-based payments  1,088 1,674
Other pension costs 3,870 5,165
 113,487 105,860
6 Finance income 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Interest on bank deposits 1,410 463
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 2,795 2,116
Interest on insurance receipts 1,446 –
 5,651 2,579
 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 58
  
7 Finance costs 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
On bank loans and overdrafts 4,683 6,375
Finance charges in respect of hire purchase loans 720 578
Other interest payable and similar charges 131 100
Total external borrowing costs 5,534 7,053
Unwinding of discount on provisions 266 111
Interest on defined benefit plan obligations 3,175 2,729
Total financing cost 8,975 9,893
Less: amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets – (206)
 8,975 9,687
During the previous year, borrowing costs on specific and general borrowings were included in the cost of qualifying assets. An average 
capitalisation rate of 5.3% was applied to expenditure on such assets. 
8 Tax 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Current tax: 
UK tax 4,598 4,297
Overseas tax  6,375 2,649
Adjustment in respect of prior years (233) (3,299)
Total current tax 10,740 3,647
Deferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (109) (493)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1,856) (782)
Effect of rate change (841) –
Total deferred tax (2,806) (1,275)
Total tax in income statement 7,934 2,372
UK corporation tax is calculated at 28% (2010: 28%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for overseas operations is calculated 
at the local prevailing rates.  
On 23 March 2011 the Chancellor announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011. 
This change became substantively enacted on 29 March 2011 and therefore the effect of the rate reduction creates a reduction in the deferred 
tax liability which has been included in the figures above. 
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax per the income statement as follows: 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Profit before tax 36,733 24,531
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2010: 28%) 10,285 6,869
Effect of: 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 866 108
Different tax rates on overseas earnings (1,096) (942)
Overseas withholding tax – 113
Adjustment in respect of prior years (2,090) (4,140)
Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate (633) –
Previously unrecognised unused tax losses 602 364
Tax charge for year 7,934 2,372
The adjustment in respect of prior years in 2010 includes a non-recurring tax credit of £3,020,000. This relates to a tax credit received on a foreign 
exchange movement on inter-company Sterling borrowings within a Euro-denominated legal entity. Tax clearances have been received by the 
Dutch and UK authorities; we have also received the associated repayment.  
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 59
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
9 Dividends 
 
2011
£’000
2010 
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: 
Final dividend for the year ended 29 March 2009 of 6.8p per share – 3,696
Second interim dividend for the year ended 28 March 2010 of 8.3p per share 4,540 –
Interim dividend for the period ended 3 April 2011 of 6.0p (2010: 4.9p) per share 3,298 2,676
 7,838 6,372
The Group paid a second interim dividend on 1 April 2010, in lieu of a final dividend for the year ended 28 March 2010. The Board of Directors 
will recommend to the shareholders a final dividend in respect of the period ended 3 April 2011 of 9.84p.  
10 Earnings per share 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Earnings 
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 28,617 22,032
 
 
Shares 
’000
Shares 
’000
Number of shares 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 54,923 54,318
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: 
Share options 940 903
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 55,863 55,221
Earnings per ordinary share 
Basic  52.10p 40.56p
Diluted  51.23p 39.90p
 
 £’000 £’000
Adjusted earnings per share 
Operating profit 40,057 31,639
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 6,265 6,200
Non-recurring items (3,278) 1,903
Adjusted operating profit 43,044 39,742
Net finance costs (4,770) (7,108)
Adjusted profit on ordinary activities before taxation 38,274 32,634
Taxation on adjusted profit on ordinary activities (8,686) (7,661)
Non-controlling interest (182) (127)
Adjusted net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 29,406 24,846
Adjusted basic earnings per share  53.54p 45.74p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share  52.64p 44.99p
 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 60
  
11 Goodwill 
 £’000
Cost and carrying amount 
At 29 March 2009 197,114
Exchange differences (2,336)
At 28 March 2010  194,778
Exchange differences (1,858)
Recognised on acquisition of businesses 657
At 3 April 2011 193,577
Goodwill acquired on a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as shown in the table below. This table also provides the 
assumptions used by management in assessing the carrying value of these amounts. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Gamma Service 
Produktbestrahlung GmbH during the year (note 24) has been allocated to the Rest of Europe sterilisation services segment. 
 2011 2010
 
Pre-tax
discount 
rate 
(%)
Long term 
growth 
rates 
(%) £’000
Pre-tax 
discount  
rate  
(%) 
Long term 
growth 
rates 
(%) £’000
UK segment  
Healthcare solutions 9.4 2–5 23,556 10.6 2–5 23,156
Hospital sterilisation services 9.2 5 4,654 10.4 5 4,654
Medical device sterilisation services 9.1 5 32,586 10.3 5 33,185
Rest of Europe segment   
Healthcare solutions 8.9 3–4 29,314 10.1 3–4 29,928
Medical device sterilisation services 8.6 5 79,992 9.8 5 80,825
Rest of World (a single CGU) 8.9 5 23,475 10.1 8 23,030
 193,577 194,778
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. An impairment test is 
a comparison of the carrying value, of the assets of a CGU, to their recoverable amount based on a value in use calculation. Where the recoverable 
amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment results. During the year the goodwill for each CGU was separately assessed and tested for 
impairment, with £nil (2010: £nil) impairment charges resulting. 
As part of testing goodwill for impairment, detailed forecasts of operating cash flows for a period of five years are derived from the most recent 
financial forecasts approved by management. Cash flows for the period beyond the financial forecasts are extrapolated based on estimates of future 
growth rates as disclosed above. For each CGU the future growth rates used in the recoverable amount calculation do not exceed the long term 
average growth rates for the markets to which the CGU is dedicated.  
A number of key assumptions are used as part of impairment testing. These key assumptions are made by management reflecting past experience 
combined with their knowledge as to future performance and relevant external sources of information. 
In determining the recoverable amount of each CGU the key assumptions are discount rate, long term growth rate, future sales prices and 
volumes, new business won and the cost structure of each business. 
Sensitivity analysis as at 3 April 2011 has indicated that no reasonable foreseeable change in the key assumptions used in the impairment model 
will result in a significant impairment charge being recorded in the financial statements. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 61
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
12 Other intangible assets 
Trade 
name 
£’000
Customer  
contracts and 
relationships  
£’000 
Other 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost  
At 29 March 2009 9,635 56,132 2,791 68,558
Exchange differences (72) (849) – (921)
Additions – – 275 275
At 28 March 2010  9,563 55,283 3,066 67,912
Exchange differences (74) (537) – (611)
Additions – – 569 569
Acquired on acquisition of businesses – 1,767 – 1,767
At 3 April 2011 9,489 56,513 3,635 69,637
  
Amortisation  
At 29 March 2009 2,470 14,372 656 17,498
Exchange differences 2 (152) – (150)
Charge for the year 971 5,229 245 6,445
At 28 March 2010 3,443 19,449 901 23,793
Exchange differences (9) (118) – (127)
Charge for the year 970 5,295 326 6,591
At 3 April 2011 4,404 24,626 1,227 30,257
  
Carrying Amount  
At 3 April 2011 5,085 31,887 2,408 39,380
At 28 March 2010  6,120 35,834 2,165 44,119
At 29 March 2009  7,165 41,760 2,135 51,060
Amortisation of intangible assets is included in administrative expenses in the income statement.  
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 62
  
13 Property, plant and equipment 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
property 
£’000
Short 
leasehold 
property 
£’000
Plant, 
machinery 
and office 
equipment 
£’000
Cobalt  
£’000
Circulating  
inventory  
£’000 
Assets in 
course of 
construction 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost   
At 29 March 2009 63,744 6,997 130,265 62,472 48,950 20,698 333,126
Additions 3,0288810,0885,18210,356 66829,410
Exchange differences (1,011) – (2,082) (233) (1,253) (794) (5,373)
Disposals (3,667)(6)(10,307)(3,661) (16,560) (49)(34,250)
Transfers 6,438–6,764–– (13,202)–
At 28 March 2010  68,532 7,079 134,728 63,760 41,493 7,321 322,913
Additions 4455,21212,2079,70710,486 42138,478
Acquisitions 1,884–4,1252,343– –8,352
Exchange differences (1,086) – (1,376) (629) (615) (219) (3,925)
Disposals (1,167)(6)(5,174)(3,119) (13,182) (22,648)
Transfers (158)–693(20) 691 (2,074)(868)
At 3 April 2011 68,450 12,285 145,203 72,042 38,873 5,449 342,302
Accumulated depreciation and impairment  
At 29 March 2009 14,866 1,454 58,561 19,468 31,083 – 125,432
Charge for the year 2,237 714 11,886 5,944 11,117 – 31,898
Exchange differences (504) – (1,499) (295) (883) – (3,181)
Disposals (1,823)(5)(9,595)(3,642) (16,199) –(31,264)
At 28 March 2010 14,776 2,163 59,353 21,475 25,118 – 122,885
Charge for the year 2,414 2,153 12,195 6,640 10,397 – 33,799
Exchange differences (312) – (834) (567) (462) – (2,175)
Disposals (331)–(4,819)(2,863) (13,155) –(21,168)
Transfers 566–(1,434)–– –(868)
At 3 April 2011 17,113 4,316 64,461 24,685 21,898 – 132,473
Carrying amount  
At 3 April 2011 51,337 7,969 80,742 47,357 16,975 5,449 209,829
At 28 March 2010  53,756 4,916 75,375 42,285 16,375 7,321 200,028
At 29 March 2009 48,878 5,543 71,704 43,004 17,867 20,698 207,694
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and equipment includes an amount of £12.2 million (2010: £13.6 million) in respect of assets held 
under hire purchase loan contracts. 
The Group has pledged land and buildings having a carrying amount of approximately £13.9 million (2010: £18.8 million) to secure banking 
facilities and other loans granted to the Group. 
At 3 April 2011, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 
£8.0 million (2010: £8.0 million). 
Included in the cost of property, plant and equipment is £805,000 (2010: £805,000) of capitalised interest. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 63
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
14 Investment property 
 £’000
Cost 
At 29 March 2009, 28 March 2010 and 3 April 2011 1,000
Accumulated depreciation 
At 29 March 2009 10
Charge for the year 10
At 28 March 2010 20
Charge for the year 10
At 3 April 2011 30
Carrying amount 
At 3 April 2011 970
At 28 March 2010 980
At 29 March 2009 990
Based on discussions with the Group’s professional advisors, the Directors estimate the fair value of the investment property to be £1,000,000 
(2010: £1,000,000). 
15 Interest in jointly-controlled entity  
As part of the acquisition of Isotron plc and its group in 2007, the Group obtained a 50% interest in a jointly-controlled entity, Isotron Logistics BV, 
whose principal activity is the provision of logistics consultancy. This jointly-controlled entity is incorporated and operates in the Netherlands and is 
proportionately consolidated into the Group financial statements on a line-by-line basis. Included in the consolidated financial statements are the 
following items that represent the Group’s interests in the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of the jointly-controlled entity: 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Current assets 117 131
Current liabilities (48) (81)
Net assets 69 50
Income 481 453
Expenses (including interest and tax) (401) (397)
Profit from operations 80 56
16 Inventories 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Raw materials 3,284 2,965
Work-in-progress 94 127
Finished goods 8,386 7,958
Process consumables 1,749 1,667
 13,513 12,717
The value of stock recognised as cost of sales is shown in note 4. The write down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £96,000 
(2010: £124,000). The write down is included in cost of sales. 
17 Trade and other receivables 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Current 
Amounts receivable for the sale of goods and services 43,000 40,051
Other receivables 1,907 3,361
Prepayments and accrued income 3,766 3,750
 48,673 47,162
Non-current 
Prepayments 1,361 1,144
Total 50,034 48,306
The average credit period taken on sales of goods and services is 47 days (2010: 47 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of 
trade and other receivables approximate their fair value. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 64
  
18 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about 
the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 19. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of the Group’s  
interest-bearing loans and borrowings approximates to their fair value. 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Current liabilities 
Bank loans 136,786 9,610
Other interest-bearing loans 397 495
Finance lease liabilities 2,231 2,893
 139,414 12,998
Long term liabilities 
Bank loans 4,793 119,162
Other interest-bearing loans 1,265 1,694
Finance lease liabilities 5,631 5,849
 11,689 126,705
Total 151,103 139,703
Analysis of borrowings by currency: 
 
Total 
£’000
Sterling  
£’000
Euros  
£’000 
US Dollars 
£’000
Chinese 
Renminbi 
£’000
2011  
Bank loans 141,579 46,407 63,344 23,519 8,309
Other interest-bearing loans 1,662 – 1,662 – –
Finance lease liabilities 7,862 7,238 624 – –
 151,103 53,645 65,630 23,519 8,309
2010  
Bank loans 128,772 61,012 59,851 – 7,909
Other interest-bearing loans 2,189 – 2,189 – –
Finance lease liabilities 8,742 6,062 2,680 – –
 139,70367,07464,720 –7,909
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: 
 
2011 
%
2010 
%
Bank overdrafts 2.3 2.3
Bank and other loans 3.5 4.5
Terms and debt repayment schedule  
1. Bank loans under the main syndicated facility of £160 million are due for renewal on 15 January 2012 and all fall due for repayment in total 
on that date. The loans are unsecured. These loans attract a floating rate of interest although fixing arrangements have been entered into as 
described in note 19. 
2. Certain Euro-denominated loans outside of the main syndicated facility totalling £6.9 million are secured by mortgages on certain Dutch 
freehold properties. The loans attract both floating and fixed rates of interest. 
3. At 3 April 2011 the Group had available £33.5 million of undrawn committed borrowing facility. 
4. In addition the Group had undrawn overdraft and other uncommitted facilities totalling £12.3 million which it expects to renew during the 
financial year. 
 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 65
 18 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued 
Financial liabilities gross maturity 
The following are the contractual cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments: 
2011 
Carrying 
value 
£’000
Total 
£’000
0–6 months 
£’000
6–12 months  
£’000 
1–3 years 
£’000
>3 years 
£’000
Trade payables 21,007 21,007 21,007 – – –
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 39,247 39,247 39,247 – – –
Bank loans less than one year 136,786 139,350 1,368 137,982 – –
Other interest-bearing loans less than one year 397 406 225 181 – –
Finance leases less than one year 2,231 2,462 1,370 1,092 – –
Bank loans greater than one year 4,793 5,338 90 90 4,596 562
Other interest-bearing loans greater than one year 1,265 1,363 16 16 951 380
Finance leases greater than one year 5,631 5,829 – – 3,692 2,137
Financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) 211,357 215,002 63,323 139,361 9,239 3,079
Forward exchange contracts 27 27 24 3 – –
Interest rate swaps 85 85 5 80 – –
Financial liabilities 211,469 215,114 63,352 139,444 9,239 3,079
 
2010 
Carrying 
value 
£’000
Total 
£’000
0–6 months 
£’000
6–12 months  
£’000 
1–3 years 
£’000
>3 years 
£’000
Trade payables 15,716 15,716 15,716 – – –
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 41,012 41,012 41,012 – – –
Bank loans less than one year 9,610 9,647 1,280 8,367 – –
Other interest-bearing loans less than one year 495 498 272 226 – –
Finance leases less than one year 2,893 3,469 1,955 1,514 – –
Bank loans greater than one year 119,162 123,528 1,319 1,193 119,797 1,219
Other interest-bearing loans greater than one year 1,694 1,760 12 12 1,350 386
Finance leases greater than one year 5,849 6,076 – – 4,524 1,552
Financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) 196,431 201,706 61,566 11,312 125,671 3,157
Forward exchange contracts (69) (69) (69) – – –
Derivative financial assets 619 619 72 357 190 –
Financial liabilities 196,981 202,256 61,569 11,669 125,861 3,157
Finance lease liabilities 
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: 
2011 2010
Minimum lease 
payments 
£’000
Interest 
£’000
Principal 
£’000
Minimum lease  
payments  
£’000 
Interest 
£’000
Principal 
£’000
Less than one year 2,462 (231) 2,231 3,469 (576) 2,893
Between one and five years 5,829 (198) 5,631 6,076 (227) 5,849
 8,291 (429) 7,862 9,545 (803) 8,742
All finance lease liabilities are contracted at fixed rates of interest, in both years. 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 66
 19 Financial instruments 
Financial instruments carried at fair value are required to be measured by reference to the following levels: 
Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) 
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 
All financial instruments have been measured by a Level 2 valuation method. 
a) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans, finance leases and cash. The main purpose of these 
financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group also has various other financial instruments such as trade 
receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations. 
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts. The purpose is to manage the 
interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. 
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. 
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Board 
reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below. 
b) Interest rate risk 
The Group is subject to fluctuations in interest rates on its loans and surplus cash deposits. At 3 April 2011 the Group held hedging arrangements 
in order to fix the interest charge on £10.3 million of its bank debt. 
The swap arrangements cover: 
Debt covered Millions Fixed rate Expiry
£1.50 4.76% 3 May 2011
€10.00 2.30% 13 January 2012
Amounts to be paid or received under these arrangements will be recognised in the interest expense consistent with the terms of the agreement.  
The expiry of each agreement is disclosed in the table above. 
The arrangements are fully effective in fixing the interest on the underlying debt. In revaluing them to fair value, the Group has recognised £85,000 
(2010: £619,000) in current liabilities and equity. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in interest rates on the element of the total Group interest which is 
not subject to fixed interest arrangements. The reasonable change is based on the difference between current market interest rates and one year 
forward rates: 
Increase/(decrease)  
in basis points 
Effect on profit after tax and equity 
£’000
2011 97/(97) (874)/874
2010 87/(87) (674)/674
c) Foreign currency risk 
The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where it has investment in overseas operations which are affected by foreign exchange 
movements. The Group is not exposed to significant transactional foreign currency risk in respect of its overseas operations.  
Whilst the exposure is limited, the Group’s principal currency exposure is to fluctuations in the exchange rate between Sterling and the Euro. 
During the 12 months to March 2011 the average exchange rate for Sterling against the Euro strengthened by 4% in comparison to the 12 month 
average to March 2010. A 4% strengthening in the average exchange rate for Sterling against the Euro over the entire year to March 2011 would 
have resulted in reduced adjusted operating profit of £1.0 million (2010: a 7% weakening, which would have led to an increase of £1.8 million). 
This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant. A 4% weakening in the average exchange rate for Sterling against the Euro would 
have an equal but opposite effect. 
The Board considers that the costs of mitigating any exposure to movements in foreign currency earnings from subsidiaries currently would 
outweigh the benefits. 
Where the Group subsidiaries make significant purchases in non-functional currencies, such as US and Canadian Dollars, the Group enters 
into forward exchange currency contracts to manage this exposure. During the 12 months to March 2011 the average exchange rate for Sterling 
against the US Dollar has weakened by 3% in comparison to the 12 months average to March 2010. A 3% weakening in the average exchange 
rate for Sterling against the US Dollar over the entire year to March 2011 would have resulted in increased adjusted operating profit of £0.1 million 
(2010: a 9% weakening, which would have led to a reduction of £0.4 million). This analysis assumes all other variables remain constant. 
A 3% strengthening in the average exchange rate for Sterling against the US Dollar would have an equal but opposite effect. 
 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 67
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
19 Financial instruments continued 
Currency derivatives: The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows in foreign currencies and 
is a party to a variety of foreign currency forward contracts in the management of its exchange rate exposures. The instruments purchased are 
denominated in the functional currencies of the Group’s trading entities and its suppliers. 
The Group does not trade in derivatives. The derivatives held hedge specific exposures and have maturities designed to match the exposures 
they are hedging. It is the intention to hold the financial instruments giving rise to the exposure and the underlying hedged item until maturity 
and therefore no net gain or loss is expected to be realised. 
Additionally, the Group holds Euro-denominated loans in UK companies totalling £70.4 million (2010: £63.0 million). This represents a fully 
effective designated net investment hedge against the first £70.4 million of the Group’s Euro-denominated net assets of £235.3 million (2010: 
£194.4 million). The revaluation of these loans resulted in a loss of £2.2 million (2010: gain of £4.8 million) which has been posted to the 
translation reserve. 
d) Credit risk 
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash and trade and other receivables. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable 
to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for impairment. 
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned 
by international credit rating agencies. 
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations 
and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers. 
Management has credit policies in place to manage risk and to monitor exposure to risk on an ongoing basis. These include the use of customer 
specific credit limits based on third party credit reports and in cases of customer default or requests for credit above agreed limits the use of pro 
forma invoices to secure payment in advance of delivery. Given these factors and based on extensive past experience, the Group believes that its 
financial assets are of good credit quality.  
Exposure to credit risk: The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. Therefore, the maximum exposure 
to credit risk at the balance sheet date was £83,688,000 (2010: £49,687,000) being the total trade and other receivables and cash and cash 
equivalents in the balance sheet. This figure is higher than last year as a result of the cash drawn down to fund the acquisition of BeamOne after 
the period end. 
The Group’s customer base mainly comprises major medical device companies, commercial distributors, NHS Trusts and healthcare providers, 
including public sector, private sector and charitable organisations, throughout the world. No single customer or top 10 customer grouping 
accounts for a significant proportion of the Group’s trade receivables. The Group has in place an insurance policy to cover the majority of its 
Healthcare solutions UK export customers. 
Credit quality of trade receivables and impairment losses  
At the balance sheet date, the ageing of trade receivables was: 
Group 
2011 
Gross 
£’000 
2010 
Gross 
£’000
Current 33,110 30,339
1–30 days overdue 7,740 7,032
31–60 days overdue 1,290 1,155
61–90 days overdue 573 1,034
More than 90 days overdue 287 491
 43,000 40,051
Financial assets are reviewed for impairment at the balance sheet date and a full provision for impairment is made against trade receivables that 
are not considered to be recoverable. The total provision against trade receivables at the period end was £418,000 (2010: 614,000). 
No further analysis has been provided for cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables from Group companies, other trade receivables and other 
financial assets as there is limited exposure to credit risk and no provisions for impairment have been recognised. 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. 
Details of the maturity of the Group’s financial liabilities are given in note 18. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 68
 19 Financial instruments continued 
Capital management 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are: 
i. to safeguard the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits to other 
stakeholders, and 
ii. to provide an adequate return to shareholders by (a) pricing products and services commensurate with the level of risk and (b) ensuring returns 
on new investment programmes will maintain or increase shareholder returns. 
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares, if required. No changes 
were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the periods ended 3 April 2011 and 28 March 2010. 
The table below presents the quantitative data for the components the Group manages as capital: 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Shareholders’ funds 288,592 265,807
Finance leases 7,862 8,742
Bank loans 141,579 128,772
Other interest-bearing loans 1,662 2,189
 439,695 405,510
20 Deferred tax 
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior 
reporting period. 
Accelerated capital 
allowances 
£’000
Recognition of 
intangibles 
£’000
Share-based  
payments  
£’000
Other temporary  
differences  
£’000 
Pension 
schemes 
£’000
Total 
£’000
At 29 March 2009 9,536 12,179 (420) (1,514) (2,780) 17,001
Charge/(credit) to income 197 (1,535) (469) 123 409 (1,275)
Charge/(credit) to equity – – (110) – (1,875) (1,985)
Exchange differences 19 – – – (35) (16)
At 28 March 2010  9,752 10,644 (999) (1,391) (4,281) 13,725
Charge/(credit) to income (373) (2,246) (270) (334) 304 (2,919)
Charge/(credit) to equity – – 211 – 932 1,143
Acquired with business during the period – – – 499 (152) 347
Exchange differences (125) – – – – (125)
At 3 April 2011 9,254 8,398 (1,058) (1,226) (3,197) 12,171
The Group has deferred tax assets of £2,552,000 (2010: £1,364,000) in respect of tax losses that have not been recognised as their recoverability 
is uncertain. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where appropriate. 
On 23 March 2011 the Chancellor announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011. 
This change became substantively enacted on 29 March 2011 and therefore the effect of the rate reduction creates a reduction in the deferred 
tax liability which has been included in the figures above. 
The Chancellor also proposed changes to further reduce the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014, but these 
changes have not yet been substantively enacted and therefore are not included in the figures above.  
 
 
 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 69
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
21 Trade and other payables 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Trade payables 21,007 15,716
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 39,247 41,012
 60,254 56,728
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken 
for trade purchases is 58 days (2010: 57 days). 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.  
22 Provisions  
Cobalt 
disposal costs
£’000
Environmental 
provision 
£’000 
Other 
provisions
£’000
Total
£’000
At 29 March 2010 2,792 2,994 3,250 9,036
Additional provision in the year 114 – 1,078 1,192
Unwinding of discounting 150 116 – 266
Utilised in the year – (17) (1,196) (1,213)
Acquired with businesses during the period 1,092 359 364 1,815
Exchange differences 34 (53) 3 (16)
At 3 April 2011 4,182 3,399 3,499 11,080
Included in current liabilities  375
Included in non-current liabilities  10,705
  11,080
The brought forward environmental provision was agreed with the vendor of Lips Textielservice Holding B.V. as part of the acquisition completion 
accounts. To the extent that the environmental provision is not utilised by 30 July 2012 it is to be paid to the vendor together with interest at the rate 
of Euribor plus 0.75%. Accordingly, the interest to date has been accrued and reflected in the income statement.  
The cobalt disposal cost provision recognises a potential decommissioning liability in respect of particular types of cobalt used at medical device 
sterilisation sites. It is anticipated that the provision will be utilised as the cobalt to which the provision relates reaches the end of its useful 
economic life. 
Other provisions include provisions against vacated properties and other restructuring costs.  
23 Share capital 
 
2011 
£’000
2010 
£’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid 344 342
The Company has issued 386,569 ordinary shares (2010: 787,104 ordinary shares) of 0.625p during the year in respect of options exercised 
under share option schemes. Total share proceeds amounted to £1,189,000 (2010: £1,469,000). The difference between the total consideration 
and the total nominal value of shares issued has been credited to the share premium account. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Group. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 70
 24 Acquisition of subsidiary 
With effect from 1 November 2010, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Gamma Service Produktbestrahlung GmbH (‘GSP’), 
a company incorporated in Germany. GSP is located in Saxony and provides sterilisation services. 
The fair value of the net assets acquired and the related consideration were as follows: 
Fair value
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 8,352
Intangible assets 1,767
Inventories 33
Trade and other receivables 619
Cash and cash equivalents 1,310
Trade and other payables (284)
Pension provisions (539)
Other provisions (1,815)
Deferred tax liabilities (347)
Finance leases (150)
Loans (6,305)
Fair value of assets acquired 2,641
 
Cash consideration 2,870
Deferred consideration 428
Total consideration 3,298
 
Goodwill arising on acquisition 657
The deferred consideration is due for payment one year after the date of acquisition.  
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of GSP is attributable to the assembled workforce and the synergies that can be generated following the 
integration of GSP into the Group.  
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations (revised), management have made adjustments to the book value of net assets acquired 
to arrive at the fair values disclosed above. The most significant of these are the recognition of intangible assets (customer lists) and adjustments 
to the carrying value of provisions for the disposal of cobalt.  
Acquisition costs of £169,000 have been expensed within non-recurring items.  
The GSP business contributed £2,492,000 to revenue and £439,000 to operating profit for the period. Had the business been owned for the entire 
year, the contribution to revenue and operating profit would have been £5,117,000 and £922,000 respectively.  
Summary of cash flow associated with the acquisition of GSP: 
Cash consideration 2,870
Cash acquired with business (1,310)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – net of cash 1,560
 
 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 71
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
25 Operating lease arrangements 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year 4,685 3,500
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, 
which fall due as follows: 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
In one year or less 3,903 1,934
Between one and five years 7,824 4,427
In five years or more 14,851 19,051
 26,578 25,412
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties, vehicles and equipment.  
26 Share-based payments 
The Group recognised total expenses of £1,088,000 related to share-based payment transactions in 2011, and £1,506,000 in 2010. In 2011, 
£nil related to cash-settled share-based payments, with the balance relating to equity-settled share-based payments. In 2010, £73,000 related 
to cash-settled share-based payments, with the balance relating to equity-settled share-based payments.  
The Group operates seven separate share option schemes, as follows: 
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2007 
A new share option scheme was adopted on 3 July 2007 and was approved by the Inland Revenue on 12 July 2007. It is administered by the 
Board and is open to all employees, and to Directors who devote not less than 25 hours per week to their duties. 
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date 
of grant. The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. 
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest except in the case of retirement, redundancy or similar situations. 
Options granted to a participating individual are Approved options to the extent that, when taken together with any other Approved options held 
by that individual, they do not exceed £30,000 in value. Any option granted in excess of that figure is Unapproved.  
Exercise of the options is subject to performance conditions determined by the Remuneration Committee linked to a sustained and significant 
improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company over a three year period. Options granted during the year will vest in 
accordance with an increase in the Company’s earnings per share, adjusted for the amortisation of acquired intangibles, and non-recurring items. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2011  2010
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted average 
exercise price 
 (£)  
Number of  
share options 
(£) 
Weighted average
exercise price
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 587,289 6.74  447,475 7.61
Granted during the period 9,049 7.49  205,341 5.21
Forfeited during the period (67,415) 6.85  (65,527) 7.32
Exercised during the period (27,847) 7.49  – –
Outstanding at end of period 501,076 6.76  587,289 6.74
Exercisable at end of period 195,196 7.93  – –
 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 72
  
26 Share-based payments continued 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £8.59 (2010: £nil).  
The options outstanding at 3 April 2011 were exercisable at prices between £5.04 and £7.96 and had a weighted average remaining contractual 
life of 7.3 years (2010: 8.3 years). During the year ended 3 April 2011 options were granted on 6 July 2010. The aggregate of the estimated 
fair values of the options granted at that date is £0.04 million. During the year ended 28 March 2010 options were granted on 15 July 2009, 
7 September 2009, 23 September 2009, 2 November 2009, 9 December 2009 and 16 February 2010. The aggregate of the estimated fair 
values of the options granted on those dates is £0.2 million. The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year is £1.06 (2010: £1.39). 
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model for grants during the year are as follows: 
 2011 2010
Weighted average share price £6.72 £5.29
Weighted average exercise price £6.63 £5.20
Expected volatility 27.75% 39.48%
Expected life in years 3.0 3.0
Risk free rate 1.38% 2.19%
Dividend yield 2.24% 1.77%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years at the date of grant. 
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions, and behavioural considerations. 
The approved share option plan 
The approved share option plan was adopted on 13 July 2001 and was approved by the Inland Revenue on 3 August 2001. It is administered by 
the Board and was open to all employees, and to Directors who devote not less than 25 hours per week to their duties. No further options will be 
granted under this scheme. 
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date of 
grant. The vesting period is between three and four years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the 
options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2011  2010
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted average 
exercise price  
 (£)  
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted average
exercise price 
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 91,829 4.08  185,550 4.25
Forfeited during the period – –  (15,271) 6.92
Exercised during the period (53,459) 4.05  (78,450) 3.93
Outstanding at end of period 38,370 4.12  91,829 4.08
Exercisable at end of period 38,370 4.12  91,829 4.08
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £7.20 (2010: £6.14). 
The options outstanding at 3 April 2011 were exercisable at prices between £1.73 and £7.72 and had a weighted average remaining contractual 
life of 4.0 years (2010: 5.1 years).  
The unapproved share option plan 
The unapproved share option plan was adopted on 30 November 1999 and was not submitted for approval by the Board to the Inland Revenue. 
The scheme was open to all employees. No further options will be granted under this scheme. 
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date 
of grant. The vesting period is between three and four years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of seven years from the date of grant, 
the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 73
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
26 Share-based payments continued 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2011  2010
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted average 
exercise price  
 (£)  
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted average
exercise price 
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 213,317 5.23  537,025 4.12
Forfeited during the period (20,795) 6.80  (21,293) 5.03
Exercised during the period (107,368) 4.60  (302,415) 3.27
Outstanding at end of period 85,154 5.66  213,317 5.23
Exercisable at end of period 85,154 5.66  213,317 5.23
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £7.63 (2010: £5.91). 
The options outstanding at 3 April 2011 were exercisable at prices between £2.90 and £7.72 and had a weighted average remaining contractual 
life of 2.2 years (2010: 3.0 years).  
The Save As You Earn scheme 
The Save As You Earn scheme was adopted on 13 July 2001 and is open to all employees and full-time Directors who have at least six months 
service with the Group. Options are granted for a period of either three, five or seven years. 
Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the three dealing days prior to the date 
of grant discounted by 20%. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest except in the case of retirement, 
redundancy or similar situations. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2011  2010
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted average 
exercise price  
 (£)  
Number of 
share options
(£)
Weighted average
exercise price 
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 341,370 3.31  348,888 4.94
Granted during the period 88,834 6.58  130,305 5.27
Forfeited during the period (61,243) 5.79  (91,482) 4.76
Exercised during the period (59,955) 4.50  (46,341) 3.40
Outstanding at end of period 309,006 5.70  341,370 3.31
Exercisable at end of period 3,856 4.58  ––
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £8.03 (2010: £5.94).  
The options outstanding at 3 April 2011 were exercisable at prices between £1.74 and £6.86 and had a weighted average remaining contractual 
life of 2.78 years (2010: 1.2 years). During the year ended 3 April 2011 options were granted on 1 February 2011. The aggregate of the estimated 
fair values of the options granted on this date is £0.19 million. During the year ended 28 March 2010 options were granted on 5 December 2009. 
The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on this date is £0.2 million. The weighted average fair value of options granted in 
the year is £2.74 (2010: £1.98). 
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model for grants during the year are as follows: 
 2011 2010
Weighted average share price £8.94 £6.15
Weighted average exercise price £6.58 £5.27
Expected volatility 26.60% 38.19%
Expected life in years 3.7 3.7
Risk free rate 2.13% 2.19%
Dividend yield 2.24% 1.77%
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 74
  
26 Share-based payments continued 
Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) 
The LTIP for executive Directors and senior executives was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 28 June 2005 and is described in the 
Remuneration report on page 39.  
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2011 2010
Number of 
share options 
(£)
Weighted average 
exercise price 
 (£)  
Number of 
share options 
 (£)
Weighted average
exercise price
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 1,059,766 0.01  1,068,116 0.01
Granted during the period 487,895 0.01  384,311 0.01
Forfeited during the period (342,720) 0.01  (101,190) 0.01
Exercised during the period (131,287) 0.01  (291,471) 0.01
Outstanding at end of period 1,073,654 0.01  1,059,766 0.01
Exercisable at end of period – –  ––
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £6.31 (2010: £5.94). 
The options outstanding at 3 April 2011 were exercisable at a price of £0.01, being the nominal value of the ordinary shares and had a weighted 
average remaining contractual life of 1.4 years (2010: 1.4 years).  
During the year ended 3 April 2011 options were granted on 14 June 2010 and 14 July 2010. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the 
options granted on those dates is £1.15 million. During the year ended 28 March 2010 options were granted on 14 July 2009, 22 July 2009, 
1 September 2009 and 24 September 2009. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on this date is £0.5 million. 
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year is £6.08 (2010: £4.94). 
The fair value of an award of shares under the LTIP has been adjusted to take into account TSR as a market-based performance condition, using  
a pricing model that takes into account expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in the comparator group. The model 
follows similar principles as the Monte Carlo approach and takes into account that TSR vesting and share price performance are not independent. 
The inputs into the fair value models are as follows: 
 2011 2010
Weighted average share price £6.52 £5.21
Weighted average exercise price £0.01 £0.01
Expected volatility 27.76% 39.86%
Expected life in years 3.0 3.0
Risk free rate 1.43% 2.23%
Dividend yield 2.24% 1.77%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years at the date of grant. 
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Following the acquisition of Isotron plc, the Group allowed members of the Isotron PSP scheme to roll forward their entitlement into an identical 
scheme based on Synergy shares. The vesting period is three years. The vesting of 75% of the options was subject to the relative performance of 
Isotron’s Total Shareholder Return and 25% is subject to the Group achieving growth in earnings per share. Under the terms of the scheme, the 
vesting conditions were waived as a result of the acquisition by Synergy Health plc. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years 
from the date of grant the options expire. No new options will be granted under this scheme.  
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2011 2010
Number of 
share options 
(£)
Weighted average 
exercise price 
 (£)  
Number of
 share options 
 (£)
Weighted average
exercise price
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 15,147 0.01  74,685 0.01
Forfeited during the period (1,430) 0.01  (764) 0.01
Exercised during the period (6,651) 0.01  (58,774) 0.01
Outstanding at end of period 7,066 0.01  15,147 0.01
Exercisable at end of period 7,066 0.01  15,147 0.01
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for PSP options exercised during the period was £8.69 (2010: £5.52). 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 75
 26 Share-based payments continued 
The options outstanding at 3 April 2011 were exercisable at an exercise price of 0.83p and had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 
5.3 years (2010: 6.1 years). No options have been granted under this scheme since the acquisition. The fair values of the options granted remain 
unchanged post-acquisition. 
‘Phantom’ Performance Share Plan (‘Phantom PSP’) 
Phantom PSP was adopted by the Group in a similar manner to the PSP scheme following the acquisition of Isotron plc. It is available to certain 
overseas employees of the Group. ‘Phantom’ options are issued and the vesting conditions of the scheme are identical to the PSP. No new options 
will be granted under this scheme. The scheme is cash-settled. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2011 2010
Number of 
share options 
(£)
Weighted average 
exercise price 
 (£)  
Number of 
share options 
 (£)
Weighted average
exercise price
 (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 37,310 0.01  66,276 0.01
Forfeited during the period (851) 0.01  (2,558) 0.01
Exercised during the period (13,444) 0.01  (26,408) 0.01
Outstanding at end of period 23,015 0.01  37,310 0.01
Exercisable at end of period 23,015 0.01  37,310 0.01
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Phantom PSP options exercised during the period was £7.42 (2010: £6.02). 
The options outstanding at 3 April 2011 were exercisable at an exercise price of £0.83p and had a weighted average remaining contractual life 
of 5.0 years (2010: 6.2 years). No options have been granted under this scheme since acquisition.  
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
27 Retirement benefit schemes 
Defined contribution schemes 
The Group contributes towards a number of defined contribution and stakeholder schemes. The assets of these schemes are administered by 
trustees in funds independent from those of the Group. 
The total cost charged to income of £2,850,000 (2010: £1,390,000) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates 
specified in the rules of the plans.  
Defined benefit schemes 
During the year the Group operated four defined benefit pension schemes for the benefit of certain employees of its subsidiaries in the UK and 
the Netherlands. A fifth defined benefit pension scheme, for the benefit of certain employees and ex-employees in Germany, was added during 
the year with the acquisition of GSP. In addition, the Group participates in a multi-employer scheme in the Netherlands. 
Scheme 1 – Synergy Health plc Retirement Benefits Scheme The scheme is a defined benefit (final salary) funded pension scheme. 
The scheme is only open to new employees transferring their employment from NHS Trusts. The employer expects to contribute £730,000 for the 
year starting 4 April 2011. The current arrangements as regards to contribution levels are described in the Scheme’s Schedule of Contributions 
dated 24 June 2010.  
The last full actuarial valuation for the scheme was conducted as at 31 March 2009. This has been updated to 3 April 2011 by a qualified 
independent actuary. 
Scheme 2 – Shiloh Group Pension Scheme The scheme is a defined benefit (final salary) funded pension scheme. The scheme is closed to future 
accrual. The employer expects to contribute £345,000 for the year starting 4 April 2011. The current arrangements as regards to contribution 
levels are described in the scheme’s Schedule of Contributions dated 22 March 2010.  
The last full actuarial valuation for the scheme was conducted as at 31 March 2009. This has been updated to 3 April 2011 by a qualified 
independent actuary.  
Scheme 3 – Isotron BV Pension Plan The scheme is a defined benefit (career average salary) funded pension scheme. The scheme is closed 
to new entrants. An actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 3 April 2011 by a qualified independent actuary. 
Scheme 4 – Vernon-Carus Limited Pension and Assurance Scheme The scheme is a defined benefit (final salary) funded pension scheme. 
The scheme is closed to future accrual. The employer expects to contribute £1,546,000 for the year starting 4 April 2011. The current 
arrangements as regards to contribution levels are described in the scheme’s Schedule of Contributions dated 7 May 2010.  
The last full actuarial valuation for the scheme was conducted as at 31 March 2009. This has been updated to 3 April 2011 by a qualified 
independent actuary.  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 76
  
27 Retirement benefit schemes continued 
Scheme 5 – Gamma Service Produktbestrahlung Scheme The scheme is a defined benefit funded pension scheme. The scheme is closed to new 
entrants. An updated actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 3 April 2011 by a qualified independent actuary. 
Scheme 6 – Lips Textielservice Our Dutch linen business participates in a multi-employer industry-wide defined benefit scheme. The plan is 
managed by the industry pension fund and obligations are reinsured. In the event that there is an under-funding position the trustees of the 
scheme can take a range of actions including increasing employee contributions and reducing member benefits as well as asking employers to 
increase their contributions. 
It is not possible to identify the share of the underlying assets, liabilities, and overall surplus/deficit of the plan attributable to the business, because 
the plan is industry-wide. However, to the extent that a surplus or deficit in the plan may affect the amount of future contributions, the Company will 
be required to recognise its share of these obligations. Under the specific exemptions within IAS 19, the scheme is therefore treated as a defined 
contribution scheme within the Group financial statements. The total cost charged to the income statement in respect of this scheme was 
£2,482,000 (2010: £2,235,000). 
IAS 19 disclosures 
The key weighted average assumptions used by the actuary and the Directors for the significant pension schemes were: 
 
2011
%
2010 
%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.4 4.0
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.2 3.4
Inflation 3.0 3.7
Discount rate for liabilities 5.6 5.6
Expected rate of return on scheme assets 6.4 6.6
In assessing the Group’s post-retirement liabilities the Group monitors mortality assumptions and uses up-to-date mortality tables. The following 
mortality tables have been used: 
– PA92: year of birth, long cohort with a minimum improvement of 1% per annum and scaling factor of between 125% and 130%.  
– Dutch Standard Table (2006) minus two year age range offset. 
It has been assumed that the remaining average lifespan of a plan member if they retire at a normal retirement age is on average 22 years.  
The mortality assumptions for the schemes are updated regularly. Allowance is made for expected future increases in life expectancy. 
Amounts recognised in income in respect of these defined benefit pension schemes are as follows: 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Current service cost less employee contributions 1,020 777
Of the charge for the year, £475,000 (2010: £376,000) has been included in cost of sales and £545,000 (2010: £401,000) has been included in 
administrative expenses. Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of recognised income and expense. 
The other finance costs/income charged comprises: 
 
2011
£’000
2010
 £’000
Expected return on pension scheme assets (2,795) (2,116)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 3,175 2,729
Net charge to income statement 380 613
The amount recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is: 
 
2011
£’000
2010 
£’000
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (1,437) 7,154
Experience (losses)/gains arising on scheme liabilities – 589
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 3,891 (14,438)
 2,454 (6,695)
The actual gain on the scheme assets was £1,358,000 (2010: £9,270,000). 
 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 77
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
27 Retirement benefit schemes continued 
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligation in respect of its defined benefit retirement benefit schemes is  
as follows: 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations  (55,916) (56,723)
Fair value of scheme assets 43,665 41,320
Deficit in scheme (12,251) (15,403)
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (12,251) (15,403)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows: 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Beginning of year (56,723) (41,516)
Service cost (970) (777)
Interest cost (3,175) (2,729)
Contributions from scheme members (251) (254)
Actuarial gains and losses 3,891 (13,849)
Benefits paid 1,889 2,322
Losses on settlements and curtailments (50) –
Obligation transferred on acquisition of subsidiary (593) –
Exchange adjustments 66 80
End of year (55,916) (56,723)
None of the schemes has contingent liabilities. 
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows: 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Beginning of year 41,320 32,220
Expected return on scheme assets 2,795 2,116
Actuarial (losses)/gains (1,437) 7,154
Contributions from sponsoring companies 2,627 1,948
Contributions from scheme members 251 254
Benefits paid (1,889) (2,322)
Fair value of assets transferred on acquisition of subsidiary 51 –
Exchange adjustments (53) (50)
End of year 43,665 41,320
The analysis of the scheme assets and the expected rates of return at the balance sheet date were as follows: 
2011 2010
Rate of return 
%
Value 
£’000  
Rate of return 
%
Value
£’000
Equities 8.5 15,490  8.0 23,532
Bonds 5.1 19,060  5.5 11,552
Other assets 5.5 9,115  5.3 4,137
Cash 4.5 –  0.5 2,099
Total market value of assets 43,665  41,320
 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 78
  
27 Retirement benefit schemes continued 
The assets of these schemes are administered by trustees in funds independent from those of the Group. The scheme assets do not include 
investments issued by the Group nor any properties occupied by the Group. The overall expected rate of return on the scheme assets has been 
based on the average expected return for each asset class, weighted by the amount of assets in each class.  
The five year history of experience gains and losses is: 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2009 
£’000 
2008
£’000
2007
£’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (55,916) (56,723) (41,516) (40,692) (17,420)
Fair value of scheme assets 43,665 41,320 32,220 36,749 14,421
Deficit in the scheme (12,251) (15,403) (9,296) (3,943) (2,999)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities:  
Amount (£’000) – 589 1,578 6,831 47
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 0% 1% 4% 17% 0%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets:  
Amount (£’000) (1,437) 7,154 (8,000) (4,157) (459)
Percentage of scheme assets (3%) 17% (25%) (11%) (3%)
Following the announcement by the Government on 8 July 2010 of their intention to use CPI rather than RPI to calculate statutory minimum 
increases in both deferred pensions and pensions in payment, the Company has given due consideration, including discussions with its legal 
advisors and the trustees, to the impact of the change on the valuation of the scheme liabilities as at 3 April 2011. Management have concluded 
that for two of the UK schemes a change to CPI is permitted under the scheme rules and this has been recognised as a change in assumption 
through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income during the period. 
28 Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note. The Group’s share of the net assets and income of the jointly-controlled entity are disclosed in note 15. 
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of key personnel (including Directors) of Synergy Health plc was: 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Short term benefits 2,768 2,170
Post-employment benefits 219 322
Share-based payments 651 962
 3,638 3,454
Key personnel (including Directors) comprise the executive and non-executive Directors and six senior executives (2010: five). Three of the senior 
executives are directly responsible for the Group’s operating regions. The others are the Group HR Director, the Group Commercial Director, and 
the Group Company Secretary. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 79
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
29 Post-balance sheet event – acquisition of subsidiary 
With effect from 7 April 2011, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of BeamOne LLC (‘BeamOne’), a company incorporated in the 
US. BeamOne has sites in San Diego, California; Denver, Colorado; Lima, Ohio; Saxonburg, Pennsylvania; with a fifth site in Costa Rica. 
The fair value of the net assets acquired and the related consideration were as follows: 
 
Fair value
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 5,397
Investment 429
Intangible assets 5,003
Trade and other receivables 2,575
Cash and cash equivalents 589
Trade and other payables (1,582)
Other provisions (643)
Loans (4,278)
Fair value of assets acquired 7,490
 
Cash consideration 16,341
Deferred consideration 8,582
Total consideration 24,923
 
Goodwill arising on acquisition 17,433
The deferred consideration is due for payment 14 months after the date of acquisition.  
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of BeamOne is attributable to the assembled workforce and the synergies that can be generated following 
the integration of BeamOne into the Group.  
In accordance with IFRS3 (revised) Business combinations, management have made adjustments to the book value of net assets acquired to 
arrive at the fair values disclosed above. The most significant of these are the recognition of intangible assets (customer lists).  
Acquisition costs of £608,000 related to BeamOne have been expensed during the period within non-recurring items.  
Had BeamOne been owned for the entire year, the contribution to revenue and operating profit would have been £8,800,000 and 
£2,200,000 respectively.  
Summary of cash flow associated with the acquisition of BeamOne: 
Cash consideration 16,341
Cash acquired with business (589)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – net of cash 15,752
 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 80
 Company balance sheet 
As at 3 April 2011 
Notes 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Fixed assets  
Tangible assets 4 403 329
Investments 5 359,293 358,719
  359,696 359,048
Current assets  
Debtors 6 58,001 38,040
Current investments  – –
Cash at bank and in hand  – –
  58,001 38,040
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 (157,016) (26,869)
Net current (liabilities)/assets  (99,015) 11,171
Total assets less current liabilities  260,681 370,219
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 8 – (111,283)
Net assets  260,681 258,936
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital 9 344 342
Share premium account 10 63,531 62,344
Merger reserve 10 106,757 106,757
Cash flow hedging reserve 10 (112) (550)
Profit and loss account 10 90,161 90,043
Shareholders’ funds 11 260,681 258,936
The Company financial statements on pages 81 to 89 were approved by the Board on 7 June 2011 and signed on its behalf by: 
R M Steeves  G Hill 
Director   Director 
The notes on pages 82 to 89 form part of these financial statements 
 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 81
 Notes to the financial statements 
1 Principal company accounting policies 
The term ‘Company’ refers to Synergy Health plc. The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies 
Act 2006 (‘the Act’). As permitted by the Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (‘UK GAAP’). 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items that are considered material in relation to the Company’s 
financial statements. 
Basis of accounting 
The financial statements presented under UK GAAP are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards. 
Under Section 408 of the Act, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. The Company’s profit 
for the financial year is disclosed in note 2. 
Goodwill 
Purchased goodwill is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Company are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Costs incurred 
in setting up long term arrangements are capitalised as intangible assets and amortised over the life of the contract to which the costs relate. 
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation 
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Freehold land is not depreciated. For all assets 
depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.  
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Leasehold improvements Period of lease 
Plant and Machinery 3–20 years  
Office equipment  3–5 years  
Stocks 
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Deferred taxation 
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision, without discounting, is made for all timing differences between the 
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets 
are recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. 
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at fair value. They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, less provision for impairment. 
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the 
effective interest rate method.  
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Company’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these 
exposures. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The use of financial derivatives is governed 
by the Company’s treasury policy as approved by the Board of Directors. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is either recognised 
immediately in the profit and loss account or, if the underlying derivative qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, then the gain or loss 
is recognised in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 82
  
1 Principal company accounting policies continued 
Financial instruments continued 
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or a forecast transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset  
or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial 
measurement of the asset or liability. For cash flow hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity 
are recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged item affects the profit and loss account.  
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, 
the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. 
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately 
in the profit and loss account. 
Retirement benefits 
Defined contribution pension schemes The pension costs charged against operating profits are the contributions payable to the schemes in respect 
of the accounting period.  
Government grants 
Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are credited to a deferred income account within creditors and are released to the profit and 
loss account by equal annual instalments over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets. 
Government grants of a revenue nature are credited to the profit and loss account in the same period as the related expenditure. 
Leased assets 
Assets held under hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over their expected useful lives.  
The interest element of leasing payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the profit and loss 
account over the period of the lease. 
All other leases are regarded as operating leases and the payments made under them are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term. 
Investments 
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost except where they have experienced a permanent 
diminution in value. Where shares have been issued to acquire a subsidiary, the cost of the investment is the market value of the Company’s 
shares on the date the transaction took place.  
Share-based payments 
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based payment. The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to 
certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The fair value is measured at the date of grant of the equity-settled share-based payments and is spread over the period during which the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using both the Black-Scholes and 
Monte Carlo models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense  
is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to growth in the Company’s total shareholder 
return not achieving the growth threshold for vesting.  
The Company also provides employees with the option to purchase the Company’s ordinary shares at a discount of 20% of market value on the 
date of grant. The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes model. 
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were 
unvested as of 3 April 2005. 
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises, in its individual financial statements, 
an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its consolidated 
financial statements, with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. 
Financial guarantees 
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. 
Cash flow and related party transactions 
Under the provisions of FRS 1 Cash flow statements (revised), the Company has not presented a cash flow statement because the consolidated 
financial statements contain a cash flow statement. 
Under the provisions of FRS 8 Related party disclosures, the Company has not disclosed details of inter-Group transactions because consolidated 
financial statements have been prepared. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 83
 Notes to the financial statements 
2 Profit and loss account 
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of the Act and not presented a profit and loss account for the 
Company alone. A profit of £6,740,000 (2010: profit £16,642,000) is included within the consolidated financial statements. Audit fees and 
expenses paid to the Company’s auditors were £62,000 (2010: £72,000).  
Amounts receivable by the Company’s auditor in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Company’s financial statements 
have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis in the consolidated financial statements. 
3 Dividends 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: 
Final dividend for the year ended 29 March 2009 of 6.8p per share – 3,696
Second interim dividend for the year ended 28 March 2010 of 8.3p per share 4,540 –
Interim dividend for the period ended 3 April 2011 of 6.0p (2010: 4.9p) per share 3,298 2,676
 7,838 6,372
The Group paid a second interim dividend on 1 April 2010, in lieu of a final dividend for the year ended 28 March 2010. The Board of Directors 
will recommend to the shareholders a final dividend in respect of the period ended 3 April 2011 of 9.84p.  
4 Tangible fixed assets 
Short leasehold 
properties 
£’000 
Plant, machinery
and office
equipment 
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost  
At 28 March 2010 78 688 766
Additions – 232 232
Disposals – (44) (44)
At 3 April 2011 78 876 954
Depreciation  
At 28 March 2010 78 359 437
Charge for the year – 114 114
Disposals – – –
At 3 April 2011 78 473 551
Net book value at 3 April 2011 – 403 403
Net book value at 28 March 2010 – 329 329
The net book value of Company plant, machinery and office equipment includes £nil (2010: £nil) in respect of assets held under finance leases. 
Depreciation of £nil (2010: £nil) was charged on such assets. 
5 Fixed asset investments 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings held by Synergy Health plc as at 3 April 2011 are: 
 
Shares in Group
undertakings
£’000
Balance at 28 March 2010 358,719
Additions 574
Balance at 3 April 2011 359,293
 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 84
  
5 Fixed asset investments continued 
The Company holds, either directly or through subsidiary companies, 100% (except where shown) of the issued share capital of the following 
principal subsidiaries: 
Equity owned by 
the Company
 % Country of incorporation Principal activity
Synergy Health Holdings Limited 100 England Holding company
Synergy Health (UK) Limited 100 England Healthcare products and services
Isotron Limited 100 England Device sterilisation and holding company
Synergy Health Systems Limited 100 England Provision of IT services
Fast-Aid Products Limited 100 Scotland Healthcare product distribution
Synergy Health Laboratory Services Limited 100 England Laboratory services
Synergy Healthcare Holdings B.V. 100 The Netherlands Holding company
Synergy Health (Europe) B.V. 100 The Netherlands Healthcare products and services
Lips Textielservice Holding B.V. 100 The Netherlands Holding company
Lips Alkmaar B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Bergen op Zoom B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Bombeke B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Regilabs BV 100 The Netherlands Laboratory services
Lips Emmen B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Duiven B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Gemert B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Gezondheidszorg B.V. 100 The Netherlands Holding company
Lips Goes B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Hoorn B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Linnenmanagement B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Rijnmond B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Salland B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Sittard B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Tiel B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Tilburg B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Voorburg B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Hengelo B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Lips Kerkhoffs B.V. 100 The Netherlands Provision of linen management services
Synergy Health Belgium N.V. 100 Belgium Healthcare products and services
Gamma Service Produkbestrahlung GmbH 100 Germany Medical device sterilisation 
Isotron Investments Limited 100 England Holding company
Isotron Ireland Limited 100 Republic of Ireland Medical device sterilisation 
Isotron Westport Limited  100 Republic of Ireland Medical device sterilisation
Isotron Nederland B.V.  100 The Netherlands Medical device sterilisation
Isotron Holding S.A.S. 100 France Holding company
Isotron France S.A.S. 100 France Medical device sterilisation
Isotron Deutschland GmbH  62.5 Germany Medical device sterilisation
Isotron (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 100 Malaysia Medical device sterilisation
Isotron (Thailand) Limited 100 Thailand Medical device sterilisation
Isotron South Africa (Pty) Limited 100 South Africa Medical device sterilisation
Synergy Health (Suzhou) Limited 100 China Hospital sterilisation
Synergy Health (Suzhou) Sterilisation Technologies Limited 100 China Medical device sterilisation
Isotron Logistics B.V. 50 The Netherlands Logistics consultant
A full list of the Group companies is available for inspection at the Company’s registered office. All the above companies are included in the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 85
 Notes to the financial statements 
6 Debtors 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year: 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 53,474 35,610
Prepayments and accrued income 586 801
Corporation tax receivable 3,357 1,071
Deferred taxation 584 558
 58,001 38,040
Deferred taxation 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Deferred taxation 
Balance at 28 March 2010 558 277
Credit to the profit and loss account 9 224
Charge to equity 17 57
Balance at 3 April 2011 584 558
The amounts provided for deferred taxation for the Company are analysed below: 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Accelerated capital allowances 81 81
Share-based payments 28 11
Other timing differences 475 466
 584 558
7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Bank overdraft 2,689 6,817
Bank loans 126,522 –
Trade creditors 61 181
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 26,666 17,122
Other creditors including taxation and social security 378 431
Accruals and deferred income 588 1,699
Derivative financial instruments 112 619
 157,016 26,869
 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 86
  
8 Creditors: amounts falling due after one year  
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Loans – 111,283
Obligations under bank loans 
Amounts falling due: 
Between one and two years – 111,283
Between two and five years – –
 – 111,283
Long term loans are due for renewal in January 2012 and fall due for full repayment on that date.  
Bank overdraft facilities of £10 million (2010: £10 million) were available to the Company subject to the Group overdraft pool not exceeding  
£5 million (2010: £5 million). The Group pool is shared with other UK subsidiaries. Overall, none of the UK overdraft pool was utilised at  
3 April 2011 (2010: £nil). 
The interest rates are disclosed in note 19 of the consolidated financial statements.  
9 Share capital 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Issued and fully paid 
55,090,782 (2010: 54,704,213) ordinary shares of 0.625p each  344 342
The consideration received in respect of the ordinary shares issued under the share option schemes was £1,191,000 (2010: £1,469,000). 
10 Reserves 
Share premium
account  
£’000
Merger reserve 
£’000 
Cash flow hedging
reserve
£’000
Profit and loss
account
£’000
Balance at 29 March 2009 60,880 106,757 (2,582) 77,868
Profit for the financial year – – – 16,642
Dividends – – – (6,372)
Arising on issue of new share capital 1,464 – – –
Cash flow hedges – derivative instruments – – 2,032 –
Expense in relation to equity-settled share-based payments – – – 1,905
Balance at 28 March 2010 62,344 106,757 (550) 90,043
Profit for the financial year – – – 6,740
Dividends – – – (7,838)
Arising on issue of new share capital 1,187 – – –
Cash flow hedges – derivative instruments – – 438 –
Expense in relation to equity-settled share-based payments – – – 1,216
Balance at 3 April 2011 63,531 106,757 (112) 90,161
The profit in the Company is £6,740,000 (2010: profit £16,642,000) after tax and before dividends.  
In the year to 30 March 2008, a surplus arose on a Group reorganisation in the sum of £73,629,000 which was credited to profit and loss account 
but was considered to be unrealised and therefore non-distributable.  
Who we are Our strategy Operating and ﬁnancial review Governance Financials
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 87
 Notes to the financial statements 
11 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
 
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Profit for the financial year 6,740 16,642
Dividends (7,838) (6,372)
 (1,098) 10,270
New share capital 1,189 1,469
Expense in relation to share-based payments 1,216 1,905
Cash flow hedges – derivative instruments 438 2,032
Net increase in shareholders’ funds 1,745 15,676
Opening shareholders’ funds  258,936 243,260
Closing shareholders’ funds 260,681 258,936
12 Financial instruments 
The disclosure requirements of FRS 25 are covered by the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures. Financial 
instruments included in the Company are included in the Group disclosure in note 19 of the consolidated financial statements. 
As at 3 April 2011, the Company held forward exchange contracts which are deemed to be fully effective in managing the foreign exchange 
exposures to which they relate. On revaluing the contracts to fair value the Company has recognised £27,000 in current liabilities and equity 
(2010: £69,000 in current assets).  
Elements of the interest hedging arrangements described in note 19b to the consolidated financial statements were held in the name of Synergy 
Health plc. The arrangements are deemed to be fully effective in fixing the interest on the underlying debt and in revaluing them to fair value. 
The Company has recognised £85,000 in current liabilities and equity (2010: £619,000). 
The Directors consider that the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities is equivalent to the value at which they are carried in the 
Company’s financial statements. 
13 Other commitments 
Financial guarantees 
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. 
14 Pensions 
The Company operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes for all eligible employees. Company contributions are charged to the 
profit and loss account in the period in which they relate. The charge for the period in respect of the defined contribution schemes was £151,000 
(2010: £123,000).  
15 Share-based payments 
The requirements of FRS 20 Share-based payment have been applied to grants of equity instruments made since 7 November 2002 outstanding 
at 3 April 2005. The disclosure requirements of FRS 20 are identical to those of IFRS 2 Share-based payment and share-based payments included 
in the Company are included in the Group disclosure. Full IFRS 2 disclosures are provided in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The charge in the Company only accounts in relation to equity-settled share-based payments was £514,000 (2010: £884,000). In addition the 
Company recognised £574,000 (2010: £790,000) in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries of which £574,000 (2010: £665,000) relates to the 
equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its consolidated financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised 
directly in equity and £nil (2010: £125,000) relates to the cash-settled element where the credit is recognised in liabilities. 
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 88
 Financial calendar 
 
AGM 27 July 2011
Group results 
Interim results announced November 2011
Full year results announced June 2012
Dividend dates 
Interim dividend for 2012 announced November 2011
Interim dividend for 2012 payable January 2012
 
70 million
reusable surgical 
instruments 
processed  
every year
99 sites
across 13 
countries
2nd largest
global provider 
of outsourced 
sterilisation 
services
0.5 million
items of healthcare 
linen processed 
every day
Synergy Health delivers a range of specialist 
outsourced services to healthcare providers 
and other customers concerned with health 
management. These services are aimed  
at supporting our customers to improve the 
quality and efﬁciency of their activities, whilst 
reducing risks to their patients and clients. 
Governance Financials Operating and ﬁnancial review Our strategy Who we are
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
89
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Synergy Health plc www.synergyhealthplc.com
Group Head Office
Ground Floor Stella 
Windmill Hill Business Park 
Whitehill Way 
Swindon, Wiltshire  
SN5 6NX
Tel  + 44 (0) 1793 891880 
Fax + 44 (0) 1793 891892
enquiries@synergyhealthplc.com
Registrars
Computershare 
Investor Services plc 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ
Helpline 0870 7036273
www.computershare.com
Synergy Health plc  
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011
a global leader  
in outsourced 
sterilisation 
services
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011
