 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual Report
For the year ended 31 December 2008
Being part  
of all our  
lives...
Yule Catto & Co plc
Temple Fields
Harlow
Essex CM20 2BH
T +44 (0)1279 442 791
F +44 (0)1279 641 360
www.yulecatto.com
Yule Catto & Co plc   Annual Report 2008 Contents 
01 Financial highlights
02 Group overview
03 Yule Catto around the world
04 Chairman’s statement
Business review
06  Chief Executive’s report  
06 Polymer Chemicals 
10 Pharma Chemicals 
13 Impact Chemicals 
14 Financial review 
16 Corporate Social Responsibility report
23 Directors and advisers
24 Report of the directors
26 Corporate governance
30 Directors’ remuneration report
33 Directors’ interests
35 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Group financial statements
36 Independent auditors’ report 
38 Consolidated income statement
39 Consolidated balance sheet
40 Consolidated cash flow statement
41  Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company financial statements
72 Independent auditors’ report 
73 Company balance sheet
74 Notes to the Company financial statements
Other information
81 Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures
82 Five year financial summary
83 Notice of meeting
2008 saw further steady progress 
in operational performance and the 
implementation of our strategic plans 
against the backdrop of an increasingly 
challenging economic environment.
Designed and produced by 
The College  www.thecollege.uk.com Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
01
Financial highlights
•	 	 U n d e r ly i n g 	 pr o fi t 	 be f o r e 	 t ax 	 u p 	 5 % 	 t o 	 £3 2 . 7 	 m i l l i o n 	
•	 	 P o ly m e r 	 C h e m i c a l s 	 pr o fi t s 	 a h e a d 	 i n 	 a 	 v e ry 	 d i ffi c u l t 	 e c o n o m i c 	 e n v i r o n m e n t
•	 	 S u b s t a n t i a l 	 pr og r e s s 	 i n 	 I m p a c t 	 C h e m i c a l s 	 w i t h 	 f o u r 	 b us i n e s s e s 	 so l d 	 f o r 	 £6 3 	 m i l l i o n
•	 	 U n d e r ly i n g 	 n e t 	 d e b t 	 r e d u c e d 	 t o 	 £ 1 3 5 	 m i l l i o n	 
Total sales*
£602.2m
Earnings per share*
1 7. 9p
Profit before taxation*
£32.7m
Increase in profit before taxation*
+5%
* Underlying performance
 Underlying performance
(a)
 IFRS
  
 20 0 8 2007 20 0 8 2007
 £ ’000 £’000 £ ’000 £’000
Total sales
(b)
 602,1 53 512,925 602,1 53 512,925
EBITDA
(c)
 5 8 ,6 3 0 56,242 5 8 ,6 3 0 56,242
Operating profit 43,1 92 42,696 40,7 86 41,032
Profit before taxation 3 2 ,6 9 0 31,199 3 8 ,89 9 33,982
Earnings per share 1 7.9p 16.0p 22 . 2 p 1 7.9p
Dividends per share
(d)
 4.0 p 9.6p 4.0 p 9.6p
Net borrowings
(e)
 135,482 170,831 1 61,448 150,341
Cash generated from operations 4 4, 2 9 9 49,447 4 4, 2 9 9 49,447
Free cash flow before dividends
(f)
 7,781 14,012 7,781 14,012
The above table represents the results of Yule Catto & Co plc, its subsidiaries and its share of joint ventures.
(a) Underlying performance excludes special items as shown on the consolidated income statement.
(b) As defined in the accounting policies at note 2.
(c) As defined in the accounting policies at note 2 and reconciled at note 36.
(d) Dividends comprise an interim dividend paid during the year and a final dividend proposed at the year end. See note 11.
(e) As shown on the consolidated balance sheet on page 39.
(f) As shown within the consolidated cash flow statement on page 40. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
02
Group overview
Total sales by destination
as derived from note 4 to the financial statements on page 49
Divisional operating profit
as derived from note 4 to the financial statements on page 47
Profit before taxation*
 £3 2 . 7m
* Underlying performance
Increase in earnings per share*
+ 12%
Polymer Chemicals – 86.0% 
Pharma Chemicals – 10.7% 
Impact Chemicals – 3.3% 
UK – 14.0% 
Other Europe – 36.2% 
Asia – 30.1% 
Rest of the world – 19.7%
Polymer	Chemicals 
K e y 	 pr oduc ts
–  Emulsions
–  Synthetic latices
–  Adhesives
–  Natural rubber latex
–  Liquid polybutadiene
–  Polyvinyl alcohol
–  Polyvinyl acetate
–  Alkyd and polyester resins
Ma r k ets
–  Surface coatings
–  Construction
–  Dipping – eg gloves
–  Carpets and non-woven
Pharma	Chemicals 
K e y 	 pr oduc ts
–  Generic and ethical  
pharmaceutical actives
–  Development and manufacture  
of clinical phase compounds
Ma r k ets
–  Generic and ethical drug manufacture
–  Generic drugs
Impact	Chemicals 
K e y 	 pr oduc ts
–  Inorganic specialities
Ma r k ets
–  Catalyst pre-cursors
–  Flame retardants
– Iodates Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
03
8
9
10 11
14 15
13
16
12
18 19
20
17
1
3
2
4
5
6
7
Yule Catto around the world
Locations
1 Cuernavaca – Uquifa Mexico S.A.C.V
2 Durban – Revertex Chemical (Pty) Ltd
3 Dammam – Synthomer Middle East Company
4 Kluang – Revertex Malaysia & Synthomer Sdn Bhd
5 Klang – Revertex Finewaters Sdn Bhd
6 Guangzhou – Yule Catto Asia Ltd 
7 Ho Chi Minh City – Synthomer Vietnam Co. Ltd
8 Accrington – William Blythe Ltd
9 Batley – Synthomer Ltd
10 Ossett – Synthomer Ltd
11 Stallingborough – Synthomer Ltd
12 Harlow – Synthomer Ltd
13 Langelsheim – Synthomer GmbH
14 Oss – Synthomer BV
15 Hasselt – Synthomer Hasselt BV
16 Mouscron – Synthomer SA
17 Milan – Uquifa Italia SpA
18 Lliçà de Vall – Uquifa SA
19 Barcelona – Uquifa SA
20 Sant Celoni – Uquifa SA
Polymer Chemicals 
 
Pharma Chemicals 
 
Impact Chemicals 
P ri n c i p al 	 s u b si d i ari es 	 an d 	 j o i n t 	 v en t u res 	 as 	 l i sted 	 o n 	 p a ge 	 8 1 . Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
04
Chairman’s statement
2008 saw further steady progress  
in operational performance and  
the implementation of our strategic 
plans against the backdrop of  
an increasingly challenging  
economic environment.
2008 was another good year for the 
Group given the marked deterioration  
in the global economy over the year and 
what looks set to be the worst recession 
in several decades. 
The Polymers business finished the year 
slightly ahead after a strong first-half start 
to the year. Volumes contracted in the 
second half as the economic downturn 
took hold and, for the year as a whole, 
volumes were slightly lower. 
Our strategy in Polymers remains 
focused on geographical expansion 
around existing business hubs and 
developing market sectors where our 
product technology and manufacturing 
capabilities give us real competitive 
advantage. We believe this strategy has 
served us well in the current environment. 
During the year we completed further 
substantial expansion of our nitrile 
capacity in Malaysia to take advantage  
of the continued rapid growth in the 
synthetic glove market. We also completed 
the acquisition of a small dispersions 
company in Vietnam to support our 
global customers. 
Our Pharma business continued to  
grow the range of generic and ethical 
products it plans to manufacture with the 
registration of six further Drug Master 
Files in line with its annual target. As we 
entered 2008 we anticipated that the 
Pharma business would improve on 
2007, albeit heavily skewed towards the 
second half of the year. As it transpired, 
customer demand and destocking over 
the second half meant that 2008 results 
were lower than 2007 . We have previously 
announced plans to exit our Italian site  
to improve our operational cost base and 
the productivity of the business, and we 
remain on track to do so by the middle  
of 2009, which should benefit the year. 
Our strategy for Impact Chemicals has 
been to manage it for value, which has 
involved restructuring its component 
businesses and improving their 
performance in the short-term with a 
view to divestment at appropriate prices. 
I am pleased that we have now managed 
to sell four of the five Impact businesses 
with the last of these completed shortly 
after the year end. We believe we have 
delivered substantial value to our 
shareholders through this strategy. 
The remaining business in the portfolio 
was restructured early in 2008 and  
it too is now trading profitably.
Overall, underlying Group profit before 
taxation increased by some 5% to 
£32.7 million. The Group’s reported 
taxation charge was substantially lower 
and consequently underlying earnings  
per share rose by 12% to 17.9 pence  
per share.
The strategic actions we have taken 
through the year have been heavily 
focused on de-leveraging the balance 
sheet and we have succeeded in 
lowering net debt substantially. With the 
decline in the economy and the scarcity 
of liquidity from financial institutions, this 
has proved to be well timed. Our aim is 
to reduce the Group’s net debt to below 
£100 million. The Board has reluctantly 
taken the decision to suspend further 
dividends until we achieve this, which is 
expected to be within the next two years. 
This decision, together with our recent 
refinancing, should ensure that we have 
access to sufficient liquidity to see us 
through the current global financial crisis. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
05
The working conditions and safety 
of our employees everywhere remain 
paramount in the operation of our 
business. We set targets annually to 
reduce levels of Lost Time Accidents, 
and against this measure we have been 
improving our safety performance for 
many years. I am pleased to report 
that we have made further progress 
in 2008 and have had our best ever 
year in terms of both ‘all accident’ and 
‘Lost Time Accident’ rates. We remain 
fully committed to the principles of 
sustainable development and have  
made further progress against all of 
the 10-year targets in our sustainable 
development programme.
After some 30 years on our Board and 
the last eight years as Chairman Anthony 
Richmond-Watson retired at the end of 
January 2009 and I succeeded him as 
Chairman. I would like to express our 
gratitude to Tony for his many years of 
service as a non-executive director and 
his wise counsel and guidance of the 
Group as Chairman through a period 
of much change. On 1 March 2009 
we were pleased to appoint Graham 
Menzies as an additional independent 
non-executive director.
This has been another year in which 
much has been achieved. On behalf  
of the directors and shareholders,  
I would like to thank all our employees 
worldwide for their commitment and 
contribution towards the Company’s 
success.
O u tl o ok
The deterioration in the global economy 
has been far more severe than generally 
anticipated at the beginning of 2008, 
and it has been exacerbated by the 
global financial crisis. Whilst Polymer 
volumes were down 3% in the year they 
declined by some 14% year-on-year 
during the fourth quarter, and demand 
has remained depressed in the early 
part of 2009, as a result both of lower 
demand and of continued de-stocking 
by customers.
This situation creates a very high degree 
of uncertainty as to how the coming  
year will develop, and the Board believes 
it is therefore too early to offer any firm 
guidance on the outturn for 2009.
The Group’s Impact Chemicals and 
Pharma Chemicals businesses should 
benefit from recent restructuring. 
The Pharma sector generally is not 
particularly cyclical and should weather 
the downturn reasonably well.
Within our Polymer Chemicals business 
we anticipate the demand in our Asian 
businesses to be more robust than that 
of our European businesses, due to local 
market conditions and a more resilient 
demand profile from our targeted 
markets. However, overall we anticipate 
our volumes globally could well be  
lower in 2009.
The recent weakness of sterling against 
the dollar, euro and Malaysian ringgit, 
should it continue, will assist the 
reported sterling earnings for a number 
of our businesses.
Overall therefore there are a number 
of positive factors that should support 
the business during 2009. We have 
substantially delivered on our strategic 
goals of two years ago, and are clearly 
focused both on continuing to improve 
the quality and performance of our 
business, and on further strengthening 
our balance sheet. This makes us well 
placed to weather the challenges that  
lie ahead.
Peter Wood
11 March 2009  Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
06
Chief Executive’s report
Over view
We entered 2008 cautiously optimistic 
about the year, against what was seen 
at the time as a challenging environment, 
with rapidly rising raw material costs. 
As it has transpired, we now see a 
global financial crisis and an economic 
downturn far more severe than anyone 
had reasonably anticipated.
Against this background the Company 
has delivered a 5% improvement in 
underlying profit before tax and  
a substantial reduction in debt through 
four successful divestments. This must 
be seen as good progress given the 
circumstances.
Polymers (84% of sales) saw sales 
volumes decline by 3%, whilst increasing 
profit by 3% to £42.4 million. This was 
achieved in an environment of highly 
volatile raw material prices and a decline 
in global demand through the second 
half of the year.
We completed and successfully 
commissioned our third-phase nitrile 
capacity expansion in Malaysia to 
support our customers in the high growth 
global synthetic glove market. We remain 
the leading supplier to this market.  
We also completed the acquisition of 
a new dispersion business in Vietnam 
to support our global customers in the 
country and to gain a foothold in another 
high growth Asian economy.
Pharmaceuticals (11% of sales) saw  
a 28% decline in profit on revenues up 
3%. Margins were adversely impacted 
by rising raw material prices and a weak 
dollar in the first half of the year and 
customer destocking during the second 
half. We continued to reconfigure our 
production capacity with the phased 
closure of our Italian site and the transfer 
of a proportion of its production to our 
other sites. The Italian plant closure 
has been structured to support our 
major customers and it will fully cease 
production in the middle of 2009  
when product transfers are complete.  
A further six Drug Master Files (DMFs) 
were filed in the year as we continued 
the development of our generic pipeline.
We have now completed the sale of 
four of the five businesses that comprised 
the Impact Chemicals Division. We 
received £63 million of gross proceeds 
for these businesses, of which £10 million 
was received post the year end. The 
remaining business, William Blythe 
Limited, was restructured in the first 
quarter and subsequently returned to 
profit for the full year having been 
loss-making in 2007 .
Polymer 	 Chemicals
Polymers has manufacturing assets 
around the world and comprises 
Dispersion, Latex and various speciality 
polymers. Dispersions are principally 
used in surface coatings such as paint 
and varnish, adhesives such as wood 
glues and construction applications such 
as sealants and fillers. SBR latex  
is used in the manufacture of carpet floor 
coverings and construction materials 
such as speciality cement whilst NBR 
latex is mainly sold into the fast-growing 
nitrile glove market. Speciality polymers 
includes rubber, polymers to regulate 
PVC manufacture and sealants for the 
motor industry.
Polymer Division operates 19 production 
units on 13 sites within four geographical 
regions – Europe, South East Asia, 
Middle East and South Africa – and 
employs approximately 1,500 people. 
The core products of the Division are 
water-based polymers, based on vinyl 
acetate and acrylic co and terpolymer 
dispersions, styrene and nitrile butadiene 
rubber, as well as polyvinyl alcohol/
acetate, and a number of smaller 
specialist products serving a range  
of industries.
2008 was a year where all business 
units faced challenges on a number 
of fronts. The Division started the year 
very positively and made good progress 
through the first half. However, the 
growing turmoil in the global economy 
started to have its effect in a number of 
market segments in the third quarter and 
in all by the final quarter. Fluctuations 
in currency, availability and pricing of 
monomers, rising energy costs and 
slower customer demand all contributed 
to the creation of a very complex and 
difficult environment. However, against 
that background, the Division did 
continue to make progress in a  
number of areas.
The monomer supply position was, 
until the final quarter, extremely difficult. 
Rising oil prices and surging demand 
placed a strain on supply in a number 
of areas but, in particular, butadiene, 
where strong demand and lack of 
availability meant additional costs 
were incurred to ensure continuity of 
supply to our customers. This situation 
began to improve in the final quarter 
as demand dropped and oil prices 
followed. However monomer prices 
fell very rapidly, leading customers to 
destock their supply chains in the hope 
of securing lower input prices and 
resulted in further lowering demand for 
our products.
Business review Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
7
Polymer
 Chemicals
Polymer Chemicals is a 
leading supplier of water-
based polymers to the surface 
coatings, paper, adhesives 
and textile industries. We have 
two groups of companies, 
Synthomer and Revertex, and 
operate 13 factories across 
Europe, the Pacific Rim, the 
Middle East and South Africa. 
Our operations benefit from 
knowledge-sharing around 
the Group, particularly in the 
areas of best practice and 
new developments in  
products and technology. 
Dispersions
Product development 
Understanding our customers’ needs 
and how our products can add value 
is core to the product development 
process in our research, development 
and application laboratories around  
the world.
Multi-site manufacture 
Manufacturing flexibility is essential 
to meet the globalisation challenges 
faced by many of our customers. Most 
recently we expanded our vinyl acetate 
and acrylic dispersion capacity to over   
300,000 tonnes with the acquisition of 
a production facility in Vietnam (above), 
adding to our existing operations in the 
UK, Belgium, South Africa, the Middle 
East and Malaysia.
Distribution 
Regional manufacturing and global 
distribution mean on-time delivery  
for our customers wherever they are  
in the world.
End product 
The functionality delivered by our 
polymer dispersions helps define many  
of the attributes of our customers’ 
finished paints, such as gloss, sheen, 
texture and moisture resistance.
Business review
Being part of all our lives
We provide a comprehensive 
range of vinyl acetate 
copolymers, terpolymers, 
styrene acrylics and pure 
acrylics, utilised in a wide 
variety of applications: 
 
• 	 	 m a t t s , 	 s i l k s , 	 e g g s h e l l 	 a n d	
gloss paints for interior, exterior 
and industrial coatings; 
•	 flexible 	 r oof 	 coatings;
•	 varnishes 	 and 	 lacquers; 	 and
• 	 	 w o o d s t a i n s 	 a n d 	 p r o t e c t i v e	
coatings.  Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
08
The Division’s turnover (in sterling) was 
19% ahead of prior year driven by higher 
selling prices and currency movements. 
Overall volumes for the business were 
3% down on prior year, but this masks 
some good performances in a number  
of core markets. Operating profit ended 
3% ahead, whilst 2008 operating 
margins were 8%. 
Polymer Division’s expansion strategy  
in Asia continued in 2008 with further 
investments in both Latex and 
Dispersions. Within our Nitrile Latex 
business, the successful commissioning 
of the Phase 3 expansion at the Kluang 
plant in Malaysia in August means that 
capacity has more than doubled over the 
last 18 months as Synthomer continues 
to keep pace with the growing demand 
for synthetic latex gloves. Our ability to 
increase capacity rapidly to meet growth 
in customer demand places the business 
in an excellent position to maintain its 
leadership in this dynamic market. The 
year also saw additional investment in 
Kluang with the installation of a new 
Nitrile pilot plant and development 
laboratory, both aimed at giving the 
business state-of-the-art facilities that  
will allow faster product and process 
development, which are essential to 
meet the changing requirements of 
our customers.
Within Dispersions our geographic 
expansion strategy saw the acquisition 
of a controlling interest in Chemtech, in 
Vietnam. The business is located near 
Ho Chi Minh City and is a major supplier 
of dispersions to the coating and 
adhesives industries in one of Asia’s  
fast-developing economies. 
During the latter part of the year,  
a number of restructuring activities  
were announced in the UK. These 
changes were required to combat the 
lower levels of activity the business has 
experienced in this market. This is an 
unfortunate situation but it is critical that 
the Polymer Division continues to 
balance its manufacturing assets to  
meet anticipated market demand.
S y nthe tic 	 L at e x 	
The latex market globally saw a number 
of changes during the year with the 
exit of a leading competitor (DRLC) 
from the nitrile dipping market and the 
announcement of mothballing of three 
competitive latex plants in the UK. In 
SBR latex, although the market tightened 
during the year as the economy slowed, 
our speciality volumes ended slightly up 
on 2007, with the only reduction being 
seen in the carpet market. 
In nitrile latex the exit of DRLC created 
a number of opportunities which lifted 
volumes by 12% in Malaysia, setting 
a new record. At the same time, the 
business had to contend with rapidly 
rising butadiene prices and, of more 
concern, a lack of the monomer’s 
availability, particularly in Asia. However, 
the final quarter of the year saw an 
equally rapid decline in prices hitting 
short-term demand as customers 
emptied their supply chains to try and 
take advantage of lower monomer 
input costs. 
D is p e r s io n s
The dispersion market produced a 
variable set of results in 2008 although 
overall volume was marginally up on 
2007. Positive progress was made in a 
number of European Technical grades 
where volumes more than doubled in 
2008, and in our Middle East business 
where volume grew by 8%. However, 
we also experienced a decline in the UK 
where volumes were 13% down as a 
result of much slower customer demand 
predominantly due to the sluggish 
housing market.
S p e cia l itie s
Polyvinyl Alcohol
We continued to maintain our leadership 
position in the supply of low hydrolysis 
polyvinyl alcohol to the PVC industry. 
A very strong start to the year was 
followed by a much slower final quarter 
as PVC manufacturers started to idle 
capacity. Overall, volume for the primary 
and secondary alcotex stabilisers were 
marginally ahead of 2007, and margins 
were maintained in a difficult and 
competitive environment. The business 
continued to experience significant rises 
in operating costs as a result of higher 
energy tariffs and maintenance costs; 
however, these were offset by a better 
mix of products and some benefits from 
currency. During the year a number 
of investments were made to improve 
manufacturing performance and these 
should begin to deliver benefits in 2009. 
Business review
Increase in divisional operating profit
3%
Sales Divisional operating profit*
* Underlying performance
2007 	 	 £425.2m
2008 	 	 £507.1m
2007 	 	 £41.2m
2008 	 	 £42.4m
Chief Executive’s report continued Nitrile
PIlot plant – Kluang 
Improving time to market has been a 
particular focus in our Nitrile business, 
and investment in a new NBR pilot plant 
in Kluang has significantly increased 
the speed of new product and process 
development to meet the changing 
requirements of our customers.
New labs – Kluang 
Product innovation is critical to sustained 
leadership in our markets and, as part 
of our ongoing improvement to our 
innovation processes, investments 
have been made in a new Nitrile 
R&D laboratory, located close to 
our customers to enable increased 
responsiveness by our development 
team in delivering new products.
Kluang site – Polymer 
T o support our customers’ growing 
demand for dipping latex a third phase 
of expansion was commissioned at 
Synthomer in Malaysia in 2008. This 
latest investment in Kluang means we 
have more than doubled our Nitrile  
latex capacity at this plant in the last  
18 months.
Gloves 
Our range of nitrile and natural rubber 
products are used to support a growing 
range of glove and other healthcare 
applications.
Business review
Being part of all our lives  
 
We produce a comprehensive 
range of polymer latices 
including styrene butadiene 
copolymers and nitrile latices. 
In addition our Harlow  
site in the UK produces  
a range of low-hydrolysis 
polyvinyl alcohols used as 
a stabiliser for suspension 
PVC. We also produce natural 
rubber systems, liquid 
polybutadienes, solid and 
solution polyvinyl acetates, 
alkyds and polyesters. 
 
Our markets include: 
•	 surface 	 coatings; 
•	 construction; 
•	 paper 	 and 	 textiles; 
•	 glove 	 dipping; 
•	 floor 	 coverings; 	 and 
•	 adhesives.
Polymer
 Chemicals Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
10
Chief Executive’s report continued
Liquid Polybutadiene
In 2008 we have increased the focus on 
the development of our Lithene business 
by establishing a cross-functional team 
to develop and expand our presence 
in this market. After a very positive first 
half the business slowed progressively 
through the third and fourth quarters as 
the recession started to impact on the 
automotive industry, the main market  
for lithene products. Overall volume for 
the year was down by 27%, all coming 
in the second half; however, operating 
profit held up better than expected as 
a result of stronger margins and cost- 
saving actions. 
Alkyds and Polyester
Our Resin business operates from 
the Kluang, Malaysia site with sales 
predominantly in South East Asia. Like 
other business units, sales were robust 
through the first half of the year with 
the first signs of slowdown arriving in 
September and remaining through the 
year end. The Polyester Resin business 
had a challenging year with the final 
quarter being the most difficult. The 
slowdown created a highly competitive 
environment with prices and volumes 
under severe pressure; however, 
operating profit was only slightly down 
on prior year. The Alkyd Resin business 
also had a difficult final quarter, and 
volumes ended the year slightly down 
on 2007; however, excellent margin and 
cost management ensured that 2008 
delivered a record operating profit for  
this business.
Pharma 	 Chemicals
Pharma Chemicals, from its 
manufacturing plants in Spain and 
Mexico, produces a range of Active 
Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) for 
the generic and ethical pharmaceutical 
industries. These products are sold to 
formulators who produce and distribute 
the drug in its final physical form. APIs 
produced range from anti-bacterial,  
anti-ulcer and anti-parasitic to heart 
drugs. The Company currently produces 
over 75 products. 
2008 was a mixed year for the Pharma 
Chemicals business. Underlying 
volumes were reasonably robust, with 
a number of new products contributing 
to volumes and margins. We also 
made considerable progress in the site 
rationalisation programme, and filed 
an additional six Drug Master Files. 
The business was adversely affected 
throughout the majority of the year by 
the impact of the strength of the euro 
on dollar sales and the increasing raw 
material input prices.
In our Spanish business, despite a 
successful programme implemented in 
late 2007 to increase prices, 2008 saw 
increased competitive pressure. In our 
generic regulated markets governments 
imposed reference prices, applying 
pressure to customer pricing, with the 
weakness of the dollar further impacting 
US sales on translation. Meanwhile the 
currency benefit on the raw material 
input side was outweighed by the 
surging price for oil-based raw materials 
affecting all producers, including Asian 
competition. This negatively affected 
gross margin and outweighed the  
benefit of continued robust volume. 
In Generics our Omeprazole franchise 
continues to be very important for us. 
Despite some volume pressure we 
remain competitive through process 
improvements and with the benefit of 
our outsourcing strategy are well placed 
at the beginning of 2009. Ranitidine 
volumes were strong in the first half 
to the USA as our ‘over the counter’ 
franchise continues to do well.
Business review
Sales Divisional operating profit*
* Underlying performance
2007 	 	 £62.2m
2008 	 	 £63.9m
2007 	 	 £7.4m
2008 	 	 £5.3m Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
11
Pharma
 Chemicals
Pharma Chemicals 
manufactures and develops 
active pharmaceutical  
ingredients and fine chemical 
intermediates for the generic,  
‘big pharma’ and biotech 
sectors of the life science 
industry. Our global 
manufacturing facilities  
give us the ability to  
develop products from  
the gram scale in the  
laboratory to multi-tonne, 
industrial scale. We now 
distribute products to over 
95 countries worldwide and 
we have been increasingly 
involved in developing country 
programmes to eradicate 
life-threatening diseases in 
developing countries. 
 
Our markets include: 
• 	 	 g e n e r i c 	 a n d 	 e t h i c a l 	 d r u g	 
manufactures; and
•	 generic 	 drugs.
Global sourcing 
Raw materials and intermediates are 
sourced from around the world and have 
to meet stringent quality specifications.
Manufacturing 
Multi-stage transformation takes place  
in our three flexible FDA approved sites 
in Spain and Mexico.
Demanding quality standards 
Products undergo demanding 
further clean room processing to the 
appropriate physical form – important  
for absorption into the body.
Finished product 
Our finished product APIs are analysed 
to ensure compliance with demanding 
specifications and supplied to the 
formulator and marketer for supply  
to consumers around the globe.
Business review
Being part of all our lives  
 
The business services  
a range of therapeutic areas 
and is particularly strong  
in antiulceratives.
We are leading producers  
of Omeprazole & Ranitidine,  
two of the most widely taken 
pharmaceuticals for the 
reduction of acid in the stomach. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
12
Most of our other generics held up 
well and we have begun to build 
our franchises in Pantoprazole and 
Quetiapine as the patents expire in 
Europe. We also saw Ketorolac, a niche 
analgesic, gain approvals in the USA and 
Europe. The dossier business, where we 
accelerate regulatory clearance for our 
formulation partners’ products based  
on our APIs, continued to develop as  
we rolled out our Terbinafine and 
Zolpidem franchises in Europe. The 
competitive nature of our processes, 
supported by the regulatory package  
we can offer smaller companies, bodes 
well as generic medicines continue to 
take a growing share of pharmaceutical 
spend in Europe and the USA. 
In the latter part of the year a 
strengthening of the dollar helped 
the US selling position while volume, 
although relatively robust, was affected 
by customers’ desire to conserve cash 
and minimise stocks in the current 
economic circumstances. As these 
factors normalise and raw material price 
reductions pass through the chain they 
should provide a comparative benefit 
if maintained through 2009.
Subcontract development work to big 
pharmaceutical customers was quiet 
during the year, some of which was 
caused by phasing. However, we will 
see a relatively strong start to 2009 
as a number of sub-contract product 
orders have already been taken and 
manufacture begun. 
The transfer of products from Italy and 
Germany has been a key objective in 
2008 and all our customers have been 
able to progress the registration process 
for these products. Volume demand 
from customers has been strong for 
transferring products and, as such, 
the transfer will complete in the first half 
of 2009. At the same time a business 
improvement process is well under-way 
in Spain focused on further improving 
efficiency on top of the increased 
utilisation that will come from the Italian 
and German product transfers.
In Research and Development our 
API pipeline grew with the filing of 
six new DMFs throughout the world. 
S-omeprazole (the API contained  
in ‘Nexium’) development work has  
been successful and we have a  
number of key partners who are 
including us in their registrations.  
We have further strengthened our 
future growth with work on the  
‘Sartan’ therapeutic category and 
products in the cytostatic field. 
Mexican sales dropped back from 
the record year in 2007. The key 
products the site produces for ethical 
customers are typically on a contract 
basis and were impacted by phasing 
issues in 2008. There was also similar 
competitive pressure on generics pricing 
to that experienced in Spain. The site 
successfully passed an FDA audit 
and made substantial progress with 
expanding capacity in key products that 
it produces for a major ethical customer. 
This plant, to be completed in March 
2009, will allow us to supply a significant 
volume increase as they roll out their 
WHO aid programme. Our Mexican 
operation will also benefit from some 
larger volume product transfers from 
the Italian facility as customer approvals 
are scheduled to be complete in the 
coming year. Together with the phasing 
benefits and strengthening franchises 
in Terbinafine, Ciprofloxacine and 
Ketoconazole we expect a substantial 
improvement in Mexican performance 
in 2009. 
Pharma Chemicals tends to show 
resilient performance during a downturn 
and with the underlying progress that 
has been made in 2008 we enter 2009 
with healthy order books and with 
optimism for substantially improved 
divisional financial performance in 2009.
Business review
Chief Executive’s report continued Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
13
Impact 	 Chemicals
Impact Chemicals’ remaining 
business, William Blythe, from its UK 
manufacturing facility, is a worldwide 
supplier of inorganic specialities based 
on copper, iodine and tin. Products 
are used in a range of applications 
such as semiconductor manufacture, 
pharmaceutical actives, non-toxic flame 
retardant, safety glass coatings and 
catalysts.
The strategy for this division has been to 
run it for value. Over the last two years 
the Group has put considerable focus 
on initially halting the historical financial 
decline of these businesses and then in 
turn significantly improving their financial 
performance.
We have had considerable success 
in turning these businesses round and 
subsequently disposing of them for 
values significantly above those that 
would have been possible when we 
started this programme. At the start  
of 2008 the division comprised:
•	 	 Holliday Pigments manufacturing 
ultramarine pigments;
•	 	 James Robinson manufacturing hair, 
photochromic and other dyes;
•	 	 PFW manufacturing aroma 
chemicals;
•	 	 Oxford Chemicals manufacturing 
high-impact flavour chemicals; and 
•	 	 William Blythe manufacturing iodine 
and metal salts.
The first four of these have now been 
sold for gross proceeds of £63 million 
and their results are reported in the 
special items column. The remaining 
business, William Blythe, was loss- 
making in 2007. The business was 
restructured in the first quarter and 
was profitable for the full year.
Substantial turnaround in profitability Sales Divisional operating (loss)/profit*
* Underlying performance
2007 	 	 £25.5m
2008 	 	 £31.1m
2007 	 (£0.2m)
2008	 £1.6m
£ 1.6m Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
14
Financial review
I nc o m e 	 s t at e m e nt 	 – 	 u n de r l y i ng	
p e r f o r m a nc e
Total sales increased by 17.4% to 
£602.2 million. Translation accounted 
for 8.9% of this, with the balance of the 
change mainly from the impact of higher 
pricing needed to recover the higher 
monomer costs experienced during the 
year. Turnover remains predominately 
within Europe with some 50% of sales 
(2007 55%). However we continue to 
make progress in other parts of the 
world, in particular Asia, assisted by 
ongoing investment in the Malaysian 
facility. Asian sales now account for 
30% of the business (2007 27%). 
With the international nature of the 
business, movements in foreign 
currency exchange rates can affect 
the value of transactions made by the 
Group where pricing of our products 
is in non-domestic currency, and in 
the translation of results from overseas 
subsidiaries. With regard to the former 
of these two effects, the Group generally 
hedges transactions once entered into 
and in addition, where exchange rates 
continue to be adverse, we look to 
increase sale prices or price in domestic 
currency to mitigate the impact where 
this is commercially possible. The latter 
is mainly influenced by the euro, and 
the Malaysian ringgit. In 2008, currency 
movements adversely affected the 
margins in our Pharma business from 
dollar-denominated sales and our UK 
Polymer business where the majority of 
its raw materials are purchased in euros. 
We estimate the impact on the business 
to be some £3 million adverse from this. 
The weakness of sterling against the 
euro and the Malaysian ringgit, however, 
delivered some £4 million improvement 
to operating profit from translation.
The underlying tax rate of 15% reflects 
the benefits of pioneer status on 
our investment in Malaysia and the 
settlement of some large prior year 
tax positions. This is an improvement 
on the prior year rate of 20%.
Profit attributable to minority interests 
was £1.7 million, similar to last year.
The resultant underlying earnings per 
share of 17.9 pence is a year-on-year 
increase of 12%. The Board declared an 
interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share. 
The Group announced in December 
that given the prevailing financial crisis, 
and to strengthen the Group’s balance 
sheet, it would not be recommending 
the payment of dividends until such 
time as underlying net debt is below 
£100 million. The cash cost to the 
Group of dividend payments in 2008 
was £14.1 million. The Board expects to 
recommence the payment of a dividend 
within the next two years at which time 
the dividend will be rebased to a level 
consistent with its peers in the Chemical 
sector. Consequently no final dividend 
will be proposed for 2008.
I nc o m e 	 s t at e m e nt 	 – 	 s p e ci a l 	 i t e m s
To provide a clearer indication of the 
Group’s underlying performance, a 
number of special items are shown 
in a separate column of the Income 
Statement. Special items include: 
•   During 2007 we announced the 
closure of Holliday Pigments’ Hull 
site and the James Robinson 
manufacturing plant in Dieburg, 
Germany. Residual site closure 
and run-down costs for these 
activities are disclosed in special 
items. We also committed to further 
Impact restructuring of £650,000 
for William Blythe Limited in the 
first quarter of 2008, which is also 
included.
•	  We utilise various cross currency 
and interest rate swaps for hedging 
purposes, which involve maturities 
of up to 8 years. IFRS requires that 
where the strict requirements of  
IAS 39 are not met, changes in the 
market value should be recognised 
annually in the income statement. 
However, such financial instruments 
are maintained by the Group for 
the length of the contract and over 
their lifetime have a fair value of nil. 
Hence the notional annual adjustment 
is segregated from the underlying 
performance.
•	  The operating results of the four 
Impact businesses we have divested 
and the operating results of our Italian 
Pharma business, which will close in 
mid-2009.
P e ns ions
In the main UK defined benefit pension 
scheme the majority of investments 
are in equities. Equity markets declined 
substantially in 2008 and overall the 
fund delivered an actual negative return 
of 26%, and consequently asset values 
have substantially reduced. The yield on 
high-quality corporate bonds increased 
significantly during the year, which has 
reduced liabilities. The overall effect 
of these changes was a substantial 
increase in the net balance sheet liability 
to £67.4 million for this scheme. 
IFRS
On an unadjusted IFRS basis, Group 
revenue increased by £86.5 million to 
£584.4 million. Profit before taxation at 
£38.9 million was £4.9 million higher than 
the previous period, of which £1.5 million 
relates to a better trading performance 
with the remainder being an increase 
in the special items.
Business review Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
15
B o r r o w i ng s	
Underlying net debt reduced 
significantly during the year to 
£135 million (2007 £171 million), mainly 
as a result of the divestment of three  
of the Impact businesses.
In 2007 we reported a year of increased 
capital expenditure, following a number 
of years of lower capital investment. 
This has continued in 2008 as we 
have invested in further expansion of 
the Malaysia nitrile facility and in the 
relocation of some manufacturing 
from our Italian Pharma site. Capital 
expenditure should now slow 
substantially in 2009. 
Investment in restructuring the Impact 
portfolio and the cash costs of running 
the Italian Pharma site came to some 
£2.4 million, whilst net proceeds from 
divestments totalled £50.7 million.
Working capital outflow for the year 
was £1.5 million. Control of working 
capital is a core focus of the business 
management, and the outflow reflects 
good control of working capital, offset 
by the impact of substantially higher raw 
material costs and selling prices in the 
Polymer business.
Through the year the Group carried  
up to €80 million of its net debt in euros 
as an economic hedge against its euro- 
based businesses. The strengthening 
of the euro against sterling accounted 
for £9.8 million of the increase in the 
sterling net debt. 
Post the year end we received 
£8.25 million for the sale of Oxford 
Chemicals Limited (OCL). OCL is 
excluded from the underlying profit 
before tax of £32.7 million and, had the 
proceeds been received before the year 
end, net debt would have been  
£127 million.
R e fi n a nci ng 	 a n d 	 l i q ui d i t y
During the year the Group repaid 
£33 million due under its US private 
placements. The Group also replaced 
its maturing £60 million revolving credit 
facility with a new £30 million three-year 
loan which was completed at the year 
end, and in January 2009 secured an 
additional £19 million of borrowings in 
Malaysia under a six-year amortising 
loan facility. 
Net debt at the end of the year at 
£135 million was £6 million below the 
outstanding balance on the private 
placement notes of £141 million which 
were themselves the Group’s only  
long-term drawn borrowing arrangements 
at the end of the year. The Group’s only 
repayment commitment of the long-term 
funding arrangements for 2009 is to 
repay the £33 million current element 
of these notes in September 2009. 
This will be done from the new borrowing 
facilities (total £49 million), the proceeds 
from OCL (£8 million) and free cash flow. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
16
Corporate Social Responsibility report
Intr o du c tio n
Yule Catto’s Safety, Health and Environmental (SHE) 
performance improved sharply for the second year in a row, 
making 2008 easily the Company’s best year ever for SHE 
performance. The number of Over-3-Day Lost Time Accidents 
(O3D) accidents in Group companies owned on 1 January 
2008 halved, to give an accident rate better than the average 
for the UK chemical industry (as measured by the UK Chemical 
Industries Association). This was the target we set for 2008. 
Equally encouraging, there was a significant drop in the all  
Lost Time Accident (LTA) rate which reduced to 60% of 
the latest figure reported by Cefic (the European Chemical 
Industry’s representative body).
The Group’s environmental performance was also very positive 
with an 8.5% improvement in the Group’s energy performance 
per production tonne while the Group’s global warming burden 
fell by nearly 10%. Hazardous waste disposal to land again 
dropped significantly, by over 40% compared to 2008, and is 
now less than 1/6th of the figure for the baseline year of 2000.
 
O u r 	 p ol ic y 	 c om mitme nt s
Yule Catto’s commitment to Responsible Care
®
 and 
Sustainable Development (SD) remains at the core of our 
efforts towards excellence in corporate social responsibility. 
Responsible Care
®
 is the global chemical industry’s 
programme to improve and enhance its performance year on 
year in safety, health and environmental matters. All Yule Catto 
sites are expected to adhere to these principles and the Group 
SHE audit programme is designed to confirm compliance. 
In 2005, the Yule Catto Group was amongst the first to publicly 
support the UK Chemical Industries Association’s SD guiding 
principles. These principles were adopted for all sites – in the 
UK, Europe and the wider world – and have been used to set 
improvement targets for our environmental performance. They 
represent significant SHE commitments by the Group and help 
to define a route to a safe and sustainable chemical industry. 
Key amongst the targets is open reporting of our performance  
and full respect for the people and communities amongst 
whom we work.
Highlights 	 a nd 	 achie v ements 	 dur ing 	 2 0 0 8
Having achieved or bettered the SHE targets set in 2007, 
Yule Catto set equally demanding targets for 2008. These 
included: a further 4% reduction in both energy and water 
usage per production tonne; a 5% reduction in hazardous 
waste disposal; and achieving an O3D Lost Time Accident rate 
of 0.24 accidents per 100,000 hours worked, together with an 
all-LTA rate of 0.40. The O3D figure is equal to the average for 
the UK chemical industry, as measured by the UK Chemical 
Industries Association and the all-LTA rate just less than 
60% of the most recent average for the European chemical 
industry as published by Cefic. As a pro-active measure all 
sites were set a target of identifying, reporting and dealing with 
two SHE improvement opportunities – defined as conditions 
which could potentially cause an injury or loss – per employee 
during the year. Each of these targets was in addition to, or 
superseded, the existing 10-year SD targets.
Most of the environmental targets were met, and indeed 
bettered by a significant margin. The Group’s achievement 
against our energy target is particularly notable: performance 
improved by over twice the target with the Group achieving  
an 8.5% reduction per tonne. Water use per production tonne 
fell again though by a more modest 0.7% compared to 2007. 
Both of these improvements were achieved on the back of 
sustained improvement each year since 2001, which means 
that most of the ‘quick wins’ have already been implemented. 
The Group’s energy use per tonne of product is now some 
33% lower than it was in 2000 and for water the reduction  
is even larger: down to less than 60% of the 2000 figure.  
The reporting of SHE improvement opportunities was 50% 
above the target, with over three per employee reported over 
the year compared to the target of two. Both measures of 
accident performance improved significantly, with the Group 
reducing the rate of O3D accidents by 33% in 2008, to achieve 
its target of just 0.24 per 100,000 hours worked. This is the 
second year in a row that the accident rate has fallen by 
over 30%.
Other SD targets have also been met or exceeded; for 
example the discharge of heavy metals, which we handle in 
significant quantities, from our sites is now less than 1/10th of 
what it was in 2000. Similarly the release of nitrogen oxides 
(NOx) from sites fell by 15% in 2008 and is nearly 75% less 
than it was in 2000. The total global warming burden of our 
operations, which is a measure which combines both carbon 
dioxide release and other global warming gases, is down 60% 
from its peak in 2001. The disposal of waste to landfill has 
continued to decline and one polymer site managed to have  
all the solid waste from its effluent treatment plant dealt with  
by composting, producing a saleable soil-enhancer rather than 
a waste problem.
Business review Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
17
M a n a g i ng 	 s af e t y 	 a n d 	 e n v i r o n m e nt a l 	 p e r f o r m a nc e
The safety of all our staff and the operation of our sites  
in a way that protects the environment are primary duties 
of all Yule Catto employees. Equally, management of our 
SHE performance in the same way that all other business 
objectives are managed, is a fundamental priority for the line 
management function at all levels in the Group. We have  
a number of management processes which assist this:
•	  SHE performance is discussed in all management 
meetings, as the first agenda item;
•	  the Group Accident and Incident Management System 
(AIMS) is used to collect data on all accidents, incidents 
and near misses on our sites, to ensure that all of these are 
appropriately investigated, and to ensure that the identified 
actions to prevent recurrence are put in place;
•	  key measures of SHE performance are collected monthly 
or quarterly as appropriate and reported to the Group 
Executive and to the Board. This process is mirrored at 
company and site level to give management and staff a 
clear picture of current performance; and
•	  senior managers have SHE targets as part of their annual 
objectives and bonuses. Other employees have similar 
objectives set, either on an individual or a site basis, and 
these are linked to bonus schemes as determined locally.
Hea lth, 	 s af et y 	 a nd 	 accident 	 per f or ma nce
Like most companies in the UK, Yule Catto uses a headline 
measure of the rate of O3D Lost Time Accidents to measure 
occupational safety performance. Across the European Union, 
these are generally the accidents which have to be reported to 
the appropriate regulatory authorities. As noted above, for the 
second year in a row the Group set itself a target of significantly 
improving this measure and for the second year in a row an 
improvement of over 30% was achieved. For the companies 
owned by Yule Catto in January 2008, the absolute number of 
O3D accidents halved, from 22 to 11, and the rate fell to 0.215 
accidents per 100,000 hours, below our target of 0.24 and 
below the average for the UK chemical industry as measured 
by the UK CIA. To put this rate in context, 100,000 hours, very 
broadly, represents a working lifetime. 
Reportable lost time accident frequency rates
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
07 08 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
O3D/Lost Time Accident frequency rate (per 100,000 hours)
The number of significant, reportable safety incidents remains 
at a very low level. None of the incidents during the year 
caused harm to people or the environment.
Reportable safety incidents
08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
444 4
2
4
26 26
66
Audit programme
The Group’s audit programme has continued throughout 2008 
and nearly all sites have now been audited on the revised, and 
more demanding, audit introduced in 2007. The audits have 
clearly identified areas where improvement in our performance 
should be possible and have enabled a reporting system to  
be developed which enables the Group Executive committee 
to have a clearer picture of current performance, site by site. 
The audit programme will continue throughout 2009 and 
beyond and should enable sites to monitor their progress,  
as they improve their underlying SHE performance.
Asset protection and insurance inspections
Yule Catto losses from fire or process safety related incidents 
have been at a low level for a number of years and this 
remained true in 2008. Our own internal management and  
our SHE audit processes contribute to this performance; and 
we are assisted by biennial risk audits carried out by our global 
property and business risk insurers. These external audits 
produce loss control recommendations which are discussed 
and assessed for their practicality and cost-effectiveness.  
This transparent partnership working with our insurers has 
helped the Group to keep good control of, and indeed reduce, 
the cost of our global risk insurance. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
18
Corporate Social Responsibility report continued
REACH
Work on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and 
Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulations occupied  
a significant amount of Group and individual Company 
resource during the year as the regulations came into full 
force. The first phase of REACH implementation ended on 
1 December 2008 when all chemicals which are currently 
used or sold in Europe had to be pre-registered with the 
newly created European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). From 
1 December 2008, only pre-registered chemicals may be 
produced or imported into the EU, unless and until they go 
through the full registration process. Chemicals which are  
pre-registered will have to go through the process of 
registration over the next 10 years, to a timescale dependent 
on the tonnage of the chemical used and the current level  
of concern about the chemical. 
Yule Catto companies in Europe registered all the chemicals 
which they produce or use as intermediates, and registered 
key raw materials which are currently imported or which the 
company may need to import in the future. Polymer Division 
also opted to make Synthomer Ltd the ‘Only Representative’ 
for all Polymer Division companies worldwide. ‘Only 
Representative’ has a specific meaning under the regulations 
and the agreement makes Synthomer Ltd responsible for all 
REACH matters for any Polymer Division company. In this role 
Synthomer Ltd pre-registered a number of materials for non-
EU Polymer Division companies; and will carry these materials 
forward to registration, as required.
The total number of pre-registrations by Group companies 
was approximately 1,250, a significant number but a very 
small proportion of the over 2.6 million pre-registrations made 
with ECHA. 
The implementation of REACH in Yule Catto was regularly 
monitored by the Group Executive committee. The costs 
to the Group, both direct costs and employee time, were 
considerable. Towards the end of 2008 we estimate that the 
Group had the equivalent of seven full-time employees working 
on REACH. Polymer Division alone – despite the fact that 
polymers are exempt from registration – estimated their costs 
as £75,000 in 2008 with similar costs expected in 2009. Over 
the Group as a whole, the costs in 2008 were some £250,000 
and the costs can be expected to be broadly similar in the 
coming year.
REACH will continue to be a significant focus of work, and 
cost, for the Group into the foreseeable future. However,  
the overall process is part of Yule Catto’s commitment to  
the safe and sustainable production and use of chemicals:  
our commitment to the principles of product stewardship.  
This is a set of principles which Yule Catto and the rest of 
the chemical industry support, the overall aim being to give 
Europe’s citizens greater confidence in the safety of the 
chemical products handled and sold across the EU.
S u s t a i n a b l e 	 D e v e l o p m e n t 	 P e r f o r m a n c e	
R epo r t 	 2 008
M a n a g i ng 	 ou r 	 e n v i r o n m e nt a l 	 r e s p o n s i b i l i tie s
The Yule Catto Group signed the UK CIA sustainable 
development goals as soon as they were published and is 
committed to a 10-year programme of reducing the Group’s 
environmental impact. Sustainable development takes 
the Group’s performance in the year 2000 as a base and 
then targets sustained improvements in performance over 
the period to 2010. Specific targets were set in 2005 and 
considerable progress was made against all the targets in 
2006 and 2007. 2008 saw further significant improvements 
across Group companies, such that Yule Catto has already 
achieved the reductions required to comply with our 2010 
goals, with current performance at 25% to 94% better than  
the 2010 targets.
Energy
As previously noted the Group had a third year of excellent 
performance on energy consumption in 2008, reducing the 
energy used to make each tonne of product by a further 8.5%. 
Specific energy consumption has been reduced by 26% in the 
three years since 2005, achieved by a combination of more 
efficient plant (eg boilers); better maintenance of (for example) 
steam systems; and better use of existing production plant. 
The reduction achieved was three times the target of 4% and 
this target has been set again for 2009, asking companies 
to achieve a further 4% reduction on their already much 
improved performance.
Energy consumption
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
GigaJoules used per production tonne
Business review Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
19
Global warming
Yule Catto’s impact on global warming is closely related to 
our energy consumption but is also influenced by the release 
of a number of other gaseous materials into the atmosphere. 
The Group’s global warming burden is expressed as tonnes 
of carbon dioxide equivalent and alongside the improvements 
in energy efficiency we reduced the releases of other global 
warming gases to give a further 9.5% improvement in our 
performance in 2008 over 2007. The Group is currently 
performing over 20% better than the target set for 2010.
Global warming burden
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
Tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent release per production tonne
Atmospheric acidification
The emissions per tonne in 2008 were only 3% of those in the 
baseline year of 2000. This is an area where Yule Catto has 
undertaken significant investment for the good of the environment 
and can show a very significant improvement in environmental 
performance, to the benefit of the surrounding communities.
Atmospheric acidification burden
 
 
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
Kgs sulphur dioxide equivalent released per production tonne
Water use
Yule Catto sites do not generally have significant problems with 
water supply, indeed some are ‘self-sufficient’ in that we collect 
our own water from a renewable source which we can show is 
not being depleted. Equally, water is an essential resource for 
our own production: many of our polymers are manufactured 
and sold as dispersions in water. Therefore, security and quality 
of water supply is of great importance to the Group and using 
water carefully and wisely is an important goal in ensuring that 
Group companies are fully sustainable.
In 2008, for the third year in a row, water use per tonne fell,  
but by less than our target, giving a 0.7% reduction in water 
use per tonne compared to 2007. It has fallen by over 40% 
since 2000 and compared to our sustainable development 
goal for 2010 we are already 26.5% below the target.
Water consumption
 
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
m3 per production tonne
Waste disposal
The disposal of hazardous waste to landfill was reduced very 
sharply in 2008, and has fallen to little more than 12% of the 
quantities disposed of in the early years of this decade. In 2008 
Yule Catto produced just 1.5 kilograms of hazardous waste 
for every tonne of saleable product we made, down from 
12 kilograms in 2002. 
Hazardous waste disposed to land
0.000
0.002
0.004
0.006
0.008
0.010
0.012
0.014
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
Tonnes waste per production tonne Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
20
Corporate Social Responsibility report continued
The management of hazardous waste has been backed up  
by significant efforts to reduce the total amount of waste being 
disposed of from our sites to landfill. Although this is not part of 
our sustainable development objectives (and there is therefore 
no agreed, industry-wide reduction target), non-hazardous 
waste has been reduced from 26 kilograms per tonne in 
2005 to 10 kilograms per tonne in 2008. This has been done 
in a number of innovative ways – for example all of the solid 
waste from the effluent plant at one polymer site, Synthomer 
at Ossett in the UK, was disposed of via a composting 
plant where it was mixed with other organic waste to make 
agricultural fertilizer. Ossett pioneered this disposal route and 
used it throughout 2008. Other sites in the Group are now 
using this example to find similar outlets for their solid waste, 
with some success. 
Non-hazardous waste disposed to land
0.000
0.005
0.010
0.015
0.020
0.025
0.030
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Tonnes per production tonne
Environmental incidents
Most damage to the environment is done by long-term, 
continuous releases of polluting or harmful materials. These 
are increasingly tightly controlled and releases are reducing 
across the chemical industry generally. Environmental incidents 
can also cause significant damage if hazardous materials 
are unexpectedly ejected into the environment. However, the 
environment almost always recovers quite quickly from these 
events and the damage can often be undetectable within a 
relatively short period. This is not to minimise the importance of 
avoiding environmental incidents, but to put them into context 
– a context of very significant reduction in the environmental 
burden the chemical industry is placing on the environment.
Disappointingly the number of environmental incidents 
reportable to the authorities rose during 2008 from 8 to 19. This 
has largely been due to tighter reporting conditions imposed  
in the EU with the full implementation of the Integrated Pollution 
Prevention and Control (IPPC) Directive on all of our sites. 
There were no incidents which caused known environmental 
damage off-site.
Our statistics for ‘environmental incidents’ cover two very 
different types of event: a sudden failure which releases 
harmful material to the environment (though often only to the 
on-site environment, with a release being contained or diluted 
to below a damaging concentration before it reaches the site 
boundary); or a continuously monitored outflow exceeding the 
permitted limit, often by a very small amount. These occasions 
when release limits are exceeded should also be seen in the 
light of the ever tighter limits within which we have to work. 
We support this improvement in environmental standards, 
certainly whenever it has environmental benefits, but it does 
mean that the actual environmental harm caused by exceeding 
a limit by a few percent for a short period becomes smaller 
and smaller. All events are treated very seriously by Yule Catto 
Group companies: they are fully investigated and any remedial 
measures required put into place.
Reportable environmental incidents
08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
88
19
4
7
4
22
44
49
Business review Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
21
Environmental KPIs
The UK Department for Food, Environment and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) published guidelines for reporting environmental key 
performance indicators in 2006. The three key measures suggested were energy use, waste disposal and water consumption.  
Yule Catto has reported on these indicators for a number of years, but up to 2007 this was not done in the suggested format. 
In 2007, for the first time, DEFRA’s preferred format was used to aid transparency of environmental performance reporting.  
The same format is used in the table below, which gives the data for the period 2006-2008:
        % change
     20 0 8 2007 2006 2006-2008
E ne r g y 	 c o n s u m p ti o n
1
GJs    2 , 63 3 ,940 3,063,455 3,186,354 -17 .34%
Gas    93 4,577 1,159,183 1,257 ,724 
Light oil    82 ,9 2 0 82,120 83,070 
Heavy oil    3 5, 25 4 46,202 73,630 
Steam    1 65,912 179,939 187 , 173 
Electricity (primary basis)    1,409,021 1,596,011 1,584,757
GJs/tonne production    3 . 3 2 7 3.640 3.910 -14.91%
Emis sions 	 t o 	 a ir
2
Carbon dioxide (CO
2
)
Tonnes    1 31,787 153,308 160,421 -17 .85%
Tonnes CO
2
/tonne production    0. 173 0.182 0.197
Sulphur dioxide (SO
2
)
Tonnes    114 261 452 -74.78%
Kilos SO
2
/tonne production    0. 144 0.310 0.554
Nitrous oxides (NOx)     
Tonnes    3 0 . 84 4 38.460 64.250 -51.99%
Kilos NOx/tonne production    0 .0 3 9 0.046 0.079
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
3
 
Tonnes    3 8 9 636
Kilos VOCs/tonne production    0 . 491 0.755
W at e r 	 u s a g e	
Cubic metres (m
3
)   	 4,41 7,697 4,733,336 5,095,279 -13.30%
Public potable supply   	 1 ,358 , 7 0 5 1,480,577 1,618,898
Raw water from river    2 , 28 5,3 0 7 2,439,170 2,651,619
Raw water from borehole    4 4 3,3 0 8 420,921 446,747
Raw water from canal    15,282 5,169 37,304
Raw water from other   	 315,094 387 ,499 340,711
M
3
/tonne production   	 5. 5 8 0 5.620 5.820 -4.12%
1. Data relates to site usage of all fuels, excluding transport.
2.  Emissions to air have been calculated from the usage of all fuels, excluding transport fuel; and therefore include both direct emissions and indirect emissions  
related to bought-in electricity.
3. Accurate figures for earlier years are not available. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
22
Corporate Social Responsibility report continued
        % change
     20 0 8 2007 2006 2006-2008
W a s te 	 ma nagement	
Hazardous waste
’000 tonnes    1 8 .8 4 8 23.469 21.438 -12.08%
     
Ha z a r dous 	 w a s te 	 sent 	 of f -site
Recycled – with energy recovery    4. 8 5 5 5.675 4.195
Recycled – separated, reprocessed    5.1 64 6.749 6.350
Incinerated – with no energy recovery    4 . 232 2.106 2.438
Disposed by landfill    1. 158 2.075 2.326
Other    0. 11 9 0.151 0.225
Ha z a r dous 	 w a s te 	 dispose d 	 on -site
Incinerated on-site with energy recovery    1 . 3 35 4.181 2.878
Incinerated on-site with no energy recovery   1.986 2.532 2.925
Disposed to on-site landfill
Tonnes/tonne production    0. 024 0.027 0.026 -7 .69%
Non-hazardous waste
’000 tonnes    15.201 16.466 21.057 -27 .81%
N o n - h a z a r d ou s 	 w a s t e 	 s e nt 	 o f f - s i t e 	 	 	 	 	
Recycled – with energy recovery    3.4 13 3.669 4.349
Recycled – separated, reprocessed    2 . 32 6 1.930 1.900
Incinerated – with no energy recovery    0 .0 22 0.022 0.022
Disposed by landfill    6.9 7 1 9.051 12.490
Other – municipality    1.437 0.770 0.943
N o n - h a z a r d ou s 	 w a s t e 	 d is p os e d 	 o n - s i t e
Recycled – with energy recovery    0.000 0.000 0.000
Incinerated – with no energy recovery    0.000 0.000 0.017
Disposed by landfill    1.031 1.024 1.337
N o n - h a z a r d ou s 	 w a s t e 	 t o n ne s / t o n ne 	 p r o d u c ti o n   0.019 0.020 0.026 -26.92%
P r o d u c ti o n	
Tonnes    791 ,711 842,578 815,812 -2.95%
Business review Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
23
Directors and advisers
E x e cutiv e 	 dir e c t or s
A M Whitfield
4
 – Chief Executive
Joined the Group and appointed to the Board in March 2006. 
He assumed the role of Chief Executive in August 2006. Prior 
to appointment he was Chief Executive of the plastics division 
of D S Smith Plc. Age 47.
D C Blackwood – Finance Director
Joined the Group and appointed to the Board in October 
2007. Prior to appointment he was Group Treasurer of Imperial 
Chemical Industries PLC. Age 50.
No n - e x e cu tiv e 	 d ir e c t or s
P S Wood
2
 – Chairman
Joined the Board in 2001 and was appointed Chairman on  
1 February 2009. He was Chief Executive of The BSS Group 
plc until retirement at the end of 2005 and is Chairman of 
White Young Green plc and a Non-executive Director of 
RPC Group plc and Grafton Group plc. He is a member of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales. 
Age 61.
The Hon. A G Catto
4
 
Joined the Board in 1981. He is Managing Director of CairnSea 
Investments Ltd, a private investment company, and a Non-
executive Director of several early stage companies that have 
been backed by CairnSea. Until 1995 he was a Managing 
Director of Lazard Brothers and prior to this he was with  
J P Morgan and Morgan Grenfell & Co. Age 56.
Dr A A Dobbie
2,3
Joined the Board in August 2007. He is a founding Director 
of Cogency Chemical Consultants Limited, a Director of 
NiTech Solutions Limited and Chairman of Chemical Sciences 
Scotland, Evolva SA and Warwick International Group Limited. 
Age 57.
R H Hunting
1,2
Joined the Board in 2000. He is Chairman of Hunting PLC.  
Age 62.
Dato’ Lee Hau Hian
4
Joined the Board in 1993 and stood down in 2000 to become 
an Alternate Director. He re-joined the Board in 2002. He is  
a Director of Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd and Batu Kawan Bhd. 
Age 55.
Dato’ Seri Lee Oi Hian 
Joined the Board in 1981. He is Chief Executive of Kuala 
Lumpur Kepong Bhd and Chairman of Batu Kawan Bhd.  
Age 58.
J K Maiden
1,3
Joined the Board in August 2007. He is Group Finance 
Director of National Express Group PLC. He is a Fellow of the 
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants. Age 47.
G R Menzies
1,2,3,4
 
Joined the Board with effect from 1 March 2009. He was 
Chief Executive of Senior plc until retirement in April 2008 and 
is a Non-executive Director of Heywood Williams Group plc.  
Age 61.
1. Member of Audit Committee.
2. Member of Nomination Committee.
3. Member of Remuneration Committee.
4. Standing for re-election at 2009 AGM.
Re gis ter e d 	 of fice
Yule Catto & Co plc
Temple Fields
Harlow
Essex
CM20 2BH
Registered No. 98381
Secr eta r y
Richard Atkinson
B a nk e r s
Banco de Sabadell SA
Barclays Bank PLC
Dresdner Bank AG
Fortis Bank (Nederland) NV 
HSBC Bank plc
Maybank – Malayan Banking Berhad
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
M e r c h a nt 	 ba nk e r s
Merrill Lynch International
S t ock br ok er s
Merrill Lynch International
R e g is tr a r s
Computershare Investor Services PLC
Lochside House
7 Lochside Avenue
Edinburgh Park
Edinburgh
EH12 9DJ
Auditor s
Deloitte LLP
S ol icit or s
Linklaters LLP
Hammonds LLP
Pinsent Masons LLP Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
24
Report of the directors
for the year ended 31 December 2008
The directors submit their annual report and the audited 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Results and dividends
Profit attributable to shareholders for the year was 
£54,845,000.
The interim dividend of 4.0p per share was paid on 
11 November 2008. On 29 December 2008 the Company 
announced the suspension of the payment of dividends and 
accordingly no final dividend is recommended by the directors.
Principal activities and business review 
The principal activities of the company and a business  
review are set out on pages 6 to 22.
Disposals
On 30 May 2008 the sale of the entire issued share capital 
of James Robinson Limited and other associated assets 
to Vivimed Labs Limited was completed. On 24 June 2008 
the Group sold its interest in James Robinson India Private 
Limited to its joint venture partner. On 11 August 2008 the 
sale of the entire issued share capital of Holliday Pigments 
SA, Holliday Pigments International SA, Holliday France SA 
and Holliday Chemical España SA to Rockwood Specialities 
Group Inc was completed. On 3 December 2008 the entire 
issued share capital of PFW Aroma Chemicals BV was sold 
to Keva UK Limited. On 5 January 2009 conditional contracts 
were exchanged with Frutarom (UK) Limited for the sale of the 
business and assets of Oxford Chemicals Limited and the sale 
was completed on 30 January 2009. 
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s use of financial instruments and  
its financial risk management objectives and policies, and  
of its exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk  
in relation to such instruments, is contained in note 21 to the 
financial statements.
Directors
The present membership of the Board is shown on page 23  
all of whom served throughout the year apart from 
Mr G R Menzies who was appointed on 1 March 2009. 
Mr A E Richmond‑Watson served throughout the year as 
Chairman of the Board until his retirement on 1 February 2009.
The Hon. A G Catto, Dato’ Lee Hau Hian, Mr G R Menzies and 
Mr A M Whitfield retire and will be seeking re‑election at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Dato’ Seri Lee Oi Hian 
and Mr R H Hunting retire and will not be seeking re‑election 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr Whitfield has a service contract which contains a notice 
period of 12 months. None of the other directors seeking 
re‑election has a service contract. Details of directors’ 
emoluments and the interests of each director in the share 
capital of the company are shown in the Remuneration report 
on pages 30 to 32.
Director indemnity provisions
Under the company’s Articles of Association, the directors 
of the Company have the benefit of a qualifying third‑ party 
indemnity provision which provides that they shall be 
indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities as 
permitted by Sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 
2006 and against costs incurred by them in relation to any 
liability for which they are indemnified. The Company has 
purchased and maintains insurance against directors’ and 
officers’ liabilities in relation to the Company.
Share capital and control
Details of the company’s share capital are contained in note 25 
to the financial statements. During 2008 no shares were issued 
or re‑purchased. A total of 91,844 shares were purchased  
on the open market on behalf of shareholders who elected  
to participate in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary 
shares, being the only class of issued share capital, as well 
as the powers of the Company’s directors, are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association, copies of which can be 
obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Company 
Secretary. There are no restrictions on the voting rights 
attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares or on the transfer 
of securities in the Company. No person holds securities in the 
Company carrying special rights with regard to the control of 
the Company. The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on 
the transfer of securities or on voting rights. Unless expressly 
specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the 
Company, the Company’s Articles of Association may be 
amended by special resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
Other than in relation to its borrowings which, unless certain 
conditions are satisfied, become repayable on a takeover, 
the Company is not party to any significant agreements that 
would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control 
following a takeover bid.
The Company does not have agreements with any director  
or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office 
or employment resulting from a takeover.
All of the Company’s share schemes contain provisions relating 
to a change of control. Outstanding options and awards would 
normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, 
subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions  
at that time.
Major shareholdings
Other than the shareholdings disclosed as directors’ interests 
in the Remuneration report as at 20 February 2009, the 
Company had been notified under Section 5 of the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing 
Authority of the following significant holdings of voting rights 
in its ordinary shares:
  Percent
 Ordinary of ordinary 
 shares shares in Nature of
 (number) issue holding
Kuala Lumpur   
Kepong Berhad 27,414,414 18.82 Direct interest
Franklin Resources Inc 10,169,079 6.98 Indirect interest
Tameside MBC 5,855,353 4.02 Direct interest
UBS Global Asset 13,372,875 9.18 Part direct
Management –     interest
Traditional  Part indirect
     interest Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
25
Employment policies
The Group gives every consideration to applications for 
employment from disabled persons. Employees who become 
disabled are given every opportunity to continue employment 
under normal terms and conditions with appropriate training, 
career development and promotion wherever possible. 
The Group seeks to achieve equal opportunities in employment 
through recruitment and training policies.
Authority to purchase own shares
The Company has a general authority, which expires at the 
conclusion of the 2009 Annual General Meeting, to make 
market purchases of not more than 14,566,318 of the 
Company’s ordinary shares in accordance with the terms  
of the special resolution passed at the 2008 Annual General 
Meeting. A resolution will be tabled at the 2009 Annual  
General Meeting to renew this authority.
Employee involvement
The Group is organised on a decentralised basis so as  
to promote greater employee involvement and better 
communications with employees. Each Group company  
is encouraged to make its employees aware of the financial 
and economic factors affecting the performance of the 
Company. Performance related bonus schemes are in 
operation in a number of Group companies.
A long‑ term share incentive plan for directors and senior 
executives was introduced in 2002 with the approval of 
shareholders.
UK pension funds
The trustees have reviewed the independent investment 
management of the assets of the Company pension schemes 
in the United Kingdom and assured themselves of the security 
and controls in place. In particular, it is the trustees’ policy not 
to invest in Yule Catto shares nor lend money to the Company.
Creditor payment policy
The Group’s policy is to make payments to creditors and  
other suppliers in accordance with terms of payment agreed  
at the time the contract of supply is made, subject to all 
the terms and conditions of the order being satisfied by the 
supplier. Trade creditor days of the company for the year ended 
31 December 2008 were 27 days (2007 31 days) based on the 
ratio of trade creditors at the year end to the amounts invoiced 
during the year by trade creditors.
Charitable donations
Charitable donations in the year amounted to £108,000  
(2007 £54,000). There were no political donations during  
the year.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
Each director of the Company confirms that, so far as he 
is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware and that he has taken all 
the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order 
to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information. For these purposes, relevant audit information 
means information needed by the Company’s auditors in 
connection with preparing their reports on pages 36 to 37 
and 72. This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Going concern
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on  
going concern and in reaching their conclusions have taken 
into account factors including:
the required repayment of £33 million on the US loan notes •	
in September 2009; and 
the availability of an additional £49 million of undrawn •	
facilities negotiated in the UK and Malaysia described above.
The directors have appropriately considered the Group’s risks 
and uncertainties (as fully described in the business review  
on pages 6 to 22) including:
the current economic conditions and potential impact  •	
of the level of demand for the Group’s products;
recent volatility in the currency markets and the ability  •	
of the company to hedge exposures;
volatility in prices of the Group’s raw materials; and •	
the Group’s exposures to credit and liquidity risk (see •	
note 21).
After making enquiries and taking account of possible changes 
in trading performance, the directors have concluded that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis  
in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Cautionary statement
The purpose of this report is to provide information to the 
members of the Company. It contains certain forward‑looking 
statements with respect to the operations, performance 
and financial condition of the Group. By their nature, these 
statements involve uncertainty since future events and 
circumstances can cause results and developments to 
differ materially from those anticipated. The forward‑looking 
statements reflect knowledge and information available at the 
date of preparation of this report and the Company undertakes 
no obligation to update these forward‑looking statements. 
Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Auditors
A resolution to re‑appoint Deloitte LLP as the Company’s 
auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.30 am on 
Thursday 14 May 2009 at Saddlers’ Hall, 40 Gutter Lane, 
London EC2V 6BR.
By o  rder of the Board
R Atkinson
Secretary
11 March 2009 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
26
Corporate governance
This compliance statement is produced in relation to the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (‘the Code’) 
which was published in June 2006 by the Financial 
Reporting Council.
Statement of compliance
The Company considers that it has complied throughout the 
financial year ended 31 December 2008 with the provisions 
set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Application of the Code
The main principles of Section 1 of the Code were applied 
as follows:
The Board
Operation of the Board
The activities of the Company are controlled by the Board 
which during 2008 comprised two executive directors and  
nine non‑executive directors until the resignation of 
Mr C J Williams on 27 August 2008 following which the 
number of non‑executive directors reduced to eight.  
Following a review of its size and composition during 2008  
the Board now comprises two executive directors and eight 
non‑executive directors. The number of non‑executives will 
further reduce to six following the 2009 Annual General 
Meeting as a result of the decision of Dato’ Seri Lee Oi Hian 
and Mr R H Hunting not to stand for re‑election. The roles  
of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly divided between 
Mr P S Wood who heads the Board in his capacity as 
non‑executive Chairman and Mr A M Whitfield who has 
responsibility for the running of the Company’s business as 
Chief Executive. The non‑executive directors all have wide 
business and boardroom experience gained in a broad range 
of business sectors.
The Board has reserved to itself a schedule of matters which 
includes setting long‑ term objectives for the Group and the 
strategies to be employed in achieving them, setting policies 
in the areas of safety, health and the environment, recruitment 
and employment, risk management and treasury and, subject 
to materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising of capital, 
financial commitments, capital expenditure, acquisitions 
and disposals and the prosecution, defence and settlement 
of litigation.
The Board meets quarterly to review current and projected 
performance and to determine strategic issues. The 
directors receive in advance full information on all matters 
to be discussed at Board meetings as well as a detailed 
quarterly review of performance prepared by the Chief 
Executive. The Board has established Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration committees which are discussed below.
In addition arrangements are made each year for the Board  
to visit up to two of the Group’s operational sites and meet 
local management. Ad hoc site visits are facilitated for 
individual non‑ executive directors on request.
The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive responsibility 
for the development and preparation of the business plan for 
the Group and the annual Group budget for recommendation 
to the Board. As the senior executive director, the Chief 
Executive is responsible for all aspects of day‑ to‑ day 
operational control of the Group and execution of the Group 
strategy. The Chief Executive has established and chairs an 
Executive Committee (whose other members are the divisional 
Chief Executives, the Finance Director, the Deputy Finance 
Director, the Company Secretary and the Director of Group 
Human Resources) to assist him in the performance of his 
duties and which meets once a month. The Chairman receives 
the minutes of the Executive Committee and all directors 
receive a monthly trading summary and commentary.
Board membership and balance
The Chairman and Chief Executive are identified on page 23. 
The Chairmen and members of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees are identified below. Following  
the appointment of Mr P S Wood as Chairman, the Board has 
under consideration the choice of his successor as senior 
independent director.
The Board met on five occasions in 2008. All Board and 
committee meetings were fully attended during 2008 except 
for: the Board meetings held in March (when Mr P S Wood 
was unable to attend), August (when Dato’ Seri Lee Oi Hian, 
Mr J K Maiden and Mr C J Williams were unable to attend) and 
December (when Dato’ Seri Lee Oi Hian was unable to attend); 
and the Remuneration Committee meetings held in November 
and December when Mr J K Maiden was unable to attend.
The Board considers the following non‑executive directors 
to be independent in accordance with the provisions of 
the Code: Dr A A Dobbie, Mr R H Hunting, Mr J K Maiden 
and Mr G R Menzies. Mr P S Wood was considered to 
be independent up until his appointment as Chairman 
on 1 February 2009. Mr C J Williams was considered to 
be independent up until the date of his resignation on 
27 August 2008.
Induction and training
Induction arrangements are in place in order to ensure  
new directors receive a full formal and tailored induction  
on appointment. The skills and knowledge of Board members  
are updated by briefings provided by the Company’s internal 
resources and materials and seminars offered by 
external advisers.
Performance evaluation
Performance evaluations of the Board, its committees and 
its directors were carried out in the last year by the following 
internal processes:
an assessment of the performance of individual non‑ •	
executive directors is carried out by the Chairman through 
a rolling programme of one‑to‑one discussions using 
performance evaluation questions as the centrepiece for 
those discussions. Every non‑executive director is assessed 
in this way once a year;
the performance of the executive directors was reviewed •	
in August 2008 at a meeting of the non‑executive directors 
chaired by the Chairman; Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
27
a meeting of the non‑executive directors (in the absence  •	
of the Chairman) chaired by the senior independent director 
was held in December 2008 to evaluate the performance  
of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the 
executive directors; and
the Board and its Committees carry out an annual self‑ •	
assessment of performance led by the Chairman and the 
Chairman of each committee respectively. The results of 
assessment questionnaires completed by those Chairmen 
were reviewed by the relevant committees and the Board 
and were shared with and discussed by the Board as  
a whole at its meeting in November 2008.
Non‑executive directors are appointed for three ‑ year terms. 
Those non‑executive directors who have served longer than 
nine years on the Board are subject to annual re‑election  
by shareholders with other directors subject to re‑election  
at least every three years.
Shareholder communications
Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular 
basis by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director and 
meetings take place following the announcement of interim and 
full year results and at other times according to circumstances.
The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication 
principles in order to ensure that Board members develop an 
understanding of the views of the Group’s major shareholders. 
These principles require the Chairman to be present with  
the Chief Executive and the Finance Director at sufficient 
shareholder presentations and meetings that he fully 
understands the issues and concerns of major shareholders. 
The Chairman reports on shareholder relations at each Board 
meeting. Communications with shareholders relating to 
corporate governance matters are conducted by the Chairman 
with the assistance of the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees. Written reports on all meetings 
between non‑ executive directors and institutional shareholders 
and their representative bodies are presented to the Board  
at the first opportunity following such meetings as is all 
correspondence with them.
The Board seeks to encourage participation of all shareholders, 
and in particular private investors, at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting and endeavours to ensure all Board 
members are in attendance. In particular, the Chairmen of the 
Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are available 
to answer questions.
The Company makes use of its website www.yulecatto.com  
to communicate with its shareholders where it publishes 
interim and full year results, Company announcements, share 
price and corporate governance and other investor information.
Board committees
The Board has formally established Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees each with their own terms of 
reference which set out their respective roles and the 
authority delegated to them by the Board. Copies of the 
terms of reference are available upon request from the 
Company Secretary and can also be downloaded from the 
Company’s website.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprised Mr P S Wood (Chairman), 
Mr R H Hunting, Mr C J Williams and Mr J K Maiden until 
27 August 2008 when Mr Williams resigned from the Board. 
Thereafter it comprised the three remaining members 
with Mr Maiden taking over as Chairman on 5 November 
2008. Mr Wood left the Committee on 5 March 2009 and 
Dr A A Dobbie and Mr G R Menzies joined on that date. 
Mr Wood was and Mr Maiden is considered by the Board  
to have ‘recent and relevant financial experience’ for the 
purposes of Provision C.3.1 of the Code. The Committee 
has established a detailed remit regarding the application of 
financial reporting and internal control principles. The Finance 
Director and senior members of his department attend 
meetings of the Committee as part of the review of the 
Group’s interim and final statements prior to their submission 
to the Board. The Committee meets periodically with the 
Company’s auditors to discuss the adequacy of the Group’s 
financial management, internal controls and information 
systems. The Committee’s remit includes the review of the 
cost‑ effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the 
auditors (including the extent of non‑audit services and fees 
payable to the auditors) which is carried out and discussed 
with the auditors on a periodic basis. With regard to seeking 
to ensure the independence and objectivity of the auditors, 
the Audit Committee’s policy is to avoid the auditors providing 
services in areas which may create or be perceived to create 
a conflict of interest. Accordingly, other than in circumstances 
where time constraints render it impractical or assignments 
are of a minor nature, the auditors are not invited to tender or 
propose for services of the following nature: corporate finance, 
legal, information technology and systems, recruitment or 
remuneration, accounting, internal audit or control, acquisition 
due diligence, valuations or appraisals, actuarial or general 
business consulting. In addition the auditors have been 
requested not to provide services to executive directors or 
senior executives. Non‑executive directors are required to 
disclose any relationship they have with the auditors.
The Group does not have an internal audit function. 
The Committee has reviewed this during the year and has 
concluded that there are in place appropriate procedures  
for assuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Group’s 
governance, risk management and control processes. 
The Board has accepted this recommendation.
The current auditors were first appointed in 2002 and their 
appointment was reviewed by the Committee in 2006. Details 
of audit and non‑audit fees paid to them in 2008 are set out in 
note 6 on page 50. Non‑audit fees principally relate to taxation 
advice. The Board accepts the Committee’s recommendation 
that the current auditors be proposed for re‑appointment  
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee met formally four times during 2008 and the 
Chairman of the Committee had regular dialogue with the 
auditors during the course of the year. As well as complying 
with the terms of its remit during the year the Committee 
reviewed its remit. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
28
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprised during 2008 
Mr R H Hunting (Chairman), Dr A A Dobbie and Mr P S Wood 
with Mr G R Menzies joining on 5 March 2009. The Committee 
is responsible for: the regular review of the structure, size and 
composition of the Board and the making of recommendations 
with regard to any changes; leading the process for Board 
appointments and nominating candidates for non‑executive 
positions; and considering succession planning. 
The Committee led the process for appointing a new Chairman 
of the Board and nominating Mr G R Menzies for appointment 
as a non‑executive director, which involved a thorough 
review of a range of candidates put forward by a recruitment 
consultancy which conducted an extensive search process. 
The Nomination Committee held six formal meetings during 
2008 and a number of informal discussions and interviews 
associated with the foregoing appointment processes.
Remuneration Committee
All matters relating to the Remuneration Committee and 
remuneration are covered in the Remuneration Report, set out 
on pages 30 to 32.
Accountability
An explanation of the directors’ responsibility for preparing the 
financial statements, their report that the business is a going 
concern, a responsibility statement and their statement as to 
disclosure of information to the auditors are set out on pages 
35 and 25 respectively. Statements by the auditors about their 
reporting responsibilities are set out on pages 36 to 37 and 72 
respectively. A report on the approach to internal control is set 
out below. The directors endeavour to make the annual report 
and financial statements as informative and understandable 
as possible.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the 
Group’s system of internal control and sets appropriate policies 
to ensure that the Code requirements on internal control 
are met.
The system of internal control deployed within the Group 
is designed to reduce the risks of failure to meet business 
objectives, but these risks cannot be eliminated. The internal 
control system adopted can therefore only provide reasonable, 
not absolute, assurance about meeting such business 
objectives or against material mis‑statement or loss.
A process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant 
business risks faced by the Group has been in place since 
2000. This has since been built upon so as to embed further 
the process into the businesses and to enhance the usefulness 
of the relevant processes and information, and has been 
operated throughout 2008 and up to the date of approval of 
the annual report and accounts, and accords with the Turnbull 
Guidance.
The system is applied at all material subsidiaries, and  
a ‘bottom up’ risk profile is created by evaluating the information 
at business, divisional and Group level. Individual directors 
within Yule Catto’s businesses identify and assess key risks 
associated within their area of responsibility based on formal 
management information and interaction with colleagues, 
customers, suppliers and other parties.
The individual submissions are consolidated, reviewed and 
agreed at a board meeting of the subsidiary. A business risk 
report is prepared that is closely linked to business strategy 
and takes account of key internal and external factors. Risks 
are prioritised using a common risk matrix, which forms the 
basis of a single corporate risk report that is reviewed and 
discussed by the Yule Catto Audit Committee.
The individual business risk reports are formally reviewed  
at a board meeting of the subsidiary every six months, out  
of which a revised report is submitted which identifies changes 
in the risk environment.
The process was last reviewed by the Yule Catto Board  
of Directors in March 2008.
The nature of the risks identified as a result of this process 
during the year primarily relate to matters of an operational and 
financial nature and the most significant of those which faced 
the Group in 2008 are reviewed in the reports of the Chairman, 
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Risks associated with safety, health and the environment are, 
by the nature of the Group’s business, always of the utmost 
concern and the Corporate Social Responsibility report on 
pages 16 to 22 reviews the Group’s performance in this 
connection in 2008.
The processes which are used by the Board either directly 
or, where appropriate, through the Audit Committee to review 
the effectiveness of the internal control system include the 
following:
a review of the external audit work plan; •	
consideration of reports from management and external •	
parties, including the auditors, on the system of internal 
financial control and any material control weaknesses;
quarterly review of safety, health and environmental •	
performance;
discussion with management of the actions taken on any •	
possible problem areas for the business identified by Board 
members or in the audit report; and
consideration of a consolidated risk management report •	
setting out the main conclusions from the internal control 
process.
Corporate governance continued Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
29
In addition, the Board:
receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee •	
meetings;
considers the role of the Group insurance programme; •	
receives regular written and oral reports from management •	
on all aspects of production, operations, financial and risk 
management matters; and
in compliance with Provision C.2.1 of the Combined Code •	
the Board regularly reviews and approves the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of internal controls.
Environmental, social and governance matters
In January 2007 the Association of British Insurers (ABI) 
published a revised version of its guidelines on responsible 
investment disclosure. These guidelines require statements 
on the extent to which environmental, social and governance 
matters are taken into account by the Board and identified, 
assessed, managed and monitored particularly in relation 
to the risks and opportunities they present to the value of 
the Company.
Environmental matters
The maintenance of high standards of environmental 
(together with health and safety) protection is central to the 
Company’s business. A separate statement on safety, health 
and environmental (SHE) matters has been a feature of the 
annual report for a number of years. The Corporate Social 
Responsibility report statement on pages 16 to 22 incorporates 
the ABI guidelines and includes a report on the initiatives the 
Company has adopted regarding sustainable development.
Social and ethical matters
The Board takes account of social and ethical matters as part 
of its review of internal control which, by virtue of its approach 
to risk identification, covers areas which encompass social  
and ethical matters.
The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities 
in which the Group’s businesses operate and is supportive  
of local initiatives by management.
The Board is also aware of the reputational risk associated 
with social and ethical issues and has a Group‑ wide code 
of business conduct on corruption and anti‑competitive 
activities, which is available on the Company’s website and 
upon request from the Company Secretary. The purpose 
of this code is to ensure that the Group’s employees have 
a clear understanding of the principles that are important 
in these areas when conducting the Group’s business. The 
application of the code is explained to senior management at 
regular intervals and they are charged with its communication 
throughout their businesses. A compliance procedure was 
initiated in 2007 involving annual certification by the senior 
management of each operating company. A report is made to 
the Audit Committee annually on the code and the Company’s 
whistleblowing procedure.
Governance
The Board’s approach to governance, training of directors  
and identification and assessment of risk is set out above. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
30
Directors’ remuneration report
The following report complies with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002 and satisfies the requirements 
of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and 
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which was 
published in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprised Mr P S Wood 
(Chairman), Dr A A Dobbie, Mr J K Maiden and Mr C J Williams 
until 27 August 2008, when Mr Williams resigned from the 
Board. Thereafter it comprised the three remaining members 
until Mr Wood left the Committee on 5 March 2009 with  
Dr Dobbie replacing him as Chairman of the Committee and   
Mr G Menzies joining the Committee on that date. 
The Committee is responsible for determining the Company’s 
policy on executive remuneration and the specific remuneration 
for the Chairman and each of the executive directors, including 
pension rights. The Committee is also responsible for reviewing 
the remuneration of senior executives throughout the Group. 
The Committee was assisted in its deliberations on executive 
directors’ remuneration by the Chief Executive. The Board as 
a whole determines the remuneration of the non‑executive 
directors, including members of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Remuneration Committee met three times during 2008.
Remuneration policy
Non‑executive directors’ remuneration
It is the Board’s policy to review fees paid to non‑executive 
directors periodically. A review of non‑executive director 
remuneration was last carried out in December 2006 
with the assistance of advice provided by Monks, part of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. With effect from 1 January 
2007 non‑executive director fees are as follows: £30,000 pa 
for those who do not sit on a committee; £33,000 pa for 
those who do sit on a committee; £36,000 pa for those who 
are Committee chairmen. The fees payable to the Chairman 
of the Board are £110,000 pa.
Non‑executive directors are not eligible to receive awards 
under any of the Company’s share schemes or other employee 
benefit schemes nor does the Company make any contribution 
to their pension arrangements.
Executive directors’ remuneration
The Company’s policy for 2008 was and continues to be to 
structure executive pay in such a way that key executives 
may be recruited, motivated and retained through being 
offered remuneration packages that are competitive. For this 
purpose, the Committee uses industry and sector data and 
surveys. Whilst not adopting set formulae the Committee is 
also sensitive to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere 
in the Group when considering annual salary increases and 
total remuneration. The Committee also has the discretion to 
consider the Company’s performance on environmental, social 
and governance matters when setting the remuneration of the 
executive directors.
The major element of the remuneration package of senior 
executives is a competitive basic salary which is reviewed 
with effect from 1 January each year. For executive directors 
this review is conducted with the assistance of independent 
surveys of salaries at UK listed companies with a similar profile 
to the Company in terms of turnover and market capitalisation. 
The Committee then uses this information to recommend 
basic salaries for the executive directors in line with the 
Board’s policy of awarding for good performance a basic 
salary of approximately the market median for companies 
of a similar size and complexity. In addition, the Remuneration 
Committee has overseen the introduction of incentives, which 
are designed to reward the achievement of predetermined 
targets by the individuals concerned. These incentives, which 
were designed in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
A to the Code, currently comprise annual cash bonuses 
and membership of an approved longer term incentive plan 
(the ‘Performance Plan’). The Committee does not consider 
that the incentive structure for senior executives gives rise 
to environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour.
• 	 A nn u a l 	 c a s h 	 bo n u s e s
  For 2008 the annual cash bonus payment for the executive 
directors and senior head office employees was an amount 
equal to a percentage of basic pay calculated by reference 
to the annual growth in the Company’s basic earnings per 
share for underlying performance (EPS) after taking account 
of the annual rise in the rate of headline inflation (RPI). For 
the maximum bonus to be awarded EPS growth must have 
exceeded RPI plus 10%. For the minimum bonus to be 
awarded EPS growth must have exceeded RPI plus 2.5%. 
The percentage of basic pay awarded for performance 
between these points was calculated on a straight‑ line basis 
with no bonus being awarded if EPS growth is RPI plus 2.5% 
or less. For 2008 the maximum and minimum percentage 
of basic pay awardable to the executive directors upon 
attainment of the maximum and minimum performance 
criteria was 80% and 5% respectively. For 2009 the 
Remuneration Committee consider it appropriate to move 
away from a target based on EPS and propose to replace 
this with performance criteria linked to achievement of an 
appropriate combination of specified targets for profit before 
tax, debt and working capital and personal objectives. 
The maximum percentage of basic pay awardable to 
executive directors in 2009 will remain at 80%.
  For divisional chief executives and managing directors of 
subsidiary companies the annual cash bonus payments 
are based on appropriate combinations of profit, cash flow, 
working capital and safety and environmental targets. In 
2008 the bonuses were subject to limits of 60% and 50% 
of basic pay respectively. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
31
•	 Shar e 	 plan
  The Performance Plan was introduced in 2002 following 
shareholder approval at that year’s Annual General Meeting 
and covers the executive directors, divisional chief executives 
and senior managers and head office employees. An award 
consists of a right to acquire shares which can be exercised 
for a nominal price, subject to the Company satisfying 
performance conditions. The value of shares awarded under 
the Performance Plan in any financial year to any individual 
currently may not exceed 100% of their annual basic salary. 
Following review by the Remuneration Committee and 
shareholder approval awards made since 2006 have been 
subject to performance conditions related to relative and 
absolute growth in total shareholder return in order to better 
align the interests of the participants in the Performance Plan 
with shareholders. Details of performance conditions are set 
out at pages 33 to 34. An award which vests in accordance 
with the performance conditions will only be exercisable 
and allocated shares may only be transferred as to one‑ half 
after the third anniversary of the date the award is made 
and as to the remaining half after the fourth anniversary 
of the date the award is made. In order to further align the 
interests of the executive directors and shareholders there 
are share ownership requirements in connection with the 
Performance Plan requiring the retention of a percentage of 
the shares acquired by executive directors until such time as 
ordinary shares in the Company have been built up to a level 
equivalent in value to their annual basic salary.
  During 2008 777,865 shares were awarded under the 
Performance Plan.
  Executive directors are entitled to participate in grants of 
options made under the company’s Savings‑Related Share 
Option Scheme as and when these are made.
•	 P e nsion 	 ar rangeme n ts
  Mr A M Whitfield and Mr D C Blackwood are not members 
of the Company pension scheme and receive payments 
from the Company to enable them to make their own 
arrangements. There are no unfunded pension promises 
or similar arrangements for directors. 
•	 Re mune ra tion 	 de tails
  The amount and components of the directors’ remuneration 
are set out below. No elements of remuneration other than 
basic salary are pensionable. 
• 	 Se r v i c e 	 c o n t r a ct s
  No director other than Mr A M Whitfield and Mr D C Blackwood 
has a service contract. Mr Whitfield’s contract is dated  
22 November 2005, has no unexpired term, provides for  
a notice period of one year and makes no provision for 
pre‑determined compensation on termination. Mr Blackwood’s 
contract is dated 12 September 2007 , has no unexpired term, 
provides for a notice period of one year and makes no 
provision for pre‑determined compensation on termination. 
  The Remuneration Committee’s policy on contracts and 
notice periods for executive directors is to seek to comply 
with best practices in corporate governance.
  All non‑executive directors are appointed in writing. The first 
year of each director’s appointment is shown in the directors’ 
biographies on page 23. The periods of appointment and  
the requirements for re‑election of non‑executive directors 
are provided within the Performance Evaluation section  
of the Corporate Governance Report on page 27.
• 	 	 N o n ‑ e x e c u t i v e 	 d i r e ct or s hi p s 	 h e l d 	 b y 	 t h e 	 e x e c u t i v e	
directors
  Mr Whitfield is a non‑executive director of the Chemical 
Industries Association Limited for which he does not receive 
any remuneration. Mr Blackwood is a non‑ executive member 
of the Cabinet Office Audit and Risk Committee and is  
a member of the Board for Actuarial Standards for which  
he receives and retains £4,000 and £10,000 pa respectively.
•	 T o tal 	 shar e holde r 	 r e tur n 	 o v e r 	 fiv e 	 y e ars
  The following graph compares the share price performance 
of the Company (by reference to total shareholder return) 
with that of the FTSE 250 and is considered to be the most 
appropriate index against which to make a comparison.
Yule Catto total shareholder return versus FTSE 250 total return 
(cumulative) years ended 31 December
0
50
100
150
200
250
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Yule Catto
FTSE 250
AGM approval
The directors’ remuneration report has been submitted  
to the 2009 Annual General Meeting for approval. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
32
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Audited information
Directors’ remuneration
       2008 2007
Emoluments      £’000 £’000
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration and other benefits were:
Emoluments      1,405 1,156 
Compensation for loss of office      – 293 
      1,405 1,449 
The emoluments of the individual executive directors holding office during the year were:
    Base
    salary Bonuses Benefits Total Total
    2008 2008 2008 2008 2007
    £ £ £ £ £
A M Whitfield – Highest paid director   355,000 284,000 26,104 665,104 621,016
D C Blackwood   230,000 138,000 16,779 384,779 94,607
Pension arrangements
A M Whitfield and D C Blackwood are not members of the Company’s defined benefit pension scheme, the Yule Catto Group 
Retirement Benefits Scheme. To fund their pension arrangements, they received the following payments:
       2008 2007
       £ £
A M Whitfield      88,750 83,750 
D C Blackwood      46,000 11,500 
Directors’ fees
The fees of the individual non‑executive directors holding office during the year were:
       2008 2007
       £ £
A E Richmond‑Watson – Chairman      110,000 110,000 
The Hon. A G Catto      30,000 30,000 
Dr A A Dobbie      33,000 12,269 
R H Hunting      36,000 36,000 
Dato’ Lee Hau Hian      30,000 30,000 
Dato’ Seri Lee Oi Hian      30,000 30,000 
J K Maiden      33,726 12,269 
Dr M J Peagram      – 8,758 
P J Welch      – 13,799 
C J Williams      16,500 33,000 
P S Wood      36,000 36,000 
      355,226 352,095 
The non‑executive directors receive no other remuneration in addition to their fee. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
33
Directors’ interests
Shareholdings
Given below are details of the interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company at 31 December 2008 and  
31 December 2007:
     Ordinary shares Options
     2008 2007 2008 2007
D C Blackwood    17,500 10,000 144,654 –
The Hon. A G Catto    1,215,604 1,187 ,1 70  
    5,197,093* 5,593,192*  
Dr A A Dobbie    10,000 nil  
R H Hunting    6,000 6,000  
Dato’ Lee Hau Hian    10,613 10,613  
Dato’ Seri Lee Oi Hian    27,248 27,248  
J K Maiden    nil nil  
A E Richmond‑Watson    798,647 798,647  
    159,632* 159,632*  
A M Whitfield    6,000 6,000 482,430 259,160
P S Wood    2,500 2,500  
* Non‑beneficial interest.
On 7 January 2009 Dr A A Dobbie purchased 20,000 shares.
Between 31 December 2008 and 20 February 2009 there were no other changes in the directors’ holdings.
Executive and savings-related options
       Notional
 At      At Exercise value Exercise
 01/01/08  Granted Lapsed Exercised 31/12/08 price  £ period
A M Whitfield 124,352 (i) – – – 124,352 – 68,394 2009‑ 2016
 134,808 (ii) – – – 134,808 – 74,144 2010‑ 2017
 – (iii) 223,270 – – 223,270 – 122,799 2011‑ 2018
 259,160  223,270 – – 482,430 –  
       Notional
 At      At Exercise value Exercise
 01/01/08  Granted Lapsed Exercised 31/12/08 price  £ period
D C Blackwood – (iii) 144,654 – – 144,654 – 79,560 2011‑ 2018
 –  144,654 – – 144,654 –  
(i)  For the award made in 2006 to Mr A M Whitfield, it would have vested in respect of 50% of the shares only if the Company’s 
total shareholder return (TSR) over a three‑ year period, ending on 31 December 2008 had increased by the rise in RPI 
plus 15.76% or more compared with the Company’s TSR at the start of the three‑ year performance period. If growth in the 
Company’s TSR had been equal to the rise in RPI plus 7.69% over the three‑ year performance period 25% of the shares 
subject to the award would have vested. Performance between these points would have resulted in between 25% to 50% 
of the shares vesting on a straight‑ line basis with lesser performance resulting in no part of the 50% of the shares vesting. 
Vesting of the other 50% of the shares subject to the award was based on the growth in the Company’s TSR compared with 
the growth of the FTSE 250 total return index over the same three‑ year period. If the Company’s TSR had exceeded the FTSE 
250 total return index by 7.69% or more over the three‑ year period 50% of the shares subject to an award would have vested. 
If growth in the company’s TSR had been equal to the FTSE 250 over the three‑ year performance period 5% of the shares 
subject to the award would have vested. Performance between these points would have resulted in between 5% to 50%  
of the shares vesting on a straight‑ line basis, with lesser performance resulting in no part of the 50% of the shares vesting.
Number of options 
during the year
Number of options 
during the year Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
34
(ii)  For the award made in 2007 to Mr A M Whitfield, it will vest in respect of 50% of the shares only if the Company’s total 
shareholder return (TSR) over a three‑ year period, ending on 31 December 2009 has increased by the rise in RPI plus 15.76% 
or more compared with the Company’s TSR at the start of the three‑ year performance period. If growth in the Company’s 
TSR is equal to the rise in RPI plus 9.27% over the three‑ year performance period 25% of the shares subject to the award will 
vest. Performance between these points will result in between 25% to 50% of the shares vesting on a straight‑ line basis with 
lesser performance resulting in no part of the 50% of the shares vesting. Vesting of the other 50% of the shares subject to an 
award will be based on the growth in the Company’s TSR compared with the growth of the FTSE 250 total return index over 
the same three‑ year period. If the Company’s TSR exceeds the FTSE 250 total return index by 7.69% or more over the three 
year period 50% of the shares subject to an award will vest. If growth in the Company’s TSR is equal to the FTSE 250 over the 
three‑ year performance period 5% of the shares subject to the award will vest. Performance between these points will result 
in between 5% to 50% of the shares vesting on a straight‑ line basis, with lesser performance resulting in no part of the 50%  
of the shares vesting.
(iii)  For the awards made in 2008 to Mr A M Whitfield and Mr D C Blackwood the same performance conditions apply as for the 
award made to Mr A M Whitfield in 2007 over a three‑ year period ending on 31 December 2010.
The notional value of unexercised share options is based on the mid‑ market price of a share on 31 December 2008 of 55 pence. 
During the year the market price ranged between 52.5 pence and 192.5 pence.
By order of the Board
R Atkinson
Secretary
11 March 2009
Directors’ interests continued Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
35
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements, including adoption 
of going concern basis
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
Directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. The directors are required 
by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial 
statements under International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The Group 
financial statements are also required by law to be properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS 
financial statements present fairly for each financial year the 
Company’s financial position, financial performance and cash 
flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects 
of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance 
with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, 
liabilities, income and expenses set out in the international 
Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the preparation 
and presentation of financial statements’. In virtually all 
circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by 
compliance with all applicable IFRSs. However, directors 
are also required to:
properly select and apply accounting policies; •	
present information, including accounting policies, in  •	
a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable  
and understandable information; and 
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the •	
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position 
and financial performance.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). The parent 
company financial statements are required by law to give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the company. In preparing 
these financial statements, the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them •	
consistently;
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and •	
prudent;
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have •	
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements; and
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis •	
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the company and enable them to 
ensure that the parent Company financial statements comply 
with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
Other matters
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
the Group financial statements prepared in accordance •	
with International Financial Reporting Standards and the 
Company financial statements prepared in accordance with 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards each give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
and loss of the Group taken as a whole and the company 
respectively; and
the management report includes a fair review of the •	
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
We are only liable to investors under this statement to the 
extent provided under English law and any liability to a person 
who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading 
statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with 
Section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
By order of the Board
A M Whitfield  D C Blackwood 
Chief Executive  Group Finance Director
11 March 2009 Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of Yule Catto & Co plc
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
36
We have audited the group financial statements of Yule Catto & 
Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise 
the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, 
the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and 
Expense and the related notes 1 to 36. These group financial 
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies 
set out therein. We have also audited the information in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having 
been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent company 
financial statements of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 
31 December 2008.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as 
a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies 
Act 1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the company’s members those matters we 
are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the group financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in 
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group 
financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the 
group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report described as having been audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the 
information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with 
the group financial statements. The information given in 
the Directors’ Report includes that specific information that 
is cross‑ referred from the Business Review section of the 
Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not 
received all the information and explanations we require for 
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ 
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement 
reflects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we 
report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether 
the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and 
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s 
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control 
procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report 
as described in the contents section and consider whether 
it is consistent with the audited group financial statements. 
The other information comprises only the Directors’ Report, 
the Chairman’s Statement, the unaudited part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, the Enhanced Business Review and 
the Corporate Governance Statement. We consider the 
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group 
financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to  
any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test 
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in 
the group financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an 
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made 
by the directors in the preparation of the group financial 
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the group’s circumstances, consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all 
the information and explanations which we considered 
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to 
give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion 
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of 
information in the group financial statements and the part  
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
37
Opinion
In our opinion:
the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in •	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2008 
and of its profit for the year then ended;
the group financial statements have been properly prepared •	
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4  
of the IAS Regulation; 
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described •	
as having been audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent •	
with the group financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs
As explained in Note 2 to the group financial statements, 
the group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to 
comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has 
also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the group financial statements give a true and 
fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the group’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year 
then ended.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
Cambridge, United Kingdom
11 March 2009 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
38
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2008
 2008 2007
   Underlying   Underlying
   performance Special items IFRS  performance Special items IFRS
  Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Continuing operations 
Group revenue 4,5 584,373 – 584,373 497,879 – 497,879 
Share of joint ventures’ revenue 4,5 17,780 – 17,780 15,046 – 15,046 
Total sales  602,153 – 602,153 512,925 – 512,925 
Group revenue  584,373 – 584,373 497,879 – 497,879 
Company and subsidiaries  
before special items  41,577 – 41,577 41,567 – 41,567 
Operations sold or closed  
during the year 4 – (2,406) (2,406) – (12,461) (12,461)
UK Pension Fund 
– Past service credit 24 – – – – 10,797 10,797 
Company and subsidiaries  41,577 (2,406) 39,171 41,567 (1,664) 39,903 
Share of joint ventures 4,5 1,615 – 1,615 1,129 – 1,129 
Operating profit/(loss) 5 43,192 (2,406) 40,786 42,696 (1,664) 41,032 
Interest payable 8 (15,983) – (15,983) (16,046) – (16,046)
Interest receivable 8 5,481 – 5,481 4,549 – 4,549 
   (10,502) – (10,502) (11,497) – (11,497)
Fair value adjustment 8 – 8,615 8,615 – 4,447 4,447 
Finance costs  (10,502) 8,615 (1,887) (11,497) 4,447 (7,050)
Profit before taxation  32,690 6,209 38,899 31,199 2,783 33,982 
Taxation 9 (4,904) – (4,904) (6,289) – (6,289)
Profit for the year from  
continuing operations  27,786 6,209 33,995 24,910 2,783 27,693 
Discontinued operations 
Profit/(loss) for the year from  
discontinued operations 3 – 22,568 22,568 – (12,229) (12,229)
Profit/(loss) for the year  27,786 28,777 56,563 24,910 (9,446) 15,464
Profit attributable to  
minority interests 26 1,718 – 1,718 1,679 – 1,679
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity  
holders of the parent 26 26,068 28,777 54,845 23,231 (9,446) 13,785
  27,786 28,777 56,563 24,910 (9,446) 15,464
Earnings per share
From continuing operations
– Basic 12 17.9p 4.3p 22.2p 16.0p 1.9p 17 .9p 
– Diluted 12 17.8p 4.2p 22.0p 15.9p 1.9p 17 .8p 
From continuing and discontinued operations
– Basic 12 17.9p 19.8p 37.7p 16.0p (6.5)p 9.5p 
– Diluted 12 17.8p 19.6p 37.4p 15.9p (6.5)p 9.4p
Special items
The special items are shown in more detail in note 3. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
39
       2008 2007
      Note £’000 £’000
Non‑current assets         
Goodwill     14 154,027 172,443  
Other intangible assets     15 869 591  
Property, plant and equipment     16 118,106 108,468  
Deferred tax assets     10 457 762  
Investment in joint ventures     17 4,948 3,1 77 
       278,407 285,441
Current assets         
Inventories     18 63,507 65,001  
Trade and other receivables     19 126,136 115,078  
Cash and cash equivalents     20 26,576 108,352  
Derivatives at fair value     21 33,887 1,813
       250,106 290,244 
Assets held for sale     22 7,377 –
Total current assets      257,483 290,244 
Current liabilities         
Borrowings     20 (57,972) (133,585)  
Trade and other payables     23 (152,621) (148,300)  
Current tax liability     9 (44,528) (48,948)  
Derivatives at fair value     21 – (26,000) 
       (255,121) (356,833) 
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale   22 (1,400) – 
Total current liabilities      (256,521) (356,833) 
Non‑current liabilities        
Borrowings     20 (130,052) (125,108)  
Trade and other payables     23 (167) (460)  
Deferred tax liability     10 (6,899) (6,445)  
Post retirement benefit obligations     24 (75,559) (41,236) 
       (212,677) (173,249) 
Net assets      66,692 45,603 
Equity         
Called up share capital     25 14,566 14,566  
Share premium     26 33,034 33,034  
Capital redemption reserve     26 949 949  
Hedging and translation reserve     26 6,252 (9,087)  
Cash flow hedging reserve     26 678 –  
Retained earnings     26 2,056 416
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent     57,535 39,878  
Minority interests     26 9,157 5,725
Total equity      66,692 45,603 
Analysis of net borrowings         
Cash and cash equivalents     20 26,576 108,352  
Current borrowings     20 (57,972) (133,585)  
Non‑current borrowings     20 (130,052) (125,108)
Net borrowings      (161,448) (150,341)  
Deduct/(add back): special items     20 25,966 (20,490)
 Net borrowings (underlying performance)     (135,482) (170,831) 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 11 March 2009. They are signed  
on its behalf by:
A M Whitfield
D C Blackwood
Directors
Consolidated balance sheet
31 December 2008 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
40
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2008
      2008  2007 
    Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Operating         
Cash generated from operations   27  44,299  49,447 
 Interest received    5,481  4,549   
 Interest paid    (16,835)  (15,611)  
Net interest paid     (11,354)  (11,062)
 UK corporation tax received    207  1,179   
 Overseas corporate tax paid    (10,421)  (11,636) 
Total tax paid     (10,214)  (10,457)
Net cash inflow from operating activities     22,731  27,928 
Investing         
Dividends received from joint ventures   17  816  1,202 
 Purchase of property, plant and equipment   (17,707)  (16,994)   
 Sale of property, plant and equipment    2,282  2,413 
Net capital expenditure and financial investment    (15,425)  (14,581)
 Purchase of businesses   29 (468)  –  
 Sale of businesses   28 50,676  –  
Net cash impact of acquisitions and disposals    50,208  – 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities    35,599  (13,379)
          
Financing         
Equity dividends paid   11  (14,129)  (13,689)
Dividends paid to minority interests   26  (341)  (537)
Purchase of own shares     –  (25)
Repayment of borrowings     (33,512)  – 
Proceeds of non‑current borrowings   30  166  174 
Net cash outflow from financing activities    (47,816)  (14,077)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts during the year    10,514  472 
Comprised of:         
Cash and cash equivalents   30  (64,475)  51,896 
Bank overdrafts   30  74,989  (51,424)
     10,514  472 
Reconciliation of net cash flow from operating 
activities to movement in net borrowings    
Net cash inflow from operating activities     22,731  27,928 
Add back: dividends received from joint ventures  17  816  1,202 
Less: net capital expenditure and financial investment    (15,425)  (14,581)
Less: dividends paid to minority interests  26  (341)  (537)
Free cash flow before dividends     7,781  14,012 
    
Net cash impact of acquisitions and disposals  28,29  50,208  – 
Purchase of own shares   26  –  (25)
Equity dividends paid   11  (14,129)  (13,689)
Exchange movements     (8,511)  (4,858)
Movement in net borrowings (underlying performance)    35,349  (4,560) Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
41
Consolidated statement of recognised  
income and expense
for the year ended 31 December 2008
   2008  2007 
   Minority Equity holders  Minority Equity holders
   interests  of the parent Total  interests of the parent Total
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Actuarial gains and losses  – (39,111) (39,111) – 21,698 21,698 
Tax on items recognised directly in equity – (48) (48) – (519) (519)
Exchange differences  2,055 16,017 18,072 512 (1,716) (1,204)
Profit for the year  1,718 54,845 56,563 1,679 13,785 15,464 
Total recognised income for the year  3,773 31,703 35,476 2,191 33,248 35,439 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
42
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
31 December 2008
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
42
1 General information
Yule Catto & Co plc is a company incorporated in the United 
Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the 
registered office is given on page 23. 
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling 
because that is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Group operates. Foreign operations 
are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Three interpretations issued by the International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for 
the current period. These are IFRIC 11 IFRS2 Group and 
Treasury Share Transactions; IFRIC 12 Service Concession 
Arrangements; and IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit of a Defined 
Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their 
Interaction. The adoption of these interpretations has not 
led to any changes in the Group’s accounting policies.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements,  
the following Standards and Interpretations which have not 
been applied in these financial statements were in issue but  
not yet effective: 
IFRS 1 (revised) First‑ time Adoption of IFRS
Amendments to IFRS 2 Vesting Conditions and Cancellations
IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations 
IFRS 8 Operating Segments
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non‑cash Assets to Owners
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers
IAS 1 (revised) Presentation of Financial Instruments
IAS 23 (revised) Borrowing Costs 
Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate 
Financial Statements
IAS 32 (amended)/IAS 1 (amended) Puttable Financial 
Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items
Amendments to IAS 39 Reclassification of Financial Assets: 
Effective Date and Transition
2 Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). The 
financial statements have also been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the 
Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS 
Regulation. The financial statements have been prepared on 
the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain 
properties and financial instruments. As discussed in the 
Report of the directors on page 25, the financial statements 
have been prepared on a going concern basis. The principal 
accounting policies adopted are as follows.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each 
year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power 
to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee 
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The results 
of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are 
included in the consolidated income statement from the 
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of 
disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are 
made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the 
accounting policies used into line with those used by the 
Group. The results of joint ventures are accounted for using 
equity accounting.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries 
are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. 
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests 
at the date of the original business combination (see below) 
and the minority’s share of changes in equity since the date 
of combination. Subsequently, any losses applicable to the 
minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated 
against the interests of the parent except to the extent that 
the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an 
additional investment to cover the losses.
All intra‑group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation.
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the 
cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of 
the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate 
or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill 
is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least 
annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit 
or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to 
each of the Group’s cash‑ generating units expected to benefit 
from the synergies of the combination. Cash‑generating units 
to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment 
annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that 
the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the 
cash‑generating unit is less than the carrying amount of 
the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then 
to the other assets of the unit pro‑rata on the basis of the 
carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss 
recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled 
entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the 
determination of the profit or loss on disposal. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
43
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition 
to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts 
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill 
written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has 
not been reinstated and is not included in determining any 
subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets
Software development and environmental licensing costs 
resulting in development of a long‑ term intangible asset are 
measured initially at cost and are amortised on a straight‑line 
basis over their estimated useful lives.
An internally‑generated intangible asset arising from the 
Group’s product development is recognised only if all of the 
following conditions in IAS 38 are met:
an asset is created that can be separately identified (such  •	
as software and new processes);
it is probable that the asset created will generate future •	
economic benefits; and
the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably. •	
No research or development costs met the criteria for required 
capitalisation under IAS 38 during the year.
Where no internally‑generated intangible asset can be 
recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an 
expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of 
depreciation and any provision for impairment. Except for 
freehold land and land grants in Malaysia, which are not 
depreciated, the cost or valuation of property, plant and 
equipment is depreciated on a straight‑ line basis over 
its expected useful life as follows:
Freehold buildings – 50 years 
Leasehold land and buildings –  the lesser of 50 years 
and the period of the lease
Plant and equipment – between 3 and 10 years
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets  
excluding goodwill 
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 
amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have 
suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, 
the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to 
determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the 
asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from 
other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of 
the cash‑generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to 
sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a 
pre‑tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset 
for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been 
adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash‑generating unit) 
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or cash‑generating unit) is reduced to its 
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a 
revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated 
as a revaluation decrease.
Operating leases
Operating lease payments are expensed on a straight‑ line 
basis to the income statement over the term of the relevant 
lease. Any benefits received as an incentive to enter into an 
operating lease are also spread on a straight‑ line basis over 
the lease term.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, 
direct labour costs and those overheads that have been 
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition. Cost is calculated using the weighted average 
method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling 
price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be 
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Provision is 
made for obsolete, slow‑moving or defective items where 
appropriate.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair 
value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method. Appropriate allowances 
for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit 
or loss where there is objective evidence that the asset is 
impaired. 
Amortised costs
Bank borrowings
Interest‑bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to 
the income statement using the effective interest method and 
are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the 
extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
44
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at initial recognition at fair value 
and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method.
Fair value through the income statement
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce 
exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate 
movements. The Group does not hold or issue derivative 
financial instruments for speculative purposes. 
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s 
policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide 
written principles on the use of financial derivatives, as set 
out in note 21.
Impairment of financial assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 
amounts of its financial assets to determine whether there is 
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment 
loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of 
the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the 
impairment loss (if any).
Finance costs
Finance costs of debt are recognised in the income statement 
over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the 
carrying amount. Finance costs that are directly attributable  
to the construction of tangible fixed assets are capitalised  
as part of the cost of those assets in accordance with IAS 23.
Foreign currencies 
In preparing the financial statements of the individual 
companies, transactions in currencies other than the 
entity’s functional currency are recorded at the rates of 
exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each 
balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the 
rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non‑monetary 
assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated 
in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at 
the date when the fair value was determined. Non‑monetary 
items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign 
currency are not retranslated.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange 
risks, the Group enters into forward contracts and options (see 
below for details of the Group’s accounting policies in respect 
of such derivative financial instruments).
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s 
overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing 
on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are 
translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless 
exchange rates fluctuate significantly. Exchange differences 
arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the 
Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are 
recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which 
the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition 
of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. The Group 
has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising 
on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs as 
sterling‑denominated assets and liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial 
instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and 
foreign exchange rate risk, including foreign exchange forward 
contracts, interest rate swaps and foreign currency options.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date 
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date. 
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a 
financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value 
is recognised as a financial liability. The resulting gain or 
loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the 
derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, 
in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss 
depends on the nature of the hedge relationship. The Group 
designates certain derivatives as either hedges of highly 
probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency 
risk of firm commitments (cash flow hedges), or hedges of 
net investments in foreign operations.
Hedge accounting 
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which 
include derivatives, embedded derivatives and non‑derivatives 
in respect of foreign currency risk, as either cash flow hedges, 
or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. Hedges of 
foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for 
as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents 
the relationship between the hedging instrument and the 
hedged item, along with its risk management objectives 
and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. 
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing 
basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument 
that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in 
offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives 
that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are 
deferred in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss, and is 
included in the ‘other gains and losses’ line of the income 
statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the 
periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, 
in the same line of the income statement as the recognised 
hedged item. However, when the forecast transaction that 
is hedged results in the recognition of a non‑financial asset 
or a non‑financial liability, the gains and losses previously 
deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in 
the initial measurement of the cost of the non‑financial asset 
or non‑financial liability. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
45
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes 
the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or 
is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in 
equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when 
the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or 
loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity 
is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted 
for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the 
hedge is recognised in equity in the foreign currency translation 
reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion  
is recognised immediately in profit or loss, and is included in 
the ‘other gains and losses’ line of the income statement.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently 
payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and 
is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which deductible temporary differences  
can be utilised. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and 
associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the 
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed  
at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be 
available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset 
is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income 
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt 
with in equity.
Retirement benefit costs
The costs of defined benefit contributions to the Group’s 
pension schemes and of augmenting existing pensions are 
charged to the income statement on a systematic basis over 
the expected period of benefits from employees’ service.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes 
are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Actuarial gains on the defined benefit schemes are recognised 
in full in each period in which they occur. They are recognised 
outside of profit or loss and are presented in the statement of 
recognised income and expense.
The UK defined benefit scheme is funded, with the assets 
of the scheme held separately from those of the Group, in 
separate trustee‑administered funds. 
For the German schemes, the assets are included within the 
assets of the respective companies, as permitted under local 
laws. The assets of the other overseas schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group.
Provisions
Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale 
of the relevant products, at the directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the Group’s liability.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the 
Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has 
been communicated to affected parties.
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for 
goods and services provided in the normal course of business, 
net of discounts, VAT and other sales‑related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and 
title has passed, where delivery is defined in accordance with 
Incoterms 2000.
Share‑ based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 
Share‑based Payments. In accordance with the transitional 
provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity 
instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as 
of 1 January 2006.
The Group issues equity‑settled share‑based payments to 
certain employees. Equity‑settled share‑based payments 
are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value 
determined at the grant date of the equity‑settled share‑based 
payments is expensed on a straight‑line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will 
eventually vest. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
46
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Definitions
Total sales
Total sales represent the total of revenue from Yule Catto & 
Co plc, its subsidiaries, and its share of the revenue of joint 
ventures.
Operating profit
Operating profit represents profit before financing costs  
and taxation.
EBITDA
EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before depreciation, 
amortisation and non‑recurring items.
Non‑recurring items
Non‑recurring items includes those items that are not directly 
or indirectly associated with the Group’s trading performance, 
which need to be separately disclosed in order to enable 
improved understanding of the accounts by users.
Non‑recurring items are defined as:
profit or loss impact arising from the sale or closure  •	
of an operation;
impairment of non‑current assets; and •	
other non‑operating or one‑off items. •	
Special items
The following are disclosed separately in note 3 as special 
items in order to provide a clearer indication of the Group’s 
underlying performance:
non‑recurring items; •	
mark to market adjustments in respect of cross currency  •	
and interest rate derivatives used for hedging purposes 
where IAS 39 hedge accounting is not applied; and
revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the  •	
related cross currency swaps to the year end rate.
Net borrowings
Net borrowings represents cash and cash equivalents together 
with short‑ and long‑ term borrowings, as adjusted for the effect 
of related derivative instruments irrespective of whether they 
qualify for hedge accounting. 
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, 
which are described above, management has made the 
following judgements that have the most significant effect on 
the amounts to be recognised in the financial statements (apart 
from those involving estimations, which are dealt with below).
Impairment of goodwill 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an 
estimation of the value in use of the cash‑generating units to 
which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation 
requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected 
to arise from the cash‑generating unit and a suitable discount 
rate in order to calculate present value.
Post retirement benefit obligations
Included in the actuaries’ calculation of the post retirement 
benefit obligations are a number of assumptions. These are 
shown in detail in note 24. 
Current tax liability
When calculating the current tax liability an appropriate 
estimate has been made regarding the outstanding items in 
respect of previous years with various tax authorities for which 
the outcome of discussions is uncertain.
Closure of manufacturing sites
Included in costs to close the manufacturing sites are 
estimates for redundancy, decontamination and dismantling 
costs. These estimates are based on experience gained in 
previous closures. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
47
3 Special items
Special items
The special items are made up as follows: 
       Special items Special items
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Operating loss       
Loss arising from the sale or closure of operations (see note 7)    (2,406) (12,461)
UK Pension Fund – Past service credit      – 10,797
       (2,406) (1,664)
Finance costs
Fair value adjustment (see note 8)      8,615 4,447
Profit for the year from continuing operations     6,209 2,783
Discontinued operations
Total sales 
Revenue of operations sold or closed during the year     52,900 66,167
Operating profit/(loss) of discontinued operations 
Operating profit of operations sold or closed during the year    4,113 3,318
Profit/(loss) arising from the sale or closure of operations (see note 7)    20,067 (15,776)
       24,180 (12,458)
Taxation 
Taxation on operating profit/(loss) of operations sold or closed during the year   (884) 229
Taxation on profit/(loss) arising from the sale or closure of operations    (728) –
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations     22,568 (12,229)
4 Segmental analysis 
Primary format
   Total sales Operating profit
   Underlying Special  Underlying Special
   performance items IFRS  performance items IFRS
2008  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Analysis by activity
Continuing activity
Polymer Chemicals  489,350 – 489,350 40,829 – 40,829
Share of Polymer joint ventures  17,780 – 17,780 1,615 – 1,615
   507,130 – 507,130 42,444 – 42,444
Pharma Chemicals  63,891 – 63,891 5,265 (1,756) 3,509
Impact Chemicals  31,132 – 31,132 1,634 (650) 984
Total sales  602,153 – 602,153
Divisional operating profit     49,343 (2,406) 46,937
Unallocated corporate expenses     (6,151) – (6,151)
Operating profit     43,192 (2,406) 40,786 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
48
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
4 Segmental analysis continued
   Total sales Operating profit
   Underlying Special  Underlying Special
   performance items IFRS  performance items IFRS
2007  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Analysis by activity
Continuing activity
Polymer Chemicals  410,175 – 410,175 40,028 – 40,028
Share of Polymer joint ventures  15,046 – 15,046 1,129 – 1,129
   425,221 – 425,221 41,157 – 41,157
Pharma Chemicals  62,235 – 62,235 7 ,351 (12,461) (5,110)
Impact Chemicals  25,469 – 25,469 (221) – (221)
Total sales  512,925 – 512,925
Divisional operating profit     48,287 (12,461) 35,826
Unallocated corporate expenses     (5,591) 10,797 5,206
Operating profit     42,696 (1,664) 41,032
Special items
       Unallocated 
     Pharma Impact corporate
     Chemicals Chemicals expenses Total
2008    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Loss arising from the sale or closure of operations   (1,756) (650) – (2,406)
       Unallocated 
     Pharma Impact corporate
     Chemicals Chemicals expenses Total
2007    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Loss arising from the sale or closure of operations   (12,461) – – (12,461)
UK Pension Fund – Past service credit    – – 10,797 10,797
    (12,461) – 10,797 (1,664)
        Depreciation
     Total Total Capital and
     assets liabilities expenditure amortisation
2008    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Analysis by activity   
Continuing activity
Polymer Chemicals    215,098 (152,764) (14,815) (9,372)
Pharma Chemicals    75,324 (31,004) (4,823) (9,658)
Impact Chemicals    20,387 (21,558) (1,327) (3,213)
     310,809 (205,326) (20,965) (22,243)
Holding companies    39,604 (75,848) (147) 4,679
    350,413 (281,174) (21,112) (17,564)
Share of Polymer joint ventures    11,236 (6,362)
Goodwill (see note 14)    154,027
Net borrowings     (161,448)
     515,676 (448,984)
Net assets     66,692 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
49
4 Segmental analysis continued
        Depreciation
     Total Total Capital and
     assets liabilities expenditure amortisation
2007    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Analysis by activity
Continuing activity
Polymer Chemicals    175,479 (110,894) (11,758) (7 ,111)
Pharma Chemicals    61,525 (25,242) (3,289) (5,205)
Impact Chemicals    54,121 (44,605) (3,511) (3,079)
     291,125 (180,741) (18,558) (15,395)
Holding companies    664 (90,652) (129) (618)
    291,789 (271,393) (18,687) (16,013)
Share of Polymer joint ventures    7 ,338 (4,233)
Goodwill (see note 14)    172,443
Net borrowings     (150,341)
Net assets    471,570 (425,967)
     45,603
Secondary format
    Total sales Segment net assets Capital expenditure
   2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Analysis by region of operation
United Kingdom  182,043 157,693 (102,209) (61,329) 2,646 4,617
Other Europe  209,007 186,213 104,044 34,668 5,562 7,029
Asia  178,327 134,596 62,775 40,955 10,750 6,489
Rest of World  32,776 34,423 9,503 9,207 2,154 552
  602,153 512,925 74,113 23,501 21,112 18,687
Goodwill    154,027 172,443  
Net borrowings    (161,448) (150,341)
Net assets    66,692 45,603
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Analysis of total sales by destination 
United Kingdom      84,132 83,001
Other Europe      217,680 200,312
Asia      181,451 138,388
Africa and Middle East      68,898 53,200
Rest of World      49,992 38,024
      602,153 512,925
Inter‑segmental sales
In addition to the amounts included above, inter‑ segmental sales of £2,743,000 (2007 £2,837 ,000) were made as set out below. 
These sales were eliminated on consolidation. 
     Polymer Pharma Impact
     Chemicals  Chemicals  Chemicals Total
2008    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Polymer Chemicals    – – – –
Pharma Chemicals    – – 551 551
Impact Chemicals    – 2,192 – 2,192
Total    – 2,192 551 2,743
     Polymer Pharma Impact
     Chemicals  Chemicals  Chemicals Total
2007    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Polymer Chemicals    – – – –
Pharma Chemicals    – – 673 673
Impact Chemicals    – 2,164 – 2,164
Total    – 2,164 673 2,837 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
50
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
5 Operating profit
   Company and Joint  Company and Joint
   subsidiaries  ventures Total subsidiaries ventures Total
   2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total sales  584,373 17,780 602,153 497 ,879 15,046 512,925
Cost of sales  (471,626) (14,438) (486,064) (382,589) (12,381) (394,970)
Gross profit  112,747 3,342 116,089 115,290 2,665 11 7 ,955
Distribution costs  (45,075) (1,013) (46,088) (43,299) (784) (44,083)
Administrative expenses  (26,095) (714) (26,809) (19,627) (752) (20,379)
Special items  (2,406) – (2,406) (12,461) – (12,461)
Operating profit  39,171 1,615 40,786 39,903 1, 129 41,032
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting) the following: 
Depreciation      15,336 13,299
Amortisation      102 247
Hire of plant and equipment      1,570 1,649
Other lease rentals      2,790 2,643
Research and development expenditure      10,172 7,302
Loss arising from the sale or closure of operations     2,406 12,461
UK Pension Fund – Past service credit      – (10,797)
6 Auditors’ remuneration
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for:
 – audit of the Company’s annual accounts     7 7
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for:
 – audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation    478 478
Total audit fees      485 485
Tax services      55 56
Other services      34 29
Total non‑audit fees      89 85
The other services provided by the Group auditors relate to assistance given in grant applications and sundry projects.
7 Profit or (loss) arising from the sale or closure of operations
      2008  2007
     Cash Fixed asset  
     costs write back Total Total
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit or (loss) arising from the sale or closure of operations
Continuing operations
Closure of Uquifa’s Italian manufacturing site   (1,756) – (1,756) (12,461)
Restructuring of William Blythe Limited    (650) – (650) –
     (2,406) – (2,406) (12,461)
Discontinued operations
Closure of Holliday Pigments UK manufacturing site   450 – 450 (7,616)
Closure of James Robinson’s German manufacturing site  2,354 2,169 4,523 (9,919)
Sale of Huddersfield site    – – – 1,759 
Sale of James Robinson Limited and James Robinson GmbH  5,637 – 5,637 –
Sale of James Robinson India Pvt Ltd    (362) – (362) –
Sale of Holliday Pigments SA and Holliday France SA   8,265 – 8,265 –
Sale of Holliday Chemical España SA    409 – 409 –
Sale of PFW Aroma Chemicals BV    (774) – (774) –
Sale of Hull site    1,351 – 1,351 –
Sale of Dieburg site    568 – 568 –
     17,898 2,169 20,067 (15,776)
    15,492 2,169 17,661 (28,237)
In each case, assets retained that cannot be sold are written off. To the extent that workers are not redeployed, termination terms 
are agreed. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
51
8 Finance costs
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts     11,219 11,316
Interest payable on other loans      4,764 4,730
       15,983 16,046
Less: interest receivable      (5,481) (4,549)
Net interest payable      10,502 11,497
Fair value adjustment      (8,615) (4,447)
Total finance costs      1,887 7,050
The fair value adjustment is the mark to market adjustment in respect of cross currency and interest rate derivatives used for 
hedging purposes where IAS 39 hedge accounting is not applied.
9 Current taxation
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Current tax
UK corporation tax      (103) (1,763)
Overseas taxation      4,278 8,399
       4,175 6,636
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences     729 (347)
Total tax on profit before taxation      4,904 6,289
Discontinued operations
Tax on special items – UK      – 178
Tax on special items – overseas      1,612 (407)
Tax charge for the year on discontinued operations     1,612 (229)
UK corporation tax is calculated at 28.5% (2007 30%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other 
jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Tax expense
Continuing operations      4,904 6,289
Discontinued operations      1,612 (229)
Total tax expense      6,516 6,060
Reconciliation of tax expense to profit before taxation
The differences between the total tax expense shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of 
UK corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows.
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation – continuing operations     38,899 33,982
Profit before taxation – discontinued operations     24,180 (12,458)
Profit before taxation      63,079 21,524
Tax on profit before taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% (2007 30%)  17,978 6,457
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes     1,409 503
Tax incentives and items not subject to tax     (12,061) (3,089)
Losses not recognised less utilisation of losses not previously recognised   (639) 1,691
(Lower)/higher tax rates on overseas earnings     (171) 837
Tax effect on share of results of joint ventures     – (339)
Tax charge for year      6,516 6,060 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
52
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
9 Current taxation continued
Tax charges to equity
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Current tax charge on items recognised directly in equity    – –
Deferred tax charge on items recognised directly in equity    (48) (519)
      (48) (519)
Current tax liabilities
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Current tax liabilities      (44,528) (48,948)
10 Deferred taxation
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred  
tax assets to the extent that it is probable that these assets will be recovered. No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted 
earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures. As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected  
to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to offset) are shown below.
Deferred tax liabilities
     Accelerated tax
      depreciation Other Total
2008     £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January     (5,209) (1,236) (6,445)
Charge to income statement     (36) (436) (472)
Disposal of subsidiaries     2,142 (42) 2,100 
Exchange adjustment     (1,599) (483) (2,082)
At 31 December     (4,702) (2,197) (6,899)
Deferred tax assets
      Pensions Other Total
2008     £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January     762 – 762 
Charged to income statement     (257) – (257)
Charged through retained earnings     (48) – (48)
At 31 December     457 – 457
All of the deferred tax assets were available for offset against deferred tax liabilities and hence the net deferred tax provision  
at 31 December 2008 is as follows:
Net deferred tax liability
        Total
        £’000
At 31 December 2008       (6,442)
At 31 December 2007       (5,683)
Deferred tax asset not recognised
Deferred tax has not been recognised where it has been assumed that the deferred tax asset is not recoverable. The amounts  
of deferred tax not recognised at the balance sheet dates are as follows:
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
UK pension liability      16,920 9,419
Tax losses      957 3,463
Accelerated capital allowances      10,139 11, 183
Other timing differences      2,434 2,731
      30,450 26,796
In March 2007 the UK Government announced that it would introduce legislation that would reduce the corporation tax rate 
to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008. This legislation was substantively enacted on 26 June 2007. As a consequence the 
deferred tax balances are now stated at 28% of the temporary differences. In addition the blended tax rate for the year ended 
31 December 2008 has reduced to 28.5%. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
53
10 Deferred taxation continued
Deferred tax on unremitted overseas earnings
The estimated deferred tax relating to the retained profits held within subsidiary Group companies and not yet remitted, excluding 
any mitigation through use of loss relief, double taxation credits and other reliefs, is as follows:
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Deferred tax not recognised      87,548 66,965
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures was £88.2 million (2007 £67.3 million). Calculation of the potential deferred tax liability has not been 
undertaken as the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that 
the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. If the temporary differences were to reverse in the future, it is probable 
that the majority of the potential tax liability would be covered by tax credits in respect of tax paid locally.
11 Dividends
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Ordinary
 – prior year final of 5.7 pence per share (2006 5.5 pence)    8,303 8,011
 – interim of 4.0 pence per share (2007 3.9 pence)     5,826 5,678
      14,129 13,689
 – proposed final of nil pence per share (2007 5.7 pence)    – 8,303
12 Earnings per share
    2008 2007
   Underlying Special  Underlying Special
   performance items IFRS  performance items IFRS
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
From continuing operations
Earnings (Profit attributable to  
equity holders of the parent)  26,068 6,209 32,277 23,231 2,783 26,014
Earnings per share  17.9p 4.3p 22.2p 16.0p 1.9p 17 .9p
Diluted earnings per share  17.8p 4.2p 22.0p 15.9p 1.9p 17 .8p
From continuing and discontinued operations
Earnings (Profit attributable to  
equity holders of the parent)  26,068 28,777 54,845 23,231 (9,446) 13,785
Earnings per share  17.9p 19.8p 37.7p 16.0p (6.5)p 9.5p
Diluted earnings per share  17.8p 19.6p 37.4p 15.9p (6.5)p 9.4p
Earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 145,645,000 
(2007 145,639,000).
Diluted earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average number of shares in issue in the year as adjusted for dilutive 
share options of 146,653,000 (2007 146,355,000).
13 Employees
       2008 2007
       Number Number
The average monthly number of employees during the year by activity was:
Polymer Chemicals      1,497 1,442
Pharma Chemicals      458 473
Impact Chemicals      438 604
Holding companies      41 45
       2,434 2,564
Share of joint ventures      51 108
      2,485 2,672 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
54
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
13 Employees continued
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
The aggregate remuneration of all Group employees comprised:
Wages and salaries      57,990 57,646
Social security costs      9,948 9,642
Post retirement benefit obligations      5,225 3,472
      73,163 70,760
14 Goodwill
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January      309,371 309,371
Recognised on acquisition of a subsidiary     412 –
Derecognised on disposal of a subsidiary     (45,844) –
At 31 December      263,939 309,371
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January      136,928 136,928
Derecognised on disposal of a subsidiary     (27,016) –
At 31 December      109,912 136,928
Net book value
At 31 December      154,027 172,443
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Cash‑ Generating Units (‘CGUs’) comprise primarily acquired entities monitored at business unit level. The exception is where 
management monitors a CGU across similar businesses as a whole or components of businesses largely independent of other  
parts of those businesses.
The allocation of the carrying value of goodwill is represented below.
    31 December 31 December   
    2006 2007 31 December 2008
    Net Net Recognised Derecognised Net
    book book on acquisition on disposal of book
    value value of a subsidiary a subsidiary value
Polymer Chemicals
Synthomer Ltd and Harlow Chemical Company Ltd  70,521 70,521 – – 70,521
Synthomer GmbH   13,120 13,120 – – 13,120
Synthomer Hasselt BV   3,089 3,089 – – 3,089
Synthomer Vietnam Co Ltd   – – 412 – 412
    86,730 86,730 412 – 87,142
Pharma Chemicals
Uquifa Spain SA   61,713 61,713 – – 61,713
Uquifa Mexico SACV   5,172 5,172 – – 5,172
    66,885 66,885 – – 66,885
Impact Chemicals
Holliday Chemical España SA   97 97 – (97) –
Holliday France SA   136 136 – (136) –
Holliday Pigments Ltd and SA   14,977 14,977 – (14,977) –
James Robinson GmbH   3,382 3,382 – (3,382) –
Other   236 236 – (236) –
    18,828 18,828 – (18,828) –
Total   172,443 172,443 412 (18,828) 154,027 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
55
14 Goodwill continued
In compiling the above table, the recoverable amounts for the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations, based upon 
discounted cash flows. The key assumptions for the discounted cash flow calculations are those regarding the discount rate, 
profit and growth rate. Management estimates pre‑tax discount rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to each CGU. A discount rate of 9.0% has been used. The profit used in the cash flows for the 
first five years is derived from management forecasts, for years 6 to 10 a growth rate is applied. The profit for year 10 is then 
assumed to apply without further growth into perpetuity. Growth rates of between 4.0% and 5.0% have been used, representing 
management’s best estimate of each CGUs circumstances, and these do not exceed average long‑ term growth rates for the 
markets concerned.
15 Other intangible assets
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
No development expenditure met the requirements to be recognised as an internally generated intangible asset, therefore all 
development costs in the period were expensed.
       Environmental 
      Software licences Total
      £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2008     6,104 215 6,319
Exchange adjustments     1,024 – 1,024
Additions     579 – 579
Disposals     (1,544) – (1,544)
At 31 December 2008     6,163 215 6,378
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2008     5,513 215 5,728
Exchange adjustments     983 – 983
Amortisation charge for the year     102 – 102
Disposals     (1,304) – (1,304)
At 31 December 2008     5,294 215 5,509
Net book value
At 31 December 2008     869 – 869
       Environmental 
      Software licences Total
      £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2007     6,035 215 6,250
Exchange adjustments     (280) – (280)
Additions     349 – 349
At 31 December 2007     6,104 215 6,319
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2007     5,596 215 5,811
Exchange adjustments     (330) – (330)
Amortisation charge for the year     247 – 247
At 31 December 2007     5,513 215 5,728
Net book value
At 31 December 2007     591 – 591 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
56
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
16 Property, plant and equipment
     Land and buildings
     Leaseholds Plant and
    Freeholds Long Short equipment Total
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2008   53,305 4,598 1,534 313,257 372,694
Exchange adjustments   17,260 18 1,370 52,797 71,445
Additions   331 102 995 19,105 20,533
Write‑ back of assets previously impaired   1,939 – – 396 2,335
Disposals   (6,609) (143) – (45,356) (52,108)
Reclassified as held for sale   (4,249) – – (8,158) (12,407)
At 31 December 2008   61,977 4,575 3,899 332,041 402,492
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2008   22,665 2,100 104 239,357 264,226
Exchange adjustments   3,081 2 140 43,395 46,618
Depreciation charge for the year   1,198 125 182 15,957 17,462
On assets previously impaired   – – – 166 166
Disposals   (2,306) (10) – (33,665) (35,981)
On assets reclassified as held for sale   (914) – – (7 ,191) (8,105)
At 31 December 2008   23,724 2,217 426 258,019 284,386
Net book value
At 31 December 2008   38,253 2,358 3,473 74,022 118,106
     Land and buildings
     Leaseholds Plant and 
    Freeholds Long Short equipment Total
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2007   60,185 4,818 809 343,428 409,240
Exchange adjustments   2,944 16 166 16,658 19,784
Additions   940 20 595 16,783 18,338
Assets written off on closure of business   (10,660) – – (61,947) (72,607)
Disposals   (104) (256) (36) (1,665) (2,061)
At 31 December 2007   53,305 4,598 1,534 313,257 372,694
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2007   27 ,198 1,987 40 269,848 299,073
Exchange adjustments   1,306 2 18 12,144 13,470
Depreciation charge for the year   1,265 125 80 14,296 15,766
Assets written off on closure of business   (7 ,093) – – (55,335) (62,428)
Disposals   (11) (14) (34) (1,596) (1,655)
At 31 December 2007   22,665 2,100 104 239,357 264,226
Net book value
At 31 December 2007   30,640 2,498 1,430 73,900 108,468
Freehold land amounting to £9,357 ,000 (2007 £9,357 ,000) has not been depreciated.
Of the depreciation charge for the year £2,126,000 (2007 £2,467 ,000) relates to discontinued operations. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
57
17 Investment in joint ventures
     2008 2008 2007 2007
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January
Share of non‑current assets     975  1,012
Share of current assets     6,439  6,516
Share of current liabilities     (4,237)  (4,228)
      3,177  3,300
Share of income    17,780  15,046
Share of expenses    (16,113)  (13,806)
     1,667  1,240
Tax    (52)  (111)
Dividends paid during the year    (816)   (1,202)
Exchange adjustments    972  (50)
Retained profit/(loss)    1,771  (123)
At 31 December
Share of non‑current assets     1,091  975
Share of current assets     10,219  6,439
Share of current liabilities     (6,362)  (4,237)
      4,948  3,1 77
There are no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor does the Group have any significant contingent 
liabilities, in relation to its interest in the joint ventures.
A list of principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures is given on page 81.
18 Inventories
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables      27,584 22,457
Work in progress      1,677 4,513
Finished goods      34,246 38,031
      63,507 65,001
The value of stock written off during the year was £1,780,000 (2007 £1,228,000).
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of inventories and their replacement cost.
19 Trade and other receivables
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Trade receivables      108,140 102,169
Amounts owed by joint ventures      390 44
Other receivables      11,522 9,557
Prepayments and accrued income      6,084 3,308
      126,136 115,078 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Credit risk
Amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management  
based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. The Group has no significant concentration  
of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of customers. 
Before accepting a new customer, the Group uses appropriate procedures to assess the potential customer’s credit quality 
in order to set a credit limit. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
58
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
19 Trade and other receivables continued
Ageing and other receivables
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Not yet due      88,290 86,262
0 – 60 days overdue      18,793 15,353
61 – 120 days overdue      2,356 1,287
Over 120 days due      1,423 1,042
       110,862 103,944
Less: provision for impairment      (2,722) (1,775)
       108,140 102,169
Provision for impairment of receivables
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
At 1 January      1,775 1,949
Exchange adjustments      320 80
Charge/(credit) for the year      906 (12)
Amounts written off as uncollectible      (263) (233)
Amounts recovered previously written off     (16) (9)
At 31 December      2,722 1,775
The provision is predominantly against trade receivables more than 61 days overdue.
20 Cash and borrowings
Cash pooling
The Group runs notional pooling facilities in a number of countries, principally the UK. The structure facilitates interest and balance 
compensation of cash and bank overdrafts. This notional pooling does not meet the strict set‑off rules under IFRS, and as a result 
the cash and bank overdraft balances must be reported ‘gross’ on the balance sheet.
The table below shows the impact of netting the cash and overdraft balances in each of the pooled facilities. It is the opinion 
of the directors that this treatment reflects the commercial reality of the Group’s position with its banks.
 2008 2007
      Bank loans  Bank loans
      and  and
     Cash overdrafts Cash overdrafts
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
As disclosed under IFRS    26,576 (20,844) 108,352 (104,623)
Notional pooling adjustment    (6,986) 6,986 (82,646) 82,646
Underlying position    19,590 (13,858) 25,706 (21,977)
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Current borrowings
Bank loans
Bank loans and overdrafts      20,844 104,623
Other loans
$136,000,000 7.66% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010*   32,168 24,013
£15,000,000 6.99% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010*   5,000 5,000
       58,012 133,636
Less: capitalised costs      (40) (51)
      57,972 133,585  Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
59
20 Cash and borrowings continued
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Non‑current borrowings
Bank loans
Unsecured £60 million revolving credit facility cancelled 24 December 2008   n/a –
Unsecured £30 million revolving credit facility expiring 2011    – n/a
Other loans
$136,000,000 7.66% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010*   32,168 48,025
£15,000,000 6.99% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010*   5,000 10,000
$43,000,000 5.55% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2012   29,698 21,529
$70,000,000 5.78% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2014   48,346 35,048
$22,000,000 5.98% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2016   15,195 11,015
       130,407 125,617
Less: capitalised costs      (355) (509)
      130,052 125,108 
* These notes are repayable in two equal tranches on 8 September 2009 and 2010.
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest based on LIBOR or foreign equivalents or government 
bond rates appropriate to the country in which the borrowing is incurred. 
At 31 December 2008, the Group had available £30 million (2006 £60 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The Directors calculate the carrying value of the Group’s borrowings as follows:
Analysis of borrowings at carrying value by currency
    Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
31 December 2008
 Bank loans and overdrafts   7,908 4,632 8,255 49 20,844
 Loan notes   10,000 157,575 – – 167,575
 Capitalised costs   (395) – – – (395)
    17,513 162,207 8,255 49 188,024
Cash and cash equivalents       (26,576)
Net borrowings       161,448
Deduct: special item       (25,966)
Net borrowings (underlying performance)      135,482
31 December 2007
 Bank loans and overdrafts   44,780 2,638 55,517 1,688 104,623
 Loan notes   15,000 139,630 – – 154,630
 Capitalised costs   (560) – – – (560)
    59,220 142,268 55,517 1,688 258,693
Cash and cash equivalents       (108,352)
Net borrowings       150,341
Add back: special item       20,490
Net borrowings (underlying performance)      170,831
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short‑ term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months  
or less.
The special item represents the revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the related cross currency swaps to the year 
end rate, together with the transitional adjustment required to reflect movements in fair value caused by variations in interest rates, 
and subsequent amortisation thereof, to the extent that these constituted effective hedges prior to the adoption of IFRS. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
60
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
21 Financial instruments
The Group’s treasury function operates procedures designed to reduce or eliminate financial risk and ensure that funds are available 
for current and future needs. The policies are approved by the Board and the use of financial instruments is strictly controlled. 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the 
return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, 
which includes the cash and borrowings disclosed in note 20, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising 
issued capital, reserves and retained earnings, as disclosed in note 26.
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise borrowings, some cash and liquid resources and various items, such as 
trade debtors and trade creditors, that arise directly from its operations. The Group also uses interest rate swaps, currency swaps 
and forward foreign currency contracts to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its 
sources of finance.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be 
undertaken.
Set out below is a comparison by category of book values and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities.
 Carrying values Fair values
 at 31 December  at 31 December
     2008 2007 2008 2007
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fair value of financial assets
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments   120,052 111,770 120,052 111,770
Cash and cash equivalents    26,576 108,352 26,576 108,352
Derivatives at fair value    33,887 1,813 33,887 1,813
     180,515 221,935 180,515 221,935
Fair value of financial liabilities
Loan notes    167,180 154,070 124,225 1 74,741
Bank loans and overdrafts    20,844 104,623 20,844 104,623
Derivatives at fair value    – 26,000 – 26,000
Trade and other payables    152,788 148,760 152,788 148,760
    340,812 433,453 297,857 454,124
Fair values have been obtained from the relevant institutions where appropriate. Where market values are not available, fair values  
of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flow at prevailing interest rates 
and by applying year end exchange rates. The carrying amount of short‑ term borrowings approximates to book value.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are market risk and liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees  
policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below, together with related disclosure required by IFRS.
Market risk
The Group’s main exposure to market risk is in the form of interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. The policies adopted 
to address these risks are as follows:
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, loan notes and bank borrowings. The Group borrows at  
both fixed and floating rates of interest and uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest profile in order to manage the 
Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Foreign currency risk
The Group uses currency borrowings, forward contracts and currency swaps to hedge overseas net assets, which are 
predominantly denominated in euros. Profit translation exposures are not hedged.
The Group hedges currency transaction exposures at the point of confirmed order, using forward foreign exchange contracts. The 
Group’s policy is, where practicable, to hedge all exposures on monetary assets and liabilities. Consequently, there are no material 
currency exposures to disclose (2007 none).
Impact on income statement
Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts amounting to £8,614,461 have been credited to the income statement in the year 
(2007 credit of £4,446,883). These changes are shown separately as a special item in the consolidated income statement. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
61
21 Financial instruments continued
Hedge accounting
The Group has a number of cross currency and interest rate swaps that are used to reduce the exposure to interest rate and 
currency risk.
These swaps are fully effective at eliminating the risks they address.
The Group has reviewed the requirements necessary to permit the application of hedge accounting under IAS 39. It has  
concluded that the costs involved in meeting these requirements cannot be justified and therefore IAS 39 hedge accounting will  
not be applied.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to which hedge accounting is not applied are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise.
Given the recent volatility in currency rates the Group has taken out forward foreign exchange contracts to fix the euro value of  
a percentage of the anticipated US dollar sales. These contracts have been accounted for as cash flow hedges as permitted by IAS 39. 
Interest rate risk profile
Financial liabilities
After taking into account the various interest rate and currency swaps entered into by the Group, the currency and interest rate 
exposure of the Group as at 31 December 2008 was:
   Floating rate Fixed rate Total Floating rate Fixed rate Total
   borrowings borrowings borrowings borrowings borrowings borrowings
   2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling  24,122 125,000 149,122 89,340 130,000 219,340
Euro  8,255 – 8,255 55,517 – 55,517
US dollar  4,632 – 4,632 2,638 – 2,638
Other  49 – 49 1,688 – 1,688
  37,058 125,000 162,058 149,183 130,000 279,183
Cash and cash equivalents    (26,576)   (108,352)
Net borrowings (underlying performance)   135,482   170,831
The effective interest rate for the year was 6.9% (2007 6.8%).
Sensitivity analysis 
The following table illustrates the effect on the income statement and items that are recognised directly in equity that would result 
from reasonably possible movements in UK and US interest rates and in euro and US dollar to sterling exchange rates, before the 
effect of tax.
 2008 2007
   Income statement  Equity Income statement  Equity
   Underlying IFRS IFRS Underlying IFRS IFRS
   -/+ £m -/+ £m -/+ £m ‑ /+ £m ‑ /+ £m ‑ /+ £m
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
UK interest rate +/‑ 1.0%  0.2 3.8 – 0.8 5.4 –
Euro interest rate +/‑ 1.0%  0.1 – – 0.6 0.6 –
US interest rate +/‑ 1.0%  – 5.9 – – 6.4 –
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
Euro exchange rate ‑/+ 10%  – 1.1 2.8 – 0.9 4.1
US dollar exchange rate ‑/+ 10%  0.5 4.5 – 0.3 1.3 –
The interest rate sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and 
non‑derivative instruments at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount  
of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
The foreign currency sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their 
translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates. The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as 
loans to foreign operations within the Group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the functional currency  
of the lender or borrower. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
62
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
21 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The objective of the Group is to meet financial commitments as and when they fall due. The Board closely monitors liquidity  
through monthly management accounts.
At the year end, Yule Catto & Co plc had the following principal facilities:
A committed syndicated bank revolving credit facility of £30 million which expires in December 2011. This credit facility was 
negotiated in December 2008.
Unsecured loan notes totalling approximately £141 million raised from the US private placement market in 1999 and 2004.
With maturity between 2009 and 2016, these loan notes provide the Group’s long‑ term requirements. Please see note 20 for  
further details.
In January 2009 Yule Catto additionally arranged a further Malaysian ringgits 100 million (£19 million) six‑ year amortising loan through 
its Malaysian subsidiary Synthomer Sdn Bhd, and received £8.25 million from the sale of Oxford Chemicals Limited.
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s non‑derivative financial liabilities:
 2008 2007
 Amount due Amount due
 within between between   within between between
 one 1 and 2 and after  one 1 and 2 and after 
 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non‑interest ‑bearing
Trade and other  
payables 152,621 167 – – 152,788 148,300 460 – – 148,760 
Variable interest  
rate instruments
Bank loans and  
overdrafts 20,844 – – – 20,844 104,623 – – – 104,623
Fixed interest rate  
instruments
Loan notes 33,472 33,472 23,672 50,598 141,214 33,461 33,429 33,461 74,209 174,560
  206,937 33,639 23,672 50,598 314,846 286,384 33,889 33,461 74,209 427 ,943
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s non‑derivative financial assets:
 2008 2007
 Amount due Amount due
 within between between   within between between
 one 1 and 2 and after  one 1 and 2 and after 
 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non‑interest ‑bearing
Trade and other 
receivables excluding  
prepayments 120,052 – – – 120,052 111,770 – – – 111,770
Variable interest  
rate instruments
Cash and 
cash equivalents 26,576 – – – 26,576 108,352 – – – 108,352
  146,628 – – – 146,628 220,122 – – – 220,122 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
63
21 Financial instruments continued 
 2008 2007
 Amount due Amount due
 within between between   within between between
 one 1 and 2 and after  one 1 and 2 and after 
 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Interest rate swaps 1,101 1,506 – – 2,607 (148) 171 119 – 142
Cross currency  
swaps (2,964) (4,251) (4,275) (1,478) (12,968) 1,904 1,485 3,305 1,368 8,062
Foreign exchange  
forward contracts 232 – – – 232 1,152 – – – 1,152
  (1,631) (2,745) (4,275) (1,478) (10,129) 2,908 1,656 3,424 1,368 9,356
In accordance with IFRS 7 , the above table shows undiscounted cash flows. In contrast IAS 39 requires these items to be carried 
in the balance sheet at fair value, which is based on discounted cash flows.
22 Assets held for sale
Included within assets held for sale are assets belonging to Oxford Chemicals Limited totalling £5,114,000 being property, plant 
and equipment of £2,039,000, inventories of £1,637,000 and trade and other receivables of £1,438,000. The remaining £2,263,000 
related to land belonging to James Robinson GmbH. Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale include 
trade and other receivables belonging to Oxford Chemicals Limited of £1,400,000. Liabilities directly associated with assets 
classified as held for sale in James Robinson GmbH are nil.
The sale of the Oxford Chemicals Limited business was completed on 30 January 2009. A contract to sell the land owned by 
James Robinson GmbH was exchanged on 30 January 2009.
23 Trade and other payables
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Amount due within one year
Trade creditors      100,790 89,964
Other creditors      27,710 26,845
Accruals and deferred income      24,121 31,491
       152,621 148,300
Amount due in greater than one year
Other creditors      167 460
      152,788 148,760
Accruals and deferred income includes £6,097 ,000 (2006 £14,171,000) in respect of restructuring costs.
Average trade creditor days in 2008 was 66 (2007 67). This figure represents trade creditor days for all trading operations within  
the Group, calculated as a weighted average based on cost of sales.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
24 Post retirement benefit obligations
Charge to income statement in respect of the Group’s pension schemes
   2008   2007   2006   2005   2004
  UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Defined benefit 977 427 1,404 1,598 763 2,361 2,200 763 2,963 4,000 226 4,226 4,700 217 4,917
Defined contribution 388 771 1,159 159 952 1,111 299 712 1,011 347 710 1,057 338 636 974
  1,365 1,198 2,563 1,757 1,715 3,472 2,499 1,475 3,974 4,347 936 5,283 5,038 853 5,891
Defined benefit  
– special item –  –  –  (10,797) –  (10,797) –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
  1,365 1,198 2,563 (9,040) 1,715 (7 ,325) 2,499 1,475 3,974 4,347 936 5,283 5,038 853 5,891 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
64
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
24 Post retirement benefit obligations continued
The fair value of the assets in the schemes, and the present value of the liabilities in the schemes at each balance sheet date were:
   2008   2007   2006   2005   2004
  UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of  
funded defined  
benefit obligations (205,721) (13,449) (219,170) (228,966) (15,530) (244,496) (260,425) (16,591) (277 ,016) (225,000) (16,233) (241,233) (203,800) (14,297) (218,097)
Fair value of  
scheme assets 138,293 5,31 8 1 43,611 195,325 7 ,935 203,260 191, 137 7 ,995 199, 132 167 ,400 4, 196 1 71,596 138,500 3,795 142,295
Post retirement  
benefit obligations (67,428) (8,131) (75,559) (33,641) (7 ,595) (41,236) (69,288) (8,596) (77 ,884) (57 ,600) (12,037) (69,637) (65,300) (10,502) (75,802)
UK pension schemes
The Group participates in a funded scheme with both a defined benefit and defined contribution section (the Yule Catto Group 
Retirement Benefit Scheme). The scheme’s defined benefit section was closed to new members with effect from 31 December 1998 
and with effect from 1 January 1999 a defined contribution section was introduced and is open to all eligible Group employees.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the companies concerned. 
Contributions to the scheme are charged to the income statement to spread the cost of pensions over employees’ working  
lives within the Group.
Defined benefit scheme
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 6 April 2006 and updated to 31 December 2008 by a qualified actuary. The major 
assumptions used by the actuary were:
    2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Rate of increase in salaries   2.60% 3.10% 3.30% 3.50% 3.60%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment   2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
Discount rate   6.50% 5.90% 5.20% 4.90% 5.40%
Rates of return on plan assets   7.31% 7.33% 6.95% 7.21% 7.26%
Inflation assumption   2.60% 3.10% 2.80% 2.50% 2.60%
Amount charged/(credited) to operating profit
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Current service cost      1,795 2,252
Past service credit      – (10,797)
Expected return on plan assets      (14,047) (13,885)
Interest cost relating to pension scheme liabilities     13,229 13,231
      977 (9,199)
The past service credit related to reductions in the benefits provided by the scheme which were actioned during the prior year.  
This item is disclosed as a special item.
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense 
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets    (64,742) (5,891)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities    25,273 25,872
      (39,469) 19,981 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
65
24 Post retirement benefit obligations continued
History of experience gains and losses
    2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Difference between the expected and actual  
return on scheme assets:
Amount (£’000)   (64,742) (5,891) 13,800 17 ,200 8,300
Percentage of scheme assets   (46.82)% (3.02)% 7.22% 10.27 % 5.99%
Experience gains and losses arising on  
the scheme liabilities
Amount (£’000)   25,273 25,872 (30,988) (12,100) (5,500)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities  12.29% 11.30% (11.90)% (5.38)% (2.70)%
Total actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the  
statement of recognised income and expense
Amount (£’000)   (39,469) 19,981 (17 ,188) 5,100 2,800
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities  (19.19)% 8.73% (6.61)% 2.27% 1.37%
The actual return on plan assets was a loss of £50,695,000 (2007 a gain of £7 ,994,000).
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows:
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
At 1 January      (228,966) (260,425)
Current service cost      (1,795) (2,252)
Past service credit      –  10,797
Interest cost      (13,229) (13,231)
Contributions from scheme members      (739) (746)
Experience gains arising on the scheme liabilities     25,273 25,872
Benefits paid      13,735 11,019
At 31 December      (205,721) (228,966)
Movements in the fair value of the scheme assets were as follows:
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
At 1 January      195,325 191,137
Expected return on scheme assets      14,047 13,885
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets    (64,742) (5,891)
Contributions from sponsoring companies     6,659 6,467
Contributions from scheme members      739 746
Benefits paid      (13,735) (11,019)
At 31 December      138,293 195,325
Contributions from the sponsoring companies are expected to be £6,566,000 in 2009.
The fair value of the assets in the scheme, the present value of the liabilities in the scheme and the expected rate of return at each 
balance sheet date were:
 2008 2008 2007 2007 2006 2006 2005 2005 2004 2004
 % £’000 % £’000 % £’000 % £’000 % £’000
Equities 9.00 90,241 8.00 148,447 7.90 154,821 7.50 134,900 7.75 110,000
Bonds 6.70 47,614 5.17 44,925 4.92 36,316 4.63 31,800 5.13 27 ,600
Cash 4.25 438 4.25 1,953 4.25 –  4.00 700 4.00 900
Total fair value  
of assets  138,293  195,325  191,137  167,400  138,500
Present value of  
scheme liabilities  (205,721)  (228,966)  (260,425)  (225,000)  (203,800)
Post retirement  
benefit obligations  (67,428)  (33,641)  (69,288)  (57,600)  (65,300) Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
66
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
24 Post retirement benefit obligations continued
Overseas pension schemes
The Group operates a number of smaller overseas pension and post retirement schemes. The assets of these schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group with the exception of the German schemes where, in line with common practice, the assets  
are held within the respective company. 
Defined benefit schemes
The aggregated pension disclosure below for the overseas defined benefit schemes has been compiled from a number of actuarial 
valuations at 31 December 2008. The major assumptions do not differ significantly from those disclosed above in relation to the  
UK pension schemes. 
Amount charged to operating profit
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Current service cost      369 417
Gain on settlements and curtailments      (325) – 
Expected return on plan assets      (310) (397)
Interest cost relating to pension scheme liabilities     693 743
      427 763
Actuarial gain recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets    (377) (1,481)
Experience gains arising on the scheme liabilities     735 2,784
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities   –  414
      358 1,717
The actual return on plan assets was a loss of £67,000 (2007 £1,084,000).
Analysis of the movements in the net balance sheet liability before deferred tax
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Net liability at 1 January      (7,595) (8,596)
Total expense as detailed above      (427) (763)
Contributions made      938 733
Actuarial gain      358 1,717
Sale of PFW Aroma Chemicals BV      846 – 
Exchange movements      (2,251) (686)
Net liability at 31 December      (8,131) (7 ,595)
25 Share capital
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Authorised
219, 111,230 (2007 219,111,230) ordinary shares of 10 pence each    21,911 21,911
Issued and fully paid
145,663,187 (2007 145,663,187) ordinary shares of 10 pence each    14,566 14,566
Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
67
25 Share capital continued
Share options
As at 31 December 2008 the following options were outstanding:
Executive share options      Number Option price
Exercisable between 2009‑2010      1,884 (a)
Exercisable between 2009‑2012      4,797 (a)
Exercisable between 2009‑2015      57 ,876 (a)
Exercisable between 2009‑2013      4,328 (a)
Exercisable between 2009‑2016      209,040 (a)
Exercisable between 2010‑2017      264,298 (a)
Exercisable between 2011‑2018      684,312 (a)
SAYE options      Number Option price
Exercisable in 2010      13,872 261.0p
(a) Options granted under the Performance Share Plan, Longer‑Term Deferred Bonus Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan 2006 with a total exercise price of £38.
26 Changes in equity
   Capital Hedging and Cash flow
 Share Share redemption Own translation hedging Minority Retained
 capital premium reserve shares reserve reserve interest earnings Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2008 14,566 33,034 949 – (9,087) – 5,725 416 45,603
Profit for the year – – – – – – 1,718 54,845 56,563
Actuarial losses – – – – – – – (39,111) (39,111)
Tax on items recognised  
directly in equity – – – – – – – (48) (48)
Exchange differences on  
cash flow hedging deferred  
to equity – – – – – 678 – – 678
Exchange differences on  
translation of overseas – – – – 39,956 – 2,055 – 42,011
operations
Net investment hedging – – – – (24,617) – – – (24,617)
Total recognised income  
for the period – – – – 15,339 678 3,773 15,686 35,476
Dividends paid – – – – – – (341) (14,129) (14,470)
Share‑ based payments – – – – – – – 83 83
At 31 December 2008 14,566 33,034 949 – 6,252 678 9,157 2,056 66,692
   Capital Hedging and Cash flow
 Share Share redemption Own translation hedging Minority Retained
 capital premium reserve shares reserve reserve interest earnings Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2007 14,566 33,034 949 – (7 ,371) – 4,071 (21,031) 24,218
Profit for the year – – – – – – 1,679 13,785 15,464
Actuarial gains – – – – – – – 21,698 21,698
Tax on items recognised  
directly in equity – – – – – – – (519) (519)
Exchange differences on  
translation of overseas – – – – 7 ,429 – 512 – 7 ,941
operations
Net investment hedging – – – – (9,145) – – – (9,145)
Total recognised (expenditure)/ 
income for the period – – – – (1,716) – 2,191 34,964 35,439
Dividends paid – – – – – – (537) (13,689) (14,226)
Shares purchased by ESOP Trust – – – 25 – – – – 25
Share‑ based payments – – – (25) – – – 172 147
At 31 December 2007 14,566 33,034 949 – (9,087) – 5,725 416 45,603 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
68
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
27 Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Operating profit – continuing operations      40,786 41,032
Operating profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations    24,180 (12,458)
Less: share of profits of joint ventures      (1,615) (1,129)
       63,351 27,445
Depreciation and amortisation      16,890 16,013
(Profit)/loss arising from the sale or closure of operations    (17,661) 28,237
UK Pension Fund – Past service credit      – (10,797)
Loss/(profit) on sale of fixed assets      79 (196)
Share‑ based payments      470 298
Cash impact of termination of businesses     (10,283) (8,985)
Pension funding in excess of IAS 19 charge     (6,301) (5,550)
Decrease in inventories      1,070 3,925
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables     3,399 (6,398)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables     (5,931) 6,434
Unrealised exchange gains      (784) (979)
Cash generated from operations      44,299 49,447
28 Disposal of subsidiaries
The Group disposed of the following interests in Group companies in 2008:
Company name Date of sale Purchaser Division Sale type
James Robinson Limited and 
James Robinson GmbH 30 May 2008 Third party trade Impact Chemicals Shares/assets
James Robinson India Pvt Ltd 28 June 2008 Third party trade Impact Chemicals Shares
Holliday Pigments SA, Holliday 
Pigments International SA and 
Holliday France SA 11 August 2008 Third party trade Impact Chemicals Shares
Holliday Chemical España SA 11 August 2008 Third party trade Pharma Chemicals Shares
PFW Aroma Chemicals BV 3 December 2008 Third party trade Impact Chemicals Shares
The net assets of the companies at the date of disposal were as follows:
   James Robinson  Holliday Pigments SA,
   Limited and  Holliday Pigments Holliday
   James Robinson James Robinson International SA and Chemical PFW Aroma
   GmbH India Pvt Ltd Holliday France SA España SA Chemicals BV Total
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment  467 1,459 7 ,712 – 3,853 13,491
Inventories  878 927 3,586 143 4,125 9,659
Trade receivables  2,128 334 6,437 527 1,983 11,409
Net borrowing  (4,081) (472) (1,387) 192 (2,909) (8,657)
Deferred tax liability  – (74) (1,145) – (534) (1,753)
Current tax liability  (30) (11) (598) 2 (58) (695)
Trade payables  (1,383) (699) (6,114) (407) (3,531) (12,134)
Attributable goodwill  3,382 235 15,113 97 – 18,827
Minority interest  – (513) – – – (513)
   1,361 1,186 23,604 554 2,929 29,634
Profit/(loss) on disposal  5,637 (362) 8,265 409 (774) 13,175
Total consideration  6,998 824 31,869 963 2,155 42,809
Satisfied by:
Cash (net of disposal costs)  6,208 824 31,869 963 2,155 42,019
Deferred consideration  790 – – – – 790
   6,998 824 31,869 963 2,155 42,809
Net cash inflow arising on disposal:
Cash consideration  6,531 866 33,096 1,014 2,488 43,995
Net borrowing disposed of  4,081 472 1,387 (192) 2,909 8,657
   10,612 1,338 34,483 822 5,397 52,652
Less costs of disposal  (323) (42) (1,227) (51) (333) (1,976)
  10,289 1,296 33,256 771 5,064 50,676
The impact of these disposals on the Group’s results in the current period and prior periods is disclosed in note 3. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
69
29 Acquisition of subsidiary
On 16 January 2008, the Group acquired 60 per cent of the issued share capital of Synthomer Vietnam Co. Ltd (formerly  
Chemtech Industry Co. Ltd).
The net assets of the company at the date of acquisition were as follows:
        Synthomer
        Vietnam Co Ltd
        £’000
Property, plant and equipment       207
Inventories       530
Trade receivables       750
Net borrowing       303
Trade payables       (893)
Minority interest       (359)
Exchange movement       (29)
        509
Goodwill       412
Total consideration       921
Satisfied by:
Cash       771
Deferred consideration       150
        921
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration       771
Net borrowing acquired       (303)
       468
30 Analysis of changes in net borrowings
       Exchange
    1 January Reclassification Cash inflows/ and other 31 December
     2008 of borrowings (outflows) movements 2008
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   108,352 – (64,475) (17 ,301) 26,576
Current borrowing – Bank overdrafts   (104,623) – 74,989 8,790 (20,844)
    3,729 – 10,514 (8,511) 5,732
Current borrowings – Loan notes   (28,962) (37 ,129) 33,512 (4,549) (37,128)
Non‑current borrowings   (125,108) 37,129 (166) (41,907) (130,052)
Net borrowings   (150,341) – 43,860 (54,967) (161,448)
(Deduct)/add back: special item   (20,490)    25,966
Net borrowings (underlying performance)  (170,831)    (135,482)
The special item represents the revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the related cross currency swaps to the year 
end rate, together with the transitional adjustment required to reflect movements in fair value caused by variations in interest rates, 
and subsequent amortisation thereof, to the extent that these constituted effective hedges under UK GAAP .
31 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation 
and are not included in this note. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed in the Company’s 
financial statements where appropriate.
Key management compensation
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Short‑ term employee benefits      2,975 3,242
Post retirement benefit obligations      239 279
Share‑ based payments      1,115 1,185
      4,329 4,706
The key management figures given above include the directors and all participants of the Performance Share Plan. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
70
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2008
32 Commitments
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Capital expenditure authorised but not provided for in the accounts
Contracted      607 6,240
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Commitments under operating leases are as follows
Payments under operating leases which fall due:
Within 1 year      3,600 3,419
Between 2 and 5 years      11,280 7,627
After 5 years      41,236 41,075
      56,116 52,121
33 Contingent assets, contingent liabilities and guarantees
Guarantees of the parent company in respect of bank and other facilities of subsidiaries and joint ventures totalled £7 ,071,000  
(2007 £18,178,000). 
Other guarantees and contingent liabilities of the Group amount to £1,523,000 (2007 £1,361,000). 
The Company and its subsidiaries have, in the normal course of business, entered into guarantees and counter‑indemnities 
in respect of performance bonds, relating to the Group’s own contracts.
34 Share-based payments
Save As You Earn share option plan
This plan, which is available to almost all UK employees, provides for a grant price equal to the average quoted market price of 
the Group shares on the date of grant. The vesting period is five to seven years, followed by an exercise period of six months 
after which the options expire. Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
      Weighted  Weighted
      av. exercise  av. exercise
     Options price (£) Options price (£)
     2008 2008 2007 2007
Outstanding at 1 January    293,974 2.610 333,980 2.610
Exercised during the period    –  –
Lapsed during the period    (280,102) 2.610 (40,006) 2.610
Outstanding at 31 December    13,872 2.610 293,974 2.610
Exercisable at 31 December    –  259,431
No grants have been made under the plan since 7 November 2002, and the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 2 to awards  
made before that date. For options expected to be settled with shares purchased by the Yule Catto Employee Benefit Trust in the 
open market, the charge to profit reflects the anticipated cash cost of these shares spread over the vesting period. For options 
expected to be settled by the issue of new shares, no charge to profit is made.
For options outstanding as at 31 December 2008, the exercise price is £2.61, and the weighted average remaining contractual life 
was 1.4 years (2007 0.7 years). Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
71
34 Share-based payments continued
Executive share option schemes
Details of the share option schemes available to senior management are included in the Remuneration report on pages 30 to 32.
For grants made after 7 November 2002, the charge to profit is calculated on the assumption that, given that the exercise price  
is effectively nil, the share price at grant provides a reasonable estimate of the option value at grant.
For grants made before 7 November 2002, the charge to profit is based on the anticipated cash cost of acquiring shares to meet 
the options exercised.
      Weighted  Weighted
      av. exercise  av. exercise
     Options price (£) Options price (£)
     2008 2008 2007 2007
Outstanding at 1 January    715,781 – 973,539 0.057
Granted during the period    777,865 – 321,340 –
Exercised during the period    (17,471) – (35,328) 1.579
Lapsed during the period    (249,640) – (543,770) –
Outstanding at 31 December    1,226,535 – 715,781 –
Exercisable at 31 December    64,557  1,884
For options outstanding as at 31 December 2008, the exercise price was £nil and the weighted average remaining contractual  
life was 5.3 years (2007 5 years).
Yule Catto Employee Benefit Trust
The Company established a trust, the Yule Catto Employee Benefit Trust, on 17 July 1996 to distribute shares to employees 
enabling the obligations under the Yule Catto Longer‑Term Performance Share Plan and the Yule Catto Longer‑Term Deferred 
Bonus Plan to be met. The Trust is managed by the RBC Trustees (Guernsey) Limited, an independent company located in 
Guernsey. At 31 December 2008, the Trust held 1 7,767 (2007 24,161) ordinary shares in the Company with a market value 
of £10,000 (2007 £45,000). The dividends on these shares have been waived. All of the shares are under option. Costs are 
amortised over the life of the plans.
35 Share price information
The middle market value of the listed ordinary shares at 31 December 2008 was 55.0 pence. During the year, the market price 
ranged between 52.5 pence and 192.5 pence. The market value of the listed ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 was 19.5 pence. 
The latest ordinary share price is available on the Financial Times Cityline service, telephone 09058 171690.
36 Reconciliation of EBITDA
 Underlying performance IFRS
     2008 2007 2008 2007
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Operating profit    43,192 42,696 40,786 41,032
Add: operating profit or loss of businesses sold or closed during the year – – 2,406 12,461
Less: UK Pension Fund – Past service credit   – – – (10,797)
Add back: amortisation    102 247 102 247
Add back: depreciation    15,336 13,299 15,336 13,299
EBITDA    58,630 56,242 58,630 56,242 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
72
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of Yule Catto & Co plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 
which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1  
to 16. These parent company financial statements have been 
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements 
of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as 
a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies 
Act 1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the company’s members those matters we 
are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report 
and the parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory 
requirements and International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent 
company financial statements give a true and fair view and 
whether the parent company financial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the 
Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company 
financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ 
Report includes that specific information that is cross‑ referred 
from the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has 
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration 
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report 
as described in the contents section and consider whether 
it is consistent with the audited parent company financial 
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we 
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. 
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information 
outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test 
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in 
the parent company financial statements. It also includes an 
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made 
by the directors in the preparation of the parent company 
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all 
the information and explanations which we considered 
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to 
give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming 
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the 
presentation of information in the parent company financial 
statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
 the parent company financial statements give a true and •	
fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2008;
 the parent company financial statements have been properly •	
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
 the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent •	
with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
Cambridge, United Kingdom
11 March 2009 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
73
Company balance sheet 
31 December 2008
       2008 2007
      Note £’000 £’000
Fixed assets 
Tangible fixed assets     6 2,597 2,602 
Investments     7 334,125 194,253 
       336,722 196,855 
Current assets     
Debtors     8 1,303 245,333 
Cash at bank and in hand      2,641 868 
Derivatives at fair value      33,655 –
       37,599 246,201 
Creditors – due within one year     
Borrowings     9 (46,940) (118,750)
Other creditors     10 (66,470) (11,913)
Derivatives at fair value      – (23,035)
       (113,410) (153,698)
Net current (liabilities)/assets      (75,811) 92,503 
Total assets less current liabilities      260,911 289,358 
Creditors – due after more than one year    
Borrowings     9 (130,052) (125,107)
Net assets      130,859 164,251 
Capital and reserves     
Called up share capital     11 14,566 14,566 
Share premium     12 33,034 33,034 
Revaluation reserve     12 826 828 
Capital redemption reserve     12 949 949 
Profit and loss account     12 81,484 114,874 
Capital employed      130,859 164,251 
Analysis of net borrowings     
Cash at bank and in hand      2,641 868 
Borrowings due in less than one year      (46,940) (118,750)
Borrowings due after more than one year     (130,052) (125,107)
Net borrowings      (174,351) (242,989)
Deduct/(add back): special items      25,966 (20,490)
Net borrowings (underlying performance)    9 (148,385) (263,479) 
Approved on 11 March 2009:
A M Whitfield
D C Blackwood
Directors Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
74
Notes to the Company financial statements
31 December 2008
1 Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.  
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year 
and the preceding year.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation 
of certain fixed assets, and comply with applicable UK 
accounting standards.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate 
of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged, at 
the forward contract rate. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date 
are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, 
if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation, net of 
depreciation and any provision for impairment. Except for 
freehold land, which is not depreciated, the cost or valuation  
of tangible fixed assets is depreciated on a straight‑ line basis 
over their expected useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings – 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings –  the lesser of 50 years and  
the period of the lease
Plant and equipment – between 3 and 10 years.
Revaluation of properties
The Company has taken advantage of the transitional 
provisions of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets and retained the 
book amounts of certain freehold properties which were 
revalued prior to implementation of that standard.
Where depreciation charges are increased following a 
revaluation, an amount equal to the increase is transferred 
annually from the revaluation reserve to the profit and loss 
account as a movement on reserves. On the disposal or 
recognition of a provision for impairment of a revalued fixed 
asset, any related balance remaining in the revaluation  
reserve is also transferred to the profit and loss account  
as a movement on reserves.
Investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision  
for impairment.
Debt
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after 
deduction of issue costs.
Dividends
Dividends are accrued where declared and unpaid at the 
balance sheet date. 
Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is 
provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using 
the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences 
that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay 
more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future 
have occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences 
are differences between the Group’s taxable profits and its 
results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the 
inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods 
different from those in which they are recognised in the 
financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and 
therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available 
evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there 
will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of 
the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that 
are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing 
differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is measured on a non‑ discounted basis.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at 
their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
Bank borrowings
Interest‑ bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to 
the profit and loss account using the effective interest method 
and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the 
extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest‑ bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to 
reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate 
movements.
The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s 
policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide 
written principles on the use of financial derivatives. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
75
1 Accounting policies continued
Net borrowings
Net borrowings represents cash and cash equivalents together with short‑ and long‑ term borrowings, as adjusted for the effect  
of related derivative instruments irrespective of whether they qualify for hedge accounting.
Pension funding
The costs of contributions to the Group’s pension schemes and of augmenting existing pensions are charged to the profit and  
loss account on a systematic basis over the expected period of benefits from employees’ service.
The UK defined benefit scheme is funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the Group in separate 
trustee‑ administered funds. 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
2 Auditors’ remuneration
The audit fee of Yule Catto & Co plc amounted to £6,500 (2007 £6,500).
3 Employees
       2008 2007
       Number Number
The average monthly number of employees during the year was:    30 34 
 
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
The aggregate remuneration of all Company employees comprised: 
Wages and salaries      2,440 2,495 
Social security costs      289 293 
Post retirement benefits      294 354 
      3,023 3,142 
4 Loss attributable to equity shareholders   
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
UK GAAP basis*
Attributable to Yule Catto & Co plc      (19,261) (15,304)
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 no profit and loss account is presented for Yule Catto & Co plc.
* The above has been calculated on a UK GAAP basis as this is consistent with the continued presentation of Yule Catto and Co plc’s accounts under UK GAAP.
5 Dividends
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Ordinary – prior year final of 5.7 pence per share (2006 5.5 pence)    8,303 8,011
  – interim of 4.0 pence per share (2007 3.9 pence)    5,826 5,678
        14,129 13,689
  – proposed final of nil pence per share (2007 5.7 pence)    – 8,303 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
76
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
31 December 2008
6 Tangible fixed assets
    Land and buildings
      Long Plant and
     Freeholds leaseholds equipment Total
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost or valuation 
At 1 January 2008    2,777 89 1,459 4,325 
Additions    – – 147 147 
Disposals    – – (124) (124)
At 31 December 2008    2,777 89 1,482 4,348 
At cost    12 – 1,482 1,494 
At professional valuation in 1985    2,765 89 – 2,854
     2,777 89 1,482 4,348 
Depreciation 
At 1 January 2008    450 43 1,230 1,723 
Charge for the year    20 2 92 114 
Eliminated on disposals    – – (86) (86)
At 31 December 2008    470 45 1,236 1,751 
Net book value 
At 31 December 2008    2,307 44 246 2,597 
Net book value 
At 31 December 2007    2,327 46 229 2,602 
Properties included at valuation would have been stated on a historical cost basis at cost of £1,877 ,000 (2007 £1,877 ,000) and 
depreciation of £403,000 (2007 £386,000). 
Freehold land amounting to £1,781,000 (2007 £1,781,000) has not been depreciated.
7 Investments 
      Joint Other
     Subsidiaries ventures investments Total
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2008    195,062 500 46 195,608
Additions    139,880 – – 139,880
At 31 December 2008    334,942 500 46 335,488
Provisions 
At 1 January 2008    1,118 220 17 1,355
Amortisation    – – 8 8 
At 31 December 2008    1,118 220 25 1,363
Net book value 
At 31 December 2008    333,824 280 21 334,125 
Net book value 
At 31 December 2007    193,944 280 29 194,253
Details of the principal Group companies are given on page 81.
8 Debtors
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Amounts owed by subsidiaries      – 238,403 
Other debtors      1,190 2,430 
Prepayments and accrued income      113 88 
Corporate tax      – 4,412 
       1,303 245,333  Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
77
9 Borrowings
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Current borrowings     
Bank loans      
Bank loans and overdrafts      9,812 89,788 
     
Other loans     
$136,000,000 7.66% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010*   32,168 24,013 
£15,000,000 6.99% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010*   5,000 5,000 
       46,980 118,801 
Less: capitalised costs      (40) (51)
       46,940 118,750 
Non‑ current borrowings
Bank loans
Unsecured £60 million revolving credit facility cancelled 24 December 2008   n/a –
Unsecured £30 million revolving credit facility expiring 2011    – n/a
Other loans     
$136,000,000 7.66% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010*   32,168 48,025 
£15,000,000 6.99% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010*   5,000 10,000 
$43,000,000 5.55% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2012   29,698 21,529 
$70,000,000 5.78% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2014   48,346 35,048 
$22,000,000 5.98% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2016   15,195 11,015 
       130,407 125,617 
Less: capitalised costs      (355) (510)
       130,052 125,107 
* These notes are repayable in two equal tranches on 8 September 2009 and 2010.
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest based on LIBOR or foreign equivalents.
At 31 December 2008, the Company had available £30 million (2007 £60 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities  
in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The directors calculate the carrying value of the Company’s borrowings as follows:
Analysis of borrowings at carrying value by currency 
     Sterling US dollar Euro Total
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
31 December 2008   
 Bank loans and overdrafts    6,242 3,221 349 9,812 
 Loan notes    10,000 157 ,575 – 167,575 
 Capitalised costs    (395) – – (395)
     15,847 160,796 349 176,992 
 Cash and cash equivalents       (2,641)
 Net borrowings       174,351 
 Deduct: special item*       (25,966)
 Net borrowings (underlying performance)      148,385 
      Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
78
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
31 December 2008
9 Borrowings continued
Analysis of borrowings at carrying value by currency continued
     Sterling US dollar Euro Total
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
31 December 2007    
 Bank loans and overdrafts    33,082 2,489 54,217 89,788
 Loan notes    15,000 139,630 – 154,630
 Capitalised costs    (561) – – (561)
     47,521 142,119 54,217 243,857 
 Cash and cash equivalents       (868)
 Net borrowings       242,989 
 Add back: special item*       20,490 
 Net borrowings (underlying performance)      263,479 
     
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short‑ term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months  
or less.
*  The special item represents the revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the related cross currency swaps to the year end rate, together with the  
transitional adjustment required to reflect movements in fair value caused by variations in interest rates, and subsequent amortisation thereof, to the extent that  
these constituted effective hedges under pre FRS 26 UK GAAP.
10 Other creditors
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Amount due within one year   
Trade creditors      579 1,110 
Other taxation and social security      127 131 
Other creditors      2,164 1,944 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries      54,788 –
Accruals and deferred income      8,812 8,728
      66,470 11,913 
11 Share capital 
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Authorised    
219, 111,230 (2007 219,111,230) ordinary shares of 10 pence each    21,911 21,911 
 
Issued and fully paid   
145,663,187 (2007 145,663,187) ordinary shares of 10 pence each    14,566 14,566 
    
Share options   
As at 31 December 2008 the following options were outstanding:   
    
Executive share options      Number Option price
Exercisable between 2009‑ 2010      1,884 (a)
Exercisable between 2009‑ 2012      4,797 (a)
Exercisable between 2009‑ 2015      57 ,876 (a)
Exercisable between 2009‑ 2013      4,328 (a)
Exercisable between 2009‑ 2016      209,040 (a)
Exercisable between 2010‑ 2017      264,298 (a)
Exercisable between 2011‑ 2018      684,312 (a)
    
SAYE options      Number Option price
Exercisable in 2010      13,872 261.0p
(a) options granted under the Performance Share Plan, the Longer‑ Term Deferred Bonus Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan 2006 with a total exercise price of £38. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
79
12 Share premium and reserves
      Capital
    Share Revaluation redemption Profit and
    premium reserve reserve loss account Total
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2008   33,034 828 949 114,874 149,685
Loss for the year   – – – (19,261) (19,261)
Dividends   – – – (14,129) (14,129)
Retained loss for the year   – – – (33,390) (33,390)
Revaluation depreciation   – (2) – – (2)
At 31 December 2008   33,034 826 949 81,484 116,293
 
13 Related party transactions
There were no related party transactions during the year (2007 none).
14 Guarantees and other financial commitments
The Company has given guarantees amounting to £7 ,071,000 (2007 £18,178,000) in respect of bank and other facilities  
of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
15 Pension commitments 
The Group participates in a funded scheme with both a defined benefit and defined contribution section (the Yule Catto Group 
Retirement Benefit Scheme). The scheme’s defined benefit section was closed to new members with effect from 31 December 1998 
and with effect from 1 January 1999 a defined contribution section was introduced and is open to all eligible Group employees.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the companies concerned.
The pension charge for the year for the Company amounted to £3,838,000 (2007 £2,623,000).
In accordance with FRS 17 , the Company will account for its contributions to the Defined Benefit scheme as if it were a Defined 
Contribution scheme because it is not possible to identify the Company’s share of the assets and liabilities in the scheme on  
a consistent and reasonable basis. The latest actuarial valuation of the scheme prepared for the purposes of making transitional 
disclosure in accordance with FRS 17 shows a net pension liability of £67,128,000 at 31 December 2008.
FRS 17 disclosure  
Due to the application of IAS 19 to the Group financial statements, resulting in changes to the required disclosures at Group level,  
the disclosure requirements of FRS 17 for the Group have been included below.
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 6 April 2006 and updated to 31 December 2008 by a qualified actuary. The major 
assumptions used by the actuary were:  
    2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Rate of increase in salaries   2.60% 3.10% 3.30% 3.50% 3.60%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment   2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
Discount rate   6.50% 5.90% 5.20% 4.90% 5.40%
Inflation assumption   2.60% 3.10% 2.80% 2.50% 2.60%
The fair value of the assets in the scheme, the present value of the liabilities in the scheme and the expected rate of return at each 
balance sheet date were:
   2008 2008 2007 2007 2006 2006 2005 2005 2004 2004
   % £’000 % £’000 % £’000 % £’000 % £’000
Equities  9.00 90,541 8.00 148,747 7.90 155,121 7.50 135,200 7.75 110,300
Bonds  6.70 47,614 5.17 44,925 4.92 36,316 4.63 31,800 5.13 27 ,600
Cash  4.25 438 4.25 1,953 4.25 – 4.00 700 4.00 900
Total fair value of assets  138,593  195,625  191,437  167,700  138,800  
Present value of  
scheme liabilities  (205,721)  (228,966)  (260,425)  (225,000)  (203,800)
Deficit in the scheme  (67,128)  (33,341)  (68,988)  (57,300)  (65,000)
Related deferred tax asset  –  –  –  –  –
Net pension liability  (67,128)  (33,341)  (68,988)  (57,300)  (65,000)
Contributions from the sponsoring companies are expected to be £6,566,000 in 2009. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
80
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
31 December 2008
15 Pension commitments continued
Analysis of the amount that would have been charged to operating profit under FRS 17
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Current service cost      1,795 2,252 
Past service credit      – (10,797)
      1,795 (8,545)
Analysis of the amount that would have been charged to net finance income under FRS 17
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Expected return on pension scheme assets     (14,047) (13,885)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities      13,229 13,231 
      (818) (654)
  
Analysis of the actuarial (loss)/gain that would have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses
       2008 2007
       £’000 £’000
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets    (64,742) (5,891)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities    25,273 25,872
      (39,469) 19,981
  
History of experience gains and losses 
    2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Difference between the expected and 
actual return on scheme assets: 
Amount (£’000)   (64,742) (5,891) 13,800 17 ,200 8,300
Percentage of scheme assets   46.71% (3.01)% 7.21% 10.26% 5.98%
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities:  
Amount (£’000)   25,273 25,872 (30,988) (12,100) (5,500)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities  12.29% 11.30% (11.90)% (5.38)% (2.70)%
Total actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the  
statement of total recognised gains and losses:  
Amount (£’000)   (39,469) 19,981 (17,188) 5,100 2,800 
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities  (19.19)% 8.73% (6.61)% 2.27% 1.37%
16 Share-based payments
For details of share‑ based payments please refer to note 34 to the consolidated financial statements on page 70. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
81
Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures
        Effective
       Country of Group interest
      incorporation and in equity
Operating companies     operation %
Arkem (Pty) Ltd      South Africa 50# 
Distributor of speciality chemicals and allied products   
James Robinson GmbH      Germany 100 
Fine chemicals 
Oxford Chemicals Ltd      England 100 
Flavour chemicals 
Revertex Chemicals (Pty) Ltd      South Africa 100 
Synthetic resin and emulsions and allied products 
Revertex Finewaters Sdn Bhd      Malaysia 63 
Adhesives 
Revertex (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd      Malaysia 70 
Synthetic resin and emulsions, natural rubber latices, plasticers and allied products 
Synthomer BV      Netherlands 100 
Compounds of synthetic rubber latices
Synthomer GmbH      Germany 100 
Synthetic rubber latices and related compounds
Synthomer Hasselt BV      Netherlands 100 
Compounds of synthetic rubber latices
Synthomer Ltd      England 100* 
Synthetic rubber latices and emulsions
Synthomer Middle East Company      Saudi Arabia 49# 
Synthetic resin emulsions 
Synthomer SA      Belgium 100 
Compounds, dispersions and adhesives
Synthomer Sdn Bhd      Malaysia 100 
Synthetic rubber latices and related compounds
Synthomer Vietnam Co. Ltd      Vietnam 60 
Synthetic adhesives 
Union Quimico Farmaceutica SA (UQUIFA)     Spain 100 
Pharmaceutical actives and intermediates
Uquifa Italia SpA      Italy 100 
Pharmaceutical actives and intermediates
Uquifa Mexico S.A.C.V.      Mexico 100 
Pharmaceutical actives and intermediates
William Blythe Ltd      England 100 
Inorganic chemicals 
Holding companies 
Holliday Chemical Holdings      England 100
Holliday International SA      France 100
Yule Catto BV      Netherlands 100
Yule Catto Financing Ltd      Ireland 100
Yule Catto Holdings GmbH      Germany 100
Yule Catto International Ltd      England 100*
Yule Catto Spain SL      Spain 100
Yule Catto Nederland BV      Netherlands 100
# Joint ventures 
* Shares held by Yule Catto & Co plc  Five year financial summary
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
82
Underlying performance (a)   2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total sales   602,153 512,925 474,524 430,796 412,499 
EBITDA  (b) 58,630 56,242 47,235 49,724 49,422 
Operating profit  (c) 43,192 42,696 34,350 36,230 34,944 
Finance costs   (10,502) (11,497) (11,443) (11,741) (12,930)
Profit before taxation   32,690 31,199 22,907 24,489 22,014 
Earnings per share   17.9p 16.0p 8.8p 9.8p 6.8p 
Dividends per share   4.0p 9.6p 9.3p 9.0p 13.4p 
Dividend cover   4.5 1.7 0.9 1.1 0.5 
Net borrowings  (e) (135,482) (170,831) (166,271) (165,591) (187,641)
Free cash flow before dividends  (d) 7,781 14,012 8,479 19,786 13,344 
Capital expenditure   17,707 16,994 18,468 14,331 16,920 
IFRS – continuing operations   2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total sales   602,153 512,925 474,524 430,796 412,499 
EBITDA  (b) 58,630 56,242 47,235 49,724 49,422 
Operating profit  (c) 40,786 41,032 12,842 36,239 34,803 
Finance costs   (1,887) (7 ,050) (7 ,825) (14,162) (13,190)
Profit before taxation   38,899 33,982 5,017 22,077 21,613 
Earnings per share   22.2p 17.9p (3.6)p 8.2p 6.2p 
Dividends per share   4.0p 9.6p 9.3p 9.0p 13.4p 
Dividend cover   5.5 1.9 (0.4) 0.9 0.5 
Net borrowings  (e) (161,448) (150,341) (150,656) (171,266) (178,537)
Free cash flow before dividends  (d) 7,781 14,012 8,479 19,786 13,344 
Capital expenditure   17,707 16,994 18,468 14,331 16,920 
 
(a) As presented in the consolidated income statement on page 38. 
(b) As defined in the accounting policies at note 2 and derived in note 36.
(c) As defined in note 2 to the financial statements on pages 42 to 46.
(d) As shown with the consolidated cash flow statement on page 40.
(e) As defined in note 2 to the financial statements and derived in note 30. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
83
Notice of meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of 
the Company will be held at Saddlers’ Hall, 40 Gutter Lane, 
London EC2V 6BR on Thursday, 14 May 2009 at 10.30 am 
for the following purposes:
Ordinary business
1  To receive and adopt the report of the Directors and audited 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008.
2  To approve the report of the Board on Directors’ 
remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2008.
3 To re‑ elect as a director the Hon. A G Catto.
4 To re‑ elect as a director Dato’ Lee Hau Hian.
5 To re‑ elect as a director Mr G R Menzies.
6 To re‑ elect as a director Mr A M Whitfield.
7  To re‑ appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to 
hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General 
Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
8  To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration  
of the auditors.
Special business
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following 
Resolutions, Resolution 9 being proposed as an Ordinary 
Resolution and Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 being proposed as 
Special Resolutions.
9 That:
 (i)  the authority conferred on the Directors by paragraph 
9.2 of Article 9 of the Company’s Articles of Association 
be renewed for the period ending on the date of the 
Annual General Meeting in 2010 or on 14 August 2010, 
whichever is the earlier, and for such period the Section 
80 Amount shall be £4,855,439; and
 (ii)  such authority shall be in substitution for all previous 
authorities pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 
1985 which are hereby revoked, without prejudice to any 
allotment of securities prior to the date of this Resolution 
(or thereafter pursuant to any offer or agreement made 
prior thereto).
10 That:
 (i)  subject to the passing of Resolution 9 set out in the 
notice of Annual General Meeting dated 11 March 2009, 
the power conferred on the Directors by paragraph 9.3 
of Article 9 of the Company’s Articles of Association be 
renewed for the period referred to in such Resolution 
and for such period the Section 89 Amount shall be 
£728,315; and
 (ii)  such authority shall be in substitution for all previous 
powers pursuant to Section 89 of the Companies Act 
1985 which are hereby revoked, without prejudice to 
any allotment or sale of securities prior to the date of 
this Resolution (or thereafter pursuant to any offer or 
agreement made prior thereto).
11  That the Company be unconditionally and generally 
authorised for the purpose of Section 166 of the Companies 
Act 1985 (‘the Act’) to make market purchases (as defined 
in Section 163 of the Act) of ordinary shares of 10p each in 
the capital of the Company provided that:
 a)  the maximum number of shares which may be 
purchased is 14,566,318;
 b)  the minimum price which may be paid for each share 
is 10p (exclusive of expenses);
 c)  the maximum price which may be paid for a share is 
an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing 
middle market quotations of the Company’s ordinary 
shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange 
Daily Official List for the five business days immediately 
preceding the day on which such share is contracted 
to be purchased (exclusive of expenses); and
 d)  this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 
15 months after the passing of this Resolution (except 
in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for 
which was concluded before the expiry of such authority 
and which might be executed wholly or partly after 
such expiry) unless such authority is renewed prior to 
such time.
12  That a general meeting other than an annual general 
meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ 
notice.
By order of the Board
R Atkinson
Secretary
11 March 2009
Temple Fields
Harlow
Essex
CM20 2BH Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
84
Notes
(i)  A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the 
above meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend, 
speak and vote in his stead. A proxy need not also be a 
member of the Company. The right to appoint a proxy does 
not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf 
by another person and who have been nominated to receive 
communications from the Company in accordance with 
Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 
rights (‘nominated persons’). Nominated persons may have 
a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder 
who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed (or 
to have someone else appointed) as a proxy. Alternatively, 
if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not 
wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an 
agreement to give instructions to the person holding the 
shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
(ii)  A form of proxy is enclosed which, to be valid, must 
be completed and deposited with Computershare 
Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, 
Bristol BS99 6ZY not less than 48 hours before the time 
appointed for holding the meeting or any adjourned 
meeting. The completion and return of a form of proxy will 
not prevent a member who wishes to do so from attending 
and voting in person.
(iii)  The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that 
only those holders of ordinary shares registered in the 
Register of Members of the Company at close of business 
on Tuesday 12 May 2009 shall be entitled to attend and 
vote at the aforesaid Annual General Meeting in respect of 
such number of shares registered in their name at that time. 
Changes to entries on the register of members after close 
of business on Tuesday 12 May 2009 shall be disregarded 
in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at 
the meeting.
(iv)  In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives 
at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the 
meeting so that (i) if a corporate shareholder has appointed 
the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative 
with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the 
directions of all of the other corporate representatives 
for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those 
corporate representatives will give voting directions to the 
Chairman and the Chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) 
as corporate representative in accordance with those 
directions; and (ii) if more than one corporate representative 
for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but 
the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman 
of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated 
corporate representative will be nominated, from those 
corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a 
poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting 
directions to that designated corporate representative. 
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives 
– www.icsa.org.uk – for further details of this procedure. 
The guidance includes a sample form of representation 
letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described 
in (i) above.
(v)  The Company’s capital consists of 145,663,187 ordinary 
shares with voting rights.
Notice of meeting continued Contents 
01 Financial highlights
02 Group overview
03 Yule Catto around the world
04 Chairman’s statement
Business review
06  Chief Executive’s report  
06 Polymer Chemicals 
10 Pharma Chemicals 
13 Impact Chemicals 
14 Financial review 
16 Corporate Social Responsibility report
23 Directors and advisers
24 Report of the directors
26 Corporate governance
30 Directors’ remuneration report
33 Directors’ interests
35 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Group financial statements
36 Independent auditors’ report 
38 Consolidated income statement
39 Consolidated balance sheet
40 Consolidated cash flow statement
41  Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company financial statements
72 Independent auditors’ report 
73 Company balance sheet
74 Notes to the Company financial statements
Other information
81 Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures
82 Five year financial summary
83 Notice of meeting
2008 saw further steady progress 
in operational performance and the 
implementation of our strategic plans 
against the backdrop of an increasingly 
challenging economic environment.
Designed and produced by 
The College  www.thecollege.uk.com Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual Report
For the year ended 31 December 2008
Being part  
of all our  
lives...
Yule Catto & Co plc
Temple Fields
Harlow
Essex CM20 2BH
T +44 (0)1279 442 791
F +44 (0)1279 641 360
www.yulecatto.com
Yule Catto & Co plc   Annual Report 2008
