 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual Report
For the year ended 31 December 2009
Being part of 
all our lives Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
01 Financial highlights
02 Group overview
03 Yule Catto around the world
04 Chairman’s statement 
06  Chief Executive’s report
06 Polymer Chemicals
10 Pharma Chemicals
11 Impact Chemicals
12 Financial review
14 Corporate Social Responsibility report
68 Independent auditors’ report 
69 Company balance sheet
70 Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
33 Independent auditors’ report 
34 Consolidated income statement
35 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
35 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
36 Consolidated balance sheet
37 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
38 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
21 Directors and advisers
22 Report of the directors
24 Corporate governance
28 Directors’ remuneration report
31 Directors’ interests
32 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
77 Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures
78 Five year ﬁnancial summary
79 Notice of meeting
2009 was an extremely 
good year for Yule Catto, 
with operating proﬁt in 
all three Divisions ahead 
of the prior year, despite 
the environment with 
a strong increase in 
Group pre-tax proﬁt and 
a substantial reduction 
in net debt, considerably 
ahead of schedule. 01
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Financial highlights
          Underlying performance
(a)
 IFRS
  
         2009 2008 2009 2008
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total sales
(b)
  543,398 602,153 543,398 602,153
EBITDA
(c)
  66,082 58,630 66,082 58,630
Operating proﬁt  51,406 43,192 21,406 40,786
Proﬁt before taxation  41,537 32,690 7,136 38,899
Earnings per share  21.3p 17 .9p 4.1p 22.2p
Dividends per share
(d)
  – 4.0p – 4.0p
Net borrowings
(e)
  88,038 135,482 97,646 161,448
Cash generated from operations  64,499 44,299 64,499 44,299
Free cash ﬂow before dividends
(f)
  39,001 7,781 39,001 7,781
The above table represents the results of Yule Catto & Co plc, its subsidiaries and its share of joint ventures.
(a) Underlying performance excludes special items as shown on the consolidated income statement.
(b) As deﬁned in the accounting policies at note 2.
(c) As deﬁned in the accounting policies at note 2 and reconciled at note 36.
(d) See note 11.
(e) As shown on the consolidated balance sheet on page 36.
(f) As shown within the consolidated cash ﬂow statement on page 37.
>   Proﬁt before taxation* up 27% 
to £41 .5 million (2008 £32.7 million)
>   Operating proﬁt* ahead in 
all divisions
>  Polymers operating proﬁt 
ahead by 27%
>   Earnings per share* up 19% 
at 21 .3p (2008 1 7 .9p)
>   Substantial reduction in net debt* 
to £88 million (2008 £1 35 million)
Total sales
£543m
Earnings per share*
21.3p
Proﬁt before taxation*
£41.5m
Increase in proﬁt before taxation*
 +27%
*Underlying performance
IFRS Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 02
Group overview
Divisions
Our strategy – three year review
Polymer Chemicals
Key products
–  Emulsions
–  Synthetic latices
–  Adhesives
–  Natural rubber latex
–  Liquid polybutadiene
–  Polyvinyl alcohol
–  Polyvinyl acetate
–  Alkyd and polyester resins
Markets
–  Surface coatings
–  Construction
–  Dipping – eg gloves
–  Carpets and non-woven
Pharma Chemicals
Key products
–  Generic and ethical  
pharmaceutical actives
–  Development and manufacture  
of clinical phase compounds
Markets
–  Generic and ethical drug  
manufacture
–  Generic drugs
Impact Chemicals
Key products
–  Inorganic specialities
Markets
–  Catalyst pre-cursors
–  Flame retardants
– Iodates
What we said What we did
Polymer Chemicals 
> Enhance ‘Key Product’ portfolio.
>  Expand geographically around existing ‘hubs’.
>  Maximise inter-regional synergies.
>  50% of Nitrile sales from product development in 
the last two years.
>  Acquisition of Chemtech, Vietnam.
>  60% capacity expansion for Nitrile latex.
>  New latex pilot plant in Malaysia.
>  Enhanced Lithene product range.
>  New compound plant under construction in Egypt.
>  Solid new product pipeline.
Pharma Chemicals 
> Expand the pipeline of Generic APIs. 
>  Broaden the range of products to be manufactured 
in each location.
>  Optimise ﬁxed cost base.
> 6 DMFs registered per annum 2006-2009. 
>  Sales of recently launched products have grown 200+% 
over the last 2 years.
>  Closure of Italian plant and transfer of product supply 
to Mexico and Spain.
>  Capacity expansion in low cost Mexican plant.
Impact Chemicals 
> Maximise short-term proﬁtability. 
>  Divest at attractive prices.
 
>  Aggressive turn-round executed and all businesses made 
proﬁtable from H2 2006 loss making position.
>  4 out of 5 businesses sold for gross proceeds of £63 million.
>  Remaining business delivering proﬁts since 2008 
and improving.
Balance Sheet 
> Substantial debt reduction. 
>  Improved ﬁnancial ratios.
>  Net debt reduced from £166 million to £88 million between 
2006 and 2009.
> Working capital to sales ratio reduced by over 3%. 03
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Yule Catto around the world
Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures as listed on page 77.
Polymer Chemicals 
Pharma Chemicals 
Impact Chemicals
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
15
14
16
17
18
19
Locations
1 Cuernavaca – Uquifa Mexico S.A.C.V.
2 Durban – Revertex Chemicals (Pty) Ltd
3 Dammam – Synthomer Middle East Company
4 Kluang – Revertex (Malaysia) & Synthomer Sdn Bhd
5 Klang – Revertex Finewaters Sdn Bhd
6 Guangzhou – Yule Catto Asia Ltd 
7 Ho Chi Minh City – Synthomer Vietnam Co. Ltd
8 Accrington – William Blythe Ltd
9 Batley – Synthomer Ltd
10 Ossett – Synthomer Ltd
1 1 Stallingborough – Synthomer Ltd
12 Harlow – Synthomer Ltd
13 Langelsheim – Synthomer GmbH
14 Hasselt – Synthomer BV
15 Oss – Synthomer BV
16 Mouscron – Synthomer SA
17 Lliçà de Vall – Uquifa SA
18 Barcelona – Uquifa SA
19 Sant Celoni – Uquifa SA Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 04
Chairman’s statement
2009 was an extremely good year for 
Yule Catto, with operating proﬁt in 
all three Divisions ahead of the prior 
year, despite the environment with 
a strong increase in Group pre-tax 
proﬁt and a substantial reduction  
in net debt, considerably ahead  
of schedule.
Underlying Group proﬁt before tax 
increased by 27% to £41.5 million, and 
earnings rose by 19% to 21.3 pence  
per share.
We entered 2009 with concerns about 
how the year would develop given the 
substantial global economic contraction 
in late 2008 and the ongoing ﬁnancial 
crisis. However, we took decisive action 
on costs which helped underpin a 
resilient underlying performance across 
the Group. We also beneﬁted from the 
recent work done both to restructure the 
balance sheet and to improve the proﬁle 
of the Group’s business portfolio. The 
geographic balance of the Group has 
changed markedly in recent years with 
44% of Group revenues now generated 
in Asia and other high growth developing 
economies, and this is standing us in 
very good stead.
Our core business of Polymers 
accounted for 84% of Group revenue  
in 2009 and 88% of divisional operating 
proﬁts. Volumes were inevitably down 
on 2008 as a result of the global 
economic slowdown. However, margin 
management and tight cost control, 
together with the beneﬁt of the weaker 
pound, resulted in a strong performance 
throughout the year. 
Our strategy in Polymers remains 
focused on geographical expansion 
around existing business hubs, further 
increasing our presence in emerging 
markets, particularly in Asia, and in 
developing market sectors where our 
technology, new product development 
and manufacturing capabilities give us 
real competitive advantage. With the 
global contraction in the chemicals 
sector in 2009, our focus was on cost 
control, process efﬁciency and product 
development. However, as we move 
forward we expect to invest in further 
manufacturing capacity in Asia during 
2010 in order to meet the rising demand.
Our Pharma business now represents 
just 12% of Group revenue, and 9% 
of divisional operating proﬁt. It was 
not immune from the global economic 
problems in 2009 and volumes were 
adversely affected. However, it continued 
to grow its range of products with the 
registration of six further Drug Master 
Files in the year. During the year we 
concluded the exit of our Italian site as 
planned and the movement of product 
manufacture to other sites in Mexico and 
Spain, which should create further beneﬁt 
to the business during 2010.  
The strategy of restructuring and 
divesting our Impact portfolio was largely 
completed during 2008 with the sale 
of four of our ﬁve Impact businesses. 
During 2009 proﬁtability in the remaining 
business, William Blythe, improved and 
we expect it will continue to show further 
improvement over the course of 2010. 
As we entered 2009, the Board made  
the decision to suspend the dividend 
whilst the Group completed its balance 
sheet restructuring, and set a target  
to reduce net debt below £100 million 
within 24 months. I am delighted that  
we have already comfortably exceeded 
this target, some 12 months ahead  
of schedule, with net debt now at  
£88 million. As a result, we are in a 
position to recommence interim and  
ﬁnal dividend payments in 2010. Whilst 
the dividend suspension was made 
reluctantly it has proved to be the right 
decision and we are now a much  
stronger Group ﬁnancially.  
Whilst the Board will not conclude on the 
ﬁnal level of the dividend payout in 2010 
until the year is complete, it has already 
determined that the total dividend for the 
year will be not less than 5 pence per 
ordinary share. 05
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Polymer Chemicals – 87.7% 
Pharma Chemicals – 9.1% 
Impact Chemicals – 3.2% 
As a further measure to improve the 
ﬁnancial strength of the Group, we took 
the decision to close the UK deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension scheme to further 
accrual. Most active members left the 
scheme at the end of 2009, and the 
scheme will be fully closed by September 
2010, after which time no new liabilities 
will accrue to the scheme.
The Group is absolutely committed 
to the continuous improvement of its 
performance in respect of Safety, Health 
and the Environment. The Group again 
showed further annual improvement 
across a range of performance measures 
in this area, and has substantially 
bettered the ten year targets it published 
and has reported against since 2000. 
I would like to thank all of our employees 
for their support during what has 
been a challenging year. Without their 
contribution, support and understanding 
of some of the difﬁcult decisions that 
were taken during the year, the company 
could not have delivered such substantial 
improvements in performance.
During the year we slimmed down  
the Board, which now comprises 
two executive and six non-executive 
members. Richard Hunting and Dato’ 
Seri Lee Oi Hian stepped down as 
non-executive Directors at the last AGM  
and I would like to thank them for their 
support and contribution during their 
long service to the Group.
Looking forward, we expect western 
economies to grow slowly for several 
years with global growth generally driven 
from emerging markets. Our business 
model is well adapted to this scenario, 
with approaching half of our Group 
revenues generated in Asia and other 
high growth developing economies, 
and with our European business now 
better focused and more efﬁcient. We 
have robust positions within our chosen 
market sectors, a healthy new product 
pipeline, and a signiﬁcantly strengthened 
balance sheet. Against this background 
2010 has made a solid start and we are 
conﬁdent about the prospects for the 
Group in the years ahead.
 
Peter Wood
10 March 2010 
Total sales by destination % 
as derived from note 4 to ﬁnancial  
statements on page 45
Divisional operating proﬁt % 
as derived from note 4 to ﬁnancial  
statements on page 43
UK – 13.2% 
Other Europe – 36.5% 
Asia – 29.5% 
Rest of the World – 20.8% 2008                        507.1
2009                  454.5
Total sales (£’m)
2008             42.4
2009                          53.7
Divisional operating profit* (£’m)
* Underlying performance
Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 06
Overview
Polymers (84% of sales) saw volumes 
decline by 8.6% whilst increasing its 
operating proﬁt by 27% to £53.7 million. 
Much of our effort in 2009 was focused 
on cost control, efﬁciency and product 
development. This should stand us 
in good stead for the years ahead as 
global volumes start to recover. Volumes 
reduced over the course of the year after 
a slow start, and whilst full year volumes 
were down, fourth quarter volumes were 
ahead of prior year. Volumes in nitrile 
latex in particular recovered strongly and 
we anticipate a further expansion of our 
Malaysian capacity during the course of 
2010 to meet the rising demand. 
Pharmaceuticals (12% of sales) saw a 
modest increase in proﬁts, with volumes 
affected by the global economic 
environment. We completed the closure 
of the Italian plant and the associated 
product transfers to other sites around 
the middle of 2009. A further six Drug 
Master Files (DMF’s) were ﬁled in the  
year as we continued to develop our 
generic pipeline.
The API manufacturing industry remains 
challenging with competition from 
cheaper manufacturing economies 
in Asia continuing to develop. In light 
of these strategic shifts, and recent 
experience, the Board has written down 
the carrying value of the goodwill in the 
Pharma business in the Group’s balance 
sheet by £30 million. The value of the 
assets of the business including goodwill 
after this writedown at the year end was 
£80 million.
We completed most of the restructuring 
of the Impact Division with the sale of four 
of the ﬁve operating units over the course 
of 2008. During 2009 the remaining 
business, William Blythe, further 
improved, delivering operating proﬁts of 
some £2 million – a good result given the 
business was loss-making in 2007. We 
expect the business to improve further 
during 2010. Whilst we have stated our 
intention to sell the business at some 
time, we fully intend to extract maximum 
value from it for our shareholders.
Polymer Chemicals
The Polymer Division, Yule Catto’s core 
business, develops and manufactures 
products used in a wide range of 
industries and applications including 
coatings, adhesives and construction, 
where they deliver a number of 
performance beneﬁts from enhanced 
waterprooﬁng to scratch resistance.  
It is also a major supplier to the medical 
industry where its natural rubber and 
synthetic nitrile latex polymers are  
used in the manufacture of condoms, 
catheters and surgical and examination 
gloves where it holds a world leading 
position. It manufactures from 13 sites 
within four geographical regions – 
Europe, South East Asia, Middle East 
and South Africa.
Chief Executive’s report
The Group delivered a 27% improvement 
in underlying proﬁt before tax, and 
achieved a substantial reduction in 
its debt over the course of the year. 
This must be seen as an exceptional 
achievement given the global  
recession and ﬁnancial crisis.  07
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
For more information visit:
www.yulecatto.com
The Group is committed to expanding in growth 
markets, leveraging where possible existing 
manufacturing hubs. As such, it has continued 
to invest heavily in its Nitrile facility in Kluang.  
In 2007 another 36ktes was added, followed by a 
further expansion of 36ktes in 2008. The Group 
anticipates further investment in 2010 in both 
Nitrile Latex and Dispersion capacity in Malaysia.  
New specialist laboratory and Pilot Plant facilities 
have also recently been added.
Yule Catto is the world’s largest supplier of nitrile 
latex to the high growth synthetic nitrile gloves 
market, with a global share of around 25%.
The Group has operated successfully out of 
Kluang, Malaysia for many years through its joint 
venture company Revertex (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, 
manufacturing Dispersions, Alkyds, Rubber and 
other chemicals. In 2001 the Group invested in 
Nitrile Latex Polymer manufacturing capacity 
on the Kluang site through a 100% subsidiary, 
Synthomer Sdn Bhd. The ﬁrst of its kind in South 
East Asia, this facility had an initial nameplate 
capacity of 44ktes.  
Geographic expansion  
in Polymer Chemicals Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 08
The core products of Polymer Division are 
water-based emulsion polymers, based 
on vinyl acetate and acrylic dispersions, 
styrene and nitrile butadiene rubber, as 
well as polyvinyl alcohol/acetate, and a 
number of smaller specialist products.
2009 was a year where all business 
units faced unprecedented economic 
challenges in their markets. Volume 
declines in the ﬁrst quarter were in 
the region of 15% compared to prior 
year, however, this recovered to some 
8.6% down for the full year. In such 
uncertain times, cost elimination and 
containment became a key focus 
resulting in the implementation of a 
number of restructuring projects across 
the Division. We reduced full time 
positions in all our operations around 
the world as well as utilising government 
schemes in continental Europe that allow 
for temporary layoffs. In addition, many 
recruitment decisions were deferred and 
as a consequence overall headcount 
declined by 6% in comparison to 2008. 
Polymer Division’s expansion strategy 
slowed in 2009 as the business 
focused on its cost reduction plans, 
however, the search for geographic 
and technological growth opportunities 
continued throughout the year. As part 
of the continued development of our 
leadership position in Floor Coverings 
a joint venture, Synthomer Egypt, was 
established between Synthomer BV and 
the Arab Company for Artiﬁcial Polymers 
and Varnishes (ACAPV) to produce 
latex compounds for the carpet and 
rug industries in Egypt and the Middle 
East. The new plant is anticipated to be 
operational by the end of 2010 and will 
consolidate our leadership position in  
this market.
Synthetic Latex 
Polymer Division’s Synthetic Latex 
dispersions business consists of two 
product families, Styrene Butadiene 
Rubber (SBR) manufactured in Germany 
and the UK and Nitrile Butadiene  
Rubber (NBR) manufactured in the  
UK and Malaysia.
SBR latex is sold to the speciality 
segments of the construction, textile 
and ﬂoor coverings markets. In 
construction, sales held up as major 
customer projects which were started 
continued to completion, however, 
sales in ﬂoor coverings continued to be 
under signiﬁcant pressure as the UK and 
continental European Carpet Market felt 
the full force of the recession. Sales into 
the former segments experienced single 
digit percentage volume declines, while 
ﬂoor covering volumes dropped by a little 
over 10%. 
In the early part of the year, the NBR latex 
market continued to experience customer 
supply chain destocking which began in 
the ﬁnal quarter of 2008. The ﬁrst quarter 
therefore saw a substantial volume 
decline, which was recovered over the 
course of the year. The resurgence of 
the H1N1 virus and concerns over a 
global pandemic, coupled to very low 
stock levels in the customer supply 
chain, raised demand signiﬁcantly in the 
second half, and this continued through 
the year-end. In addition, rising monomer 
prices required several price increases 
during the latter part of the year in order 
to protect margins. During the year the 
new pilot plant was commissioned at 
the Kluang site, and this gave further 
positive momentum to New Product 
Development programmes. Sales of new 
NBR products launched in the last two 
years now account for approximately 
half of all NBR sales. Looking forward 
continued strong growth in this market 
is expected and further capacity 
expansions of Nitrile latex in Kluang are 
currently being planned to meet the rising 
customer demand in the high growth 
synthetic glove market.
Dispersions
The global Coatings and Adhesives 
markets, the major segments served by 
our Dispersions business, experienced 
sluggish demand during the year. The 
European, South African and Middle 
East regions recorded signiﬁcant volume 
declines. However, the Asian operations 
fared better with South East Asia ﬂat 
while Vietnam grew by a resounding 
25%, resulting from solid sales progress 
in the coating sector. Against the 
background of falling volumes, our 
raw material position was favourable 
and helped margins recover in most 
markets and compensated for the 
volume declines, except in the Middle 
East where very aggressive competition 
placed margins under severe pressure. 
In Research and Development the drive 
to improve our low VOC offering to the 
coatings market continued with the 
launch of a number of new products 
which were well received in the market.
Specialities
Polyvinyl Alcohol
The PVC market was a challenging 
environment globally with many 
customers forced to reduce or idle their 
capacity during the ﬁrst half of the year. 
The severe downturn created extremely 
poor trading conditions for the Alcotex 
business, which resulted in a difﬁcult 
but necessary decision to carry out a 
restructuring at the Harlow site. In the 
market, Synthomer continued to maintain 
its leadership position in the supply of 
low hydrolysis polyvinyl alcohol to the 
PVC industry and volumes did improve 
in the second half of the year. In addition 
investments made in plant maintenance 
and process control started to deliver 
beneﬁts. Overall, volumes for the primary 
and secondary Alcotex stabilisers were 
modestly down on 2008, however, 
good control of margins, as well as the 
beneﬁts of strong cost control assisted 
the business to deliver a signiﬁcant 
improvement in full year performance.
 
Chief Executive’s report continued Synthomer has invested heavily in Research and 
Development for its range of nitrile latices for 
the dipped glove market. Signiﬁcant investment 
has been made in its development group which 
is located at Kluang site so as to be close to the 
market and the NBR manufacturing facility. 
This includes additional scientists; new research 
laboratories equipped with modern equipment; 
an applications laboratory designed for technical 
customer support and applications development; 
and a new pilot plant facility tied in to the  
main plant.
This investment has already paid off and today 
around 50% of sales are from products introduced 
within the last two years. One example of such 
successful innovation is the development of 
Synthomer’s self crosslinking technology  
to answer a speciﬁc market need.
Most healthcare professionals are familiar with 
T ype I latex glove allergy, related to proteins in 
natural rubber. However T ype IV allergy, related  
to residual accelerators, is less known but can  
also give a dermatitis reaction. Synthomer has 
pioneered self crosslinking technology for glove 
dipping applications. This allows development  
of gloves which are sulphur and accelerator free.  
They are easier to handle during manufacturing 
and have much reduced risk of allergy.
Chemax 7th sense from Kossan has been 
successfully launched using one of Synthomer’s 
self crosslinking latices, being the ﬁrst accelerator 
free glove approved by the FDA with a low  
dermatitis claim. 
Synthomer’s commitment to innovation and strong 
understanding of current and future customer  
needs has given rise to this pioneering product for 
the glove market.
For more information visit:
www.yulecatto.com
09
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Synthomer’s Pioneering  
Technology – self crosslinking latex 2008                        63.9
2009                           65.3
Total sales (£’m)
2008                          5.3
2009                             5.6
Divisional operating profit* (£’m)
* Underlying performance
Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 10
Liquid Polybutadiene
During 2009 our intensiﬁed technical 
approach to developing the Lithene 
business continued to gain momentum. 
However, the collapse of sales to the 
automotive industry led to a decision 
to idle the plant for much of the ﬁrst 
half. However, a more positive trading 
environment in the second half saw 
sales pick up strongly and, while full 
year volume was substantially lower, the 
continuation of cost control and margin 
management work started in late 2008 
resulted in full year operating proﬁt  
ahead of prior year.  
Alkyds and Polyester
The Malaysian-based Resin business 
experienced two very different results 
in 2009. The Alkyd business had a 
difﬁcult time throughout the year resulting 
from signiﬁcantly weaker demand in 
South East Asia and strong customer 
destocking in the run up to year-end. In 
contrast, Polyester enjoyed a strong year, 
with sales mainly driven by the launch  
of government infrastructure projects  
in many South East Asian countries.
Pharma Chemicals
Pharma Chemicals produces a range 
of over 75 Active Pharmaceutical 
Ingredients (APIs) for the generic and 
ethical pharmaceutical industries from 
its manufacturing plants in Spain and 
Mexico. These products are sold to 
formulators who produce and distribute 
the drug in its ﬁnal physical form. APIs 
produced range from anti-bacterial, anti-
ulcer and anti-parasitic to heart drugs. 
The Pharma Chemicals business 
continued to be challenged by the 
market conditions and the regulatory 
environment for pharmaceuticals, and 
a number of its customers did not gain 
Ministry of Health ﬁnal approvals for 
new products. Consequently although 
margins held up volumes were behind  
for the year. A programme of cost 
reduction helped compensate for the 
reduced volumes.
The volume reductions were felt the most 
acutely in the Spanish plants, but a well 
implemented cost improvement plan 
was successful in offsetting the lower 
volumes. A number of customers did 
not get approvals for their registrations 
and the newly implemented German 
Insurers – generic tender process 
changed signiﬁcantly the order patterns 
of some major customers. Our ability to 
continue to strategically source from Asia 
helped our margins and the successful 
outsourcing of key intermediates bodes 
well for 2010. 
Generics remains the major part of the 
business sourced from Spain, within 
which the anti-ulcer franchises were 
important both in the US and Europe. 
In the middle of the year, destocking 
and the uncertainty around tenders for 
anti-ulcer drugs in Europe softened our 
order book, but this reversed later in the 
year with our US franchises continuing 
to perform well. The launch of a new 
Omeprazole formulation in the US did 
not gain approval in 2009 as expected 
so, although the approval has now been 
gained, the launch will not happen until 
the second quarter of 2010.
The rest of our generic portfolio 
manufactured in Spain showed a 
mixed year and although we saw our 
Pantoperazole and Quetiepine franchises 
building in volume, late approvals in 
Europe and price erosion occurred 
during the later part of the year. We still 
await approvals for a new formulation 
of Ketorolac which is expected by the 
middle of 2010. The dossier business 
helped us, especially in the European 
market, and we are now looking to  
widen the formulation registration 
dossiers we have.
After a disappointing 2008, sales from 
our Mexican plant bounced back strongly 
with ethical customer orders increasing 
signiﬁcantly throughout the year. The new 
Albendazole plant came on stream in  
the ﬁrst half of the year and boosted 
signiﬁcantly our capacity, which was used 
to satisfy a range of ethical and generic 
customers around the world. New drying 
capacity will come on stream in the ﬁrst 
quarter to meet our capacity requirements 
in 2010. Volumes remained strong during 
the year with both generic and ethical 
products improving the performance.
Chief Executive’s report continued 2008                        31.1
2009           23.6
Total sales (£’m)
2008                1.6
2009                             2.0
Divisional operating profit* (£’m)
* Underlying performance
11
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Impact Chemicals
Impact Chemicals originally comprised 
ﬁve businesses, four of which were sold 
during 2008. The remaining business, 
William Blythe, is a worldwide supplier  
of inorganic specialities based on copper, 
iodine and tin from its UK manufacturing 
facility. Products are used in a range 
of applications such as semiconductor 
manufacture, pharmaceutical actives, 
non-toxic ﬂame retardants, safety glass 
coatings and catalysts.
During the period, William Blythe traded 
ahead of 2008 albeit on generally  
weaker volumes.
Custom synthesis remained ﬂat in  
the year as a consequence of reduced 
funding especially in the biotech  
sector where we saw Research  
and Development programmes  
cut dramatically.
Our commitment to continuous 
improvement of processes and our  
cost base helped underpin our results  
for the year, with good progress made  
in leveraging our Asian suppliers 
throughout the period.
The transfer of products from Italy to 
Spain and Mexico is complete, although 
customer regulatory approvals are taking 
time from a number of customers and 
health authorities. We will see improved 
volumes as these approvals come  
on stream.
Development and selection of new APIs 
is still key to our strategy and we ﬁled  
six Drug Master Files in the year in a 
number of countries. Esomeprazole 
(Nexium
®
, API) remains very interesting 
to a number of our key customers and 
establishes us for when patent expiries 
begin in Europe and the US. A number 
of our newly ﬁled products have received 
keen interest from our customer base 
and we see this continuing in 2010.  Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 12
Financial review
Income statement – underlying 
performance
Total sales decreased by 10% driven in 
the main by the volume declines seen 
across the Polymer business. Translation 
increased turnover by 8%, offset by 
lower pricing and mix. Turnover remains 
predominantly within Europe with some 
50% of sales (2008 50%), which has 
sales outside Europe heavily skewed 
towards Asia and other developing 
economies, which accounted for 44%  
of turnover. 
With the international nature of the 
business, movements in foreign currency 
exchange rates can affect the value 
of transactions made by the Group 
where pricing of our products is in non-
domestic currency, and in the translation 
of results from overseas subsidiaries. 
With regard to the former of these two 
effects, the Group generally hedges 
transactions once entered into and in 
addition, where exchange rates continue 
to be adverse, we look to increase sale 
prices or price in domestic currency 
to mitigate the impact where this is 
commercially possible. The weakness 
of sterling against the euro and the 
Malaysian ringgit delivered some  
£4 million improvement to operating  
proﬁt from translation.
The underlying tax rate of 20% reﬂects 
the beneﬁts of pioneer status on our 
investment in Malaysia and the settlement 
of some prior year tax positions. The 
comparable rate for 2008 of 15% was 
abnormally low, reﬂecting adjustments 
relating to prior year tax provisions.
Proﬁt attributable to minority interests 
was £2.2 million (2008 £1.7 million).
The resultant underlying earnings 
per share of 21.3 pence is a year-
on-year increase of 19%. The Group 
announced in December 2008 that 
given the prevailing ﬁnancial crisis, and 
to strengthen the Group’s balance sheet, 
the Group would suspend its dividend 
until it had reduced net debt below  
£100 million. Year end net debt fell to  
£88 million, and the Group will therefore 
be declaring a dividend for 2010.
Income statement – special items
To provide a clearer indication of the 
Group’s underlying performance, a 
number of special items are shown in 
a separate column of the consolidated 
income statement. Special items include: 
• Proﬁt on the sale of Oxford Chemicals 
Limited of £3.9 million. The sale was 
announced in 2008, but completed in 
January 2009.
• We utilise various cross currency 
and interest rate swaps for hedging 
purposes, which involve maturities of 
up to seven years. IFRS requires that 
where the strict requirements of IAS 
39 are not met, changes in the market 
value should be recognised annually in 
the income statement. However, such 
ﬁnancial instruments are maintained by 
the Group for the length of the contract 
and over their lifetime have a fair 
value of nil. Hence the notional annual 
adjustment of £(4.4 million) (2008 gain 
£8.6 million) is segregated from the 
underlying performance.
• Impairment of goodwill in the Pharma 
business of £30 million.
• Release of tax provisions relating to 
prior year issues that were closed during 
the course of 2009 of £9.3 million.
 
The impairment of goodwill in the Pharma 
business is a result of lower projected 
earnings growth for the business based on 
recent experience. Post the impairment, the 
book value of the assets of the business, 
including goodwill, was £80 million.
Pensions
In the main UK deﬁned beneﬁt pension 
scheme the majority of investments 
are in equities. Equity markets having 
declined substantially in 2008, recovered 
somewhat over the course of 2009, and 
overall the fund delivered a return of  
24%. The yield on high-quality corporate 
bonds decreased signiﬁcantly during  
the year, which has increased liabilities. 
Over and above the Company’s agreed 
£5.8 million per annum deﬁcit remediation 
funding of the UK scheme, the Company 
contributed, on a voluntary basis, a 
further £4 million in November 2009.  
The overall effect of these changes was 
that there was little movement in the 
overall deﬁcit of the scheme, which stood 
at £70 million at the end of 2009. 
The UK scheme was closed to future 
accrual during 2009. At the end of the 
year fewer than twenty active members 
remained, and there will be no active 
members as at the end of September 
2010, after which date no further liabilities 
will accrue to the scheme.
IFRS
On an unadjusted IFRS basis, Group 
revenue decreased by £56.5 million to 
£527.9 million. Proﬁt before taxation at 
£7.1 million was £31.8 million lower than 
the previous period, reﬂecting the change 
between the years in the mark to market 
of the Group’s currency swaps, the  
proﬁt on disposal of businesses and 
goodwill impairment. 13
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Net debt substantially 
reduced in just two years
At the end of 2007, net debt stood at £171 million, and  
net debt to EBITDA, the key ﬁnancial metric for borrowing, 
stood at 2.8 times.  
One objective of the portfolio rationalisation with the  
sale of four of the Impact businesses was to reduce the  
gearing of the Company. Over the three years to end 2009, 
the Company has generated £60 million (net) from 
divestments. The Company continued to invest in its  
asset base over this time period with capital expenditure 
exceeding depreciation in 2007 and 2008.  
Working capital management is, and remains, a core focus  
of Group management. Over the three year period to end 
2009, the Group lowered its working capital to sales ratio  
by over 3%, generating in excess of £15 million of cash for 
debt reduction.  
During the reﬁnancing of the Group’s revolving credit lines  
in late 2008, at the height of the ﬁnancial crisis, the Board 
reluctantly took the tough decision to suspend the dividend 
to allow a ﬁnal push to reduce debt below £100 million and  
move the Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio to a sensible 
level, at which the Board anticipated any future reﬁnancing  
of the Group, as required from time to time, would be 
straightforward to execute.  
The Board set a two year period to achieve this,  
and in practice, the target was reached in one year.  
Net debt at the end of 2009 was £88 million, and with the 
improvement in underlying earnings over the three year 
period, net debt to EBITDA now stands at only 1.3.
2006  2007  2008  2009
£’m
185 
165 
145 
125 
105 
85
Year end net debt
For more information visit:
www.yulecatto.com
Borrowings 
Underlying net debt reduced signiﬁcantly 
during the year.
In 2008 we reported a year of increased 
capital expenditure, having invested 
in further expansion of the Malaysian 
nitrile facility over 2007 and 2008 and 
in the relocation of some manufacturing 
from our Italian Pharma site. Capital 
expenditure slowed substantially in 2009 
with the global recession with capex of 
only £8.7 million (2008 £17.7 million). 
Investment in the cash costs of  
running the Italian Pharma site came  
to some £3.5 million, whilst net  
proceeds from divestments totalled  
£8.8 million, predominantly the sale  
of Oxford Chemicals.
Working capital inﬂow for the year 
was £15.2 million. Control of working 
capital is a core focus of the business 
management.
The combination of stronger EBITDA, 
lower capex, divestment proceeds and 
the substantial working capital inﬂow 
resulted in underlying net debt reducing 
to £88 million from £135 million at the 
end of 2008.
Reﬁnancing and liquidity
The Group has a further £33 million  
of US private placement debt to repay  
in September 2010. Thereafter, the  
next large repayment of term debt is  
£24 million of US private placement debt 
due in 2012. At the year end the Group 
had £30 million of cash available to it 
under an undrawn three year revolving 
loan maturing December 2011 and 
£42 million of cash, which in aggregate 
is some £39 million more than the 
September 2010 £33 million repayment.
Net Debt to EBITDA, the Group’s key 
leverage metric, fell to under 1.3 at the 
end of the year from 2.3 at the end  
of 2008. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 14
Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Introduction
2009 saw another signiﬁcant improvement in Yule Catto’s 
Safety Health and Environment (SHE) performance, even 
against the sharply improved performance of recent years. This 
improvement was sustained across all the Operating Divisions 
and across the geographical spread of Group companies.  
It was achieved despite the difﬁcult trading conditions in 2009 
and covered both safety and environmental impact.
The Group’s accident performance improved again compared 
to 2008’s record performance, with the Group recording  
3 fewer over 3-day (O3D) lost time accidents (down from  
13 to 10). The number of all Lost Time Accidents (LTAs) also 
reduced and our accident rate was over 30% below the latest 
average ﬁgure reported by Ceﬁc (the European Chemical 
Industry’s representative body). The Group recorded very 
signiﬁcant improvements in energy and water usage per tonne 
of production, down by 16% and 15% respectively, and there 
were further reductions in the tonnage of both hazardous and 
non-hazardous waste produced. The great majority of our other 
environmental indicators also showed further improvement, due 
to innovative solutions by Group companies and as the result  
of investment in environmental protection.
Our policy commitments
Responsible Care
®
 was an initiative of the Canadian chemical 
industry in the 1980s and has now been adopted by the 
chemical industry around the world. Responsible Care
®
 
aims to improve and enhance the chemical industry’s SHE 
performance, year on year. Yule Catto has been committed 
to Responsible Care
®
 since the 1990s and this commitment 
remains at the core of our efforts towards excellence in 
Corporate Social Responsibility. All Yule Catto sites are  
required to adhere to these principles and actively support  
the Group’s efforts to achieve continuous improvement in  
our SHE performance.
In 2005 the Yule Catto Group was amongst the ﬁrst group of 
UK Chemical Manufacturers to sign up to and support the UK 
Chemical Industries Association’s Sustainable Development 
(SD) guiding principles. The SD principles were adopted by the 
Yule Catto Board and are followed by the Group’s sites around 
the world. They have been used to set improvement targets, 
especially for our environmental performance, and to help the 
Group to deﬁne its route to a safe and sustainable business. 
The SD principles include a strong commitment to open 
reporting of our environmental performance and full respect  
for the people and communities amongst whom we work.
Highlights and achievements during 2009
Yule Catto uses ﬁve ‘headline’ SHE Key Performance Indicators 
(KPIs) to monitor its performance month by month. On all ﬁve, 
the Group’s performance improved markedly during 2009. 
Energy use per tonne of production fell by 16%; water use fell 
by 15%; total waste production fell by 18.5%; and the number 
of O3D accidents fell from 13 to 10, giving a frequency
rate of 0.235 per 100,000 hours worked. These four KPIs are 
lagging indicators of performance. The Group also uses a 
leading indicator: the reporting of ‘near misses’ – deﬁned as 
conditions which could potentially cause an injury, loss or 
environmental problem – by Group employees. Near miss 
reporting gives sites the chance to remove dangerous or 
potentially dangerous conditions before they can cause 
damage or personal injury. As a pro-active measure all sites 
were set a target of identifying, reporting and dealing with  
2 near misses per employee during the year. Group employees 
showed that they recognise the importance of this initiative by 
reporting and dealing with 3.9 near misses per person, almost 
double the target. 
The number of O3D accidents was down by over 20% but  
the frequency rate was only slightly better, due to the reduced 
number of hours worked. The rate was as good as the average 
for the UK Chemical Industry but did not quite meet our  
target for the year of 0.20. The Group performance on all LTAs 
also improved by over 6%: the frequency rate was 0.40 per 
100,000 hours and remains some 30% below the average  
for the European chemical industry (as reported by Ceﬁc). 
The SHE headline KPIs are in addition to the Group’s continuing 
commitment to our 10-year SD targets, which cover a wider 
range of environmental measures. As the Group has a history 
of signiﬁcantly beating the SD targets, the headline KPIs are 
measured against tougher internal targets: an annual 4% 
reduction in both energy and water usage per production 
tonne; and a 5% reduction in waste disposed of off-site.  
The Group passed these more stringent environmental  
targets by a signiﬁcant margin in 2009. 
Nearly all of the Group’s other environmental targets were met, 
and indeed passed, in 2009 to give a performance better than 
target: for example the release of acid gases to atmosphere 
was reduced by a further 73%. However, Volatile Organic 
Compounds (VOC) releases increased signiﬁcantly compared 
to previously reported ﬁgures and this is discussed  
further on page 17.
Given the recession and the accompanying reduction 
in production volume for many of our sites, the Group’s 
achievement is particularly notable. 2009 continued the 
Group’s record of improvement over the last 8 years; a record 
of continuous improvement which means that most of the 
easy changes have already been implemented. Sites now have 
to actively manage energy, water, waste and other materials 
to continue to make further performance improvements. It is 
notable that the Group’s use of water per tonne of product has 
been reduced by 50% since 2000 and energy use is down 
by 38%. The innovative approach to the disposal of waste is 
shown by Polymer Division’s increasing disposal of polymer 
waste by composting, producing a saleable soil enhancer rather 
than a waste problem.
Corporate Social Responsibility report 15
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Managing safety and environmental performance
Yule Catto believes that staff at all levels have to manage health 
and safety effectively if we are to achieve our aim of protecting  
the safety of all our personnel and have to operate our sites  
in a way that protects the environment at all times. This is 
achieved by managing our SHE performance in the same  
way that all other business objectives are managed. 
The Group has an Accident and Incident Management System 
(AIMS) to assist in the management of all actual events and  
all near misses throughout the Group. The system received  
a signiﬁcant upgrade during 2009 to improve the risk 
assessment of events and to include better information capture 
for process safety incidents, an area of increasing importance 
for the Group.
SHE performance is a primary duty for management at all levels 
in the Group and we have a number of management processes 
which assist this:
• SHE performance is discussed in all management meetings, 
as the ﬁrst agenda item;
• Yule Catto conducts regular, in-depth SHE audits of all 
sites to assess performance and identify opportunities for 
improvement. The results of the audits are discussed both 
with the site involved and with wider management,  
for example at the Group Executive Committee;
• The Group AIMS is used to collect and analyse data on all 
accidents, incidents and near misses on our site. The system 
ensures that all of these are appropriately investigated, with 
the most serious or potentially serious incidents being fully 
investigated to root causes. The system is then used to  
ensure that the identiﬁed actions to prevent recurrence are  
put in place;
• Key measures of SHE performance are collected monthly or 
quarterly as appropriate and reported to the Group Executive 
and to the Board. This process is mirrored at company and 
site level to give management and staff a clear picture of 
current performance; and
• Senior managers have SHE targets as part of their annual 
objectives. Other employees have similar objectives set,  
either on an individual or a site basis.
Health, safety and accident performance
The number of more serious accidents, those which cause an 
employee or contractor to lose more than 3 working days (O3D 
accidents), reduced again in 2009, falling to 10 compared to 13 
in 2008. Notably no contractors suffered an O3D accident on 
any of our sites in 2009. As the number of worked hours also  
fell during the year, this improved performance only resulted in  
a small reduction in the frequency rate to 0.235 per 100,000 
hours worked (100,000 hours is, very broadly, a working 
lifetime). These O3D accidents are those which are generally 
reportable to the regulatory authorities in the European Union 
and are a widely used comparison between different industries.  
The UK chemical industry is amongst the safest manufacturing 
industries in the world and the UK Chemical Industry Association 
(CIA) reports on its members’ performance. Our performance 
in 2009 puts Yule Catto at or just ahead of the average for CIA 
companies. Our current rate of O3D injuries is less than one 
quarter of what it was at the beginning of the decade.
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
O3D LTA frequency rate (per 100,000 hours)
Reportable lost time accident frequency rates
Process safety and reportable safety incidents
The number of signiﬁcant, reportable safety incidents remains 
at a very low level as indicated by the chart overleaf. None of 
the incidents during the year caused lasting harm to people  
or the environment.  
There was one signiﬁcant incident at our polymer plant in 
Germany where there was an uncontrolled polymerisation in 
a storage vessel. The incident involved a release of Butadiene 
from the vessel concerned and required off-site emergency 
services to attend. There was very little environmental or plant 
damage but 3 people were sent to hospital for observation. 
All were released quickly. Following the incident the European 
management team carried out an urgent safety review of the 
systems involved and identiﬁed a number of opportunities for 
improved operation in future. These were rapidly implemented 
and the plant returned to operation within 14 days with the full 
support of the German Regulatory Authorities. 
Major safety improvement projects were implemented during 
the year in Vietnam and South Africa. These projects upgraded 
and signiﬁcantly improved the reactor venting systems on both 
plants and will enable both sites to operate with an enhanced 
level of safety in the future. 
Yule Catto participated in the production of a new Process 
Safety course by the UK Institution of Chemical Engineers 
(IChemE). IChemE ran the course several times during the year 
and Yule Catto sent a number of delegates to attend. Further 
staff training will be carried out in 2010. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 16
Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Occupational health and hygiene
The Group has a comprehensive set of medical arrangements 
for our staff around the world. All staff who work with chemicals 
are provided with regular medical examinations. Whilst always 
respecting medical conﬁdentiality, the doctors who provide 
the service in each country inform the local company if there 
are cases of reportable disease which could be caused by a 
work activity. They are also asked to inform the company if 
their overview of the health of our staff causes them concern. 
It is good to be able to report that there were no cases of a 
reportable disease recorded in 2009 or issues of concern 
highlighted by local doctors.
To support our work in occupational health, Yule Catto 
companies manage occupational hygiene, principally by  
limiting exposure to the chemicals we process. This is done  
by the provision of appropriate equipment and work conditions 
which minimise exposure, and by the provision of Personal 
Protective Equipment (PPE) as a backup measure. In order 
to ensure that these measures are adequate the Group has 
introduced a risk assessment programme which is based on 
the standards of the UK Control of Substances Hazardous to 
Health regulations. This programme is being rolled out to all our 
companies around the world and is backed by the programme 
of Group SHE audits which give advice on adequate standards.
Audit programme
We have continued the Yule Catto Group SHE audits during 
2009 and the results have been reported to the Group 
Executive on a regular basis. The audits are based on the 
principles of Responsible Care
®
 management and give both 
individual companies and Yule Catto a view of each site’s 
current performance and set out areas for improvement.  
The Executive monitors both the ﬁndings of the audits and  
the progression of improvement actions which arise from  
the audits.
Asset protection and insurance inspections
We can report that the Group’s losses from ﬁre or process 
safety related incidents in 2009 continued at the very low 
level we have experienced in recent years. The Group’s SHE 
management systems and our internal SHE audit processes 
continue to contribute to this performance. The biennial 
insurance surveys carried out by our global property and 
business risk insurers serve as a ‘sense check’ on our own 
internal audits and also produce loss control recommendations 
of their own. These recommendations are assessed by Yule 
Catto for their practicality and cost-effectiveness, and progress 
is monitored both internally and by our insurers. This transparent 
partnership has helped the Group to reduce the cost of our 
global risk insurance by one third over the past ﬁve years.
Regulatory affairs: REACH and GHS
The Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction  
of Chemicals (REACH) regulations came into full force on  
1 December 2008. The regulations required a signiﬁcant 
amount of work by Group companies in 2008, including the 
pre-registration of some 1,250 chemicals with the European 
Chemicals Agency (ECHA). The ﬁrst deadline for registration  
is 1 December 2010 and the workload in 2009 was focused  
on two areas: preparation for registration of the appropriate 
materials in 2010; and exchanging information with our 
customers and suppliers. Preparation for registration involves 
understanding which materials require registration and 
collecting the relevant information, not only from our suppliers 
and customers but also from any other companies who 
produce or market the same materials in the EU – with due 
regard to competition rules. Information collection naturally 
intersects with information sharing and these requirements 
mean that we must understand how our products are used  
and for what purposes, and then set up systems to collect and 
share appropriate safety information with those who need it.
The work in 2009 has shown that Polymer Division will need  
to register a number of monomers contained in polymers 
imported into the EU by Group companies. These registrations 
are to be made in 2010. William Blythe will also have a number  
of substances to register. The Pharma Division will only need  
to register some transported intermediates which require a 
much reduced data set.
These obligations are further complicated by the introduction 
of the new Globally Harmonised System (GHS) for Safety Data 
Sheets and hazardous product labelling. This new system has 
been negotiated by the United Nations and is being introduced 
in Europe at the end of 2010. Other jurisdictions around the 
world are currently planning the introduction of GHS, early in  
the next decade. REACH and GHS mean that the majority  
of our Safety Data Sheets and the accompanying labels for  
our products will need to be revised over the next few years. 
The Group Executive Committee continues to monitor 
the implementation of REACH and is kept abreast of the 
forthcoming impact of GHS.  
Corporate Social Responsibility report continued
09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
4
6
4 4
2
4
26 26
66
4
Reportable safety incidents 17
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Sustainable Development Performance  
Report 2009
Managing our environmental responsibilities
The Chemical Industry is committed to the concepts of SD.  
The UK CIA asked its member companies to formally commit  
to SD by signing a programme of SD goals in 2005. Yule Catto 
joined this programme at inception and has been committed to 
achieving them ever since. This commitment has been shown 
by a continuous record of improvement against the targets and 
a signiﬁcant reduction of almost all our environmental impacts 
year on year.
2009 saw further signiﬁcant improvements against all the 
SD measures we have reported in previous years with one 
exception. Improved measurements and better calculation 
methods have shown that the Group has signiﬁcantly 
underestimated its releases of VOCs in recent years. There is no 
evidence of which Yule Catto is aware that these releases cause 
or have caused any immediate environmental harm, though 
we fully accept that they contribute to the overall environmental 
cost of our operations. Having become aware of this problem, 
which affects more than one site, the Group is actively seeking 
ways to reduce or abate these releases in the coming years. 
Energy
For the fourth year in a row the Group achieved a very signiﬁcant 
reduction in its speciﬁc energy consumption (that is energy 
consumption per tonne of production). Energy use fell by a 
further 16.9% in 2009 which means that the Group’s energy 
consumption is almost exactly one half of what it was in 2001.  
It has fallen by over 38% since the SD goals were signed in 2005 
and is 34% below the target for 2010. The Group has set itself 
an internal target of achieving a further 4% reduction in energy 
consumption in 2010, which is roughly twice the rate of reduction 
which is expected by the Chemical Industry’s SD goals.
Although energy prices fell at the start of 2009, the long term 
trend is for energy prices to continue to rise; this makes the 
value of the energy saving achieved very signiﬁcant for the 
Group. The change in the energy consumption per tonne in 
2009 was equivalent to a saving of approximately £1.6 million.
Global warming
Despite the very signiﬁcant improvement in energy 
performance, Yule Catto’s impact on global warming was 
unchanged in 2009. The gains in energy efﬁciency were 
effectively negated by the recalculated VOC emissions.  
None the less the Group is already performing over 20% better 
than its 2010 target. We expect this indicator to improve again 
when measures to reduce or abate VOC releases can be 
brought online.
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
Tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent release per production tonne
Global warming burden
Atmospheric acidiﬁcation
Despite having already fallen by 97% since 2000, the Group 
achieved a further 73% reduction in its release of acidic gases 
to the atmosphere in 2009. This means that the releases are 
now less than 1% of what they were 9 years ago. By far the 
greatest sources of acid gases were the two Holliday Pigment 
plants, now no longer part of the Yule Catto Group. However,  
it is worth noting that the vast majority of the reduction arose 
from the very signiﬁcant investment Yule Catto made in 
abatement equipment. The Group is currently producing  
only 1.6% of our target for 2010. 
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
Kgs sulphur dioxide equivalent released per production tonne
Atmospheric acidification burden
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
GigaJoules used per production tonne
Energy consumption Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 18
Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Water use
The security of the water supply and its quality is of great 
importance to every site in the Group, not least because water 
is an essential reactant in many of our processes and because 
the vast majority of our polymers are sold as dispersions in 
water. We are fortunate to have reliable sources of water for 
our sites and in a number of cases they come from our own 
renewable sources. Where we have this type of supply we 
monitor the source carefully so that we can be certain  
that it is not being depleted. Using water carefully and wisely  
is an important goal in ensuring that Group companies are  
fully sustainable.
Water usage fell sharply in 2009, by 15.2% compared to 2008, 
and has fallen markedly over the last decade so that it is just 
less than 50% of the consumption in the baseline year of 2000. 
It has fallen by over 28% since 2005 when the SD targets were 
set and is now only 62% of the 2010 target.
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
Water consumption
m   per production tonne
3
Waste disposal
For Yule Catto the safe disposal of hazardous waste is an 
important responsibility which we fulﬁl by minimising the 
quantity of waste we produce and by working with reputable, 
regulated waste disposal companies. Our waste reduction 
programme has been very successful over the period since 
2000 and current waste quantities are less than one sixth of 
what they were in 2000. Compared to the target for 2010 Yule 
Catto companies are producing only 16% of the target amount.
0.000
0.002
0.004
0.006
0.008
0.010
0.012
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
Tonnes waste per production tonne
Hazardous waste disposed to land
As noted in previous years we have adopted various strategies 
to reduce the quantity of waste produced, from ensuring 
that as much material as possible is reused or recycled, to 
sending non-hazardous organic waste to be disposed of via 
composting. These efforts have continued to bear fruit and the 
quantity of non-hazardous waste reduced by a further 7.5% in 
2009. It is now only 36% of the quantity produced in 2005, the 
peak year.
0.000
0.005
0.010
0.015
0.020
0.025
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Tonnes per production tonne
Non-hazardous waste disposed to land
Environmental incidents
Having risen sharply in 2008, the number of environmental 
incidents dropped back to previous levels in 2009. This 
signiﬁcant improvement was due to further changes in the 
control of efﬂuent discharge at William Blythe in Accrington, UK. 
Tighter limits had pushed them out of consent on a number of 
occasions in 2008 but improved control ensured that there was 
only one reportable incident during 2009.  
 
The other reportable environmental incidents during 2009 were 
also nearly all to do with efﬂuent discharge. Tighter limits and 
stricter controls are making this an active area of improvement 
for most of our sites and we expect to make signiﬁcant 
investment in upgrades to our on-site treatment plants over  
the next few years.
 
Although limits were breached on 8 occasions in 2009 the 
tightness of the limits we operate to means that there have 
been no reports of environmental damage arising from 
these incidents. None the less each incident has been fully 
investigated and remedial actions needed to prevent  
recurrence have been implemented.
    
09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
88
19
4
7
4
22
44
49
8
Reportable environmental incidents
Corporate Social Responsibility report continued 19
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Environmental KPIs
The UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) published guidelines for reporting environmental key 
performance indicators in 2006. The key measures suggested were energy use, emissions to air, waste disposal and water 
consumption, on an absolute and a per tonne basis. Yule Catto has reported on these indicators for a number of years, and to aid 
transparency in environmental performance reporting Yule Catto adopted DEFRA’s preferred format in 2007. This format is used in 
the table below which gives the data for the period 2007-2009:
       % change  % change 
    2009 2008 2007  2007-2009 2008-2009
Energy consumption
1
GJ 1,967,478 2,633,940 3,063,455 -35.78% -25.30%
Gas 641,691 934,577 1,159,183  
Light oil 24,885 82,920 82,120  
Heavy oil 61,046 35,254 46,202  
Steam 147,456 165,912 179,939  
Electricity (primary basis) 1,086,779 1,409,021 1,596,011  
GJ/tonne production 2.765 3.327 3.640 -24.04% -16.89%
Emissions to Air
2
           
Carbon Dioxide (CO
2
)      
’000 tonnes 98,289 131,787 153,308 -35.89% -25.42%
Tonnes CO
2
/tonne production 0.138 0.166 0.182
Sulphur Dioxide (SO
2
)      
Tonnes 28 114 261 -89.31% -75.52% 
Kilos SO
2
/tonne production 0.039 0.144 0.31
Nitrous Oxides (NOx)     
Tonnes 20.033 30.844 38.460 -47.91% -35.05% 
Kilos NOx/tonne production 0.028 0.039 0.046
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
3
     
Tonnes 2155 2081 2065 4.34% 3.54%
Kilos VOC/tonne production 3.028 2.628 2.451  
Water usage          
Cubic metres (m
3
) 3,366,442 4,417,697 4,733,336 -28.88% -23.80%
Public potable supply 938,084 1,358,705 1,480,577  
Raw water from river 1,609,773 2,285,307 2,439,170  
Raw water from borehole 308,738 443,308 420,921  
Raw water from canal 2,565 15,282 5,169  
Raw water from other 507,282 315,094 387,499  
M
3
/tonne production 4.731 5.580 5.620 -15.82% -15.21%
1. Data relates to site usage of all fuels, excluding transport.
2.   Emissions to air have been calculated from the usage of all fuels, excluding transport fuel; and therefore include both direct emissions  
and indirect emissions related to bought-in electricity.
3. Improved measurement methods used in 2009.
 Figures for earlier years have been revised using 2009 measurements and calculation methods. Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 20
       % change  % change 
    2009 2008 2007  2007-2009 2008-2009
Waste management
Hazardous waste     
’000 tonnes 12.131 18.848 23.469 -48.31% -35.64%
Hazardous waste sent off-site
Recycled – energy recovery 1.981 4.855 5.675  
Recycled – separated, reprocessed 3.865 5.164 6.749  
Incinerated – no energy recovery 3.462 4.232 2.106  
Disposed by landﬁll 0.817 1.158 2.075  
Other 0.065 0.119 0.151  
Hazardous waste disposed on-site
Incinerated on-site with energy recovery 0.000 1.335 4.181  
Incinerated on-site with no energy recovery 1.941 1.986 2.532  
Disposed to on-site landﬁll 0.000 0.000 0.000  
Hazardous waste tonnes/tonne production 0.017 0.024 0.027 -36.86% -28.96%
Non-hazardous waste
’000 tonnes 12.809 15.206 16.466 -22.21% -15.76%
Non-hazardous waste sent off-site
Recycled – energy recovery 3.077 3.413 3.669  
Recycled – separated, reprocessed 1.418 2.326 1.930  
Incinerated – no energy recovery 0.078 0.022 0.022  
Disposed by landﬁll 6.041 6.976 9.051  
Other – municipality 1.580 1.437 0.770  
Non-hazardous waste disposed on-site     
Recycled – energy recovery 0.000 0.000 0.000  
Incinerated – no energy recovery 0.000 0.000 0.000  
Disposed by landﬁll 0.616 1.031 1.024  
Non-hazardous waste tonnes/tonne production 0.018 0.019 0.200 -91.00% -5.26%
Total waste tonnes/tonne production 0.035 0.043 0.227 -84.56% -18.49%
Production         
Tonnes 711,560 791,711 842,578 -15.55% -10.12%
Corporate Social Responsibility report continued Executive directors
A M Whitﬁeld
2
 – Chief Executive
Joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in March 
2006. He assumed the role of Chief Executive in August 2006. 
Prior to appointment he was Chief Executive of the plastics 
division of D S Smith Plc. Age 48.
D C Blackwood – Finance Director
Joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in October 
2007. Prior to appointment he was Group Treasurer of Imperial 
Chemical Industries PLC. Age 50.
Non-executive directors
P S Wood
2,4
 – Chairman
Joined the Board in 2001 and was appointed Chairman on  
1 February 2009. He was Chief Executive of The BSS Group plc 
until retirement at the end of 2005 and is a non-executive 
director of RPC Group plc. He is a member of the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales. Age 62.
The Hon. A G Catto
4
 
Joined the Board in 1981. He is Managing Director of  
CairnSea Investments Ltd, a private investment company,  
and a non-executive director of several early stage companies 
that have been backed by CairnSea. Until 1995 he was  
a Managing Director of Lazard Brothers and prior to this  
he was with J P Morgan and Morgan Grenfell & Co. Age 57.
Dr A A Dobbie
1,2,3
Joined the Board in August 2007. He is a founding Director of 
Cogency Chemical Consultants Limited, a Director of NiTech 
Solutions Limited and Chairman of Chemical Sciences  
Scotland and Warwick International Group Limited. Age 58.
Dato’ Lee Hau Hian
4
Joined the Board in 1993 and stood down in 2000 to become 
an Alternate Director. He rejoined the Board in 2002. He is  
a Director of Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd and Batu Kawan Bhd. 
Age 56.
J K Maiden
1,2,3
Joined the Board in August 2007. He is Group Finance Director 
of National Express Group PLC and a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants. Age 48.
G R Menzies
1,2,3
 – Senior Independent Director
Joined the Board with effect from 1 March 2009. He was  
Chief Executive of Senior plc until retirement in April 2008  
and is a non-executive director of Arran Isle Limited. Age 62.
1. Member of Audit Committee.
2. Member of Nomination Committee.
3. Member of Remuneration Committee.
4. Standing for re-election at 2010 AGM.
Registered ofﬁce 
Yule Catto & Co plc
Temple Fields
Harlow
Essex
CM20 2BH
Registered No. 98381
Secretary
Richard Atkinson
Bankers
Banco de Sabadell SA
Barclays Bank PLC
Dresdner Bank AG
HSBC Bank plc
Maybank – Malayan Banking Berhad
Financial advisers
RBS Hoare Govett
Joint stockbrokers
RBS Hoare Govett and Collins Stewart
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
Lochside House
7 Lochside Avenue
Edinburgh Park
Edinburgh
EH12 9DJ
Auditors
Deloitte LLP
Solicitors
Linklaters LLP
Hammonds LLP
Pinsent Masons LLP
21
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Directors and advisers Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 22
Share capital and control
Details of the Company’s share capital are contained in note 25 
to the ﬁnancial statements. During 2009 no shares were issued 
or re-purchased.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary 
shares, being the only class of issued share capital, as well as 
the powers of the Company’s directors, are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association, copies of which can be 
obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Company 
Secretary. There are no restrictions on the voting rights 
attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares or on the transfer 
of securities in the Company. No person holds securities in the 
Company carrying special rights with regard to the control of 
the Company. The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between holders of securities that may result in restrictions  
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. Unless expressly 
speciﬁed to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the 
Company, the Company’s Articles of Association may be 
amended by special resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
Other than in relation to its borrowings which, unless certain 
conditions are satisﬁed, become repayable on a takeover, the 
Company is not party to any signiﬁcant agreements that would 
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following 
a takeover bid.
The Company does not have agreements with any director  
or employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofﬁce 
or employment resulting from a takeover.
All of the Company’s share schemes contain provisions relating 
to a change of control. Outstanding options and awards would 
normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, 
subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at  
that time.
Contractual arrangements
The Group has contractual and other arrangements with 
numerous third parties in support of its business operations. 
The disclosure in this report of information about any such  
third parties is not considered to be necessary for an 
understanding of the development, performance or position  
of the Group’s business.
Major shareholdings
Other than the shareholdings disclosed as directors’ interests in 
the Remuneration report as at 19 February 2010, the Company 
had been notiﬁed under Section 5 of the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the following 
signiﬁcant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary shares:
 
   Percentage 
  Ordinary of ordinary 
  shares shares in 
  (number) issue  Nature of holding
Kuala Lumpur 
Kepong Berhad 27 ,414,414 18.82 Direct interest
Tameside MBC 5,855,353 4.02 Direct interest
UBS Global  13,372,875 9.18 Part direct interest 
Management    Part indirect interest
– Traditional    
The directors submit their annual report and the audited 
ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Results and dividends
Proﬁt attributable to shareholders for the year was £9,686,000.
On 29 December 2008 the Company announced the 
suspension of the payment of dividends and accordingly  
no dividend was paid in 2009 and no ﬁnal dividend is 
recommended by the directors for 2009.
Principal activities and business review 
The principal activities of the Company and a business review, 
including key performance indicators and key risks and 
uncertainties, are set out on pages 6 to 20 and form part  
of the report of the directors.
Disposals
On 30 January 2009 the business and assets of Oxford 
Chemicals Limited were sold to Frutarom (UK) Limited.  
Further details of this disposal are contained in note 28.
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s use of ﬁnancial instruments and its 
ﬁnancial risk management objectives and policies, and of  
its exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash ﬂow risk in 
relation to such instruments, is contained in note 21 to the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Directors
The present membership of the Board is shown on page 21  
all of whom served throughout the year apart from  
Mr G R Menzies who was appointed on 1 March 2009.  
Mr A E Richmond-Watson served as Chairman of the Board 
until his retirement on 1 February 2009. Dato’ Seri Lee Oi Hian 
and Mr R H Hunting retired at the close of the 2009 AGM 
having decided not to seek re-election. 
The Hon. A G Catto, Dato’ Lee Hau Hian and Mr P S Wood 
retire and will be seeking re-election at the forthcoming  
Annual General Meeting. 
None of the directors seeking re-election has a service contract. 
Details of directors’ emoluments and the interests of each 
director in the share capital of the Company are shown in the 
Remuneration report on pages 28 to 30.
Director indemnity provisions
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, the directors  
of the Company have the beneﬁt of a qualifying third-party 
indemnity provision which provides that they shall be 
indemniﬁed by the Company against certain liabilities as 
permitted by Sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 2006 
and against costs incurred by them in relation to any liability  
for which they are indemniﬁed. The Company has purchased 
and maintains insurance against directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liabilities 
in relation to the Company.
Report of the directors
for the year ended 31 December 2009 23
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Corporate governance
The corporate governance report is set out on pages 24 to 27 
and forms part of the report of the directors.
Going concern
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going 
concern and in reaching their conclusions have taken into 
account factors including:
•  the required repayment of £33 million on the US loan notes  
in September 2010; and
•  the availability of an additional £30 million of undrawn facilities 
negotiated in the UK described above.
The directors have appropriately considered the Group’s risks 
and uncertainties (as fully described in the business review  
on pages 6 to 20) including:
•  the current economic conditions and potential impact of the 
level of demand for the Group’s products;
•  recent volatility in the currency markets and the ability of the 
Company to hedge exposures;
• volatility in prices of the Group’s raw materials; and 
•  the Group’s exposures to credit and liquidity risk (see note 21).
After making enquiries and taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance, the directors have 
concluded that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis  
in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Cautionary statement
The purpose of this report is to provide information to the 
members of the Company. It contains certain forward-looking 
statements with respect to the operations, performance and 
ﬁnancial condition of the Group. By their nature, these 
statements involve uncertainty since future events and 
circumstances can cause results and developments to differ 
materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking 
statements reﬂect knowledge and information available at the 
date of preparation of this report and the Company undertakes 
no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. 
Nothing in this report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Company’s 
auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00am on 
Thursday 6 May 2010 at Manor of Groves Hotel, High Wych, 
Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire CM21 0JU.
By order of the Board
R Atkinson
Secretary
10 March 2010
Employment policies
The Group gives every consideration to applications for 
employment from disabled persons. Employees who become 
disabled are given every opportunity to continue employment 
under normal terms and conditions with appropriate training, 
career development and promotion wherever possible. The 
Group seeks to achieve equal opportunities in employment 
through recruitment and training policies.
Authority to purchase own shares
The Company has a general authority, which expires at the 
conclusion of the 2010 Annual General Meeting, to make 
market purchases of not more than 14,566,318 of the 
Company’s ordinary shares in accordance with the terms of the 
special resolution passed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting. 
A resolution will be tabled at the 2010 Annual General Meeting 
to renew this authority.
Employee involvement
The Group is organised on a decentralised basis so as  
to promote greater employee involvement and better 
communications with employees. Each Group company is 
encouraged to make its employees aware of the ﬁnancial and 
economic factors affecting the performance of the Company. 
Performance related bonus schemes are in operation in  
a number of Group companies.
A long-term share incentive plan for directors and senior 
executives was introduced in 2002 with the approval of 
shareholders.
UK pension funds 
The trustees have reviewed the independent investment 
management of the assets of the Company pension schemes  
in the UK and assured themselves of the security and controls 
in place. In particular, it is the trustees’ policy not to invest in 
Yule Catto shares nor lend money to the Company.
Creditor payment policy
The Group’s policy is to make payments to creditors and other 
suppliers in accordance with terms of payment agreed at the 
time the contract of supply is made, subject to all the terms and 
conditions of the order being satisﬁed by the supplier. Trade 
creditor days of the Company for the year ended 31 December 
2009 were 25 days (2008 27 days) based on the ratio of trade 
creditors at the year end to the amounts invoiced during the 
year by trade creditors.
Charitable donations
Charitable donations in the year amounted to £56,208 (2008 
£51,500). There were no political donations during the year.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
Each director of the Company conﬁrms that, so far as he is 
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware and that he has taken all the 
steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make 
himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. For 
these purposes, relevant audit information means information 
needed by the Company’s auditors in connection with 
preparing their reports on pages 33 and 68. 
This conﬁrmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 24
of the Group and execution of the Group strategy. The Chief 
Executive has established and chairs an Executive Committee 
(whose other members are the divisional Chief Executives, the 
Finance Director, the Deputy Finance Director, the Company 
Secretary and the Director of Group Human Resources) to 
assist him in the performance of his duties and which meets 
once a month. The Chairman receives the minutes of the 
Executive Committee and all directors receive a monthly trading 
summary and commentary from the Finance Director and an 
update report from the Chief Executive.
Board membership and balance
The Chairman, Chief Executive and senior independent director 
are identiﬁed on page 21. The Chairmen and members of  
the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are 
identiﬁed below.
The Board held nine meetings in 2009, being four scheduled 
quarterly meetings, one meeting solely related to strategy, 
two meetings in conjunction with a site visit and two held by 
telephone to brieﬂy consider single topics. In addition the 
Chairman held one separate meeting with the non-executive 
directors without the executive directors being present to 
appraise the performance of the executive management.  
The non-executive directors also met once without the 
Chairman to appraise his performance.
The table below shows the number of meetings of the Board, 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees held during 
the year and the number of meetings attended by each director. 
Where a director is unable to attend a Board or Committee 
meeting his views on agenda items are canvassed in advance 
of the meeting and incorporated into the discussions.
  
Number of 
meetings held  Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
    9 4 3 1
Number of  
meetings attended
D C Blackwood 9/9 N/A N/A N/A
A G Catto 9/9 N/A N/A N/A
A A Dobbie 9/9 3/3 3/3 1/1
R H Hunting
1
 2/2 2/2 N/A N/A
Lee Hau Hian 8/9 N/A N/A N/A
Lee Oi Hian
1
 1/2 N/A N/A N/A
J K Maiden 6/9 3/4 2/3 0/1
G R Menzies
2
 8/9 3/3 2/2 1/1
A M Whitﬁeld 9/9 N/A N/A 1/1
P S Wood 9/9 N/A N/A 1/1
1. Retired on 14 May 2009.
2. Appointed on 1 March 2009.
The Board considers the following non-executive directors  
to be independent in accordance with the provisions of the 
Code: Dr A A Dobbie, Mr J K Maiden and Mr G R Menzies.  
Mr P S Wood was considered to be independent up until his 
appointment as Chairman on 1 February 2009.
This compliance statement is produced in relation to the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (‘the Code’) which 
was published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council.
Statement of compliance
The Company considers that it has complied throughout the 
ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2009 with the provisions  
set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Application of the Code
The main principles of Section 1 of the Code were applied  
as follows:
The Board
Operation of the Board
The activities of the Company are controlled by the Board 
which, following a review of its size and composition during 
2008, comprised two executive directors and six non-executive 
directors, with effect from the close of the 2009 Annual General 
Meeting, as a result of the decision of Dato’ Seri Lee Oi Hian  
and Mr R H Hunting not to stand for re-election. The roles  
of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly divided between  
Mr P S Wood who heads the Board in his capacity as  
non-executive Chairman and Mr A M Whitﬁeld who has 
responsibility for the running of the Company’s business  
as Chief Executive. The non-executive directors all have wide 
business and boardroom experience gained in a broad range  
of business sectors.
The Board has reserved to itself a schedule of matters which 
includes setting long-term objectives for the Group and the 
strategies to be employed in achieving them, setting policies  
in the areas of safety, health and the environment, recruitment 
and employment, risk management and treasury and, subject 
to materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising of capital, 
ﬁnancial commitments, capital expenditure, acquisitions  
and disposals and the prosecution, defence and settlement  
of litigation.
During 2009 the Board met quarterly to review current and 
projected performance and to determine strategic issues.  
From 1 January 2010 the Board will meet six times a year in 
order to afford more time for strategic review and discussion. 
The directors receive in advance full information on all matters 
to be discussed at Board meetings as well as a detailed 
quarterly review of performance prepared by the Chief 
Executive. The Board has established Audit, Nomination  
and Remuneration committees which are discussed below.
In addition arrangements are made each year for the Board  
to visit up to two of the Group’s operational sites and meet  
local management. Ad hoc site visits are facilitated for individual 
non-executive directors on request.
The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive responsibility 
for the development and preparation of the business plan for 
the Group and the annual Group budget for recommendation to 
the Board. As the senior executive director, the Chief Executive 
is responsible for all aspects of day-to-day operational control  
Corporate governance 25
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
The Board seeks to encourage participation of all shareholders, 
and in particular private investors, at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting and endeavours to ensure all Board members 
are in attendance. In particular, the Chairmen of the 
Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are  
available to answer questions.
The Company makes use of its website www.yulecatto.com  
to communicate with its shareholders where it publishes interim 
and full year results, Company announcements, share price  
and corporate governance and other investor information.
Board committees
The Board has formally established Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees each with their own terms of 
reference which set out their respective roles and the authority 
delegated to them by the Board. Copies of the terms of 
reference are available upon request from the Company 
Secretary and can also be downloaded from the  
Company’s website.
Audit Committee
During 2009 the Audit Committee comprised Mr J K Maiden 
(Chairman), Mr R H Hunting and Mr P S Wood until 5 March 
2009 when Mr Wood left the Committee and Dr A A Dobbie 
and Mr G R Menzies joined on that date. On 14 May 2009  
Mr R H Hunting retired from the Committee and the Board.  
Mr Wood was and Mr Maiden is considered by the Board to 
have ‘recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience’ for the purposes 
of Provision C.3.1 of the Code. The Committee has established 
a detailed remit regarding the application of ﬁnancial reporting 
and internal control principles. The Finance Director and senior 
members of his department attend meetings of the Committee 
as part of the review of the Group’s interim and ﬁnal statements 
prior to their submission to the Board. The Committee meets 
periodically with the Company’s auditors to discuss the 
adequacy of the Group’s ﬁnancial management, internal 
controls and information systems. The Committee’s remit 
includes the review of the cost-effectiveness, independence 
and objectivity of the auditors (including the extent of non-audit 
services and fees payable to the auditors) which is carried out 
and discussed with the auditors on a periodic basis. With 
regard to seeking to ensure the independence and objectivity  
of the auditors, the Audit Committee’s policy is to avoid the 
auditors providing services in areas which may create or be 
perceived to create a conﬂict of interest. Accordingly, other than 
in circumstances where time constraints render it impractical  
or assignments are of a minor nature, the auditors are not 
invited to tender or propose for services of the following nature: 
corporate ﬁnance, legal, information technology and systems, 
recruitment or remuneration, accounting, internal audit or 
control, acquisition due diligence, valuations or appraisals, 
actuarial or general business consulting. In addition the auditors 
have been requested not to provide services to executive 
directors or senior executives. Non-executive directors are 
required to disclose any relationship they have with the auditors.
Induction and training
Induction arrangements are in place in order to ensure new 
directors receive a full formal and tailored induction on 
appointment. The skills and knowledge of Board members  
are updated by brieﬁngs provided by the Company’s internal 
resources and materials and seminars offered by external advisers.
Performance evaluation
Performance evaluations of the Board, its committees and its 
directors were carried out in the last year by the following 
internal processes:
•  an assessment of the performance of individual non-executive 
directors is carried out by the Chairman through a rolling 
programme of one-to-one discussions using performance 
evaluation questions as the centrepiece for those discussions. 
Every non-executive director is assessed in this way once  
a year;
•  the performance of the executive directors was reviewed  
in August 2009 at a meeting of the non-executive directors 
chaired by the Chairman;
•  a meeting of the non-executive directors (in the absence  
of the Chairman) chaired by the senior independent director 
was held in November 2009 to evaluate the performance of 
the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive 
directors; and
•  the Board and its Committees carry out an annual self-
assessment of performance led by the Chairman and the 
Chairman of each committee respectively. The results of 
assessment questionnaires completed by those Chairmen 
were reviewed by the relevant committees and the Board  
and were shared with and discussed by the Board as a whole 
at its meeting in November 2009.
Non-executive directors are appointed for three-year terms. 
Those non-executive directors who have served longer than 
nine years on the Board are subject to annual re-election  
by shareholders with other directors subject to re-election  
at least every three years.
Shareholder communications
Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular 
basis by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director and 
meetings take place following the announcement of interim and 
full year results and at other times according to circumstances.
The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication 
principles in order to ensure that Board members develop an 
understanding of the views of the Group’s major shareholders. 
These principles require the Chairman to be present with  
the Chief Executive and the Finance Director at sufﬁcient 
shareholder presentations and meetings that he fully 
understands the issues and concerns of major shareholders. 
The Chairman reports on shareholder relations at each Board 
meeting. Communications with shareholders relating to 
corporate governance matters are conducted by the Chairman 
with the assistance of the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees. Written reports on all meetings 
between non-executive directors and institutional shareholders 
and their representative bodies are presented to the Board 
at the ﬁrst opportunity following such meetings as is all 
correspondence with them. Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 26
Internal control
The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the 
Group’s system of internal control and sets appropriate  
policies to ensure that the Code requirements on internal 
control are met.
The system of internal control deployed within the Group  
is designed to reduce the risks of failure to meet business 
objectives, but these risks cannot be eliminated. The internal 
control system adopted can therefore only provide reasonable, 
not absolute, assurance about meeting such business 
objectives or against material mis-statement or loss.
A process for identifying, evaluating and managing signiﬁcant 
business risks faced by the Group has been in place since 
2000. This has since been built upon so as to embed further 
the process into the businesses and to enhance the usefulness 
of the relevant processes and information, and has been 
operated throughout 2009 and up to the date of approval  
of the annual report and accounts, and accords with the 
Turnbull Guidance.
The system is applied at all material subsidiaries, and a  
‘bottom up’ risk proﬁle is created by evaluating the information 
at business, divisional and Group level. Individual directors  
within Yule Catto’s businesses identify and assess key risks 
associated within their area of responsibility based on formal 
management information and interaction with colleagues, 
customers, suppliers and other parties.
The individual submissions are consolidated, reviewed and 
agreed at a board meeting of the subsidiary. A business risk 
report is prepared that is closely linked to business strategy  
and takes account of key internal and external factors. Risks  
are prioritised using a common risk matrix, which forms the 
basis of a single corporate risk report that is reviewed and 
discussed by the Yule Catto Audit Committee.
The individual business risk reports are formally reviewed at  
a board meeting of the subsidiary every six months, out of 
which a revised report is submitted which identiﬁes changes 
in the risk environment.
The process was last reviewed by the Yule Catto Board  
of Directors in March 2009.
The nature of the risks identiﬁed as a result of this process 
during the year primarily relate to matters of an operational and 
ﬁnancial nature and the most signiﬁcant of those which faced 
the Group in 2009 are reviewed in the reports of the Chairman, 
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Risks associated with safety, health and the environment are,  
by the nature of the Group’s business, always of the utmost 
concern and the Corporate Social Responsibility report on 
pages 14 to 20 reviews the Group’s performance in this 
connection in 2009.
The Group does not have an internal audit function.  
The Committee has reviewed this during the year and has 
concluded that there are in place appropriate procedures  
for assuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Group’s 
governance, risk management and control processes.  
The Board has accepted this recommendation.
The current auditors were ﬁrst appointed in 2002 and their 
appointment was reviewed by the Committee in 2009. Details  
of audit and non-audit fees paid to them in 2009 are set  
out in note 6 on page 46. Non-audit fees principally relate  
to taxation advice. The Board accepts the Committee’s 
recommendation that the current auditors be proposed for 
reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee met formally four times during 2009 and the 
Chairman of the Committee had regular dialogue with the 
auditors during the course of the year. As well as complying 
with the terms of its remit during the year the Committee 
reviewed its remit.
Nomination Committee
During 2009 the Nomination Committee comprised  
Mr R H Hunting (Chairman), Dr A A Dobbie and Mr P S Wood 
with Mr J K Maiden, Mr G R Menzies and Mr A M Whitﬁeld 
joining on 5 March 2009. On 14 May 2009 Mr R H Hunting 
retired from the Committee and the Board and was replaced  
as Chairman of the Committee by Mr P S Wood. The Committee 
is responsible for: the regular review of the structure, size and 
composition of the Board and the making of recommendations 
with regard to any changes; leading the process for Board 
appointments and nominating candidates for non-executive 
positions; and considering succession planning. 
The Committee led the process for appointing a new  
Chairman of the Board and nominating Mr G R Menzies for 
appointment as a non-executive director, which involved a 
thorough review of a range of candidates put forward by a 
recruitment consultancy, which conducted an extensive  
search process. The Nomination Committee held one  
meeting during 2009.
Remuneration Committee
All matters relating to the Remuneration Committee and 
remuneration are covered in the Remuneration Report,  
set out on pages 28 to 30.
Accountability
An explanation of the directors’ responsibility for preparing the 
ﬁnancial statements, their report that the business is a going 
concern, a responsibility statement and their statement as  
to disclosure of information to the auditors are set out on  
pages 32 and 23 respectively. Statements by the auditors about 
their reporting responsibilities are set out on pages 32 and 68 
respectively. A report on the approach to internal control is  
set out below. The directors endeavour to make the annual 
report and ﬁnancial statements as informative and 
understandable as possible.
Corporate governance continued 27
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Social and ethical matters
The Board takes account of social and ethical matters as part 
of its review of internal control which, by virtue of its approach  
to risk identiﬁcation, covers areas which encompass social and 
ethical matters.
The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities 
in which the Group’s businesses operate and is supportive  
of local initiatives by management.
The Board is also aware of the reputational risk associated  
with social and ethical issues and has a Group-wide code of 
business conduct on corruption and anti-competitive activities, 
which is available on the Company’s website and upon request 
from the Company Secretary. The purpose of this code is to 
ensure that the Group’s employees have a clear understanding 
of the principles that are important in these areas when 
conducting the Group’s business. The application of the code  
is explained to senior management at regular intervals and  
they are charged with its communication throughout their 
businesses supported by internal and external training.  
A compliance procedure was initiated in 2007 involving annual 
certiﬁcation by the senior management of each operating 
company and since 2009 a procedure for maintaining a register 
of, and where appropriate gaining prior approval for, gifts, 
entertainment and corporate hospitality has been instituted.  
A report is made to the Audit Committee annually on the code 
and the Company’s whistleblowing procedure.
Governance
The Board’s approach to governance, training of directors  
and identiﬁcation and assessment of risk is set out above.
The processes which are used by the Board either directly  
or, where appropriate, through the Audit Committee to review  
the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management 
systems (including in relation to the ﬁnancial reporting process 
and the process for preparing consolidated accounts) include 
the following:
•  a review of the external audit work plan;
•  consideration of reports from management and external 
parties, including the auditors, on the system of internal 
ﬁnancial control and any material control weaknesses;
•  a quarterly review of safety, health and environmental 
performance;
•  discussion with management of the actions taken on any 
possible problem areas for the business identiﬁed by Board 
members or in the audit report; and
•  consideration of a consolidated risk management report 
setting out the main conclusions from the internal  
control process.
In addition, the Board:
•  receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee 
meetings;
•  considers the role of the Group insurance programme;
•  receives regular written and oral reports from management  
on all aspects of production, operations, ﬁnancial and risk 
management matters; and
•  in compliance with Provision C.2.1 of the Combined Code  
the Board regularly reviews and approves the effectiveness  
of the Group’s system of internal controls.
Environmental, social and governance matters
In January 2007 the Association of British Insurers (ABI) 
published a revised version of its guidelines on responsible 
investment disclosure. These guidelines require statements  
on the extent to which environmental, social and governance 
matters are taken into account by the Board and identiﬁed, 
assessed, managed and monitored, particularly in relation  
to the risks and opportunities they present to the value  
of the Company.
Environmental matters
The maintenance of high standards of environmental  
(together with health and safety) protection is central to the 
Company’s business. A separate statement on safety, health 
and environmental (SHE) matters has been a feature of the 
annual report for a number of years. The Corporate Social 
Responsibility report statement on pages 14 to 20 incorporates 
the ABI guidelines and includes a report on the initiatives the 
Company has adopted regarding sustainable development. Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 28
Whilst not adopting set formulae the Committee is also  
sensitive to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere  
in the Group when considering annual salary increases and 
total remuneration. The Committee also has the discretion to 
consider the Company’s performance on environmental, social 
and governance matters when setting the remuneration of the 
executive directors.
The major element of the remuneration package of senior 
executives is a competitive basic salary which is reviewed with 
effect from 1 January each year. For executive directors this 
review is conducted with the assistance of independent surveys 
of salaries at UK listed companies with a similar proﬁle to the 
Company in terms of turnover and market capitalisation. The 
Committee then uses this information to recommend basic 
salaries for the executive directors in line with the Board’s  
policy of awarding for good performance a basic salary of 
approximately the market median for companies of a similar 
size and complexity. In addition, the Remuneration Committee 
has overseen the introduction of incentives, which are designed 
to reward the achievement of predetermined targets by the 
individuals concerned. These incentives, which were designed 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule A to the  
Code, currently comprise an annual cash incentive plan and 
membership of an approved longer term incentive plan  
(the ‘Performance Plan’). The Committee does not consider 
that the incentive structure for senior executives gives rise to 
environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour.
•  Annual incentive arrangements 
For 2009 the previous annual cash bonus arrangement for  
the executive directors and senior head ofﬁce employees 
calculated by reference to the annual growth in the 
Company’s basic earnings per share for underlying 
performance was replaced as contemplated in last year’s 
Remuneration Report. Following further consideration of 
appropriate targets and structures the Committee decided  
on the introduction of an incentive plan (the growth securities 
ownership plan (GSOP)) related to growth in proﬁt before tax 
and reduction in Group debt. As a result of the growth in proﬁt 
before tax for 2009 exceeding RPI plus 10% and Group debt 
falling below £105 million maximum payments will be made  
to the executive directors under the GSOP . For 2010 the 
Remuneration Committee considered it appropriate to issue 
awards under the GSOP linked to set levels of proﬁt before  
tax, the details of which are considered to be commercially 
sensitive. The maximum net amount payable to executive 
directors in 2009 under the GSOP was and remains in 2010  
at 60% and 80% of basic pay for the Finance Director and  
the Chief Executive respectively.  
 
For divisional chief executives and managing directors of 
subsidiary companies the 2009 annual cash bonus payments 
were based on appropriate combinations of proﬁt, cash ﬂow, 
working capital and safety and environmental targets. In 2009 
the bonuses were subject to limits of 60% and 50% of basic 
pay respectively.
The following report complies with the relevant provisions of the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008 and satisﬁes the requirements 
of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and  
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which was 
published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council.
Remuneration Committee
During 2009 the Remuneration Committee comprised  
Mr P S Wood (Chairman), Dr A A Dobbie and Mr J K Maiden 
until 5 March 2009 when Mr Wood left the Committee,  
Dr Dobbie replaced him as Chairman and Mr G R Menzies 
joined the Committee. 
The Committee is responsible for determining the Company’s 
policy on executive remuneration and the speciﬁc remuneration 
for the Chairman and each of the executive directors, including 
pension rights. The Committee is also responsible for reviewing 
the remuneration of senior executives throughout the Group. 
The Committee was assisted in its deliberations on executive 
directors’ remuneration by the Chief Executive and took advice 
from and used the services of Hewitt New Bridge Street (HNBS 
– a trading name of Hewitt Associates) and Grant Thornton  
UK LLP (Grant Thornton). Hewitt Associates does not have any 
other connection with the Company. Grant Thornton provides 
corporate tax advice to the Company. The Board as a whole 
determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors, 
including members of the Remuneration Committee. The 
Remuneration Committee met three times during 2009.
Remuneration policy
Non-executive directors’ remuneration
It is the Board’s policy to review fees paid to non-executive 
directors periodically. A review of non-executive director 
remuneration was last carried out in December 2006 with  
the assistance of advice provided by Monks, part of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . With effect from 1 January 2007 
non-executive director fees are as follows: £30,000 pa for those 
who do not sit on a committee; £33,000 pa for those who do 
sit on a committee; £36,000 pa for those who are Committee 
chairmen. The fees payable to the Chairman of the Board  
are £110,000 pa.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive awards under 
any of the Company’s share schemes or other employee beneﬁt 
schemes nor does the Company make any contribution to their 
pension arrangements.
Executive directors’ remuneration
The Company’s policy for 2009 was and continues to be to 
structure executive pay in such a way that key executives may 
be recruited, motivated and retained through being offered 
remuneration packages that are competitive. For this purpose, 
the Committee uses industry and sector data and surveys. 
Directors’ remuneration report 29
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
•  Remuneration details 
The amount and components of the directors’ remuneration 
are set out below. At the 2010 salary review basic salary 
increases for the executive directors were under 3%.  
No elements of remuneration other than basic salary  
are pensionable. 
•  Service contracts 
No director other than Mr A M Whitﬁeld and  
Mr D C Blackwood has a service contract. Mr Whitﬁeld’s 
contract is dated 22 November 2005, has no unexpired  
term, provides for a notice period of one year and makes no 
provision for pre-determined compensation on termination.  
Mr Blackwood’s contract is dated 12 September 2007 , has  
no unexpired term, provides for a notice period of one year 
and makes no provision for pre-determined compensation  
on termination.  
 
The Remuneration Committee’s policy on contracts and 
notice periods for executive directors is to seek to comply  
with best practices in corporate governance.  
 
All non-executive directors are appointed in writing. The ﬁrst 
year of each director’s appointment is shown in the directors’ 
biographies on page 21. The periods of appointment and  
the requirements for re-election of non-executive directors  
are provided within the Performance Evaluation section of  
the Corporate Governance report on page 25.
•  Non-executive directorships held by the executive directors 
Mr Whitﬁeld is a non-executive director of the Chemical 
Industries Association Limited for which he does not receive 
any remuneration. Mr Blackwood is a non-executive member 
of the Cabinet Ofﬁce Audit and Risk Committee and is  
a member of the Board for Actuarial Standards for which  
he receives and retains £4,000 and £10,000 pa respectively.
•  Total shareholder return over ﬁve years 
The following graph compares the share price performance  
of the Company (by reference to total shareholder return)  
with that of the FTSE 250 which is considered to be the most 
appropriate index against which to make a comparison.
 
AGM approval
The directors’ Remuneration Report has been submitted to the 
2010 Annual General Meeting for approval.
•  Share plan 
The Performance Plan was introduced in 2002 following 
shareholder approval at that year’s Annual General Meeting 
and covers the executive directors, divisional chief executives 
and senior managers and head ofﬁce employees. An award 
consists of a right to acquire shares which can be exercised 
for a nominal price, subject to the Company satisfying 
performance conditions. The value of shares awarded under 
the Performance Plan in any ﬁnancial year to any individual 
currently may not exceed 100% of their annual basic salary. 
Following review by the Remuneration Committee and 
shareholder approval awards made since 2006 have been 
subject to performance conditions related to relative and 
absolute growth in total shareholder return in order to better 
align the interests of the participants in the Performance Plan 
with shareholders. Details of performance conditions are set 
out at page 31. Currently an award which vests in accordance 
with the performance conditions will only be exercisable and 
allocated shares may only be transferred as to one-half after 
the third anniversary of the date the award is made and as to 
the remaining half after the fourth anniversary of the date the 
award is made. The Remuneration Committee is proposing 
that future awards which vest be exercisable and allocated 
shares be transferred in full after the third anniversary of the 
date the award is made. Accordingly a resolution to effect  
this change is contained in the 2010 notice of Annual General 
Meeting. In order to further align the interests of the executive 
directors and shareholders there are share ownership 
requirements in connection with the Performance Plan 
requiring the retention of a percentage of the shares acquired 
by executive directors until such time as ordinary shares in  
the Company have been built up to a level equivalent in  
value to their annual basic salary.  
 
During 2009 2,810,312 shares were awarded under the 
Performance Plan. The comparatively high number of shares 
awarded resulted from the applicable share price at the time 
the awards were made of 41.25 pence. The Remuneration 
Committee did not consider it appropriate to scale back the 
number of shares comprised in the awards given that no 
corresponding adjustment had been made at times when  
the share price was at historically high levels.  
 
None of the shares comprised in the awards granted  
in 2007 have vested due to the failure to meet the 
performance conditions.  
 
Executive directors are entitled to participate in grants of 
options made under the Company’s Savings-Related Share 
Option Scheme as and when these are made.
•  Pension arrangements  
Mr A M Whitﬁeld and Mr D C Blackwood are not members  
of the Company pension scheme and receive payments  
from the Company to enable them to make their own 
arrangements. There are no unfunded pension promises  
or similar arrangements for directors. 
0
50
100
150
200
250
04 05 06 07 08 09
 Yule Catto
 FTSE 250
Yule Catto total shareholder return versus FTSE 250 total return 
(cumulative) for years ended 31 December Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 30
Audited information             
Directors’ remuneration
        2009 2008
Emoluments       £’000 £’000
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration and other beneﬁts were:       
Emoluments       1,366  1,405 
              
The emoluments of the individual executive directors holding ofﬁce during the year were:
      Annual   
     Base incentive     
     salary arrangement Beneﬁts Total Total 
     2009 2009 2009 2009 2008
     £ £ £ £ £
A M Whitﬁeld – Highest paid director    370,000  296,000  27,071  693,071  665,104 
D C Blackwood    239,500  143,700  16,660  399,860  384,779 
              
The annual incentive arrangement is discussed in more detail on page 28 of the Remuneration report.      
Pension arrangements
A M Whitﬁeld and D C Blackwood are not members of the Company’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme, the Yule Catto Group 
Retirement Beneﬁts Scheme. To fund their pension arrangements, they received the following payments: 
           
        2009 2008
        £ £
A M Whitﬁeld       92,500  88,750 
D C Blackwood       47,900  46,000 
Directors’ fees
The fees of the individual non-executive directors holding ofﬁce during the year were: 
        2009 2008
        £ £
A E Richmond-Watson – Chairman until 01/02/09      9,167  110,000 
P S Wood – Chairman from 01/02/09       103,833  36,000 
The Hon. A G Catto       30,000  30,000 
Dr A A Dobbie       35,500  33,000 
R H Hunting       13,938  36,000 
Dato’ Lee Hau Hian       30,000  30,000 
Dato’ Seri Lee Oi Hian       11,615  30,000 
J K Maiden       36,000  33,726 
G R Menzies       30,000  – 
C J Williams       –  16,500 
        300,053  355,226
The non-executive directors receive no other remuneration in addition to their fee.       
      
Directors’ remuneration report continued 31
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Shareholdings
Given below are details of the interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company at 31 December 2009 and  
31 December 2008:
      Ordinary shares Options
      2009 2008 2009 2008
D C Blackwood     17,500 17,500 725,260 144,654
The Hon. A G Catto     1,315,604 1,215,604 – –
      5,197,093* 5,197,093* – –
Dr A A Dobbie     49,223 10,000 – –
Dato’ Lee Hau Hian     10,613 10,613 – –
J K Maiden     nil nil – –
G R Menzies     10,000 nil – –
A M Whitﬁeld     6,000 6,000 1,255,047 482,430
P S Wood     22,249 2,500 – –
* Non-beneﬁcial interest.
Between 31 December 2009 and 19 February 2010 there were no other changes in the directors’ holdings.
Executive options
    Number of options    Notional
  At   during the year  At Exercise value Exercise
  01/01/09 Granted Lapsed Exercised 31/12/09 price  £ period
A M Whitﬁeld 124,352 – 124,352 – – – – –
  134,808
(i)
 – – – 134,808 – 204,908 2010-2017
  223,270
(ii)
 – – – 223,270 – 339,370 2011-2018
  –
(iii)
 896,969 – – 896,969 – 1,363,392 2012-2019
  482,430 896,969 124,352 – 1,255,047 –  
    Number of options    Notional
  At   during the year  At Exercise value Exercise
  01/01/09 Granted Lapsed Exercised 31/12/09 price  £ period
D C Blackwood 144,654
(ii)
  – – 144,654 – 219,874 2011-2018
  –
(iii)
 580,606 – – 580,606 – 882,521 2012-2019
  144,654 580,606 – – 725,260 –  
(i)  For the award made in 2007 to Mr A M Whitﬁeld, it would have vested in respect of 50% of the shares only if the Company’s 
total shareholder return (TSR) over a three-year period, ended on 31 December 2009, had increased by the rise in RPI plus 
15.76% or more compared with the Company’s TSR at the start of the three-year performance period. If growth in the  
Company’s TSR had been equal to the rise in RPI plus 9.27% over the three-year performance period 25% of the shares  
subject to the award would have vested. Performance between these points would have resulted in between 25% to 50%  
of the shares vesting on a straight-line basis with lesser performance resulting in no part of the 50% of the shares vesting.  
Vesting of the other 50% of the shares subject to the award was based on the growth in the Company’s TSR compared with  
the growth of the FTSE 250 total return index over the same three-year period. If the Company’s TSR had exceeded the  
FTSE 250 total return index by 7.69% or more over the three year period 50% of the shares subject to an award would have 
vested. If growth in the Company’s TSR had been equal to the FTSE 250 over the three-year performance period 5% of the 
shares subject to the award would have vested. Performance between these points would have resulted in between 5% to 50% 
of the shares vesting on a straight-line basis, with lesser performance resulting in no part of the 50% of the shares vesting.
(ii)  For the awards made in 2008 to Mr A M Whitﬁeld and Mr D C Blackwood the same performance conditions apply as for the 
award made to Mr A M Whitﬁeld in 2007 over a three-year period ending on 31 December 2010.
(iii)  For the awards made in 2009 to Mr A M Whitﬁeld and Mr D C Blackwood the same performance conditions apply as for the 
awards referred to in (i) and (ii) above over a three year period ending on 31 December 2011.
The notional value of unexercised share options is based on the mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2009 of 152 pence. 
During the year the market price ranged between 37 pence and 184.75 pence.
By order of the Board
R Atkinson
Secretary
10 March 2010
Directors’ interests Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 32
Other matters
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge:
•  the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant ﬁnancial reporting framework, give a true and fair  
view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
•  the management report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included  
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with  
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that  
they face.
By order of the Board 
A M Whitﬁeld  D C Blackwood
Chief Executive  Group Finance Director
10 March 2010
Financial statements, including adoption of going  
concern basis
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable  
law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare ﬁnancial 
statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the directors 
are required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4  
of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent 
company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under 
company law the directors must not approve the accounts 
unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view  
of the state of affairs of the Company and of the proﬁt or loss  
of the company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company ﬁnancial statements, the 
directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently;
•  make judgments and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
•  state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have  
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the ﬁnancial statements; and
•  prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the Group ﬁnancial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
•  properly select and apply accounting policies;
•  present information, including accounting policies, in  
a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
•  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
speciﬁc requirements in IFRSs are insufﬁcient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and 
ﬁnancial performance; and
•  make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue  
as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the ﬁnancial position of the Company and enable them to 
ensure that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 33
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of  
Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and 
the related notes 1 to 36. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we  
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than  
the company and the Company’s members as a body, for our 
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the Group ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the 
Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and  
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates  
made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the Group ﬁnancial statements:
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as  
at 31 December 2009 and of its proﬁt for the year then ended;
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
•  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 2 to the Group ﬁnancial statements, the 
Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union has also applied 
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB).
In our opinion the Group ﬁnancial statements comply with  
IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of Yule Catto & Co plc
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial 
year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion:
•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed  
by law are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•  the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ Report 
in relation to going concern; and
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code speciﬁed for our review.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁnancial 
statements of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 
31 December 2009. 
Stuart Henderson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Cambridge, United Kingdom
10 March 2010 Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 34
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2009  
     2009   2008
    Underlying Special  Underlying Special
    performance items IFRS  performance items IFRS
   Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Group revenue  4,5 527,948  –  527,948  584,373  –  584,373 
Share of joint ventures’ revenue  4,5 15,450  –  15,450  17,780  –  17,780 
Total sales   543,398  –  543,398  602,153  –  602,153
Group revenue   527,948  –  527,948  584,373  –  584,373
Company and subsidiaries  
 before special items   50,164  –  50,164  41,577  –  41,577 
Impairment of goodwill  3  –  (30,000) (30,000) –  –  – 
Operations sold or closed during the year 4  –  –  –  –  (2,406) (2,406)
Company and subsidiaries   50,164  (30,000) 20,164  41,577  (2,406) 39,171 
Share of joint ventures  4, 5 1,242  –  1,242  1,615  –  1,615
Operating proﬁt/(loss)  5  51,406  (30,000) 21,406  43,192  (2,406) 40,786 
Interest payable  8  (10,308) –  (10,308) (15,983) –  (15,983)
Interest receivable  8  439  –  439  5,481  –  5,481 
    (9,869) –  (9,869) (10,502) –  (10,502)
Fair value adjustment  3, 8 –  (4,401) (4,401) –  8,615  8,615
Finance costs   (9,869) (4,401) (14,270) (10,502) 8,615 (1,887)
Proﬁt/(loss) before taxation   41,537  (34,401) 7,136  32,690  6,209  38,899 
Taxation   9  (8,261) 9,345  1,084  (4,904) –  (4,904)
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year from  
 continuing operations   33,276  (25,056) 8,220  27,786  6,209  33,995
Discontinued operations          
Proﬁt for the year from  
 discontinued operations  3  –  3,668  3,668  –  22,568  22,568 
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year   33,276  (21,388) 11,888  27,786  28,777  56,563 
Proﬁt attributable to minority interests  26  2,202  –  2,202  1,718  –  1,718 
Proﬁt/(loss) attributable to equity  
 holders of the parent  26  31,074  (21,388) 9,686  26,068  28,777  54,845 
    33,276  (21,388) 11,888  27,786  28,777  56,563 
Earnings per share 
From continuing operations          
– Basic  12  21.3p  (17.2)p 4.1p 17.9p  4.3p  22.2p 
– Diluted  12  20.8p  (16.8)p 4.0p  17.8p  4.2p  22.0p 
From continuing and discontinued operations         
– Basic  12  21.3p  (14.7)p 6.6p  17.9p  19.8p  37.7p 
– Diluted  12  20.8p  (14.3)p 6.5p  17.8p  19.6p  37.4p 
           
Special items          
The special items are shown in more detail in note 3. 35
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
     2009   2008
     Equity   Equity
    Minority   holders of  Minority holders of
    interests the parent Total  interests the parent Total
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Proﬁt for the year   2,202  9,686  11,888  1,718  54,845  56,563
Actuarial gains and losses   –  (12,619) (12,619) –  (39,111) (39,111)
Losses on a hedge of a net investment taken to equity –  (253) (253) –  (24,617) (24,617)
(Losses)/gains on cash ﬂow hedges  
 arising during the period   –  (678) (678) –  678  678 
Exchange differences on translation  
 of foreign operations   (825) (6,933) (7,758) 2,055  39,956  42,011 
Tax relating to components of  
 other comprehensive income   –  306  306  –  (48) (48)
Other comprehensive income for the period  (825) (20,177) (21,002) 2,055  (23,142) (21,087)
Total comprehensive income for the period  1,377  (10,491) (9,114) 3,773  31,703  35,476 
           
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
    Capital  Hedging and Cash ﬂow
  Share Share redemption Own  translation hedging Minority Retained   
  capital premium reserve shares reserve reserve interest earnings Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2009 14,566 33,034 949 – 6,252 678 9,157 2,056 66,692
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – – 2,202 9,686 11,888
Other comprehensive income 
 for the period – – – – (7,186) (678) (825) (12,313) (21,002)
Total comprehensive income 
 for the period – – – – (7,186) (678) 1,377 (2,627) (9,114)
Dividends paid – – – – – – (3,631) – (3,631)
Shares purchased by ESOP trust – – – 47 – – – – 47
Share-based payments – – – (47) – – – 590 543
At 31 December 2009 14,566 33,034 949 – (934) – 6,903 19 54,537
    Capital  Hedging and Cash ﬂow
  Share Share redemption Own  translation hedging Minority Retained   
  capital premium reserve shares reserve reserve interest earnings Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2008 14,566 33,034 949 – (9,087) – 5,725 416 45,603
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – – 1,718 54,845 56,563
Other comprehensive income 
 for the period – – – – 15,339 678 2,055 (39,159) (21,087)
Total comprehensive income 
 for the period – – – – 15,339 678 3,773 15,686 35,476
Dividends paid – – – – – – (341) (14,129) (14,470)
Share-based payments – – – – – – – 83 83
At 31 December 2008 14,566 33,034 949 – 6,252 678 9,157 2,056 66,692 Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 36
        2009 2008
       Note £’000 £’000 
Non-current assets    
Goodwill      14  124,027 154,027  
Other intangible assets      15  604 869  
Property, plant and equipment      16  103,815 118,106  
Deferred tax assets      10  1,139 457  
Investment in joint ventures      17  3,798 4,948 
        233,383 278,407 
Current assets 
Inventories      18  56,145 63,507  
Trade and other receivables      19  99,006 126,136  
Cash and cash equivalents      20  42,384 26,576  
Derivatives at fair value      21  11,763 33,887 
        209,298 250,106  
Assets held for sale      22   – 7,377
Total current assets       209,298 257 ,483
Current liabilities          
Borrowings      20  (38,924) (57,972) 
Trade and other payables      23  (125,609) (152,621) 
Current tax liability      9  (34,556) (44,528)
        (199,089) (255,121)
Liabilities directly associated with assets classiﬁed as held for sale   22   – (1,400)
Total current liabilities       (199,089) (256,521)
Non-current liabilities       
Borrowings      20  (101,106) (130,052) 
Trade and other payables      23  (216) (167) 
Deferred tax liability      10  (9,044) (6,899) 
Post retirement beneﬁt obligations      24  (78,689) (75,559)
        (189,055) (212,677)
Net assets       54,537 66,692 
Equity           
Called up share capital      25  14,566 14,566  
Share premium      26  33,034 33,034 
Capital redemption reserve      26  949 949  
Hedging and translation reserve      26  (934) 6,252  
Cash ﬂow hedging reserve      26   – 678  
Retained earnings      26  19 2,056 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent      47,634 57,535  
Minority interests      26  6,903 9,157 
Total equity       54,537 66,692 
Analysis of net borrowings          
Cash and cash equivalents      20  42,384  26,576   
Current borrowings      20  (38,924) (57,972) 
Non-current borrowings      20  (101,106) (130,052)
Net borrowings       (97,646) (161,448) 
Deduct: special items      20  9,608 25,966 
Net borrowings (underlying performance)      (88,038) (135,482)
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 10 March 2010. They are signed  
on its behalf by:
A M Whitﬁeld
D C Blackwood
Directors
 
Consolidated balance sheet 
31 December 2009      37
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement     
for the year ended 31 December 2009      
     2009  2008
     Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Operating      
Cash generated from operations    27   64,499   44,299
 Interest received     439   5,481 
 Interest paid     (10,959)  (16,835)
Net interest paid      (10,520)  (11,354)
 UK corporation tax (paid)/received     (139)  207
 Overseas corporate tax paid     (6,673)  (10,421)
Total tax paid      (6,812)  (10,214)
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities     47,167   22,731 
Investing
Dividends received from joint ventures   17   1,899   816
 Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (8,687)  (17,707)
 Sale of property, plant and equipment    2,253   2,282
Net capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment     (6,434)  (15,425)
 Purchase of businesses    29  –   (468)
 Sale of businesses    28  8,760   50,676
Net cash impact of acquisitions and disposals     8,760  50,208 
Net cash inﬂow from investing activities     4,225  35,599 
Financing
Equity dividends paid    11   –  (14,129)
Dividends paid to minority interests    26   (3,631)  (341)
Purchase of own shares    26   (47)  – 
Repayment of borrowings    30   (33,472)  (33,512)
Proceeds of non-current borrowings    30   19,740   166 
Net cash outﬂow from ﬁnancing activities     (17,410)  (47,816)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts during the year    33,982   10,514 
Comprised of:
Cash and cash equivalents    30   20,157   (64,475)
Bank overdrafts    30   13,825   74,989 
       33,982   10,514 
Reconciliation of net cash ﬂow from operating activities  
to movement in net borrowings
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities     47,167   22,731
Add back: dividends received from joint ventures   17   1,899   816 
Less: net capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment    (6,434)  (15,425)
Less: dividends paid to minority interests   26   (3,631)  (341)
Free cash ﬂow before dividends      39,001   7,781 
Net cash impact of acquisitions and disposals   28, 29  8,760   50,208 
Purchase of own shares    26   (47)  – 
Equity dividends paid    11   –   (14,129)
Exchange movements      (270)  (8,511)
Movement in net borrowings (underlying performance)    47,444   35,349 Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 38
1 General information
Yule Catto & Co plc is a company incorporated in the United 
Kingdom under the Companies Act. The address of the 
registered ofﬁce is given on page 21. 
These ﬁnancial statements are presented in pounds sterling 
because that is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Group operates. Foreign operations 
are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
In the current year, the following new and revised Standards 
have been adopted. IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 
has introduced a number of changes in the format and content 
of the ﬁnancial statements. IFRS 8 Operating Segments is a 
disclosure standard that has not led to any redesignation of the 
Group’s reportable segments. Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial 
Instruments has expanded the disclosure required in respect of 
fair value measurements and liquidity risk. IAS 23 Borrowing 
Costs has had no impact on these ﬁnancial statements.
At the date of authorisation of these ﬁnancial statements, the 
following Standards and Interpretations which have not been 
applied in these ﬁnancial statements were in issue but not  
yet effective:
•  Amendment to IFRS 1 (Jan. 2010) – Limited Exemption from 
Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters
•  IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments
•  IAS 24 (revised Nov. 2009) – Related Party Disclosures
•  Amendment to IAS 32 (Oct. 2009) – Classiﬁcation  
of Rights Issues 
•  Amendments to IFRS 1 (Jul. 2009) – Additional Exemptions 
for First-time Adopters
•  Amendments to IFRS 2 (Jun. 2009) – Group Cash-settled 
Share-based Payment Transactions 
•  Improvements to IFRSs 2009 (Apr. 2009) – Improvements  
to IFRSs 2009 
•  Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 (Mar. 2009) –  
Embedded Derivatives 
•  IFRS 1 (revised Nov. 2008) – First-time Adoption of 
International Financial Reporting Standards
•  IFRS 3 (revised Jan. 2008) – Business Combinations 
•  Amendments to IAS 27 (Jan. 2008) – Consolidated and 
Separate Financial Statements 
•  Amendments to IFRIC 14 (Nov. 2009) – Prepayments  
of a Minimum Funding Requirement 
•  IFRIC 19 – Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity 
Instruments
• IFRIC 18 – Transfers of Assets from Customers
• IFRIC 17 – Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
31 December 2009
2  Signiﬁcant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). The 
ﬁnancial statements have also been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the 
Group ﬁnancial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS 
Regulation. The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared  
on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain 
properties and ﬁnancial instruments. As discussed in the Report 
of the Directors on page 23, the ﬁnancial statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis. The principal accounting 
policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the ﬁnancial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each  
year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power  
to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of an investee 
entity so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the 
year are included in the consolidated income statement from 
the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of 
disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are 
made to the ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries to bring the 
accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group. 
The results of joint ventures are accounted for using  
equity accounting.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries 
are identiﬁed separately from the Group’s equity therein. 
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests  
at the date of the original business combination (see below)  
and the minority’s share of changes in equity since the date  
of combination. Subsequently, any losses applicable to the 
minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated 
against the interests of the parent except to the extent that the 
minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an 
additional investment to cover the losses.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation. 39
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
2  Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the 
cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of 
the identiﬁable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate  
or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill  
is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least 
annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in proﬁt  
or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to 
each of the Group’s cash generating units expected to beneﬁt 
from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units  
to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment 
annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the 
unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the 
impairment loss is allocated ﬁrst to reduce the carrying amount 
of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets 
of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each 
asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is 
not reversed in a subsequent period. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled  
entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the 
determination of the proﬁt or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition  
to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts 
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill 
written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not 
been reinstated and is not included in determining any 
subsequent proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets
Software development and environmental licensing costs 
resulting in development of a long-term intangible asset are 
measured initially at cost and are amortised on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Software – between 3 and 5 years
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the group’s 
product development is recognised only if all of the following 
conditions in IAS 38 are met:
•  an asset is created that can be separately identiﬁed (such  
as software and new processes);
•  it is probable that the asset created will generate future 
economic beneﬁts; and
• the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
No research or development costs met the criteria for required 
capitalisation under IAS 38 during the year.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be 
recognised, development expenditure is recognised as  
an expense in the period in which it is incurred.  
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of 
depreciation and any provision for impairment. Except for 
freehold land and land grants in Malaysia, which are not 
depreciated, the cost or valuation of property, plant and 
equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its 
expected useful life as follows:
Freehold buildings  – 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings  –  the lesser of 50 years and  
the period of the lease
Plant and equipment  – between 3 and 10 years
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 
amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the 
extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does  
not generate cash ﬂows that are independent from other 
assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset for which 
the estimates of future cash ﬂows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) 
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its 
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at  
a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated 
as a revaluation decrease. 
Operating leases
Operating lease payments are expensed on a straight-line basis 
to the income statement over the term of the relevant lease. Any 
beneﬁts received as an incentive to enter into an operating lease 
are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, 
direct labour costs and those overheads that have been 
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location  
and condition. Cost is calculated using the weighted average 
method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling 
price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be 
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Provision is made 
for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.  Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 40
2  Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Financial instruments
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to  
the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value 
and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method. Appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in proﬁt or  
loss where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired. 
Amortised costs
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to  
the proﬁt and loss account using the effective interest method 
and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the 
extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at initial recognition at fair value 
and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method.
Fair value through the income statement
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to reduce 
exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements. 
The Group does not hold or issue derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments for speculative purposes. 
The use of ﬁnancial derivatives is governed by the Group’s 
policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide 
written principles on the use of ﬁnancial derivatives, as set  
out in note 21.
Impairment of ﬁnancial assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 
amounts of its ﬁnancial assets to determine whether there is  
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment 
loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of  
the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the 
impairment loss (if any).
Finance costs
Finance costs of debt are recognised in the income statement 
over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the 
carrying amount. Finance costs that are directly attributable  
to the construction of tangible ﬁxed assets are capitalised as 
part of the cost of those assets in accordance with IAS 23.
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009
Foreign currencies 
In preparing the ﬁnancial statements of the individual 
companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s 
functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange 
prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance 
sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated 
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on 
the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies 
are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the  
fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency  
are not retranslated.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, 
the Group enters into forward contracts and options (see below 
for details of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments). 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s 
overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing 
on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are 
translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless 
exchange rates ﬂuctuate signiﬁcantly. Exchange differences 
arising, if any, are classiﬁed as equity and transferred to the 
Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are 
recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which  
the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition  
of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. The Group  
has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising 
on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs as 
sterling-denominated assets and liabilities.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group enters into a variety of derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign 
exchange rate risk, including foreign exchange forward 
contracts, interest rate swaps and foreign currency options.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date  
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.  
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a  
ﬁnancial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value  
is recognised as a ﬁnancial liability. The resulting gain or loss  
is recognised in proﬁt or loss immediately unless the derivative  
is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which 
event the timing of the recognition in proﬁt or loss depends  
on the nature of the hedge relationship. The Group designates 
certain derivatives as either hedges of highly probable  
forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk  
of ﬁrm commitments (cash ﬂow hedges), or hedges of net 
investments in foreign operations. 41
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
2  Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Hedge accounting 
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which 
include derivatives, embedded derivatives and non-derivatives 
in respect of foreign currency risk, as either cash ﬂow hedges, 
or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. Hedges  
of foreign exchange risk on ﬁrm commitments are accounted 
for as cash ﬂow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents 
the relationship between the hedging instrument and the 
hedged item, along with its risk management objectives  
and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. 
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing 
basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument 
that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in 
offsetting changes in cash ﬂows of the hedged item.
Cash ﬂow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives 
that are designated and qualify as cash ﬂow hedges are 
deferred in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss, and  
is included in the ‘other gains and losses’ line of the  
income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in proﬁt or loss in the 
periods when the hedged item is recognised in proﬁt or loss,  
in the same line of the income statement as the recognised 
hedged item. However, when the forecast transaction that is 
hedged results in the recognition of a non-ﬁnancial asset or  
a non-ﬁnancial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred 
in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial 
measurement of the cost of the non-ﬁnancial asset or non-
ﬁnancial liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes  
the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes for hedge 
accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at 
that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast 
transaction is ultimately recognised in proﬁt or loss. When  
a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is  
recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted 
for similarly to cash ﬂow hedges. Any gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the  
hedge is recognised in equity in the foreign currency translation 
reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion  
is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss, and is included  
in the ‘other gains and losses’ line of the income statement.
Taxation 
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently 
payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁt for the year. 
Taxable proﬁt differs from net proﬁt as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding  
tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt, and is 
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred 
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.  
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and 
associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the 
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts will be available to allow 
all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected  
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset  
is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income 
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt 
with in equity.
Retirement beneﬁt costs 
The costs of deﬁned beneﬁt contributions to the Group’s 
pension schemes and of augmenting existing pensions are 
charged to the income statement on a systematic basis over 
the expected period of beneﬁts from employees’ service.
Payments to deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt schemes 
are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Actuarial gains on the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are recognised 
in full in each period in which they occur. They are recognised 
outside of proﬁt or loss and are presented in the statement  
of comprehensive income.
The UK deﬁned beneﬁt scheme is funded, with the assets of the 
scheme held separately from those of the Group, in separate 
trustee-administered funds.  
For the German schemes, the assets are included within the 
assets of the respective companies, as permitted under local 
laws. The assets of the other overseas schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group. Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 42
2  Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued
Provisions
Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of  
sale of the relevant products, at the directors’ best estimate  
of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s liability.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the 
Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that  
has been communicated to affected parties.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for 
goods and services provided in the normal course of business, 
net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and 
title has passed, where delivery is deﬁned in accordance with 
Incoterms 2000.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based 
Payments. In accordance with the transitional provisions,  
IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 
7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2006.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to 
certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments  
are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value 
determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based 
payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will 
eventually vest. 
Deﬁnitions
Total sales
Total sales represent the total of revenue from Yule Catto &  
Co plc, its subsidiaries, and its share of the revenue of  
joint ventures. 
Operating proﬁt
Operating proﬁt represents proﬁt before ﬁnancing costs  
and taxation.  
EBITDA
EBITDA is calculated as operating proﬁt before depreciation, 
amortisation and non-recurring items.
Non-recurring items
Non-recurring items includes those items that are not directly  
or indirectly associated with the Group’s post-tax trading 
performance, which need to be separately disclosed in order  
to enable improved understanding of the accounts by users.
Non-recurring items are deﬁned as:
•  Proﬁt or loss impact arising from the sale or closure  
of an operation;
•  Impairment of non-current assets; and
•  Other non-operating or one-off items.
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009
Special items
The following are disclosed separately in note 3 as special  
items in order to provide a clearer indication of the Group’s 
underlying performance:
•  Non-recurring items;
•  Mark to market adjustments in respect of cross currency  
and interest rate derivatives used for hedging purposes  
where IAS 39 hedge accounting is not applied;
•  Revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the  
related cross currency swaps to the year end rate.
Net borrowings
Net borrowings represents cash and cash equivalents together 
with short and long term borrowings, as adjusted for the effect 
of related derivative instruments irrespective of whether they 
qualify for hedge accounting.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainty
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, 
which are described above, management has made the 
following judgements and estimates that have the most 
signiﬁcant effect on the amounts to be recognised in the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Impairment of goodwill 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation 
of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which 
goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation 
requires the entity to estimate the future cash ﬂows expected  
to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount 
rate in order to calculate present value. 
Post retirement beneﬁt obligations
Included in the actuaries’ calculation of the post retirement 
beneﬁt obligations are a number of assumptions. These are 
shown in detail in note 24.
Current tax liability 
When calculating the current tax liability an appropriate estimate 
has been made regarding the outstanding items in respect  
of previous years with various tax authorities for which the 
outcome of discussions is uncertain. 
Closure of manufacturing sites
Included in costs to close the manufacturing sites are estimates 
for redundancy, decontamination and dismantling costs. These 
estimates are based on experience gained in previous closures.  43
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
3 Special items
The special items are made up as follows: 
         
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Operating loss
Impairment of goodwill (see note 14)       (30,000) –
Loss arising from the sale or closure of operations (see note 7)     – (2,406)
Finance costs       (30,000) (2,406)
Fair value adjustment (see note 8)       (4,401) 8,615
(Loss)/proﬁt before taxation from continuing operations     (34,401) 6,209
Taxation       9,345 –
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year from continuing operations     (25,056) 6,209
Discontinued operations
Total sales
Revenue of operations sold or closed during the year     772 52,900
Operating proﬁt of discontinued operations
Operating proﬁt of operations sold or closed during the year     22 4,113
Proﬁt arising from the sale or closure of operations (see note 7)     3,652 20,067
        3,674 24,180
Taxation
Taxation on operating proﬁt of operations sold or closed during the year     (6) (884)
Taxation on proﬁt arising from the sale or closure of operations     – (728)
Proﬁt for the year from discontinued operations      3,668  22,568 
4  Segmental analysis 
The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments with effect from 1 January 2009. IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be 
identiﬁed on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee  
to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance. Following the adoption of IFRS 8, the identiﬁcation of the 
Group’s reportable segments has not changed. The Group has three operating divisions being Polymer Chemicals, Pharma 
Chemicals and Impact Chemicals.
    Total sales  Operating proﬁt
    Underlying  Special  Underlying Special
    performance  items IFRS  performance  items IFRS
2009   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Analysis by activity 
Continuing activity 
Polymer Chemicals   439,098 – 439,098 52,510 – 52,510
Share of Polymer joint ventures   15,450 – 15,450 1,242 – 1,242
    454,548 – 454,548 53,752 – 53,752
Pharma Chemicals   65,296 – 65,296 5,571 (30,000) (24,429)
Impact Chemicals   23,554 – 23,554 1,967 – 1,967
Total sales   543,398 – 543,398    
Divisional operating proﬁt      61,290 (30,000) 31,290
Unallocated corporate expenses      (9,884) – (9,884)
Operating proﬁt      51,406 (30,000) 21,406
            Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 44
4  Segmental analysis continued
    Total sales  Operating proﬁt
    Underlying  Special  Underlying Special
    performance  items IFRS  performance  items IFRS
2008   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Analysis by activity
Continuing activity
Polymer Chemicals   489,350 – 489,350 40,829 – 40,829
Share of Polymer joint ventures   17 ,780 – 17 ,780 1,615 – 1,615
    507,130 – 507,130 42,444 – 42,444
Pharma Chemicals   63,891 – 63,891 5,265 (1,756) 3,509
Impact Chemicals   31,132 – 31,132 1,634 (650) 984
Total sales   602,153 – 602,153
Divisional operating proﬁt      49,343 (2,406) 46,937
Unallocated corporate expenses      (6,151) – (6,151)
Operating proﬁt      43,192 (2,406) 40,786
Special items
        Unallocated
      Pharma  Impact expenses   
       Chemicals  Chemicals corporate Total
2009     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impairment of goodwill     (30,000) – – (30,000)
        Unallocated
       Pharma Impact corporate 
       Chemicals  Chemicals expenses Total
2008     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Loss arising from the sale or closure of operations    (1,756) (650) – (2,406)
         Depreciation
      Total  Total Capital and
      assets liabilities expenditure amortisation
2009     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Analysis by activity
Continuing activity
Polymer Chemicals     181,537 (154,221) (3,772) (9,720)
Pharma Chemicals     64,151 (20,893) (3,219) (4,545)
Impact Chemicals     8,340 (16,766) (292) (76)
      254,028 (191,880) (7,283) (14,341)
Holding companies     18,594 (56,231) (33) (411)
      272,622 (248,111) (7,316) (14,752)
Share of Polymer joint ventures     7,013 (3,368)
Goodwill (see note 14)     124,027
Net borrowings      (97,646)
      403,662 (349,125)
Net assets      54,537
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 45
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
4  Segmental analysis continued
         Depreciation
      Total  Total Capital and
      assets liabilities expenditure amortisation
2008     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Analysis by activity
Continuing activity
Polymer Chemicals     215,098 (152,764) (14,815) (9,372)
Pharma Chemicals     75,324 (31,004) (4,823) (9,658)
Impact Chemicals     20,387 (21,558) (1,327) (3,213)
      310,809 (205,326) (20,965) (22,243) 
Holding companies     39,604 (75,848) (147) 4,679
      350,413 (281,174)  (21,112) (17,564)
Share of Polymer joint ventures     11,236 (6,362)
Goodwill (see note 14)     154,027
Net borrowings      (161,448)
Net assets     515,676 (448,984)
       66,692
Geographical information
    Total sales Segment net assets Capital expenditure
    2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Analysis by region of operation
United Kingdom   165,454 182,043 (164,506)  (102,209)  1,323 2,646
Other Europe   183,424 209,007 130,578 104,044 2,827 5,562
Asia   154,830 178,327 50,226 62,775 1,373 10,750
Rest of World   39,690 32,776 11,858 9,503 1,793 2,154
    543,398 602,153 28,156 74,113 7,316 21,112
Goodwill     124,027 154,027
Net borrowings     (97,646) (161,448)
Net assets     54,537 66,692
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Analysis of total sales by destination 
United Kingdom       71,753 84,132
Other Europe       198,053 217,680
Asia       160,123 181,451
Africa and Middle East       63,654 68,898
Rest of World       49,815 49,992
        543,398 602,153
Inter-segmental sales
In addition to the amounts included above, inter segmental sales of £231,000 (2008 £2,743,000) were made as set out below. 
These sales were eliminated on consolidation.
      Polymer  Pharma Impact
      Chemicals  Chemicals  Chemicals Total
2009     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Polymer Chemicals      –  –  –  –
Pharma Chemicals      –  –  –  –
Impact Chemicals      – 231  – 231
Total      – 231  – 231 
      Polymer  Pharma Impact
      Chemicals  Chemicals  Chemicals Total
2008     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Polymer Chemicals      –  –  –  –
Pharma Chemicals      –  – 551 551
Impact Chemicals      – 2,192  – 2,192
Total     –  2,192  551  2,743 Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 46
5  Operating proﬁt
    Company and  Joint  Company and Joint
    subsidiaries  ventures Total  subsidiaries ventures Total
    2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total sales   527,948 15,450 543,398 584,373 17,780 602,153
Cost of sales   (403,052) (12,317) (415,369) (471,626) (14,438) (486,064)
Gross proﬁt   124,896 3,133 128,029 112,747 3,342 116,089
Distribution costs   (42,027) (942) (42,969) (45,075) (1,013) (46,088)
Administrative expenses   (32,705) (949) (33,654) (26,095) (714) (26,809)
Special items   (30,000) – (30,000) (2,406) – (2,406)
Operating proﬁt   20,164 1,242 21,406 39,171 1,615 40,786
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Operating proﬁt is stated after charging the following:
Depreciation       14,345 15,336
Amortisation       331 102
Hire of plant and equipment       2,001 1,570
Other lease rentals       3,047 2,790
Research and development expenditure      9,584 10,172
Loss arising from the sale or closure of operations      – 2,406
Impairment of goodwill       30,000 –
6  Auditors’ remuneration
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for:  
 – audit of the Company’s annual accounts      7 7
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for: 
 – audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation     409 478
Total audit fees       416 485
Tax services       36 55
Other services       25 34
Total non-audit fees       61 89
The other services provided by the Group auditors relate to assistance given in grant applications and sundry projects.
7  Proﬁt/(loss) arising from the sale or closure of an operation
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Closure of Uquifa’s Italian manufacturing site      –  (1,756)
Restructuring of William Blythe Limited      –  (650)
        –  (2,406)
Discontinued operations
Sale of Oxford Chemicals Ltd       3,944  –
Write back of excess provision of Holliday Encres SA     371  – 
Costs associated with prior year disposals      (663) – 
Closure of Holliday Pigments UK manufacturing site     – 450
Closure of James Robinson’s German manufacturing site     –  4,523
Sale of James Robinson Limited and James Robinson GmbH     –  5,637
Sale of James Robinson India Pvt Ltd       – (362)
Sale of Holliday Pigments SA and Holliday France SA      –  8,265
Sale of Holliday Chemical Espana SA       –  409
Sale of PFW Aroma Chemicals BV       –  (774)
Sale of Hull site       –  1,351
Sale of Dieburg site       –  568
        3,652  20,067
        3,652  17,661 
In each case, assets retained that cannot be sold are written off. To the extent that workers are not redeployed, termination terms 
are agreed.          
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 47
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
8  Finance costs
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts      6,789 11,219
Interest payable on other loans       3,519 4,764
        10,308 15,983
Less: interest receivable       (439) (5,481)
Net interest payable       9,869 10,502
Fair value adjustment       4,401 (8,615)
Total ﬁnance costs       14,270 1,887
The fair value adjustment is the mark to market adjustment in respect of cross currency and interest rate derivatives used for  
hedging purposes where IAS 39 hedge accounting is not applied. 
9 Current taxation
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Current tax
UK corporation tax       (11) (103)
Overseas taxation       8,657 4,278
        8,646 4,175
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences      (385) 729
        8,261  4,904
Special items (see note 3)       (9,345) –
Total tax on proﬁt before taxation       (1,084) 4,904
Discontinued operations
Tax on special items – UK       6 –
Tax on special items – overseas       – 1,612
Tax charge for the year on discontinued operations      6 1,612
UK corporation tax is calculated at 28% (2008 28.5%) of the estimated assessable proﬁt for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions 
is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Tax expense
Continuing operations       (1,084) 4,904
Discontinued operations       6 1,612
Total tax expense       (1,078) 6,516
Reconciliation of tax expense to proﬁt before taxation
The differences between the total tax expense shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK 
corporation tax to the proﬁt before tax is as follows.
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Proﬁt before taxation – continuing operations      7,136 38,899
Proﬁt before taxation – discontinued operations      3,674 24,180
Proﬁt before taxation       10,810 63,079
Tax on proﬁt before taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2008 28.5%)   3,027 17 ,978
Effects of:     
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes      727 1,409
Tax incentives and items not subject to tax      (5,718) (12,061)
Losses not recognised less utilisation of losses not previously recognised    988 (639)
Lower tax rates on overseas earnings       (7) (171)
Other deferred tax asset not recognised less amounts now recognised    458 –
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods     (501) –
Effect of change of rate on deferred tax      (52) –
Tax charge for year       (1,078) 6,516 
            Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 48
9 Current taxation continued
Tax charges to equity       
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Deferred tax (credit)/charge on items recognised directly in equity    (306) 48
        (306) 48
Current tax liabilities 
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Current tax liabilities       (34,556) (44,528)
10 Deferred taxation
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax 
assets to the extent that it is probable that these assets will be recovered. No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings 
of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures. As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable 
on them in the foreseeable future. 
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to offset) are shown below. 
Deferred tax liabilities
       Accelerated 
      tax depreciation Other Total
2009      £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January      (4,702) (2,197) (6,899)
Charge to income statement      1,416 (1,407) 9 
Transfer from current tax liability      (2,554)  – (2,554)
Exchange adjustment      272 128 400 
At 31 December      (5,568) (3,476) (9,044)
Deferred tax assets  
       Pensions Other Total
2009      £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January      457  –  457 
Charged to income statement      (672) 1,048  376 
Charged through retained earnings      306 –  306 
At 31 December      91  1,048  1,139 
All of the deferred tax assets were available for offset against deferred tax liabilities and hence the net deferred tax provision  
at 31 December 2009 is as follows:          
Net deferred tax liability
         Total
         £’000
At 31 December 2009        (7,905)
At 31 December 2008        (6,442)
Deferred tax asset not recognised 
Deferred tax has not been recognised where it has been assumed that the deferred tax asset is not recoverable. The amounts of 
deferred tax not recognised at the balance sheet dates are as follows:
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
UK pension liability       19,589  16,920
Tax losses       8,136  957
Accelerated capital allowances       18,747  10,139
Other timing differences       628  2,434
        47,100 30,450
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 49
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
10 Deferred taxation continued
Deferred tax on unremitted overseas earnings
The estimated deferred tax relating to the retained proﬁts held within subsidiary Group companies and not yet remitted, excluding 
any mitigation through use of loss relief, double taxation credits and other reliefs is as follows:
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Deferred tax liability not recognised       79,832  87 ,548
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures was £79.4 million (2008 £88.2 million). Calculation of the potential deferred tax liability has not been 
undertaken as the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that  
the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. If the temporary differences were to reverse in the future, it is probable  
that the majority of the potential tax liability would be covered by tax credits in respect of tax paid locally. 
11 Dividends
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Ordinary 
 – prior year ﬁnal of nil pence per share (2007 5.7 pence)     –  8,303 
  – interim of nil pence per share (2008 4.0 pence)      –  5,826 
        –  14,129
12 Earnings per share
     2009   2008
    Underlying  Special   Underlying Special
    performance  items IFRS performance items IFRS
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
From Continuing operations
Earnings (Proﬁt attributable to 
 equity holders of the parent)   31,074  (25,056) 6,018  26,068  6,209  32,277 
Earnings per share   21.3p  (17.2)p 4.1p  17.9p  4.3p  22.2p 
Diluted earnings per share   20.8p  (16.8)p 4.0p  17.8p  4.2p  22.0p 
From Continuing and discontinued operations 
Earnings (Proﬁt attributable to 
 equity holders of the parent)   31,074  (21,388) 9,686  26,068  28,777  54,845 
Earnings per share   21.3p  (14.7)p 6.6p  17.9p  19.8p  37.7p 
Diluted earnings per share   20.8p  (14.3)p 6.5p  17.8p  19.6p  37.4p 
Earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 145,660,000 
(2008 145,645,000).
Diluted earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average number of shares in issue in the year as adjusted for dilutive 
share options of 149,382,000 (2008 146,653,000).
13  Employees   
        2009 2008
        Number Number
The average monthly number of employees during the year by activity was:
Polymer Chemicals       1,435  1,497 
Pharma Chemicals       421  458 
Impact Chemicals       155  438 
Holding companies       34  41 
        2,045  2,434 
Share of joint ventures       48  51 
        2,093  2,485 
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
The aggregate remuneration of all Group employees comprised:   
Wages and salaries       51,600  57,990 
Social security costs       7,866  9,948 
Post retirement beneﬁt obligations       4,208  5,225 
        63,674  73,163 Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 50
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009
14  Goodwill
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January       263,939 309,371
Recognised on acquisition of a subsidiary      – 412
Derecognised on disposal of a subsidiary      – (45,844)
At 31 December       263,939 263,939
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January       109,912 136,928
Impairment losses for the year       30,000 –
Derecognised on disposal of a subsidiary      – (27,016)
At 31 December       139,912 109,912
Net book value
At 31 December       124,027 154,027
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Cash Generating Units (‘CGU’) comprise primarily acquired entities monitored at business unit level. The exception is where 
management monitor a CGU across similar businesses as a whole or components of businesses largely independent of  
other parts of those businesses. 
The allocation of the carrying value of goodwill is represented below.
      31 December  31 December 31 December 2009
      2007 2008 Impairment    
      Net book Net book during the  Net book
      value value year value  
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Polymer Chemicals
Synthomer Ltd and Harlow Chemical Company Ltd   70,521 70,521 – 70,521
Synthomer GmbH     13,120 13,120 – 13,120
Synthomer Hasselt BV     3,089 3,089 – 3,089
Synthomer Vietnam Co Ltd     – 412 – 412
      86,730 87,142 – 87,142
Pharma Chemicals
Uquifa Spain SA and Uquifa Mexico SACV    66,885 66,885 (30,000) 36,885
      66,885 66,885 (30,000) 36,885
Impact Chemicals
Holliday Chemical Espana SA     97 – – – 
Holliday France SA     136 – – –
Holliday Pigments Ltd and SA     14,977 – – –
James Robinson GmbH     3,382 – – –
Other     236 – – –
      18,828 – – –
Total     172,443 154,027 (30,000) 124,027
In compiling the above table, the recoverable amounts for the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations, based upon 
discounted cash ﬂows. The key assumptions for the discounted cash ﬂow calculations are those regarding the discount rate, proﬁt 
and growth rate. Management estimates pre-tax discount rates that reﬂect current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks speciﬁc to each CGU. A discount rate of 9.0% has been used. The proﬁt used in the cash ﬂows for the ﬁrst year is 
derived from management forecasts, for years 2 to 10 a growth rate is applied. The proﬁt for year 10 is then assumed to apply 
without further growth into perpetuity. Growth rates of between 4.0% and 5.0% have been used, representing management’s best 
estimate of each CGU’s circumstances, and these do not exceed average long-term growth rates for the markets concerned.
The Pharma Chemicals CGU’s have been combined reﬂecting the amalgamation of the management of Uquifa Spain SA and Uquifa 
Mexcis SACV. A £30 million impairment has been recognised in this CGU to reduce the carrying value to management best estimate 
of the recoverable amount using the methodology above.
With the exception of Pharma Chemicals the Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment of each CGUs  
carrying value. A cut in the growth rate to zero percent would not result in the carrying value of goodwill being reduced below  
its recoverable amount. 51
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
15  Other intangible assets
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
No development expenditure met the requirements to be recognised as an internally generated intangible asset, therefore all 
development costs in the period were expensed. 
        Environmental 
       Software licences Total
       £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost   
At 1 January 2009      6,163  215  6,378
Exchange adjustments      (626) –  (626)
Additions      72  –  72
Disposals      (58) –  (58)
At 31 December 2009      5,551  215  5,766
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2009      5,294 215 5,509
Exchange adjustments      (620) – (620)
Amortisation charge for the year      331 – 331
Disposals      (58) – (58)
At 31 December 2009      4,947 215 5,162
Net book value
At 31 December 2009      604  –  604
        Environmental 
       Software licences Total
       £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2008      6,104  215  6,319
Exchange adjustments      1,024  –  1,024
Additions      579  –  579
Disposals      (1,544) –  (1,544)
At 31 December 2008      6,163  215  6,378
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2008      5,513 215 5,728
Exchange adjustments      983 – 983
Amortisation charge for the year      102 – 102
Disposals      (1,304) – (1,304)
At 31 December 2008      5,294 215 5,509
Net book value 
At 31 December 2008      869  –  869
16  Property, plant and equipment
      Land and buildings
      Leaseholds  Plant and 
     Freeholds Long Short equipment Total
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2009    61,977  4,575  3,899  332,041  402,492
Exchange adjustments    (3,139) (2) (519) (13,914) (17,574)
Additions    1,252  –  1,051  4,941  7 ,244 
Disposals    (788) –  –  (2,602) (3,390)
At 31 December 2009    59,302  4,573  4,431  320,466  388,772 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2009    23,724  2,217  426  258,019  284,386 
Exchange adjustments    (785) –  (62) (9,916) (10,763)
Depreciation charge for the year     1,031  129  149  13,112  14,421 
Disposals    (314) –  –  (2,773) (3,087)
At 31 December 2009    23,656  2,346  513  258,442  284,957 
Net book value
At 31 December 2009    35,646  2,227  3,918  62,024  103,815 
            Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 52
16  Property, plant and equipment continued
      Land and buildings
      Leaseholds  Plant and 
     Freeholds Long Short equipment Total
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2008    53,305  4,598  1,534  313,257  372,694
Exchange adjustments    17 ,260  18  1,370  52,797  71,445 
Additions    331  102  995  19,105  20,533 
Assets written off on closure of business   1,939  –  –  396  2,335 
Disposals    (6,609) (143) –  (45,356) (52,108)
Reclassiﬁed as held for sale    (4,249) –  –  (8,158) (12,407)
At 31 December 2008    61,977  4,575  3,899  332,041  402,492 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2008    22,665  2,100  104  239,357  264,226 
Exchange adjustments    3,081  2  140  43,395  46,618 
Depreciation charge for the year    1,198  125  182  15,957  17 ,462 
Assets written off on closure of business   –  –  –  166  166 
Disposals    (2,306) (10) –  (33,665) (35,981)
On assets reclassiﬁed as held for sale    (914) –  –  (7 ,191) (8,105)
At 31 December 2008    23,724  2,217  426  258,019  284,386 
Net book value
At 31 December 2008    38,253  2,358  3,473  74,022  118,106 
Freehold land amounting to £9,357,000 (2008 £9,357 ,000) has not been depreciated.
Of the depreciation charge for the year £76,000 (2008 £2,126,000) relates to discontinued operations.
17  Investment in joint ventures
      2009 2009 2008 2008
      £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000
At 1 January
Share of non-current assets      1,091  975
Share of current assets      10,219  6,439
Share of current liabilities      (6,362)  (4,237)
       4,948  3,177
Share of income     15,450  17,780
Share of expenses     (14,096)  (16,113)
      1,354  1,667
Tax     (112)  (52)
Dividends paid during the year     (1,899)  (816)
Exchange adjustments     (493)  972
Retained (loss)/proﬁt     (1,150)  1,771
At 31 December
Share of non-current assets      1,028  1,091
Share of current assets      6,135  10,219
Share of current liabilities      (3,365)  (6,362)
       3,798  4,948
A list of principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures is given on page 77.
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 53
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
18  Inventories 
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables       22,750  27,584 
Work in progress       1,398  1,677 
Finished goods       31,997  34,246 
        56,145  63,507
 
The value of stock written off during the year was £853,000 (2008 £1,780,000).
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of inventories and their replacement cost.
19  Trade and other receivables
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Trade receivables       86,468  108,140 
Amounts owed by joint ventures       395  390 
Other receivables       7,793  11,522 
Prepayments and accrued income       4,350  6,084 
        99,006  126,136 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Credit risk
Amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management 
based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. The Group has no signiﬁcant concentration 
of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of customers. 
Before accepting a new customer, the Group uses appropriate procedures to assess the potential customer’s credit quality  
in order to set a credit limit.
Ageing of trade receivables
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Not yet due       74,844  88,290 
0-60 days overdue       11,854  18,793 
61-120 days overdue       986  2,356 
Over 120 days due       2,140  1,423 
        89,824  110,862 
Less: provision for impairment       (3,356) (2,722)
        86,468  108,140 
Provision for impairment of receivables          
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
At 1 January       2,722  1,775 
Exchange adjustments       11  320 
Charge for the year       733  906 
Amounts written off as uncollectible       (110) (263)
Amounts recovered previously written off      –  (16)
At 31 December       3,356  2,722 
The provision is predominantly against trade receivables more than 61 days overdue.  Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 54
20  Cash and borrowings
Cash pooling
The Group runs notional pooling facilities in a number of countries, principally the UK. The structure facilitates interest and balance 
compensation of cash and bank overdrafts. This notional pooling does not meet the strict set-off rules under IFRS, and as a result 
the cash and bank overdraft balances must be reported ‘gross’ on the balance sheet.
The table below shows the impact of netting the cash and overdraft balances in each of the pooled facilities. It is the opinion of the 
directors that this treatment reﬂects the commercial reality of the Group’s position with its banks.
     2009  2008
       Bank loans   Bank loans
       and   and
      Cash overdrafts Cash  overdrafts
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
As disclosed under IFRS     42,384  (3,608) 26,576  (20,844)
Notional pooling adjustment     –  –  (6,986) 6,986 
Underlying position     42,384  (3,608) 19,590  (13,858)
           
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Current borrowings
Bank loans
Bank loans and overdrafts       3,608  20,844 
Malaysian ringgits 100 million six-year amortising term loan     2,372  – 
Other loans
$136,000,000 7.66% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010   27,949  32,168 
£15,000,000 6.99% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010   5,000  5,000 
        38,929  58,012 
Less: capitalised costs       (5) (40)
        38,924  57,972 
Non-current borrowings
Bank loans
Unsecured £30m revolving credit facility expiring 2011     –  – 
Malaysian ringgits 100 million six-year amortising term loan     15,936  – 
Other bank loans       1,283  – 
Other loans
$136,000,000 7.66% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010   –  32,168 
£15,000,000 6.99% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010   –  5,000  
$43,000,000 5.55% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2012   26,996  29,698 
$70,000,000 5.78% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2014   43,948  48,346 
$22,000,000 5.98% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2016   13,812  15,195 
        101,975  130,407 
Less: capitalised costs       (869) (355)
        101,106  130,052  
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest based on LIBOR or foreign equivalents or government 
bond rates appropriate to the country in which the borrowing is incurred. 
At 31 December 2009, the Group had available £30 million (2008 £30 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met.
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 55
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
20  Cash and borrowings continued
The directors calculate the carrying value of the Group’s borrowings as follows:
Analysis of borrowings at carrying value by currency
     Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
31 December 2009
 Bank loans and overdrafts    – 14 3,410 184 3,608
 Bank loans    – – 1,283 18,308 19,591
 Loan notes    5,000 112,705 – – 117,705
 Capitalised costs    (874) – – – (874)
     4,126 112,719 4,693 18,492 140,030
 Cash and cash equivalents        (42,384)
 Net borrowings        97,646
 Deduct: special item        (9,608)
 Net borrowings (underlying performance)       88,038
31 December 2008
 Bank loans and overdrafts    7 ,908 4,632 8,255 49 20,844
 Loan notes    10,000 157,575 – – 167,575
 Capitalised costs    (395) – – – (395)
     17,513 162,207 8,255 49 188,024
 Cash and cash equivalents        (26,576)
 Net borrowings        161,448
 Deduct: special item        (25,966)
 Net borrowings (underlying performance)       135,482
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months  
or less.          
        
The special item represents the revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the related cross currency swaps to the year  
end rate, together with the transitional adjustment required to reﬂect movements in fair value caused by variations in interest rates, 
and subsequent amortisation thereof, to the extent that these constituted effective hedges prior to the adoption of IFRS.
21  Financial instruments
The Group’s treasury function operates procedures designed to reduce or eliminate ﬁnancial risk and ensure that funds are available 
for current and future needs. The policies are approved by the Board and the use of ﬁnancial instruments is strictly controlled. 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the 
return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, 
which includes the cash and borrowings disclosed in note 20, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising 
issued capital, reserves and retained earnings, as disclosed in note 26.
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial instruments comprise borrowings, some cash and liquid resources and various items, such as  
trade debtors and trade creditors, that arise directly from its operations. The Group also uses interest rate swaps, currency swaps 
and forward foreign currency contracts to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and  
its sources of ﬁnance.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in ﬁnancial instruments shall be undertaken.
      Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 56
21  Financial instruments continued
Set out below is a comparison by category of book values and fair values of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities:
      Carrying values  Fair values
      at 31 December at 31 December
      2009 2008 2009 2008
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Fair value of ﬁnancial assets
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments   94,656 120,052  94,656  120,052
Cash and cash equivalents     42,384 26,576 42,384 26,576
Derivatives at fair value     11,763 33,887 11,763 33,887 
      148,803 180,515 148,803 180,515 
Fair value of ﬁnancial liabilities          
Loan notes     116,831 167,180  96,371 124,225
Bank loans and overdrafts     23,199 20,844  23,199  20,844  
Trade and other payables     125,825 152,788  125,825  152,788  
      265,855 340,812 245,395 297,857 
Fair values have been obtained from the relevant institutions where appropriate. Where market values are not available, fair values  
of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash ﬂow at prevailing interest rates 
and by applying year end exchange rates. The carrying amount of short-term borrowings approximates to book value.
The fair value of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are measured using inputs other than quoted prices that are directly  
or indirectly observable.
The main risks arising from the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are market risk and liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees  
policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below, together with related disclosure required by IFRS.   
           
Market risk          
The Group’s main exposure to market risk is in the form of interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. The policies adopted to 
address these risks are as follows:
 Interest rate risk          
  The Group ﬁnances its operations through a mixture of retained proﬁts, loan notes and bank borrowings. The Group borrows at 
both ﬁxed and ﬂoating rates of interest and uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest proﬁle in order to manage the 
Group’s exposure to interest rate ﬂuctuations.         
      
 Foreign currency risk
  The Group uses currency borrowings, forward contracts and currency swaps to hedge overseas net assets, which are 
predominantly denominated in euros. Proﬁt translation exposures are not hedged.
 
  The Group hedges currency transaction exposures at the point of conﬁrmed order, using forward foreign exchange contracts.  
The Group’s policy is, where practicable, to hedge all exposures on monetary assets and liabilities. Consequently, there are no 
material currency exposures to disclose (2008 none).
    
Impact on income statement          
Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts amounting to £4,400,652 have been charged to the income statement in the year 
(2008 credit of £8,614,461). These changes are shown separately as a special item in the consolidated income statement.   
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 57
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
21  Financial instruments continued
Hedge accounting
The Group has a number of cross currency and interest rate swaps that are used to reduce the exposure to interest rate and 
currency risk.   
These swaps are fully effective at eliminating the risks they address.
The Group has reviewed the requirements necessary to permit the application of hedge accounting under IAS 39. It has 
concluded that the costs involved in meeting these requirements cannot be justiﬁed and therefore IAS 39 hedge accounting  
will not be applied.
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments to which hedge accounting is not applied are recognised in the  
income statement as they arise.
     
Given the recent volatility in currency rates the Group has taken out forward foreign exchange contracts to ﬁx the euro value  
of a percentage of the anticipated US dollar sales. These contracts have been accounted for as cash ﬂow hedges as permitted  
by IAS 39.  
Interest rate risk proﬁle
Financial liabilities
After taking into account the various interest rate and currency swaps entered into by the Group, the currency and interest rate 
exposure of the Group as at 31 December 2009 was:
    Floating rate  Fixed rate Total Floating rate Fixed rate Total
    borrowings  borrowings  borrowings borrowings borrowings borrowings
    2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Sterling   2,223  105,000  107,223  24,122  125,000  149,122 
Euro   4,693  –  4,693  8,255  –  8,255  
US dollar   14  –  14  4,632 –  4,632 
Other   18,492  –  18,492  49  –  49
    25,422  105,000  130,422  37,058  125,000  162,058
Cash and cash equivalents     (42,384)   (26,576)
Net borrowings (underlying performance)    88,038    135,482 
The effective interest rate for the year was 6.9% (2008 6.9%).
Sensitivity analysis    
The following table illustrates the effect on the income statement and items that are recognised directly in equity that would result 
from reasonably possible movements in UK and US interest rates and in euro and US dollar to sterling exchange rates, before the 
effect of tax.  
     2009   2008
    Income statement  Equity Income statement  Equity
    Underlying  IFRS IFRS Underlying  IFRS IFRS
    -/+ £m -/+ £m -/+ £m -/+ £m -/+ £m -/+ £m
Interest rate sensitivity analysis  
UK interest rate +/- 1.0%   0.1  2.4  –  0.2  3.8  – 
Euro interest rate +/- 1.0%   0.1  0.1  –  0.1  0.1  – 
US interest rate +/- 1.0%   –  3.8  –  –  5.9  – 
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis  
Euro exchange rate -/+ 10%   0.5  0.5  3.2  1.1  1.1  2.8 
US dollar exchange rate -/+ 10%   –  1.1  –  0.5  4.5  – 
The interest rate sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-
derivative instruments at the balance sheet date. For ﬂoating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability 
outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
The foreign currency sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their 
translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates. The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as 
loans to foreign operations within the Group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the functional currency  
of the lender or borrower. Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 58
21  Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The objective of the Group is to meet ﬁnancial commitments as and when they fall due. The Board closely monitors liquidity  
through monthly management accounts.
At the year end, Yule Catto & Co plc had the following principal facilities:
A committed syndicated bank revolving credit facility of £30 million which expires in December 2011. 
Unsecured loan notes totalling approximately £108 million raised from the US private placement market in 1999 and 2004.  
With maturity between 2010 and 2016, these loan notes provide the Group’s long-term requirements. Please see note 20  
for further details. 
A RM 100 million (£18 million) six year amortising loan through its Malaysian subsidiary Synthomer Sdn Bhd.
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
   2009    2008
  Amount due   Amount due
   between between    between between
  within  1 and 2 2 and 5 after 5  within 1 and 2 2 and 5 after 5
  one year  years  years years Total  one year  years  years  years Total 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Non-interest bearing
Trade and  
other payables 125,609  216  –  –  125,825  152,621  167  –  –  152,788 
Variable interest 
rate instruments
Bank loans  
and overdrafts 5,980  3,853  13,366  –  23,199  20,844  –  –  –  20,844 
Fixed interest  
rate instruments
Loan notes 33,506  –  61,615  12,102  107,223  33,472  33,472  23,672  50,598  141,214  
  165,095  4,069  74,981  12,102  256,247  206,937  33,639  23,672  50,598  314,846  
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for non-derivative ﬁnancial assets:
   2009    2008
  Amount due   Amount due
   between between    between between
  within  1 and 2 2 and 5 after 5  within 1 and 2 2 and 5 after 5
  one year  years  years years Total  one year  years  years  years Total 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other  
receivables excluding  
prepayments 94,656  –  –  –  94,656  120,052  –  –  –  120,052 
Variable interest  
rate instruments
Cash and  
cash equivalents 42,384  –  –  –  42,384  26,576  –  –  –  26,576 
  137,040  –  –  –  137,040  146,628  –  –  –  146,628 
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 59
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
21  Financial instruments continued
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for its derivative ﬁnancial instruments:
   2009    2008
  Amount due   Amount due
   between between    between between
  within  1 and 2 2 and 5 after 5  within 1 and 2 2 and 5 after 5
  one year  years  years years Total  one year  years  years  years Total 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Interest rate swaps 3,984  –  –  –  3,984  1,101  1,506  –  –  2,607 
Cross currency swaps (3,845) (2,370) (4,732) (333) (11,280) (2,964) (4,251) (4,275) (1,478) (12,968)
Foreign exchange  
forward contracts 26  –  –  –  26  232  –  –  –  232 
  165  (2,370) (4,732) (333) (7,270) (1,631) (2,745) (4,275) (1,478) (10,129)
In accordance wth IFRS 7 , the above table shows undiscounted cash ﬂows. In contrast IAS 39 requires these items to be carried  
in, the balance sheet at fair value, which is based on discounted cash ﬂows. 
22  Assets held for sale
Assets held for sale in the comparative year related to Oxford Chemicals Limited and land belonging to James Robinson GmbH.
23  Trade and other payables
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Amount due within one year
Trade creditors       78,961  100,790
Other creditors       24,487  27,710
Accruals and deferred income       22,161  24,121
        125,609 152,621
Amount due in greater than one year
Other creditors       216  167
        125,825 152,788
Accruals and deferred income includes £1,413,000 (2008 £6,097 ,000) in respect of restructuring costs. 
Average trade creditor days in 2009 was 68 (2008 66). This ﬁgure represents trade creditor days for all trading operations 
within the Group, calculated as a weighted average based on cost of sales.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
24  Post retirement beneﬁt obligations
Charge to income statement in respect of the Group’s pension schemes
   2009   2008   2007   2006   2005
   £’000   £’000   £’000   £’000   £’000
  UK Overseas T otal UK Overseas Total  UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
Deﬁned beneﬁt 3,168 699  3,867 977 427 1,404 1,598 763 2,361 2,200 763 2,963 4,000 226 4,226
Deﬁned contribution 486  63  549 388 771 1,159 159 952 1,111 299 712 1,011 347 710 1,057
  3,654 762  4,416 1,365 1,198 2,563 1,757 1,715 3,472 2,499 1,475 3,974 4,347 936 5,283
Deﬁned beneﬁt  
– special item –  –  –  –  –  –  (10,797) –  (10,797) –  –  –  –  –  – 
  3,654 762  4,416 1,365 1,198 2,563 (9,040) 1,715 (7,325) 2,499 1,475 3,974 4,347 936 5,283
The fair value of the assets in the schemes, and the present value of the liabilities in the schemes at each balance sheet date were:
   2009   2008   2007   2006   2005
   £’000   £’000   £’000   £’000   £’000
  UK Overseas T otal UK Overseas Total  UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
Present value of funded  
deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (241,475) (13,971) (255,446) (205,721) (13,449) (219,170) (228,966) (15,530) (244,496) (260,425) (16,591) (277,016) (225,000) (16,233) (241,233)
Fair value of scheme assets 171,515 5,242 176,757 138,293 5,318 143,611 195,325 7,935 203,260 191,137 7,995 199,132 167,400 4,196 171,596
Post retirement  
beneﬁt obligations (69,960) (8,729) (78,689) (67,428) (8,131) (75,559) (33,641) (7,595) (41,236) (69,288) (8,596) (77,884) (57,600) (12,037) (69,637) Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 60
24  Post retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
UK pension schemes
The Group participates in a funded scheme with both a deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution section (the Yule Catto Group 
Retirement Beneﬁt Scheme). The scheme’s deﬁned beneﬁt section was closed to new members with effect from 31 December  
1998 and with effect from 1 January 1999 a deﬁned contribution section was introduced and is open to all eligible Group employees. 
During 2009 the Group announced that it intended to close the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme to future accrual. This process commenced  
in 2009 and will be completed by September 2010.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the companies concerned. 
Contributions to the scheme are charged to the proﬁt and loss account to spread the cost of pensions over employees’ working  
lives within the Group.
Deﬁned beneﬁt scheme
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 6 April 2006 and updated to 31 December 2009 by a qualiﬁed actuary. The major 
assumptions used by the actuary were:
     2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Rate of increase in salaries    3.00% 2.60% 3.10% 3.30% 3.50%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment   3.00% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
Discount rate    5.70% 6.50% 5.90% 5.20% 4.90%
Rates of return on plan assets    8.22% 7.31% 7.33% 6.95% 7.21%
Inﬂation assumption    3.00% 2.60% 3.10% 2.80% 2.50%
Amount charged to operating proﬁt
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Current service cost       1,493  1,795 
Expected return on plan assets       (11,393) (14,047)
Interest cost relating to pension scheme liabilities      13,068  13,229 
        3,168  977 
 
Actuarial loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets     21,209  (64,742)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities     (32,753) 25,273 
        (11,544) (39,469)
History of experience gains and losses
     2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Difference between the expected and  
actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (£’000)    21,209  (64,742) (5,891) 13,800  17,200 
Percentage of scheme assets    12.37% (46.82)% (3.02)% 7.22% 10.27%
Experience gains and losses arising  
on the scheme liabilities     
Amount (£’000)    (32,753) 25,273  25,872  (30,988) (12,100)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities  (13.56)% 12.29% 11.30% (11.90)% (5.38)%
Total actuarial (losses)/gains recognised the  
statement of recognised income and expense
Amount (£’000)    (11,544) (39,469) 19,981  (17,188) 5,100 
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities  (4.78)% (19.19)% 8.73% (6.61)% 2.27%
The actual return on plan assets was £32,602,000 (2008 £50,695,000).
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 61
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
24  Post retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
Movements in the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations were as follows:      
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
At 1 January       (205,721) (228,966)
Current service cost       (1,493) (1,795)
Interest cost       (13,068) (13,229)
Contributions from scheme members       (438) (739)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities     (32,753) 25,273 
Beneﬁts paid       11,998  13,735 
At 31 December       (241,475) (205,721)
Movements in the fair value of the scheme assets were as follows:       
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
At 1 January       138,293  195,325 
Expected return on scheme assets       11,393  14,047 
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets     21,209  (64,742)
Contributions from sponsoring companies      10,951  6,659 
Contributions from scheme members       438  739 
Beneﬁts paid       (10,769) (13,735)
At 31 December       171,515  138,293 
Contributions from the sponsoring companies are expected to be £6,566,000 in 2009 (2008 £6,659,000).
 
The fair value of the assets in the scheme, the present value of the liabilities in the scheme and the expected rate of return at each 
balance sheet date were:
 
  2009 2009 2008 2008 2007 2007 2006 2006 2005 2005  
  % £’000 % £’000 % £’000 % £’000 % £’000
Equities 8.00 113,373  9.00 90,241  8.00 148,447  7.90 154,821  7.50 134,900 
Bonds 5.70 54,243  6.70 47,614  5.17 44,925  4.92 36,316  4.63 31,800 
Cash 2.00 3,899  4.25 438  4.25 1,953  4.25 –  4.00 700 
Total fair value of assets  171,515   138,293   195,325   191,137   167,400 
Present value  
of scheme liabilities  (241,475)  (205,721)  (228,966)  (260,425)  (225,000)
Post retirement  
beneﬁt obligations  (69,960)  (67,428)  (33,641)  (69,288)  (57,600)
Overseas pension schemes
The Group operates a number of smaller overseas pension and post-retirement schemes. The assets of these schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group with the exception of the German schemes, where in line with common practice, the assets  
are held within the respective company. Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 62
24  Post retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The aggregated pension disclosure below for the overseas deﬁned beneﬁt schemes has been compiled from a number of actuarial 
valuations at 31 December 2009. The major assumptions do not differ signiﬁcantly from those disclosed above in relation to the UK 
pension schemes. 
Amount charged to operating proﬁt
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Current service cost       224  369 
Gain on settlements and curtailments       –  (325)
Expected return on plan assets       (239) (310)
Interest cost relating to pension scheme liabilities      714  693 
        699  427 
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets     2  (377)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities     (1,077) 735 
        (1,075) 358 
The actual return on plan assets was £241,000 (2008 £67 ,000 loss).
Analysis of the movements in the net balance sheet liability before deferred tax
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Net liability at 1 January       (8,131) (7,595)
Total expense as detailed above       (699) (427)
Contributions made       572  938 
Actuarial gain       (1,075) 358 
Sale of PFW Aroma Chemicals BV       –  846 
Exchange movements       604  (2,251)
Net liability at 31 December       (8,729) (8,131)
25  Share capital
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Authorised
219, 111,230 (2008 219,111,230) ordinary shares of 10 pence each    21,911  21,911 
Issued and fully paid 
145,663, 187 (2008 145,663,187) ordinary shares of 10 pence each    14,566  14,566 
Ordinary shares carry no right to ﬁxed income. 
Share options
As at 31 December 2009 the following options were outstanding:
Executive share options       Number Option price
Exercisable between 2010-2012       1,413  (a)
Exercisable between 2010-2017       254,801  (a)
Exercisable between 2011-2018       655,809  (a)
Exercisable between 2012-2019       2,810,312  (a)
SAYE options       Number Option price
Exercisable in 2010       13,872  261.0p
   
(a) Options granted under the Performance Share Plan, Longer-Term Deferred Bonus Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan 2006 with a total exercise price of £45.   
           
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 63
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
26  Changes in equity
    Capital  Hedging and Cash ﬂow 
  Share Share redemption Own  translation hedging Minority Retained
  capital premium reserve shares reserve reserve interest earnings Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2009 14,566 33,034 949 – 6,252 678 9,157 2,056 66,692
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – – 2,202 9,686 11,888
Actuarial gains and losses – – – – – – – (12,619) (12,619)
Tax on items recognised  
 directly in equity – – – – – – – 306 306
Exchange differences  
 on cash ﬂow hedging  
 deferred to equity – – – – – (678) – – (678)
Exchange differences  
 on translation of  
 overseas operations – – – – (6,933) – (825) – (7,758)
Net investment hedging – – – – (253) – – – (253)
Total recognised (expenditure)/ 
 income for the period – – – – (7 ,186) (678) 1,377 (2,627) (9,114)
Dividends paid – – – – – – (3,631) – (3,631)
Shares purchased by ESOP trust – – – 47 – – – – 47
Share-based payments – – – (47) – – – 590 543
At 31 December 2009 14,566 33,034 949 – (934) – 6,903 19 54,537
 
    Capital  Hedging and Cash ﬂow 
  Share Share redemption Own  translation hedging Minority Retained
  capital premium reserve shares reserve reserve interest earnings Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2008 14,566 33,034 949 – (9,087) – 5,725 416 45,603
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – – 1,718 54,845 56,563
Actuarial gains and losses – – – – – – – (39,111) (39,111)
Tax on items recognised 
 directly in equity – – – – – – – (48) (48)
Exchange differences 
 on cash ﬂow hedging 
 deferred to equity – – – – – 678 – – 678
Exchange differences 
 on translation of 
 overseas operations – – – – 39,956 – 2,055 – 42,011
Net investment hedging – – – – (24,617) – – – (24,617)
Total recognised 
 income for the period – – – – 15,339 678 3,773 15,686 35,476
Dividends paid – – – – – – (341) (14,129) (14,470)
Share-based payments – – – – – – – 83 83
At 31 December 2008 14,566 33,034 949 – 6,252 678 9,157 2,056 66,692 Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 64
27  Reconciliation of operating proﬁt to cash generated from operations
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Operating proﬁt – continuing operations      21,406 40,786
Operating proﬁt for the year from discontinued operations     3,674 24,180
Less: share of proﬁts of joint ventures       (1,242) (1,615)
        23,838 63,351
Depreciation and amortisation       14,771 16,890
Impairment of goodwill       30,000 –
Proﬁt arising from the sale or closure of operations      (3,652) (17 ,661)
(Proﬁt)/loss on sale of ﬁxed assets       (76) 79
Share-based payments       (1,306) 470
Cash impact of termination of businesses      (3,591) (10,283)
Pension funding in excess of IAS 19 charge      (10,678) (6,301)
Decrease in inventories       4,690 1,070
Decrease in trade and other receivables      20,779 3,399
Decrease in trade and other payables       (10,276) (5,931)
Unrealised exchange gains       – (784)
Cash generated from operations       64,499 44,299
28  Disposal of subsidiaries    
The Group disposed of the following interest in Group companies in 2009:    
    
Company name   Date of sale Purchaser Division Sale type
Oxford Chemicals Limited   30 January 2009 Third party trade Impact Chemicals Assets
    
The net assets of the company at the date of disposal were as follows:    
        Oxford Chemicals
         Limited
         £’000
Property, plant and equipment        2,183
Inventories        1,662
Trade receivables        1,347
Trade payables        (1,206)
         3,986
Proﬁt on disposal        3,944
Total consideration        7,930
    
Satisﬁed by:    
Cash (net of disposal costs)        7,930
Net cash inﬂow arising on disposal:
Cash consideration        8,250 
Less costs of disposal        (320)
         7,930 
    
The impact of this disposal on the Group’s results in the current period and prior periods is disclosed in note 3.
In addition to the £7 ,930,000 proceeds from the disposal of Oxford Chemicals the Group has also received the deferred 
consideration on the disposal of James Robinson GmbH of £830,000 during the year. 
29  Acquisition of subsidiary         
On 16 January 2008, the Group acquired 60 per cent of the issued share capital of Synthomer Vietnam Co. Ltd  
(formerly Chemtech Industry Co. Ltd).
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 65
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
30  Analysis of changes in net borrowings     
    1 January  Reclassiﬁcation Cash Exchange and 31 December 
    2009  of borrowings inﬂows/(outﬂows) other movements 2009
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   26,576  –  20,157  (4,349) 42,384 
Current borrowing – Bank overdrafts   (20,844) –  13,825  3,411  (3,608)
    5,732  –  33,982  (938) 38,776 
Current borrowings    (37 ,128) (35,878) 33,472  4,218  (35,316)
Non-current borrowings   (130,052) 35,878 (19,740) 12,808 (101,106)
Net borrowings   (161,448) –  47 ,714  16,088  (97,646)
Deduct: special item   25,966     9,608
Net borrowings (underlying performance)  (135,482)    (88,038)
The special item represents the revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the related cross currency swaps to the year  
end rate, together with the transitional adjustment required to reﬂect movements in fair value caused by variations in interest rates, 
and subsequent amortisation thereof, to the extent that these constituted effective hedges under UK GAAP .
31  Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and  
are not included in this note. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed in the Company’s ﬁnancial 
statements where appropriate.
Key management compensation
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Short-term employee beneﬁts       2,938  2,975
Post retirement beneﬁt obligations       250  239
Share-based payments       1,069  1,115
        4,257  4,329
The key management ﬁgures given above include the directors and all participants of the Performance Share Plan.
32 Commitments
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Capital expenditure authorised but not provided for in the accounts
Contracted       1,064  607 
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Commitments under operating leases are as follows 
Payments under operating leases which fall due:
Within 1 year       3,258  3,600 
Between 2 and 5 years       8,917  11,280 
After 5 years       41,097  41,236 
        53,272  56,116
33 Contingent assets, contingent liabilities and guarantees
Guarantees of the parent company in respect of bank and other facilities of subsidiaries and joint ventures totalled £18,309,000 
(2008 £7 ,071,000).
Other guarantees and contingent liabilities of the Group amount to £1,376,000 (2008 £1,523,000).
The Company and its subsidiaries have, in the normal course of business, entered into guarantees and counter-indemnities  
in respect of performance bonds, relating to the Group’s own contracts.         Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 66
34  Share-based payments
Save As You Earn share option plan
This plan, which is available to almost all UK employees, provides for a grant price equal to the average quoted market price of  
the Group shares on the date of grant. The vesting period is ﬁve to seven years, followed by an exercise period of six months after  
which the options expire. Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
       Weighted  Weighted
       av. exercise  av. exercise
      Options price (£) Options price (£)
      2009 2009 2008 2008
Outstanding at 1 January     13,872  2.610  293,974  2.610 
Exercised during the period     –   –  
Lapsed during the period     –  2.610  (280,102) 2.610 
Outstanding at 31 December     13,872  2.610  13,872  2.610 
Exercisable at 31 December     13,872   –   
No grants have been made under the plan since 7 November 2002, and the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 2 to awards  
made before that date. For options expected to be settled with shares purchased by the Yule Catto Employee Beneﬁt Trust in  
the open market, the charge to proﬁt reﬂects the anticipated cash cost of these shares spread over the vesting period. For options 
expected to be settled by the issue of new shares, no charge to proﬁt is made.      
      
For options outstanding as at 31 December 2009, the exercise price is £2.61, and the weighted average remaining contractual life 
was 0.4 years (2008 1.4 years).
Executive share option schemes
Details of the share option schemes available to senior management are included in the Remuneration report on pages 28 to 30.
For grants made after 7 November 2002, the charge to proﬁt is calculated on the assumption that, given that the exercise price  
is effectively nil, the share price at grant provides a reasonable estimate of the option value at grant.
For grants made before 7 November 2002, the charge to proﬁt is based on the anticipated cash cost of acquiring shares to meet  
the options exercised.
       Weighted  Weighted
       av. exercise  av. exercise
      Options price (£) Options price (£)
      2009 2009 2008 2008
Outstanding at 1 January     1,226,535  –  715,781  – 
Granted during the period     2,810,312  –  777,865  – 
Exercised during the period     (76,969) –  (17 ,471) – 
Lapsed during the period     (237,543) –  (249,640) – 
Outstanding at 31 December     3,722,335  –  1,226,535  – 
Exercisable at 31 December     1,413   64,557 
For options outstanding as at 31 December 2009, the exercise price was £nil and the weighted average remaining contractual life 
was 5.7 years (2008 5.3 years).
Yule Catto Employee Beneﬁt Trust
The Company established a trust, the Yule Catto Employee Beneﬁt Trust, on 17 July 1996 to distribute shares to employees  
enabling the obligations under the Yule Catto Longer-Term Performance Share Plan and the Yule Catto Longer-Term Deferred  
Bonus Plan to be met. The Trust is managed by the RBC Trustees (Guernsey) Limited, an independent company located in 
Guernsey. At 31 December 2009, the Trust held 3,418 (2008 17 ,767) ordinary shares in the company with a market value 
of £5,000 (2008 £10,000). The dividends on these shares have been waived. All of the shares are under option. Costs are 
amortised over the life of the plans.
35  Share price information
The middle market value of the listed ordinary shares at 31 December 2009 was 152.0 pence. During the year, the market price 
ranged between 37.0 pence and 184.75 pence. The market value of the listed ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 was 19.5 pence. 
The latest ordinary share price is available on the Financial Times Cityline service, telephone 09058 171690.
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 67
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
36  Reconciliation of EBITDA    
      Underlying performance IFRS 
      2009 2008 2009 2008
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Operating proﬁt     51,406 43,192 21,406 40,786
Add: operating proﬁt or loss of businesses sold or closed during the year  – – – 2,406
Add: Impairment of goodwill     – – 30,000 –
Add back: amortisation     331 102 331 102
Add back: depreciation     14,345 15,336 14,345 15,336
EBITDA     66,082 58,630 66,082 58,630 Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 68
We have audited the parent company ﬁnancial statements of 
Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 
which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related 
notes 1 to 16. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the parent company ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed 
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
the parent company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates  
made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the parent company ﬁnancial statements:
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2009;
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006.
Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of Yule Catto & Co plc
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report  
for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements  
are prepared is consistent with the parent company  
ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
•  the parent company ﬁnancial statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements 
of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Stuart Henderson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Cambridge, United Kingdom
10 March 2010 69
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
        2009 2008
       Note £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Tangible ﬁxed assets      6  2,533  2,597 
Investments      7  334,130  334,125 
        336,663  336,722 
Current assets
Debtors      8  978  1,303 
Cash at bank and in hand       1,603  2,641
Derivatives at fair value       11,737  33,655 
        14,318  37,599 
Creditors – due within one year         
Borrowings      9  (32,944) (46,940)
Other creditors      10  (112,756) (66,470)
        (145,700) (113,410)
Net current liabilities       (131,382) (75,811)
Total assets less current liabilities       205,281  260,911 
Creditors – due after more than one year
Borrowings      9  (83,887) (130,052)
Net assets       121,394  130,859 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital      11  14,566  14,566 
Share premium      12  33,034  33,034 
Revaluation reserve      12  824  826 
Capital redemption reserve      12  949  949 
Proﬁt and loss account      12  72,021  81,484 
Capital employed       121,394  130,859 
Analysis of net borrowings
Cash at bank and in hand       1,603  2,641 
Borrowings due in less than one year       (32,944) (46,940)
Borrowings due after more than one year      (83,887) (130,052)
Net borrowings       (115,228) (174,351)
Deduct: special item       9,608  25,966 
Net borrowings (underlying performance)     9  (105,620) (148,385)
The ﬁnancial statements of Yule Catto & Co plc (registered number 98381) were approved on 10 March 2010.
A M Whitﬁeld
D C Blackwood
Directors
  
Company balance sheet
31 December 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 70
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences 
that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay 
more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have 
occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences are 
differences between the Group’s taxable proﬁts and its results 
as stated in the ﬁnancial statements that arise from the inclusion 
of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from 
those in which they are recognised in the ﬁnancial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and 
therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available 
evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there 
will be suitable taxable proﬁts from which the future reversal  
of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences 
are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that  
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date. 
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party  
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated  
at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances  
for estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the 
proﬁt and loss account using the effective interest method and 
are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the 
extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value.
Equity instruments 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Company uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to reduce 
exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements. 
The Company does not hold or issue derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of ﬁnancial derivatives is governed by the Group’s 
policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide 
written principles on the use of ﬁnancial derivatives.
1  Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.  
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year  
and the preceding year.
Basis of accounting
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention as modiﬁed by the revaluation  
of certain ﬁxed assets, and comply with applicable UK 
accounting standards.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate  
of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged,  
at the forward contract rate. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date  
are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date  
or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
Tangible ﬁxed assets
Tangible ﬁxed assets are stated at cost or valuation, net of 
depreciation and any provision for impairment. Except for 
freehold land, which is not depreciated, the cost or valuation  
of tangible ﬁxed assets is depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over their expected useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings  – 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings  –  the lesser of 50 years and  
the period of the lease 
Plant and equipment  – between 3 and 10 years
Revaluation of properties
The Company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions 
of FRS 15 ‘Tangible Fixed Assets’ and retained the book 
amounts of certain freehold properties which were revalued 
prior to implementation of that standard.
Where depreciation charges are increased following a 
revaluation, an amount equal to the increase is transferred 
annually from the revaluation reserve to the proﬁt and loss 
account as a movement on reserves. On the disposal or 
recognition of a provision for impairment of a revalued ﬁxed 
asset, any related balance remaining in the revaluation reserve 
is also transferred to the proﬁt and loss account as a movement 
on reserves.
Investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision  
for impairment.
Debt
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds  
after deduction of issue costs.
Dividends
Dividends are accrued where declared and unpaid at the 
balance sheet date. 
Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is 
provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using 
the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date. 
        
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
31 December 2009 71
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
1  Accounting policies continued
Net borrowings 
Net borrowings represents cash and cash equivalents together with short-and long-term borrowings, as adjusted for the effect  
of related derivative instruments irrespective of whether they qualify for hedge accounting.
Pension funding 
The costs of contributions to the Group’s pension schemes and of augmenting existing pensions are charged to the proﬁt and  
loss account on a systematic basis over the expected period of beneﬁts from employees’ service.
The UK deﬁned beneﬁt scheme is funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the Group, in separate 
trustee-administered funds.   
2  Auditors’ remuneration   
The audit fee of Yule Catto & Co plc amounted to £7,000 (2008 £6,500). 
3  Employees
        2009 2008
        Number Number
The average monthly number of employees during the year was:     29  30 
             
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
The aggregate remuneration of all Company employees comprised:
Wages and salaries       2,260  2,440 
Social security costs       273  289 
Post retirement beneﬁts       153  294 
        2,686  3,023 
4  Loss attributable to equity shareholders 
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
UK GAAP basis*
Attributable to Yule Catto & Co plc       (10,053) (19,261)
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 no proﬁt and loss account is presented for Yule Catto & Co plc.
* The above has been calculated on a UK GAAP basis as this is consistent with the continued presentation of Yule Catto & Co plc’s accounts under UK GAAP. 
5  Dividends
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Ordinary  – prior year ﬁnal of nil pence per share (2007 5.7 pence)    –  8,303 
– interim of nil pence per share (2008 4.0 pence)     –  5,826 
        –  14,129  Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 72
6  Tangible ﬁxed assets    
      Land and buildings
       Long Plant and  
      Freeholds leaseholds equipment Total
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2009     2,777  89  1,482  4,348 
Additions     –  –  33  33 
Disposals     –  –  (73) (73)
At 31 December 2009     2,777  89  1,442  4,308 
At cost     12  –  1,442  1,454 
At professional valuation in 1985     2,765  89  –  2,854 
      2,777  89  1,442  4,308 
Depreciation
At 1 January 2009     470  45  1,236  1,751 
Charge for the year     21  2  64  87 
Eliminated on disposals     –  –  (63) (63)
At 31 December 2009     491  47  1,237  1,775 
Net book value
At 31 December 2009     2,286  42  205  2,533 
Net book value
At 31 December 2008     2,307  44  246  2,597 
Properties included at valuation would have been stated on a historical cost basis at cost of £1,877,000 (2008 £1,877 ,000) and 
depreciation of £420,000 (2008 £403,000).
Freehold land amounting to £1,781,000 (2008 £1,781,000) has not been depreciated.
7  Investments
       Joint Other
      Subsidiaries ventures investments Total
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2009     334,942  500  46  335,488 
Additions     –  –  13  13 
At 31 December 2009     334,942  500  59  335,501 
Provisions
At 1 January 2009     1,118  220  25  1,363 
Amortisation     –  –  8  8 
At 31 December 2009     1,118  220  33  1,371 
Net book value  
At 31 December 2009     333,824  280  26  334,130 
Net book value
At 31 December 2008     333,824  280  21  334,125 
Details of the principal Group companies are given on page 77.
       
8  Debtors
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Other debtors       900  1,190 
Prepayments and accrued income       78  113 
        978  1,303
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 73
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
9  Borrowings
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Current borrowings
Bank loans
Bank loans and overdrafts       –  9,812 
Other loans
$136,000,000 7.66% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010   27,949  32,168 
£15,000,000 6.99% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010   5,000  5,000 
        32,949  46,980 
Less: capitalised costs       (5) (40)
        32,944  46,940 
Non-current borrowings
Bank loans
Unsecured £30 million revolving credit facility expiring 2011     –  – 
Other loans
$136,000,000 7.66% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010   –  32,168 
£15,000,000 6.99% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010   –  5,000 
$43,000,000 5.55% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2012   26,996  29,698 
$70,000,000 5.78% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2014   43,948  48,346 
$22,000,000 5.98% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2016   13,812  15,195 
        84,756  130,407 
Less: capitalised costs       (869) (355)
        83,887  130,052 
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest based on LIBOR or foreign equivalents. 
At 31 December 2009, the Company had available £30 million (2008 £30 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities 
in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The directors calculate the carrying value of the Company’s borrowings as follows:
Analysis of borrowings at carrying value by currency
      Sterling US dollar Euro Total
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
31 December 2009
 Loan notes     5,000  112,705  –  117 ,705 
 Capitalised costs     (874) –  –  (874)
      4,126  112,705  –  116,831 
 Cash and cash equivalents        (1,603)
 Net borrowings        115,228 
 Deduct: special item*        (9,608)
 Net borrowings (underlying performance)       105,620
31 December 2008
 Bank loans and overdrafts     6,242  3,221  349  9,812 
 Loan notes     10,000  157 ,575  –  167 ,575 
 Capitalised costs     (395) –  –  (395)
      15,847  160,796  349  176,992
 Cash and cash equivalents        (2,641)
 Net borrowings        174,351 
 Deduct: special item*        (25,966)
 Net borrowings (underlying performance)       148,385 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity  
of three months or less.
      
*  The special item represents the revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the related cross currency swaps to the year end rate, together with the transitional 
adjustment required to reﬂect movements in fair value caused by variations in interest rates, and subsequent amortisation thereof, to the extent that these constituted 
effective hedges under pre FRS 26 UK GAAP.  Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 74
10  Other creditors
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Amount due within one year          
Trade creditors       1,088  579 
Other taxation and social security       114  127 
Other creditors       2,341  2,164 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries       104,111  54,788 
Accruals and deferred income       5,102  8,812 
        112,756  66,470 
11  Share capital 
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Authorised  
219, 111,230 (2008 219,111,230) ordinary shares of 10 pence each    21,911  21,911 
Issued and fully paid 
145,663, 187 (2008 145,663,187) ordinary shares of 10 pence each    14,566  14,566 
Share options
As at 31 December 2009 the following options were outstanding:
Executive share options       Number Option price
Exercisable between 2010-2012       1,413  (a)
Exercisable between 2010-2017       254,801  (a)
Exercisable between 2011-2018       655,809  (a)
Exercisable between 2012-2019       2,810,312  (a)
SAYE options       Number Option price
Exercisable in 2010       13,872  261.0p
(a) Options granted under the Performance Share Plan and the Longer-Term Deferred Bonus Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan 2006 with a total exercise price of £45.
12  Share premium and reserves
       Capital
     Share Revaluation redemption Proﬁt and
     premium reserve reserve loss account Total
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2009    33,034  826  949  81,484  116,293 
Loss for the year    –  –  –  (10,053) (10,053)
Dividends    –  –  –  –  – 
Retained loss for the year     –  –  –  (10,053) (10,053)
Share-based payments    –  –  –  590  590 
Revaluation depreciation    –  (2) –  –  (2)
At 31 December 2009    33,034  824  949  72,021  106,828 
13  Related party transactions  
There were no related party transactions during the year (2008 none).
14  Guarantees and other ﬁnancial commitments
The Company has given guarantees amounting to £18,309,000 (2008 £7 ,071,000) in respect of bank and other facilities 
of subsidiaries and joint ventures.          
    
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009 75
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
15  Pension commitments 
The Group participates in a funded scheme with both a deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution section (the Yule Catto Group 
Retirement Beneﬁt Scheme). The scheme’s deﬁned beneﬁt section was closed to new members with effect from 31 December  
1998 and with effect from 1 January 1999 a deﬁned contribution section was introduced and is open to all eligible Group  
employees. During 2009 the Group announced that it intended to close the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme to future accrual. This  
process commenced in 2009 and will be completed by September 2010.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the companies concerned. 
The pension charge for the year for the Company amounted to £6,972,000 (2008 £3,838,000).
In accordance with FRS 17 , the Company will account for its contributions to the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme as if it were a deﬁned 
contribution scheme because it is not possible to identify the Company’s share of the assets and liabilities in the scheme on a 
consistent and reasonable basis. The latest actuarial valuation of the scheme prepared for the purposes of making transitional 
disclosure in accordance with FRS 17 shows a net pension liability of £69,660,000 at 31 December 2009.
FRS 17 disclosure
Due to the application of IAS 19 to the Group ﬁnancial statements, resulting in changes to the required disclosures at Group level,  
the disclosure requirements of FRS 17 for the Group have been included below.
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 6 April 2006 and updated to 31 December 2009 by a qualiﬁed actuary. The major 
assumptions used by the actuary were:
     2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
Rate of increase in salaries    3.00% 2.60% 3.10% 3.30% 3.50%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment   3.00% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
Discount rate    5.70% 6.50% 5.90% 5.20% 4.90%
Inﬂation assumption    3.00% 2.60% 3.10% 2.80% 2.50%
The fair value of the assets in the scheme, the present value of the liabilities in the scheme and the expected rate of return at each 
balance sheet date were:
  2009 2009 2008 2008 2007 2007 2006 2006 2005 2005
  £’000 % £’000 % £’000 % £’000 % £’000 %
Equities 8.00  113,673  9.00  90,541  8.00  148,747  7.90  155,121  7.50  135,200 
Bonds 5.70  54,243  6.70  47 ,614  5.17  44,925  4.92  36,316  4.63  31,800 
Cash 2.00  3,899  4.25  438  4.25  1,953  4.25  –  4.00  700 
Total fair value of assets  171,815   138,593   195,625   191,437   167,700 
Present value of  
scheme liabilities  (241,475)  (205,721)  (228,966)  (260,425)  (225,000)
Deﬁcit in the scheme  (69,660)  (67,128)  (33,341)  (68,988)  (57,300)
Related deferred tax asset  –   –   –   –   – 
Net pension liability  (69,660)  (67,128)  (33,341)  (68,988)  (57,300)
Contributions from the sponsoring companies are expected to be £11,000,000 in 2010.
Analysis of the amount that would have been charged to operating proﬁt under FRS 17
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Current service cost       1,493  1,795 
        1,493  1,795 
Analysis of the amount that would have been charged to net ﬁnance income under FRS 17
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Expected return on pension scheme assets      (11,393) (14,047)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities       13,068  13,229
        1,675  (818) Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 76
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements continued
31 December 2009
15  Pension commitments continued
Analysis of the actuarial (loss)/gain that would have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets     21,209  (64,742)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities     (32,753) 25,273 
        (11,544) (39,469)
History of experience gains and losses
     2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Difference between the expected and  
 actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (£’000)    21,209  (64,742) (5,891) 13,800  17,200 
Percentage of scheme assets    12.34% (46.71)% (3.01)% 7.21% 10.26%
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme liabilities:    
Amount (£’000)    (32,753) 25,273  25,872  (30,988) (12,100)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities  (13.56)% 12.29% 11.30% (11.90)% (5.38)%
Total actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the  
 statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (£’000)    (11,544) (39,469) 19,981  (17,188) 5,100 
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities  (4.78)% (19.19)% 8.73% (6.61)% 2.27%
16  Share-based payments
For details of share-based payments please refer to note 34 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements on page 66. 77
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
        Effective
       Country of  Group interest
       incorporation in equity
Operating companies      and operation %
Arkem (Pty) Ltd      South Africa 50
#
Distributor of speciality chemicals and allied products
Synthomer Middle East Company      Saudi Arabia 49
#
Synthetic resin emulsions
Revertex Chemicals (Pty) Ltd      South Africa 100
Synthetic resin and emulsions and allied products 
Revertex Finewaters Sdn Bhd      Malaysia 63
Adhesives
Revertex (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd      Malaysia 70
Synthetic resin and emulsions, natural rubber latices, plasticers and allied products   
Synthomer BV      Netherlands 100
Compounds of synthetic rubber latices
Synthomer GmbH      Germany 100
Synthetic rubber latices and related compounds 
Synthomer Ltd      England 100*
Synthetic rubber latices and emulsions
Synthomer SA      Belgium 100
Compounds, dispersions and adhesives   
Synthomer Sdn Bhd      Malaysia 100
Synthetic rubber latices and related compounds
Synthomer Vietnam Co. Ltd      Vietnam 60
Synthetic adhesives   
Union Quimico Farmaceutica SA (UQUIFA)      Spain 100
Pharmaceutical actives and intermediates   
Uquifa Mexico S.A.C.V.      Mexico 100
Pharmaceutical actives and intermediates   
William Blythe Ltd      England 100
Inorganic chemicals   
Holding companies   
Holliday Chemical Holdings      England 100
Yule Catto International SA      France 100
Yule Catto BV      Netherlands 100
Yule Catto Financing Ltd      Ireland 100
Yule Catto Holdings GmbH      Germany 100
Yule Catto International Ltd      England 100*
Yule Catto Spain SL      Spain 100
Yule Catto Nederland BV      Netherlands 100
# Joint ventures   
* Shares held by Yule Catto & Co plc   
Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 78
Underlying performance (a)    2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total sales    543,398  602,153  511,313  485,137  448,841 
EBITDA   (b) 66,082  58,630  56,242  54,519  49,724 
Operating proﬁt   (c) 51,406  43,192  42,696  41,634  36,230 
Finance costs     (9,869) (10,502) (11,497) (11,443) (11,741)
Proﬁt before taxation    41,537  32,690  31,199  30,191  24,489 
Earnings per share    21.3p  17.9p  16.0p  14.0p  9.8p 
Dividends per share    – 4.0p  9.6p  9.3p  9.0p 
Dividend cover    – 4.5  1.7  1.5  1.1 
Net borrowings   (e) (88,038) (135,482) (170,831) (166,271) (165,591)
Free cash ﬂow before dividends   (d) 39,001  7 ,781  14,012  8,479  19,786 
Capital expenditure    8,687  17 ,707  16,994  18,468  14,331  
IFRS – continuing operations     2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total sales    543,398  602,153  511,313  485,137  448,841 
EBITDA   (b) 66,082  58,630 56,242  54,519  49,724 
Operating proﬁt   (c) 21,406  40,786  41,032  22,533  36,239 
Finance costs     (14,270) (1,887) (7,050) (7,825) (14,162)
Proﬁt before taxation    7,136  38,899  33,982  14,708  22,077 
Earnings per share    4.1p  22.2p  17.9p  2.6p  8.2p 
Dividends per share    – 4.0p  9.6p  9.3p  9.0p 
Dividend cover    –  5.5  1.9  0.3  0.9 
Net borrowings   (e) (97,646) (161,448) (150,341) (150,656) (171,266)
Free cash ﬂow before dividends   (d) 39,001  7 ,781  14,012  8,479  19,786 
Capital expenditure    8,687  17 ,707  16,994  18,468  14,331 
(a) As presented in the consolidated income statement on page 34.
(b) As deﬁned in the accounting policies at note 2 and derived in note 36.
(c) As deﬁned in note 2 to the ﬁnancial statements on pages 38 to 42.
(d) As shown with the consolidated cash ﬂow statement on page 37.
(e) As deﬁned in note 2 to the ﬁnancial statements and derived in note 30.
Five year ﬁnancial summary 79
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
11.  That the Company be unconditionally and generally 
authorised for the purpose of Section 701 of the Companies 
Act 2006 (‘the Act’) to make market purchases (as deﬁned  
in Section 693(4) of the Act) of ordinary shares of 10p each 
in the capital of the Company provided that:
 a)  the maximum number of shares which may be purchased 
is 14,566,318;
 b)  the minimum price which may be paid for each share  
is 10p (exclusive of expenses);
 c)  the maximum price which may be paid for a share is  
an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing 
middle market quotations of the Company’s ordinary 
shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange  
Daily Ofﬁcial List for the ﬁve business days immediately 
preceding the day on which such share is contracted  
to be purchased (exclusive of expenses); and
 d)  this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier,  
15 months after the passing of this Resolution (except  
in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for  
which was concluded before the expiry of such authority 
and which might be executed wholly or partly after  
such expiry) unless such authority is renewed prior  
to such time.
12.  That a general meeting other than an Annual General 
Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear  
days’ notice.
13.  That the amendments to the Yule Catto Performance  
Share Plan, main features of which are summarised  
in the Chairman’s letter to shareholders dated 8 April 2010, 
be and are hereby approved.
By order of the Board
R Atkinson
Secretary
10 March 2010
Registered ofﬁce:
Temple Fields
Central Road
Harlow
Essex
CM20 2BH
Registered in England and Wales number 98381
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company will be held at the Manor of Groves Hotel, High Wych, 
Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire, CM21 0JU on Thursday 6 May 
2010 at 11.00am for the following purposes:
Resolutions 8, 10, 11 and 12 will be proposed as special 
resolutions. All other resolutions will be proposed as  
ordinary resolutions.
Ordinary business
1.  To receive and adopt the report of the Directors and audited 
ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
2.   To approve the report of the Board on Directors’ 
remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2009.
3.  To re-elect as a director the Hon. A G Catto.
4.  To re-elect as a director Dato’ Lee Hau Hian.
5. To re-elect as a director Mr P S Wood.
6.  To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to 
hold ofﬁce until the conclusion of the next Annual General 
Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
7.   To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration  
of the auditors.
Special business
8.   To resolve that with effect from the end of this Annual 
General Meeting:
 
 (a)  the Articles of Association of the Company be amended 
by deleting all the provisions of the Company’s 
Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of Section 
28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as 
provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association; and
 (b)  the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and 
initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose 
of identiﬁcation (the ‘New Articles’) be adopted as the 
Articles of Association of the Company in substitution  
for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles  
of Association. 
9.   To resolve that the authority conferred on the Directors by 
Article 5.2 of the Company’s New Articles be renewed upon 
the New Articles becoming effective for the period ending  
at the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2011 or on  
30 June 2011, whichever is the earlier, and for such period 
the Section 551 Amount shall be £4,855,439. Such authority 
shall be in substitution for all previous authorities pursuant  
to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006.
10.  To resolve that subject to the passing of Resolution 9 above, 
the power conferred on the Directors by Article 5.3 of the 
Company’s New Articles be renewed for the period referred 
to in such Resolution and for such period the Section 561 
Amount shall be £728,315. Such authority shall be in 
substitution for all previous powers pursuant to Section 561 
of the Companies Act 2006.
Notice of meeting Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 80
be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID 
3RA50) by the latest time(s) for the receipt of proxy appointments 
speciﬁed in Note 2. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be 
taken to be the time (as determined by the time stamp applied to 
the message by the CREST Application Host) from which the 
issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST 
in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of 
instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be 
communicated to the appointee through other means. 
10.  CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors  
or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland 
Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for 
any particular message. Normal system timings and limitations will, 
therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. 
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take  
(or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member,  
or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, 
to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) 
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a 
message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any 
particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, where 
applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are 
referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual 
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings. 
11.  The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the 
circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertiﬁcated 
Securities Regulations 2001. 
12.  Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more 
corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its 
powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to 
the same shares. 
13.  Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting 
the threshold requirements set out in that Section have the right to 
require the company to publish on a website a statement setting 
out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts 
(including the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that  
are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting; or 
  (ii) any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company 
ceasing to hold ofﬁce since the previous meeting at which annual 
accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of 
the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not require the 
shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its 
expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Where the Company is required to place a statement on 
a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must 
forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not later than the 
time when it makes the statement available on the website. The 
business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting 
includes any statement that the Company has been required under 
Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
14.  Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions. 
The Company must cause to be answered any such question 
relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such 
answer need be given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the 
preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of conﬁdential 
information, (b) the answer has already been given on a website  
in the form of an answer to a question, or (c) it is undesirable in  
the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting that 
the question be answered. 
15.  A copy of this notice, and other information required by  
Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at  
www.yulecatto.com.
Notes 
1.  Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any  
of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at  
the meeting. A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in 
relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy  
is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or 
shares held by that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder 
of the Company. A proxy form which may be used to make such 
appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice. 
2.  To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy 
must be received by post or (during normal business hours only)  
by hand at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, 
Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY or at the electronic address 
provided in the proxy form, in each case no later than 48 hours 
before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any  
adjourned meeting. 
3.   The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any 
CREST Proxy Instruction (as described in paragraph 9 below) will 
not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting 
and voting in person if he/she wishes to do so. 
4.   Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated 
under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 
rights (a ‘Nominated Person’) may, under an agreement between 
him/her and the shareholder by whom he/she was nominated, 
have a right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) 
as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting. If a Nominated Person  
has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise 
it, he/she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give 
instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights. 
5.   The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the 
appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not 
apply to Nominated Persons. The rights described in these 
paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company. 
6.  To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting 
(and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the 
votes they may cast), Shareholders must be registered in the 
Register of Members of the Company at close of business on 
Tuesday 4 May 2010 (or, in the event of any adjournment, on the 
date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting). 
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline 
shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to 
attend and vote at the meeting. 
7.   The Company’s capital consists of 145,663,187 ordinary shares 
with voting rights. 
8.   CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through 
the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by 
using the procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST 
Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and 
those CREST members who have appointed a service provider(s), 
should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), 
who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf. 
9.   In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the 
CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message  
(a ‘CREST Proxy Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in 
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s speciﬁcations, 
and must contain the information required for such instruction, as 
described in the CREST Manual (available via www.euroclear.com/
CREST). The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the 
appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction  
given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid,  
Notice of meeting continued Designed and produced by The College  www.thecollege.uk.com Yule Catto & Co plc
Temple Fields
Harlow
Essex CM20 2BH
UK
T +44 (0)1279 442 791
F +44 (0)1279 641 360
www.yulecatto.com
