 Yule Catto & Co plc  Annual Report 2010
Yule Catto & Co plc
Temple Fields
Harlow
Essex CM20 2BH
UK
T +44 (0)1279 442 791
F +44 (0)1279 641 360
www.yulecatto.com
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual Report
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Being part of 
all our lives Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Financial highlights 01 
Group overview 02 
Yule Catto – a world class business 03 
Chairman’s statement 04 
Chief Executive’s report  06 
 Polymer Chemicals  06 
 Pharma Chemicals 10 
 Impact Chemicals 10 
 Financial review 12 
 Corporate Social Responsibility report 14
Independent auditors’ report 73 
Company balance sheet 74 
Notes to the Company financial statements 75 
Independent auditors’ report 35 
Consolidated income statement 36 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 37 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 37 
Consolidated balance sheet 38 
Consolidated cash flow statement 39 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 40 
Directors and advisers 22 
Report of the directors 23 
Corporate governance 26 
Directors’ remuneration report 30 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 34 
Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures 82 
Five year financial summary 83 
Notice of meeting 84 
The Group delivered a 19% 
improvement in underlying 
profit before tax and achieved 
a further substantial reduction 
in its debt over the course  
of the year.
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 85
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Note 2. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the  
time (as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by  
the CREST Application Host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to 
retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by 
CREST. After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed 
through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through 
other means. 
10.  CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors 
or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland 
Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for  
any particular message. Normal system timings and limitations will, 
therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.  
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take 
(or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored 
member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that 
his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action 
as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by 
means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, 
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or 
voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections  
of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST 
system and timings. 
11.  The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the 
circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations 2001. 
12.  Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more 
corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its 
powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation  
to the same shares. 
13.  Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting 
the threshold requirements set out in that Section have the right to 
require the company to publish on a website a statement setting  
out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts 
(including the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are 
to be laid before the Annual General Meeting; or 
  (ii) any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company 
ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual 
accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437  
of the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not require the 
shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its 
expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Where the Company is required to place a statement on 
a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must 
forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not later than the 
time when it makes the statement available on the website. The 
business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting 
includes any statement that the Company has been required under 
Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
 
14.  Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.  
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating 
to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer 
need be given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the 
preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential 
information, (b) the answer has already been given on a website in the 
form of an answer to a question, or (c) it is undesirable in the interests 
of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question  
be answered. 
15.  A copy of this notice, and other information required by  
Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at  
www.yulecatto.com.
Designed and produced by The College www.thecollege.uk.com
Notes to the Notice of meeting
1.  Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any  
of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at  
the meeting. A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in 
relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy  
is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or 
shares held by that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder 
of the Company. A proxy form which may be used to make such 
appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice. 
2.  To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy 
must be received by post or (during normal business hours only)  
by hand at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, 
Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY or at the electronic address 
provided in the proxy form, in each case no later than 48 hours before 
the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjourned meeting. 
3.  The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any 
CREST Proxy Instruction (as described in paragraph 9 below) will 
not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting 
and voting in person if he/she wishes to do so. 
4.  Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated 
under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 
rights (a ‘Nominated Person’) may, under an agreement between 
him/her and the shareholder by whom he/she was nominated, have 
a right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a 
proxy for the Annual General Meeting. If a Nominated Person has no 
such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she 
may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to 
the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights. 
5.  The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the 
appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply 
to Nominated Persons. The rights described in these paragraphs 
can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company. 
6.  To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting 
(and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the 
votes they may cast), Shareholders must be registered in the 
Register of Members of the Company at close of business on 
Tuesday 10 May 2011 (or, in the event of any adjournment, on the 
date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting). 
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline 
shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to 
attend and vote at the meeting. 
7.  The Company’s capital consists of 339,880,769 ordinary shares 
with voting rights. 
8.  CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through 
the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by 
using the procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST 
Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those 
CREST members who have appointed a service provider(s), should 
refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will 
be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf. 
9.  In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the 
CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message  
(a ‘CREST Proxy Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in 
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications, 
and must contain the information required for such instruction, as 
described in the CREST Manual (available via www.euroclear.com/
CREST). The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the 
appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given 
to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be 
transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID 3RA50) by 
the latest time(s) for the receipt of proxy appointments specified in  Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 01
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Financial highlights
Underlying performance
(a)
IFRS
Continuing operations
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Total sales
(b)
645,791 532,162 651,480 543,398 
EBITDA
(c)
69,503 64,092 69,503 64,092 
Operating profit 54,885 49,416 63,006 21,406 
Profit before taxation 47,045 39,547 57,811 7,136 
Earnings per share
(g) (h)
16.2p 13.3p 22.0p 2.6p 
Dividends per share
(d) (g)
2.6p N/A 2.6p N/A
Net borrowings
(e)
63,370 88,038 76,044 97,646 
Cash generated from operations 42,228 64,499 42,228 64,499 
Free cash flow before dividends
(f)
9,825 39,001 9,825 39,001
The above table represents the results of Yule Catto & Co plc, its subsidiaries and its share of joint ventures.
(a) Underlying performance excludes special items as shown on the consolidated income statement.
(b) As defined in the accounting policies at note 2.
(c) As defined in the accounting policies at note 2 and reconciled at note 36.
(d) See note 11.
(e) As shown on the consolidated balance sheet on page 38.
(f) As shown within the consolidated cash flow statement on page 39.
(g) As restated for rights issue – see note 37.
(h) As restated – see note 12.
Underlying performance
The Group’s management uses underlying performance to plan for, control and assess the performance of the Group. Underlying performance differs from the statutory 
IFRS performance as it excludes the effect of special items, which are defined in note 2. The Board’s view is that underlying performance provides more meaningful 
information for the Group’s investors and so it is the primary focus of the Group’s narrative reporting. Where appropriate, statutory performance inclusive of special items  
is also described.
>   Profit before taxation* up 19% to 
£47 .0 million (2009 £39.6 million)
>  Polymers operating profit* ahead  
by 10%
>   Earnings per share* up 22% at  
16.2 pence (2009 1 3.3 pence)
>   Substantial reduction in net debt*  
to £63 million (2009 £88 million)
Total sales
£646m
Earnings per share*
16.2p
Profit before taxation*
£47.0m
Increase in profit before taxation*
+ 19%
* Underlying performance Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 02
Group overview
Divisions
 Polymer Chemicals 
Key products
–  E m ul s i o n s
–  S y n th e ti c l a ti c e s
–  A dhe si v e s
–  Natural rubber latex
–  L i qui d po l y b u t a d i e n e
–  P ol y v i n y l a l c oh ol
–  P o l y v i n y l a c e t a t e
–  Alkyd and polyester resins
Markets
–  Su r f a c e c oa t i ngs
–  C on s t r uct i on
–  Dipping – eg gloves
–  Carpets and non-woven
 Impact Chemicals 
Key products
–  I n or g a n i c s p e c ia l it i e s
Markets
–  C a t a ly s t pr e -c u r s or s
–  F la m e r e t a rd a n ts
– Iodates
 Pharma Chemicals 
Key products
–  Generic and ethical  
pharmaceutical actives
–  Development and manufacture  
of clinical phase compounds
Markets
–  Generic and ethical drug  
manufacture
–  G e n e r i c dr u gs
The Group delivered a 19% improvement in 
underlying profit before tax, and achieved  
a further substantial reduction in its debt  
over the course of the year. These results 
consolidate the considerable progress we 
have made over the last three years. 
The highlight of the year was the 
acquisition of PolymerLatex announced  
in December, which will substantially 
enhance the Group’s scale and growth 
opportunities. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 03
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Yule Catto – a world class business
Principal subsidiaries and joint venture as listed on page 82. Locations (Yule Catto)
Belgium 01 Synthomer SA, Mouscron 
China 02 Yule Catto Asia Ltd., Guangzhou 
Egypt 03 Synthomer SAE, Sharkiya 
England 04 Synthomer Ltd., Batley 
 05 Synthomer Ltd., Harlow 
 06 Synthomer Ltd., Ossett
 07 Synthomer Ltd., Stallingborough 
 08 William Blythe Ltd., Accrington
Germany 09 Synthomer GmbH, Langelsheim
Malaysia 10  Revertex (Malaysia) & Synthomer  
Sdn Bhd, Kluang
Mexico 11 Uquifa Mexico S.A.C.V., Cuernavaca
Netherlands 12 Synthomer BV, Hasselt 
 13 Synthomer BV, Oss 
Saudi Arabia 14  Synthomer Middle East Company, 
Dammam 
South Africa 15  Revertex Chemicals (Pty) Ltd.  
& Synthomer South Africa, Durban 
Spain 16 Uquifa SA, Barcelona 
 17 Uquifa SA, Lliçà de Vall 
 18 Uquifa SA, Sant Celoni 
Vietnam 19  Synthomer Vietnam Co. Ltd.,  
Ho Chi Minh City
Locations (PolymerLatex)
Finland 20 Eka PolymerLatex Oy., Oulu
Germany 21 PolymerLatex GmbH, Marl
 22 PolymerLatex GmbH, Worms
Italy 23 PolymerLatex Srl, Filago
Malaysia 24  PolymerLatex Sdn Bhd, Pasir Gudang
UAE 25 PolymerLatex GmbH, Dubai 
*  The Group announced the acquisition of PolymerLatex 
on 13 December 2010. The acquisition was not 
complete at the date of the annual accounts.
11
08
09
06
05
07
23
20
17 18
16
04
12
13
01 21
22
03
14
25
15
02
10
24
19 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 04
Performance
2010 was a very good year for Yule Catto, building on the 
strong improvement in Group performance delivered in 2009.
Underlying Group profit before tax increased by 19%  
to £47.0 million, and earnings rose by 22% to 16.2 pence  
per share. Net debt reduced further by £25 million to only  
£63 million. In the last three years we have lowered our net  
debt by £107 million, whilst improving earnings per share by 
62%, despite the deep recession of 2009. 
The Group’s core business of Polymers accounted for 85%  
of Group revenue in 2010 and 88% of divisional operating 
profits. Volumes were ahead in most areas of the business  
and operating profit increased by 10%, a good result after  
the strong improvement of 27% we achieved in 2009. 
Our strategy in Polymers remains focused on geographical 
expansion around existing business hubs, further increasing  
our presence in emerging markets, particularly in Asia, and in 
developing market sectors where our technology, new product 
development and manufacturing capabilities give us a real 
competitive advantage. We started construction of 15,000 tonnes 
of new nitrile capacity during the year, and we expect production 
from this expansion to commence in the first half of 2011.
The Pharma business now represents just 10% of Group 
revenue, and 7% of divisional operating profit. The business 
started slowly, with a weak first quarter, but performance 
improved during the year. Full year operating profit was  
£1.1 million below prior year. 
Our one remaining Impact business, William Blythe, continued 
to improve generating £3.5 million of operating profit and we 
expect it will continue to show further improvement over the 
course of 2011. 
Total sales by destination % 
as derived from note 4 to financial statements on page 48
UK – 11.8% 
Other Europe – 34.1% 
Asia – 33.8% 
Rest of the World – 20.3%
Divisional operating profit % 
as derived from note 4 to financial statements on page 46
Polymer Chemicals – 87.7% 
Pharma Chemicals – 6.9% 
Impact Chemicals – 5.4%
Chairman’s statement Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 05
 2010 was a very good  
year for Yule Catto, 
building on the strong 
improvement in Group 
performance delivered 
in 2009.
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
I would like to thank all of our employees, whose continuing 
support and contribution has made 2010 such a successful 
year for the Group.
Outlook
Looking forward, we will be reporting results for the enlarged 
Group. In our core markets, we continue to anticipate several 
years of low growth in Western markets with global growth 
generally driven by emerging markets. Following the acquisition 
of PolymerLatex, we will have a stronger business in Europe 
and we will remain well placed to access the attractive 
opportunities in Asia and other emerging economies with over  
a third of our combined Polymers business in these markets. 
We continue to anticipate significant operational synergies from 
the acquisition and we expect the combined business will enjoy 
additional market development opportunities.
Raw material prices have risen strongly over recent months, 
exacerbated by the situation in the Middle East. Both Yule Catto 
and PolymerLatex have been successful in passing through 
price increases in recent years, and we intend to continue to 
remain focused on this in the enlarged Group.
Both Yule Catto and PolymerLatex have made a solid start  
to the year, and we are confident about the prospects for the 
enlarged Group in the years ahead.
 
Peter Wood
Chairman
9 March 2011
PolymerLatex Acquisition
The highlight of the year was the acquisition of PolymerLatex  
for a consideration of £376 million which we announced in 
December 2010. This is a transformational transaction for the 
Group, substantially increasing the scale and opportunities of 
our core Polymer business. We anticipate eventual annual cost 
synergies of £20 million from the integration of the business. 
The Group’s balance sheet has also been strengthened  
with the significant amount of equity and debt raised for the 
acquisition, and my thanks go to our shareholders for their 
support in this important transaction. We expect to complete 
the transaction at the end of March. 
Dividend
The Group returned to paying dividends at the half year, with  
an interim payment of 2 pence per share, with a commitment  
to pay at least 5 pence in total for the full year. The remaining  
3 pence per share would equate to £4.4 million on the original 
number of shares in issue prior to the acquisition of PolymerLatex. 
At the time of the PolymerLatex announcement, the Group 
undertook to honour the cash commitment, and the final 
recommended dividend is therefore a cash dividend of  
£4.4 million, which, on the enlarged number of shares,  
equates to 1.3 pence per share. 
Safety, Health and Environment
The Group is absolutely committed to the continuous 
improvement of its performance in respect of Safety, Health  
and the Environment. 2010 marked the end of Yule Catto’s first 
period of commitment to the Chemical Industries Sustainable 
Development goals. I am delighted to report over the ten years 
of this commitment our performance has sharply improved,  
and the decade ended with all of our sustainability targets 
significantly bettered. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 06
56.7 2010
51.8 2009
552.0 2010
443.3 2009
The Group delivered a 19% improvement in underlying profit 
before tax, and achieved a further substantial reduction in its 
debt over the course of the year. This was a good performance, 
consolidating the substantial increase in profits and debt 
reduction we delivered in 2009.
Overview
Polymers (85% of sales) saw volumes increase by 4%  
for the year whilst increasing its operating profit by 10% to 
£56.7 million. As expected this was characterised by strong 
demand growth in Asia and only modest improvement 
elsewhere. We progressed the expansion of our nitrile facility  
in Malaysia, commencing construction of 15,000 tonnes of new 
capacity which will start production in the first half of 2011. 
The acquisition of PolymerLatex was announced in December 
2010 and is on track to complete by the end of March 2011, and 
will substantially increase the scale of our Polymer business. 
PolymerLatex is a leading global player in latex products, with  
a strong and diversified portfolio of products and well invested 
facilities in Europe and Asia. Its combination with Yule Catto will 
result in a business with increased scale, established market 
positions, improved cash generation capability and a product 
portfolio that will provide a foundation from which the enlarged 
group can grow and compete more effectively in a consolidating 
emulsion polymers market. It will also accelerate our strategy  
of investment in new products and expansion into attractive 
emerging markets.
Pharmaceuticals (10% of sales) saw a decline in profits, of  
£1.1 million, after a slow start to the year. We filed 3 Drug Master 
Files (DMF’s) in the year as we continue to develop our generic 
pipeline. The API manufacturing industry however remains 
challenging with competition from cheaper manufacturing 
economies in Asia continuing to develop. 
We completed most of the restructuring of the Impact Division 
with the sale of four of the five operating units over the course of 
2008. During 2010 the remaining business, William Blythe, further 
improved, delivering operating profits of some £3.5 million. 
The core products of Polymer Division are water-based 
emulsion polymers, formulated around vinyl acetate and acrylic 
dispersions, styrene and nitrile butadiene rubber, as well as 
polyvinyl alcohol/acetate, and a number of smaller specialist 
products. The Division’s manufacturing assets consist of  
22 production units on 14 sites within four geographical regions 
– Europe, South East Asia, Middle East and South Africa, and 
employing approximately 1,300 people. The Division trades 
under the Synthomer and Revertex brand names around the 
world, and its products are utilised in a wide range of industries, 
including coatings, adhesives and construction, where they 
deliver a range of product performance benefits, from 
enhanced waterproofing to scratch resistance. It is also a major 
supplier to the medical industry where its natural rubber and 
synthetic nitrile latex polymers, are used in the manufacture  
of condoms, catheters, surgical and examination gloves where 
it holds a world leading position.
2010 proved to be another successful year for the Division,  
in challenging circumstances with progress again made on a 
number of fronts. In many markets there was positive economic 
recovery, particularly in Asia, however, Europe and the US proved 
more sluggish and remained weaker than had been predicted.  
In most markets volumes developed strongly through the first 
half, although this was followed by more variable performance  
in some European markets in the later part of the year. The 
Division’s full year polymer volumes were up 4%, led by excellent 
performance in nitrile butadiene rubber, alkyd resins and 
specialities which all delivered significant double digit growth.
Raw material supply and pricing, in particular acrylic and 
butadiene monomers, created a number of difficulties which  
the business worked hard to overcome throughout the year.  
All monomer prices showed a resilient upward move during the 
year and this combined with a tight supply environment created 
a number of challenges for the business. However the Division 
was generally able to mitigate these by effective procurement 
strategies enabling production to continue albeit with 
significantly higher input prices. In the light of the rising raw 
material costs and relatively stable demand in Europe, the 
Division’s priority was to ensure a balanced approach to margin 
and volume with a continued focus on value delivery, which  
was broadly successful. The cost strategy employed in 2009 
delivered benefits in 2010 with full year costs down on 2009.
Chief Executive’s report
Total sales (£’m) 
Divisional operating profit* (£’m) 
* Underlying performance
Polymer Chemicals Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 07
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Innovation interior
More information at:
www.yulecatto.com
Emultex VV67 -Series
Emultex VV67-Series is a new range of polymer dispersions 
introduced in 2010 for use in modern domestic wall and ceiling 
paints. The Emultex VV67-Series uses new monomer 
combinations in the design of binders for highly washable, 
scrub resistant vinyl wall paints. Emultex VV673 in particular can 
be used in a wide range of matt and silk paint finishes and has 
been designed to meet stringent requirements set out by the 
European Community eco-label regulations for indoor paints. 
 
Revacryl 30128 
Revacryl 30128, a new, APEO free, pure acrylic copolymer 
dispersion, was developed to complement our existing flooring 
adhesive range. Produced as an adhesive for laying carpet tiles, 
it offers excellent adhesion to a wide range of backing materials. 
The overall polymer design not only provides a permanently 
tacky film to prevent loose lay carpet tiles from moving, but  
also allows the carpet to be lifted and replaced with ease.
Revacryl 5737 
Revacryl 5737 was developed as a new polymer for the 
formulation of solvent free, low odour, emulsion paints for 
interior decorating. The polymer is used in high quality,  
wash resistant paints. Another innovative product created  
to meet the most stringent demands for environmentally 
friendly, low VOC, interior paints that are becoming  
increasingly important to global markets.
Synthomer 3560 
Synthomer 3560 is a new cross-linked polymer latex for  
woven carpets that meets the latest regulatory and indoor  
air quality requirements. Synthomer 3560 gives a high quality 
carpet backing with good runnability on the coater and a  
high penetration into the woven yarn. The product has excellent 
cut edge strength in the end application, leading to a high 
quality and durable carpet.
Polymers saw volumes 
increase by 4%, whilst 
increasing operating 
profit by 1 0%.
1
2
4
3
3
1
4
2 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 08
We upgraded our latex and lithene research facilities during  
the year, and higher margin new product launches supported 
profitability over the course of the year.
The UK business in particular suffered during the year with 
three unplanned events holding back latex production volumes 
over the course of the year. Butadiene supply issues in the first 
quarter were effectively resolved by sourcing higher cost raw 
materials from Europe, a styrene fire at the Stallingborough 
plant temporarily impacted production in the third quarter and 
the extremely cold weather in December reduced our ability  
to produce and ship.
Synthetic Latex
Polymer Division’s Synthetic Latex dispersions business 
consists of two product families, Styrene Butadiene Rubber 
(SBR) manufactured in Germany and the UK and Nitrile 
Butadiene Rubber (NBR) manufactured in the UK and Malaysia.
Overall SBR latex had a very positive year with a degree of 
recovery in the construction and specialities market, with non 
carpet volumes improving by almost 7% over 2009. Previously 
mentioned issues in Stallingborough did limit progress in the 
carpet market where conditions also remained difficult and 
volumes were down on prior year.
In NBR the business experienced strong demand for gloves, in 
part bolstered by the high cost of natural rubber. Margins were 
held stable in the face of rising monomer costs and strong 
competition. To meet the continued growth in demand for NBR 
the Board approved a new phase of expansion in Malaysia, 
which is expected to start up before the end of H1 2011 and 
add 15,000 tonnes of capacity.
Dispersions
2010 was a disappointing year for Dispersions with low 
customer demand in the European decorative paint market. 
Slightly lower volumes than 2009 were also experienced in 
South Africa and the Middle East however, strong margin 
management allowed these businesses to deliver an improved 
bottom line. Asia, as in most other product groups, developed 
positively during the year with volumes strongly ahead. 
Chief Executive’s report continued
Compounds
The European carpet market remains in a volatile state,  
and while there is evidence that the market is strengthening, 
volumes declined slightly from 2009. While a number of 
customers have reported anticipated improvements this 
is yet to be reflected in visible demand or actual sales.
Specialities
Polyvinyl Alcohol
Alcotex
®
 had another very good year with excellent progress  
in both volume and margin. Demand globally recovered and 
volumes moved ahead strongly, with a particularly strong 
performance in Asia. During the year further investment was 
made in improving plant performance which resulted in several 
record months of production.
 
Liquid Polybutadiene
2010 saw a very strong recovery in Lithene
®
 sales on the back 
of a more buoyant automotive sector. Volumes increased 
strongly and the work on improving product mix has continued 
to deliver benefits. Further investments in the plant during the 
year have delivered more consistent quality and the ability of 
this plant to produce at higher levels of output. 
Alkyds and Polyester
The recovery of industrial markets in South East Asia drove 
demand for Alkyd resins while the lack of new infrastructure 
projects severely retarded Polyester sales. The flexible nature of 
these plants allowed more Alkyd Resin to be produced resulting 
in a double digit volume increase and strong margins, while 
Polyester experienced a decline. In aggregate, the combined 
business delivered a good volume increase, and improved 
profitability.
Natural Rubber
Natural Rubber had a very difficult year with volumes down 6%. 
Heavy rainfall in Southern Thailand and Malaysia resulted in 
lower volumes of field latex and CL60 which resulted in a strong 
and consistently upward move for the natural rubber price. 
These conditions forced many manufacturers to halt production, 
or switch to NBR where they could, resulting in the lowest sales 
volume achieved for a number of years. However, this volume 
deficit was more than compensated by higher pricing and 
increased margin. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 09
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
More information at:
www.yulecatto.com
Innovation infrastructure
Higher margin new 
product launches 
supported profitability 
over the course of  
the year.
Synthomer 902-Series 
Synthomer has developed the 902-Series of SBR latices  
for chemical bonding of polyester nonwoven reinforcement 
materials for roofing applications. Modified bitumen membranes 
for modern and ecological flat or low-slope roofing systems 
require high performance reinforcement materials, such as  
fiber glass, polyester or composite materials. Based on a  
highly cross-linked polymer, these latices provide excellent 
processability as well as the required strength and thermo-
dimensional stability performance in the finished nonwoven 
materials. They contribute to the durability of modern flat roofing 
systems for both industrial and residential construction projects. 
Revacryl 5511 
Revacryl 5511 enables the formulation of coatings with high 
water resistance, excellent crack bridging properties and low 
dirt pick up. A new elastomeric acrylic copolymer dispersion 
has been introduced for flexible, exterior wall coatings. The 
polymer was designed for coatings which are extremely flexible 
under cold conditions, but do not become tacky and attract dirt 
at higher temperatures. Coatings based on Revacryl 5511 can 
be applied to exterior walls with cracks of up to 2mm and 
remain in excellent condition, even after exposure to low 
temperatures.
Synthomer 11003
Synthomer 11003 is based on the latest styrene butadiene  
latex technology. The next generation polymer for ‘liquid  
applied membrane’ products (damp proof membranes) has 
been specifically developed to meet demanding environmental 
and regulatory needs. The main application is protecting 
substrates like plasterboard and wood against water and 
moisture vapour. The liquid membrane is typically applied  
on the wall before tiling, for example, in bathrooms and similar 
wet room constructions. 
Revacryl 5840 
Revacryl 5840 is an environmentally friendly, APEO-free  
and low odour styrene acrylic copolymer for primer 
applications. Revacryl 5840 has been designed to form  
a polymer film sealing the substrate surface and ensuring 
excellent adhesion of the subsequently applied levelling 
compound. High performance primers are required for  
example when applying self levelling flooring compounds,  
in order to ensure good bonding of the compound to the 
substrate. Revacryl 5840 has been designed to be used  
on mineral surfaces as a universal adhesion promoter in 
demanding applications.
1
2
4
3
3
1
4
2 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010
30.9 2010
23.6 2009
3.5 2010
2.0 2009
4.5 2010
5.6 2009
62.9 2010
65.3 2009
10
Pharma Chemicals manufactures a broad range of active 
pharmaceutical ingredients for the life science industry at 
manufacturing facilities in Barcelona, Spain and Cuernavaca, 
Mexico. The products are marketed to a broad range of blue 
chip generic and ethical customers who formulate and 
distribute the finished dosage form. 
Destocking at most of our customers finished in the first six 
months, and the order book strengthened through the year. 
However, following the weak start to the year, the business 
ended the year with operating profits some £1.1 million below 
2009. Costs remained in line with expectations, even after 
taking into account utility and raw material price rises. This was 
achieved by continued productivity and process improvements 
throughout the year.
Our strategy of selective dossier development saw the approval 
of a marketing authorisation in Portugal for Omeprazole. We 
intend to roll this out to the wider European market over the 
next 18 months. The strategy of registration of other marketing 
authorisations of an enlarged range of generic products was 
developed during 2010, and we made our first finished dosage 
sales of Pantoprazole.
In Mexico the sales increases of 2009 were consolidated  
in 2010, through a strong increase in generic sales versus 
ethical products. 
Impact Chemicals originally comprised five businesses,  
four of which were sold during 2008. The remaining business, 
William Blythe, is a worldwide supplier of inorganic specialities 
based on copper, iodine and tin from its UK manufacturing 
facility. Products are used in a range of applications such as 
semiconductor manufacture, pharmaceutical actives, non-toxic 
flame retardants, safety glass coatings and catalysts.
During the period, William Blythe traded ahead of 2009.
 
Pharma Chemicals
Total sales (£’m) 
Divisional operating profit* (£’m) 
* Underlying performance
Impact Chemicals
Total sales (£’m) 
Divisional operating profit* (£’m) 
* Underlying performance
Chief Executive’s report continued Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 11
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
More information at:
www.yulecatto.com
Innovation in Asia
Investment 
The Group is investing £7 million in its ‘Phase V’ 
expansion of its nitrile latex facility in Malaysia.  
This will bring 15,000 tonnes of new capacity on  
line in the first half of 2011. The Group remains 
committed to long-term investment in nitrile 
latex to support its customers in the high growth 
synthetic gloves market. 
Innovation 
Synthomer has invested heavily in Research and 
Development facilities in Malaysia to support the 
nitrile latex market. This investment has paid off  
with well over 50% of sales in 2010 from products 
introduced in the last three years. One example is 
our self crosslinking grade which removes the need 
for accelerators in the glove dipping process (which 
can cause allergies) thereby creating a premium 
product for the glove market. 
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 11 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 12
Income Statement – Underlying Performance
Total sales increased by 21% driven in the main by the recovery 
of input price increases and volume gains in the Polymer 
business. Translation increased turnover by 2.2%. Turnover 
within Europe comprised some 46% of sales (2009 50%), with 
sales outside Europe heavily skewed towards Asia and other 
developing economies, which accounted for 46% of turnover. 
Underlying operating profit of £54.9 million was ahead by 11%, 
driven by higher Polymer profitability, whilst finance costs fell  
to £7.8 million (2009 £9.9 million) on lower net borrowings.
The underlying tax rate of 19% (2009 20%) reflects the benefits 
of pioneer status on our investment in Malaysia. 
Profit attributable to minority interests was £1.3 million  
(2009 £1.6 million).
The resultant underlying earnings per share of 16.2 pence 
is a year-on-year increase of 22%. The Group committed to  
a minimum dividend per share of 5 pence for 2010, of which  
2 pence was paid for the interim results. Consistent with that 
promise a final cash dividend of £4.4 million, (being 3 pence 
multiplied by the number of shares prior to the PolymerLatex 
acquisition) will be paid. Post the rights issue to fund the 
acquisition, the number of shares in circulation is 340 million, 
and this therefore equates to a final cash dividend per share  
of 1.3 pence.
Income Statement – Special Items
To provide a clearer indication of the Group’s underlying 
performance, a number of special items are shown in a 
separate column of the consolidated income statement.  
Special items include: 
•	 Sale of Revertex Finewaters. The sale of this business  
was completed in June 2010, and the revenue and profits  
of that business are shown as special items in 2009 and 
2010. Additionally, the gain on disposal, and the share of  
that gain attributable to minority interests are shown as 
special items in 2010.
•	 Various cross currency and interest rate swaps for hedging 
purposes, which involve maturities of up to seven years.  
IFRS requires that where the strict requirements of IAS 39 are 
not met, changes in the market value should be recognised 
annually in the income statement. However, such financial 
instruments are maintained by the Group for the length of the 
contract and over their lifetime have a fair value of nil. Hence  
the notional annual adjustment, a gain of £2.6 million (2009 loss 
£4.4 million) is segregated from the underlying performance.
•	 The expenses of winding down the Italian Pharma site,  
the closure of which was announced in 2007.
•	 Release of tax provisions relating to historic issues that  
were closed during the course of 2010 of £6.6 million.
•	 Acquisition cost relating to the purchase of PolymerLatex  
of £4.2 million charged in the year.
Pensions
In the main UK defined benefit pension scheme the majority  
of investments are in equities. Equity markets improved in 2010, 
and overall the fund delivered a return of 11.6%. The yield on 
high-quality corporate bonds decreased somewhat (0.3%) 
during the year, which increased liabilities. The company made 
cash contributions to the fund in the year of £13.6 million. The 
government announced the replacement of RPI with CPI as the 
measure of inflation during the year. Most of the Group pension 
liabilities in payment receive either fixed or RPI linked increases. 
Consequently this change has only affected the liabilities with 
respect to the period in deferment, and has reduced liabilities 
by some £7 million. The overall effect of these changes was that 
there was a decrease in the deficit of the scheme, which stood 
at £56 million at the end of 2010 (2009 £70 million). 
The UK scheme was closed to future accrual during 2009  
and as at the end of 2010 there were no active members  
in the scheme.
IFRS
On an unadjusted IFRS basis, Group revenue increased  
by £104.5 million to £632.5 million. Profit before taxation at 
£57.8 million was £50.7 million higher than the previous period, 
reflecting the change between the years in the mark to market 
of the Group’s currency swaps, the profit on disposal of 
businesses and goodwill impairment incurred in 2009.
Borrowings 
Underlying net debt reduced significantly during the year.
Capital expenditure slowed substantially in 2009 with the  
global recession to £8.7 million. Capex increased during 2010, 
but at £10.6 million remained below depreciation.
Investment in the cash costs of running the Italian Pharma  
site came to some £1.4 million, whilst net proceeds from 
divestments totalled £10.9 million, from the sale of Revertex 
Finewaters (net of distribution to the minority shareholders).
Working capital outflow for the year was £11.9 million  
as expected, with the impact of volumes and input costs 
increases. Control of working capital is a core focus of  
the business management. 
Financial review Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Business review Introduction
13
Minority interest dividends increased substantially to £6.6 million, 
due to the distribution of 30% of the proceeds from the sale of 
Revertex Finewaters to the minority shareholders. 
The combination of stronger EBITDA, low capex, divestment 
proceeds and the substantial working capital outflow resulted in 
underlying net debt reducing to £63.4 million from £88.0 million 
at the end of 2009.
Refinancing and liquidity
At the year end the Group had US private placement  
debt (net of derivatives) of £75 million. Additionally the Group 
had £18.2 million in a 5 year loan in Malaysian ringgit, and an 
undrawn £30 million revolving loan facility, maturing December 
2011. In December the Group agreed a new three year  
£210 million loan facility for the acquisition of PolymerLatex,  
and received net proceeds of £219 million from the rights issue 
in January. The existing £30 million loan facility was therefore 
cancelled in January 2011. £24 million of US private placement 
debt is due in 2012. 
Net Debt to EBITDA, the Group’s key leverage metric, fell to 
under 1.0 at the end of the year from 1.3 at the end of 2009. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 14
Introduction
2010 marked the end of the first period of Yule Catto’s 
commitment to the Chemical Industries’ Sustainable 
Development goals and therefore provides an opportunity to 
look back over a longer period at the Company’s environmental 
and safety performance. The commitments were signed in 
2005 but related to our performance over the first decade of  
the 21st Century. Over that period the Group’s performance  
has sharply improved: in 2010 we emitted less than 1% of the 
sulphur dioxide we released in 2000; our personal safety 
performance as measured by Reportable Lost Time Accidents 
(those involving over 3 days absence from work) has improved 
by a factor of 3 over the decade; our performance on all lost 
time accidents is now over 25% better to that achieved on 
average by the European Chemical Industry; and our energy 
consumption per tonne has reduced by a third. On all the 
Sustainable Development measures used by the Group, the 
decade ended with performance significantly better than the 
targets set. All of this is a tribute to the hard work done by our 
employees to ensure ever safer working on our sites and 
continuing improvements in the Group’s environmental 
performance.
Progress was maintained in many areas in 2010 with further 
improvements in measures such as ‘Near Miss’ reporting, water 
use and the release of both sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides 
to the atmosphere. However on a number of other measures 
our performance did not keep up the rate of improvement seen 
in recent years and on energy and reportable accidents, 
performance was slightly worse in 2010 compared to 2009. 
Our Policy Commitments
Yule Catto remains committed to both the global chemical 
industries’ Responsible Care
®
 initiative and to the principles  
of Sustainable Development as set out in the UK Chemical 
Industries Association (‘CIA’) Sustainable Development (‘SD’) 
guiding principles.
Responsible Care
®
 aims to improve and enhance the  
chemical industry’s Safety, Health and Environmental (‘SHE’) 
performance, year on year. Yule Catto has been committed  
to Responsible Care
®
 since the 1990s and this commitment 
remains at the core of our efforts towards excellence in 
Corporate Social Responsibility. All Yule Catto sites are  
required to adhere to these principles and actively support  
the Group’s efforts to achieve continuous improvement in  
our SHE performance.
The Yule Catto Group has been committed to the CIA’s SD 
guiding principles since they were published in 2005 and we 
have reported annually against the targets set out in those 
principles each year since then. The commitment was re-
confirmed in 2010 when the SD principles were re-signed by 
the current Chief Executive and the Chairman of the Yule Catto 
Board. The SD principles are followed by the Group’s sites 
around the world and are used both to set annual improvement 
targets, especially for our environmental performance, and to 
help the Group to define its route to a safe and sustainable 
business. Yule Catto’s principles include a strong commitment 
to open reporting of our environmental performance, reflected 
in this annual report, and full respect for the people and 
communities amongst whom we work.
SHE performance and achievements during 2010
The long-term performance of Yule Catto against our targets 
and metrics remains very good although the performance in 
2010 slipped back in a number of areas when compared to  
the excellent results achieved in 2009. Of the five ‘headline’ 
measures used to monitor Group performance two showed 
improvement in 2010 whilst three fell slightly, though all would 
have been ‘best ever’ performance 2-3 years ago. ‘Near Miss’ 
reporting – a leading indicator of both staff involvement and 
sites’ intent to spot and remove hazards – improved again with 
all sites achieving over 3 ‘Near Miss’ reports per employee 
during the year. Over the Group as a whole the rate improved  
to nearly 5 ‘Near Misses’ per member of staff – an excellent 
performance. Our consumption of water also fell both in 
absolute terms and as measured by usage per tonne of 
production. The Group’s water usage is now only half what  
it was at the beginning of the decade.
The number of Reportable Lost Time Accidents (‘RLTA’) 
increased compared to 2009 with the Group’s RLTA frequency 
rate increasing to 0.36 per 100,000 hours worked. The quantity 
of waste disposed to landfill increased significantly as we 
remediated a number of sites and sent material previously 
located on site for off-site disposal. We anticipate this situation 
will continue into 2011. Excluding this one-off situation waste 
from ongoing operations declined again in 2010. The Group’s 
energy consumption increased somewhat during the year, 
though the performance still gave the Group its second best 
performance ever and meant that the Group as a whole 
produced over 3 tonnes of product using the same quantity  
of energy used to produce 2 tonnes of product in 2000.
On many other measures environmental performance 
improved: our measured discharges of heavy metals are only 
25% of what they were in 2008 and less than 4% of the figures 
for 2000; our releases of acid gases to atmosphere reduced 
again and are now much less than 1% of their 2000 values;  
and our releases of both carbon (as carbon oxygen demand) 
and phosphorous to water were lower than ever before.
Following improvements to our measurement systems and 
increased output our recorded discharge of Volatile Organic 
Compounds (‘VOC’s’) has increased again in 2010. Projects to 
abate these releases are at an advanced design stage and the 
abatement plants should be fully operational by the end of 2012.
The Yule Catto Board and the Group Executive Committee 
continue to monitor performance in all these areas and provide 
leadership in driving the Group to continued improvements 
across all aspects of SHE performance.
Managing Safety and Environmental performance
Safety and environmental performance is fully integrated 
into Yule Catto’s management structure and is always a  
line management responsibility. Staff at all levels have to 
manage their own health and safety performance and take  
care of those around them, as well as managing the SHE 
performance of all those for whom they are responsible.  
To assist in this management process, the Group has a set  
of SHE Management policies and Procedures which make  
up the Yule Catto SHE Management System (‘SHEMS’).  
This system has been extensively revised and extended in 2010 
to cover most areas of SHE performance and now provides 
comprehensive coverage of the procedures Yule Catto expects 
Corporate Social Responsibility report Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 15
Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Business review Introduction
all sites to have in place. During 2011 and 2012 sites will be 
implementing policies and procedures which ensure these 
practices meet the Yule Catto SHEMS expectations. 
The Group also has an Accident and Incident Management 
System (‘AIMS’) to assist in the management of all actual  
events and all ‘Near Misses’ throughout the Group. The system 
provides automatic e-mail alerts to senior management of 
significant events, and provides a mechanism for storing 
and sharing the learning gained from accident and incident 
investigations. 
SHE performance is always a primary duty for management 
at all levels in the Group. The practices adopted in previous 
years remain a cornerstone of our efforts towards continuous 
improvement in SHE performance. The practices include:
•	 SHE performance is discussed in all management meetings, 
as the first agenda item;
•	 Yule Catto conduct regular, in-depth SHE audits of all sites  
to assess performance and identify opportunities for 
improvement. The results of the audits are discussed both 
with the site involved and with wider management, for 
example at the Group Executive committee;
•	 The Group AIMS is used to collect and analyse data on  
all accidents, incidents and ‘Near Misses’ on our site.  
The system ensures that all of these are appropriately 
investigated, with the most serious or potentially serious 
incidents being fully investigated to root causes. The system 
is then used to ensure that the identified actions to prevent 
recurrence are put in place.
•	 Sites are expected to implement policies, procedures and 
practices in line with the Group’s SHEMS, and to provide 
training for all their staff to ensure that these are used by staff 
at all times.
•	 Key measures of SHE performance are collected monthly or 
quarterly as appropriate and reported to the Group Executive 
and to the Board. This process is mirrored at company and 
site level to give management and staff a clear picture of 
current performance.
•	 Key leading performance indicators, covering items such as 
inspections and engineering performance metrics, are being 
collected and reported to senior management to give 
assurance of good performance at site hardware level.
•	 Senior managers have SHE targets as part of their annual 
objectives. Other employees have similar objectives set, 
either on an individual or a site basis.
•	 Group SHE visits to sites to carry out training and 
development of key staff.
Health, Safety and Accident performance
The Group’s performance on Reportable Lost Time Accidents 
(‘RLTAs’) declined in 2010. There were 15 RLTAs in the year 
resulting in a rise in the Group’s RLTA frequency rate from  
0.235 to 0.36 per 100,000 hours worked (100,000 hours is,  
very broadly, a working lifetime). However, even this rise meant 
that 2010 was the third best year in Yule Catto’s history. In 2010 
a Yule Catto employee was three times less likely to have a 
reportable accident than they were in 2000. The number of 
accidents resulting in less than 3 days lost time (‘LTA’s’) did not 
change between 2009 and 2010, which meant that the Group 
was still comfortably below the frequency rate for all lost time 
accidents reported by the European Chemical Industry 
Confederation, (‘Cefic’). The UK chemical industry remains 
amongst the safest manufacturing industries in the world and 
the Chemical Industries Association (‘CIA’) collects data on its 
member’s performance. Yule Catto aims to be at or below the 
average frequency rate for CIA member companies, in all our 
operations around the world.
Process Safety and reportable safety incidents
Although already at low levels in 2009 there was a fall in the 
number of significant, reportable safety incidents in 2010.  
By definition process safety incidents have the potential to be 
damaging to people, plant and the environment and are always 
subject to rigorous investigation. 
The four process safety incidents which occurred in 2010 
included a fire at Synthomer’s Stallingborough plant; a non-
standard reaction in a reactor at Synthomer’s plant in Vietnam, 
which caused the contents of a vessel to be relieved through 
the emergency vents; the loss of a significant amount of 
flammable material when a valve was left open at the base of an 
vessel during a filling operation; and a decomposition in a drier 
at William Blythe, which released a significant volume of oxygen 
into the plant. There were no personnel injuries in these 
incidents and only minor product releases which caused no 
lasting damage to the environment. Recognising the importance 
of process safety, staff in South Africa and Malaysia attended 
the UK Institution of Chemical Engineers (‘IChemE’) Process 
Safety training course when it was run in those countries. Yule 
Catto participated in the production of this course which was 
run in-house for 25 members of staff from across our European 
and Saudi Arabian operations. Two further in-house courses 
have been arranged for 2011 in Europe.
>3 Day Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate (per 100,000 hours)
Reportable lost time accident frequency rates
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
4
6
4 4 4
2
4
26 26
66
4
Reportable safety incidents Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 16
Occupational Health & Hygiene
For the second year in a row there were no cases of 
occupational disease reported by our sites around the world. 
This is an excellent result especially as a number of the 
materials handled on our sites, notably in Pharmaceutical 
Division, are known to be potent sensitising agents. We achieve 
this by limiting the exposure of our staff to the chemicals they 
handle, using the standard hierarchy of removal, reduction, 
control and protection. Given the complex and precise 
chemistry of our processes it will never be possible to remove 
all hazardous chemicals from our sites and this means that 
control of exposure by engineering means, backed up by the 
extensive use of Personal Protective Equipment (‘PPE’), will 
always be a major concern for operational and SHE staff on our 
sites. To assist in the correct assessment of chemical exposure 
risk the Group’s assessment program, based on the principles 
of the UK Control of Substances Hazardous to Health 
regulations has continued to be rolled out to our sites in all 
divisions. Assessment of the adequacy of controls at site level, 
and the provision of advice on how to improve controls on 
chemical exposure, has continued to be a matter of discussion 
during the Group SHE audits.
The health of our staff is monitored by a comprehensive set  
of medical arrangements on all of our sites. Staff who work with 
chemicals are provided with regular medical examinations by 
trained occupational health nurses or doctors. Whilst always 
respecting medical confidentiality, the doctors who provide the 
service in each country inform the local company in the case  
of a reportable disease which could be caused by a work 
activity. They are also asked to inform the company if their 
overview of the health of our staff causes them concern. 
Audit programme
The SHE performance of all Yule Catto sites is audited by  
an in-house team on a 2-year rolling cycle to provide senior 
management – at site, Divisional and Group level – with  
a picture of the fundamental SHE performance of Group 
operations. The audits, which incorporate a scoring system, are 
based on the principles of Responsible Care
®
 management and 
are used to provide guidance to sites on areas for improvement. 
The results of the audits are monitored closely by the Group 
Executive Committee who are committed to achieving high 
standards of SHE performance on all Yule Catto sites. During 
2010 additional resources were allocated to the audit process 
to ensure that problems were adequately assessed and in  
2011 additional resources are being allocated at both site and 
Group level, to improve performance where problems have 
been identified.
Asset protection and insurance inspections
An incident at Langelsheim in late 2009 and the fire at 
Stallingborough in 2010 meant that, for the first time for a 
number of years, the Group has had significant insured losses. 
These losses have been carefully managed with our insurers,  
a process which has been considerably helped by the close 
co-operative work carried out between Yule Catto and our 
insurer’s surveying team, who visit our sites on a 2-year cycle. 
These biennial insurance surveys serve as a ‘sense check’ on 
our own internal audits and have pointed out a number of areas 
for possible improvement on Group sites. Many of the possible 
improvements have been addressed, allowing an improvement 
in our insurer’s rating of our risk profile. This improvement, and  
a commitment to continuing to improve over the next few years, 
has helped to keep control of the future cost of our global risk 
insurance, which has fallen by one third over the past six years. 
Regulatory Affairs: REACH and GHS
The Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of 
Chemicals (‘REACH’) regulations have been in force for over  
2 years now and their impact has begun to be felt not only by the 
chemical industry in Europe but also by the users of our products. 
2010 saw the first of the registration deadlines come into force 
with all chemicals manufactured at over 1000 tonnes per annum 
requiring to be registered, as well as a series of chemicals  
which were regarded as being of ‘high concern’. Although the 
great majority of Yule Catto’s products were exempt from the 
registration requirements, being polymers, we did have to register 
some materials either because they were monomers used in 
products imported into the EU or because they were directly 
manufactured materials. All of the registrations required by each  
of the Divisions were completed successfully, and the registrations 
confirmed by the responsible body, the European Chemicals 
Agency (‘ECHA’).
The first registration deadline in REACH was also the first deadline 
for notification of the hazard classification and the labelling of all 
materials sold in the European Union under a second European 
Directive. This directive, which was implemented across the EU  
as the Classification, Packaging and Labelling (‘CLP’) regulations, 
came into force on 20 January 2010 and implemented the United 
Nations Globally Harmonised System (‘GHS’) for the classification 
and labelling of all chemicals. Under the regulations, all hazardous 
chemicals sold in the EU had to be notified to ECHA, together with 
their hazard classification and the labels which would be attached 
to all packages of the material. At the same time the rules for 
classification were changed, as were the symbols which must be 
used to convey hazard information. Polymer dispersions and the 
latex emulsions produced by the Group are classified as mixtures 
and are not therefore within the scope of the regulations until 2015. 
This meant that Polymer Division only had to notify 52 raw 
materials and 1 manufactured substance by the 1 December 
deadline but essentially all the products of the other Divisions  
had to be re-assessed, re-labelled and notified. Group Companies 
had to modify their internal processes to deal with all the revised 
information coming from our suppliers, and give extensive training 
to staff who have to deal with chemicals which now have different 
labels attached. This was done successfully. 
GHS is being introduced in most other countries around the 
world over the next few years and a number of countries are 
introducing systems similar to REACH. Our experience in 
Europe, dealing with REACH and GHS, puts the Group in  
a good position to deal with these changes as they occur. 
Corporate Social Responsibility report continued Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 17
Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Business review Introduction
Sustainable Development  
Performance Report 2010
Managing Our Environmental Responsibilities
Yule Catto is firmly committed to the concepts of SD. As a 
company, Yule Catto was one of the initial group of signatories 
to the programme of SD goals put forward by UK CIA to its 
member companies in 2005. The Company’s commitment to 
these SD goals has been shown by a continuous record of 
investment in environmental improvement and a continuous 
record of achievement against the targets set. This has led to  
a significant reduction of our environmental impacts since 2000. 
Although we are now at the end of this 10 year improvement 
cycle, Yule Catto remain committed to continuing advances in 
SD performance and the Company will be proposing a further 
set of targets for the next 5 year period during 2011. 
Not all of the Group’s measures of our SD performance are 
recorded in the graphs presented here. A good number of  
the other measures which we use internally also show very 
significant improvement over the last 10 years. As examples: 
our releases of nitrogen oxides to air have fallen by more than 
80% per production tonne over the last 10 years; our releases 
of phosphorous to water have fallen by over 75% over the  
same period; and our releases of heavy metals are down from 
4.5 gm/tonne to 0.147 gm/tonne, a better than 96% reduction.  
All of these have been achieved by incremental improvement  
in the operational systems on our sites, investment in improved 
equipment for environmental control, and of course ever-
improving performance by our site staff, to give better quality 
product, produced with more carefully husbanded resources, 
whilst producing less waste.
This record of success is reflected in all of our SD measures 
which have improved considerably since 2000; indeed all are 
well ahead of the targets we set for improvement over this 
period. However, on 3 measures the Group performed less  
well in 2010 than in 2009, though the performance was still 
considerably better than in earlier years and below target. The 
measures which performed less well were waste production, 
energy use and VOC releases. In the case of VOC releases this 
reflects the improved measurement methods used from 2009 
which give a much better estimate of actual releases from our 
processes; and in the case of waste it reflects the need to deal 
with legacy wastes, dating back 40 years, on one of our sites.
Energy
Although 2010 saw an increase in energy use per tonne 
compared to 2009, it was still easily the second best year 
ever for energy consumption across Yule Catto. Over the  
10 year period the Group’s energy consumption per tonne  
has improved such that the energy used to make 2 tonnes  
in 2000 now makes over 3 tonnes of product. Compared to 
our 10-year SD commitment energy consumption was 30% 
better than the target set. The increase in energy use was 
widely distributed across most of the Group’s sites. It partly 
reflects lower volumes and changing products mix but this is an 
area where Yule Catto remains committed to further significant 
improvements in both specific energy use and de-carbonisation 
of our energy supplies. We will be proposing new Group energy 
targets during 2011 for the next 5 year period which will reflect 
these commitments. 
Global warming
Both of the main contributors to Yule Catto’s global warming 
performance moved adversely in 2010: the Group’s energy 
performance per tonne was worse than 2009 (discussed 
above) and the quantity of VOCs released also increased.  
The quantity of VOCs increased for the second year in a row, 
mainly due to an increase in the production of nitrile rubber for 
the gloves market in Malaysia. The manufacture of this grade  
of latex is inherently more likely to give rise to the release 
of VOCs than other materials we produce. There were also 
higher releases at our Stallingborough plant in the UK, again 
associated with the grades of material being produced and 
higher production levels. Although these releases contribute  
to the environmental cost of the Group’s operations we  
have not been able to detect any adverse environmental 
consequences locally from the materials released. None the 
less at both of these plants there are active projects to abate  
the releases and these are expected to be fully implemented  
by the end of 2012.
Although the performance in 2010 was disappointing the  
longer term picture is still of continuing improvement in the 
Group’s releases of greenhouse gases with only the period from  
2007-2009 being better than the figure for 2010. Yule Catto beat 
its 10-year target by 16% and improved by 37% over the decade.
GigaJoules used per production tonne
Energy consumption
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
Tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent release per production tonne
Global warming burden
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 18
Atmospheric Acidification
The Group’s contribution to atmospheric acidification  
was reduced by a further 2.6% in 2010 compared to 2009. 
Although the absolute change is small compared to the very 
large decreases in previous years – achieved by significant 
capital investment in flue gas scrubbing at the Holiday 
Pigment’s sites which Yule Catto formerly owned – it represents 
a further 750 kg reduction in sulphurous gases emitted by 
Group sites. The Group emissions are less than 0.8% of what 
they were at the beginning of the decade and less than 1.6%  
of the 10 year target for 2010. The emissions which remain are 
concentrated at two of our sites: these releases represent 90% 
of the Group total. The Group will be examining these releases 
in 2011 to see if abatement systems would be appropriate or if 
other measures can be taken to reduce them.
Water use
Yule Catto’s water consumption fell again in 2010, both in  
the absolute quantity of water used and by a further 2.75% on  
a per tonne basis. This reduction helps to ensure the long-term 
sustainability of our business as water is an increasingly 
important and sometimes scarce resource in many regions of 
the world. Water supply can be a significant constraint on both 
industry and agriculture. Yule Catto sites are generally in areas 
where water supply is not a constraint and we are fortunate to 
have relatively reliable sources of both potable and process 
water for our sites. This security of supply is especially 
important for Polymer Division where water is not only vital to 
the safety of our processes but where the great majority of our 
product is sold as a dispersion in water. Water supplies were a 
constraint during the year at our Malaysian site and action has 
been taken to ensure that a reliable piped supply will always be 
available in future. In a number of cases our supplies of water 
come from our own renewable sources. Where we have this 
type of supply we monitor the source carefully so that we can 
be certain that it is not being depleted. 
Kgs sulphur dioxide equivalent released per production tonne
Atmospheric acidification burden 
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
Waste disposal
As noted above hazardous waste disposal increased in 2010 as 
we rectified historical issues. Despite this setback the hazardous 
waste disposal to landfill from Group sites in 2010 was still only 
27% of 2000 levels and only 35% of our SD target. This long-
term achievement is more impressive when the re-classification 
of many formerly non-hazardous wastes as hazardous waste is 
taken into account.
The cessation of use of the on-site landfill at Kluang, Malaysia in 
February 2010, which was only used for non-hazardous waste, 
meant that the quantity of non-hazardous waste sent to landfill 
dropped by over 60% in 2010. Alternative methods of disposal 
have had to be found and these have generally involved off-site 
disposal with waste streams sent as hazardous waste. However 
the excellent work done by sites in finding alternative outlets for 
material previously sent to landfill, which in one case has even 
involved the recovery of previously dumped material, has reduced 
the quantity disposed of in this way by 85% compared to 2000.
m 3 per production tonne
Water consumption 
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
Tonnes waste per production tonne
Hazardous waste disposed to land 
0.000
0.002
0.004
0.006
0.008
0.010
0.012
0.014
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
Actual
10-year target
Corporate Social Responsibility report continued Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 19
Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Business review Introduction
Environmental incidents 
The number of environmental reportable incidents increased 
slightly between 2009 and 2010. The incidents reported are 
either unforeseen releases, mainly spillages on site which have 
managed to circumvent the site’s containment system; or are 
routine releases from our Effluent Treatment Plants (‘ETP’) 
which have breached their permitted limits. All these incidents 
have been investigated and appropriate remedial actions taken 
to reduce the chance of the incident being repeated. Although 
all such incidents are matters of concern to Yule Catto, none of 
the incidents in 2010 have led to any noticeable environmental 
damage being reported to any Group company. Two of the 
incidents were in Durban, South Africa where the site has  
plans to construct new ETP during the coming year. This  
will considerably improve the quality of the effluent routinely 
released and reduce the chances of exceeding the release 
limits in future, even if the local authorities further tighten the 
permitted releases from the plant.
Tonnes per production tonne
Non-hazardous waste disposed to land 
0.000
0.005
0.010
0.015
0.020
0.025
0.030
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00
8 8
10
19
4
7
4
22
44
49
8
Reportable environmental incidents Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 20
Environmental KPIs
The UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (‘DEFRA’) published guidelines for reporting environmental key 
performance indicators in 2006. The key measures suggested were energy use, emissions to air, waste disposal and water 
consumption, on an absolute and a per tonne basis. Yule Catto has reported on these indicators for a number of years, and to  
aid transparency in environmental performance reporting Yule Catto adopted DEFRA’s preferred format in 2008 for the report  
on our 2007 performance. This format is used in the table below which gives the data for the period 2008-2010.
2010 2009 2008
% change 
2008-2010
% change
2009-2010
Energy consumption
1
     
GJ 2,092,339 1,967,478 2,633,940 -20.56% 6.35%
Gas 698,891 641,691 934,577
Light oil 28,178 24,885 82,920
Heavy oil 64,326 61,046 35,254
Steam 161,617 147,456 165,912
Electricity (primary basis) 1,138,600 1,086,779 1,409,021
GJ/tonne production 2.942 2.765 3.327 -11.56% 6.41%
Emissions to Air
2
     
Carbon Dioxide (CO 2)
Tonnes 104,572 98,289 131,787 -20.65% 6.39%
Tonnes CO 2/tonne production 0.147 0.138 0.166 -11.66% 6.56%
Sulphur Dioxide (SO 2)
Tonnes 27.2 27.9 114.0 -76.16% -2.64%
Kilos SO 2/tonne production 0.038 0.039 0.144 -73.47% -2.58%
Nitrous Oxides (NOx)
Tonnes 19.45 20.03 30.84 -36.93% -2.89%
Kilos NOx/tonne production 0.027 0.028 0.039 -29.86% -2.83%
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
Tonnes 2,407 2,155 2,081 15.67% 11.71%
Kilos VOC/tonne production 3.385 3.028 2.628 28.77% 11.78%
Water Usage     
Cubic Metres (m
3
) 3,271,018 3,366,442 4,417,697 -25.96% -2.83%
Public potable supply 879,006 938,084 1,358,705
Raw water from river 1,514,427 1,609,773 2,285,307
Raw water from borehole 337,058 308,738 443,308
Raw water from canal – 2,565 15,282
Raw water from other 540,527 507,282 315,094
m
3
/tonne production 4.600 4.731 5.580 -17.57% -2.78%
1. Data relates to site usage of all fuels, excluding transport.    
2.    Emissions to air have been calculated from the usage of all fuels, excluding transport fuel; and therefore include both direct emissions and indirect emissions related  
to bought-in electricity.   
 
Corporate Social Responsibility report continued Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 21
Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Business review Introduction
21
2010 2009 2008
% change 
2008-2010
% change
2009-2010
Waste Management
Hazardous waste
Tonnes 22,398 12,131 18,848 18.84% 84.64%
Hazardous waste sent off-site
Recycled – energy recovery 5,243 1,981 4,855
Recycled – separated, reprocessed 9,010 3,865 5,164
Incinerated – no energy recovery 6,332 3,462 4,232
Disposed by landfill 1,578 817 1,158
Other 6.67 65.10 119
Hazardous waste disposed on-site
Incinerated on-site with energy recovery – – 1,335
Incinerated on-site with no energy recovery 129 1,941 1,986
Disposed to on-site landfill
Haz. waste tonnes/tonne production 0.031 0.017 0.024 31.24% 84.74%
Non-hazardous waste
Tonnes 9.002 12.809 15.206 -40.80% -29.72%
Non-hazardous waste sent off-site
Recycled – energy recovery 1,940 3,077 3,413
Recycled – separated, reprocessed 3,311 1,418 2,326
Incinerated – no energy recovery – 77.7 22.0
Disposed by landfill 2,084 6,041 6,976
Other – municipality 1,606 1,580 1,437
Non-hazardous waste disposed of on-site
Recycled – energy recovery – – –
Incinerated – no energy recovery – – –
Disposed by landfill 60.0 616 1,031
Non-haz waste tonnes/tonne production 0.013 0.018 0.019 -33.38% -29.68%
Total waste tonnes/tonne production 0.044 0.035 0.043 2.69% 25.98%
Production
Tonnes 711,138 711,560 791,711 -10.18% -0.06% Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 22
Executive directors 
A M Whitfield
2
 – Chief Executive
Joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in March 
2006. He assumed the role of Chief Executive in August 2006. 
Prior to appointment he was Chief Executive of the plastics 
division of D S Smith Plc. Age 49.
D C Blackwood
4
 – Finance Director
Joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in October 
2007. Prior to appointment he was Group Treasurer of Imperial 
Chemical Industries PLC. Age 51.
Non-executive directors 
P S Wood
2
 – Chairman
Joined the Board in 2001 and was appointed Chairman on  
1 February 2009. He was Chief Executive of The BSS Group 
plc until retirement at the end of 2005 and is a non-executive 
director of RPC Group plc. He is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of England and Wales. Age 63.
The Hon. A G Catto
4
 
Joined the Board in 1981. He is Managing Director of CairnSea 
Investments Ltd, a private investment company, and a non-
executive director of several early stage companies that have 
been backed by CairnSea. Until 1995 he was a Managing 
Director of Lazard Brothers and prior to this he was with  
J P Morgan and Morgan Grenfell & Co. Age 58.
Dr A A Dobbie
1,2,3,4
Joined the Board in August 2007. He is a founding Director of 
Cogency Chemical Consultants Limited, a Director of NiTech 
Solutions Limited and Marine Biopolymers Limited and is 
Chairman of Chemical Sciences Scotland. Age 59.
Dato’ Lee Hau Hian
4
Joined the Board in 1993 and stood down in 2000 to become 
an Alternate Director. He rejoined the Board in 2002. He is a 
Director of Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd and Batu Kawan Bhd. 
Age 57.
J K Maiden
1,2,3,4
 – Senior Independent Director
Joined the Board in August 2007. He is Group Finance Director 
of National Express Group PLC and a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants. Age 49.
1. Member of Audit Committee.
2. Member of Nomination Committee.
3. Member of Remuneration Committee.
4. Standing for re-election at 2011 AGM.
Registered office 
Yule Catto & Co plc
Temple Fields
Harlow
Essex
CM20 2BH
Registered No. 98381
Secretary
Richard Atkinson
Bankers
Banco de Sabadell SA
Barclays Bank PLC
Commerzbank AG 
HSBC Bank plc
Maybank – Malayan Banking Berhad
Joint stockbrokers
RBS Hoare Govett Limited and Collins Stewart Europe Limited
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
Lochside House
7 Lochside Avenue
Edinburgh Park
Edinburgh
EH12 9DJ
Auditors
Deloitte LLP
Chartered accountants and statutory auditor 
Cambridge, UK
Solicitors
Pinsent Masons LLP
Salans LLP
Squire, Sanders & Dempsey (UK) LLP
Directors and advisers Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 23
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
The directors submit their annual report (including a 
management report) and the audited financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Results and dividends
Profit attributable to shareholders for the year was £49,738,000.
The interim dividend of 2 pence per share was paid on  
1 1 November 2010. The directors recommend a final dividend of  
1.3 pence per share payable on 8 July 201 1 to those shareholders 
registered at the close of business on 10 June 201 1. A dividend 
re-investment plan is available to shareholders and this alternative 
will continue to be offered until further notice.
Principal activities and business review 
The principal activities of the Company and a business review 
are set out on pages 4 to 21 and form part of the report of  
the directors.
Acquisitions and disposals
On 2 June 2010 the Group’s joint venture subsidiary,  
Revertex (Finewaters) Sdn Bhd was sold to H B Fuller 
Company. On 13 December 2010 the Group exchanged 
contracts with PolymerLatex Holdings BV for the acquisition  
of PolymerLatex Deutschland Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH 
(PolymerLatex). Further details of these transactions are 
contained in notes 28 and 29 and in relation to the latter in the 
prospectus dated 13 December 2010.
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s use of financial instruments and its 
financial risk management objectives and policies, and of its 
exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk in relation 
to such instruments, is contained in note 21 to the financial 
statements.
Directors 
The present membership of the Board is shown on page  
22 all of whom served throughout the year. 
The Hon. A G Catto, Dato’ Lee Hau Hian, Dr A A Dobbie,  
Mr J K Maiden and Mr D C Blackwood retire and will be 
seeking re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
None of the directors seeking re-election has a service contract 
other than Mr Blackwood who has a service contract which 
contains a twelve month notice period. Details of directors’ 
emoluments and the interests of each director in the share 
capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration report 
on pages 30 to 33.
Director indemnity provisions
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, the directors  
of the Company have the benefit of a qualifying third-party 
indemnity provision which provides that they shall be 
indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities as 
permitted by Sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 2006 
and against costs incurred by them in relation to any liability for 
which they are indemnified. The Company has purchased and 
maintains insurance against directors’ and officers’ liabilities in 
relation to the Company.
Share capital and control
Details of the Company’s share capital are contained in note 25 
to the financial statements. On 31 December 2010 194,217 ,582 
shares were provisionally allotted nil paid in connection with the 
rights issue announced on 13 December 2010. On 17 January 
2011 such 194,217 ,582 shares were allotted fully paid.  
No shares were re-purchased in 2010. A total of 8,361 shares 
were purchased on the open market on behalf of the 
shareholders who elected to participate in the dividend 
re-investment plan.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary 
shares, being the only class of issued share capital, as well  
as the powers of the Company’s directors, are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association, copies of which can be 
obtained from Companies House or can be downloaded from 
the Company’s website. There are no restrictions on the voting 
rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares or on the 
transfer of securities in the Company. No person holds 
securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard  
to the control of the Company. The Company is not aware of 
any agreements between holders of securities that may result  
in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. 
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of 
Association of the Company, the Company’s Articles of 
Association may be amended by special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders.
Other than in relation to its borrowings which, unless certain 
conditions are satisfied, become repayable on a takeover, the 
Company is not party to any significant agreements that would 
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following 
a takeover bid.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office  
or employment resulting from a takeover.
All of the Company’s share schemes contain provisions relating 
to a change of control. Outstanding options and awards would 
normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, 
subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at  
that time.
Contractual arrangements 
The Group has contractual and other arrangements with 
numerous third parties in support of its business operations. 
The disclosure in this report of information about any such third 
parties is not considered to be necessary for an understanding 
of the development, performance or position of the Group’s 
business.
Report of the directors
for the year ended 31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 24
Major shareholdings
Other than the shareholdings disclosed as directors’ interests in 
the Remuneration report as at 18 February 2011, the Company 
had been notified under Section 5 of the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the following 
significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary shares:
Ordinary
shares
(number)
Percentage
of ordinary
shares in
issue Nature of holding
Kuala Lumpur 
Kepong Berhad Group 
64,111,401 18.86 Direct interest 
Old Mutual Asset 
Managers (UK) Ltd 22,005,930 6.47 Indirect 
 
Employment policies
The Group gives every consideration to applications for 
employment from disabled persons. Employees who become 
disabled are given every opportunity to continue employment 
under normal terms and conditions with appropriate training, 
career development and promotion wherever possible. The 
Group seeks to achieve equal opportunities in employment 
through recruitment and training policies.
Authority to purchase own shares 
The Company has a general authority, which expires at the 
conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting, to make market 
purchases of not more than 14,566,318 of the Company’s 
ordinary shares in accordance with the terms of the special 
resolution passed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.  
A resolution will be tabled at the 2011 Annual General Meeting  
to renew this authority.
Employee involvement
The Group is organised on a decentralised basis so  
as to promote greater employee involvement and better 
communications with employees. Each Group company is 
encouraged to make its employees aware of the financial and 
economic factors affecting the performance of the Company. 
Performance related bonus schemes are in operation in a 
number of Group companies.
A long-term share incentive plan for directors and senior 
executives was introduced in 2002 with the approval of 
shareholders.
UK pension funds 
The trustees have reviewed the independent investment 
management of the assets of the Company pension schemes  
in the UK and assured themselves of the security and controls 
in place. In particular, it is the trustees’ policy not to invest in 
Yule Catto shares nor lend money to the Company.
Creditor payment policy
The Group’s policy is to make payments to creditors and other 
suppliers in accordance with terms of payment agreed at the 
time the contract of supply is made, subject to all the terms and 
conditions of the order being satisfied by the supplier. Trade 
creditor days of the Company for the year ended 31 December 
2010 were 31 days (2009 25 days) based on the ratio of trade 
creditors at the year end to the amounts invoiced during the 
year by trade creditors.
Charitable donations
Charitable donations in the year amounted to £73,507  
(2009 £56,208) There were no political donations during the year.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
Each director of the Company confirms that, so far as he  
is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware and that he has taken all  
the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order  
to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and  
to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information. For these purposes, relevant audit information 
means information needed by the Company’s auditors in 
connection with preparing their reports on pages 35 and 73. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Corporate governance
The corporate governance report is set out on pages 26 to 29 
and forms part of the report of the directors.
Going concern 
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going 
concern and in reaching their conclusions have taken into 
account factors including:
•	 the expiry of the £30 million multicurrency revolving credit 
facility on 24 December 2011 and its cancellation after the 
year end; and
•	 the obligations associated with the pending acquisition  
of PolymerLatex and the associated rights issue and debt 
funding arrangements as detailed in the prospectus dated  
13 December 2010.
After making enquiries and taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance, the directors have 
concluded that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis  
in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Report of the directors continued Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 25
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Principal risks and uncertainties
The directors have appropriately considered the Group’s 
principal risks and uncertainties including the following:
•	 Conditions in the global economy, economic fluctuations in 
customer industries and volatility and cyclicality of the global 
chemicals and polymers markets may adversely affect the 
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of  
the Group;
•	 Volatility in raw material prices and energy prices may 
adversely affect the profitability of the Group and its working 
capital position;
•	 The failure of the Group to procure key raw materials may 
lead to production interruptions that may adversely affect  
the profitability of the Group and its working capital position;
•	 The markets in which the Group operates are highly 
competitive and the Group may lose market share to other 
producers or sellers of water based polymers or to other 
products that can be substituted for the products of the 
Group;
•	 The Group operates in a number of different geographies 
which may present different legal and regulatory risks.  
In addition, the Group operates in a number of different tax 
regimes, which may increase the volatility of the effective  
tax rate and cash tax rate of the Group;
•	 The ability of the Group to compete is highly dependent on its 
ability to develop technological innovations, to introduce new 
products and to protect its intellectual property, trade secrets 
and know-how. Failure to do so could have an adverse affect 
on the Group; 
•	 The Group may be liable for damages based on product 
liability claims brought against its customers in end-use 
markets. In addition, compliance with extensive 
environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could 
require material expenditure, changes in the operations of  
the Group or site remediation;
•	 The manufacture, storage and transportation of chemicals  
is inherently dangerous and any incidents relating to the 
hazards which the Group faces may adversely affect its 
financial condition, results of operations and reputation;
•	 Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly 
impact the results of the operations of the Group and may 
significantly affect the comparability of financial results 
between financial periods;
•	 Credit market conditions and credit ratings may restrict the 
ability of the Group to obtain credit facilities or to refinance its 
existing debt facilities in the longer term. In addition, interest 
rate fluctuations and increases in bank lending margins  
may increase the Group’s costs of borrowing in the longer 
term; and 
•	 The Group has funding risks relating to defined benefit 
pension schemes and any deterioration in the value of assets 
in which the pension scheme has invested as against the 
financial obligations to make payments to members of the 
schemes could have an adverse affect on the Group.
A description of how the Company manages these risks  
is contained in the Chief Executive’s Report and the  
Financial Review.
Key Performance Indicators 
Management monitors a number of financial and non-financial 
key performance indicators, which are disclosed within the 
Chief Executive’s Report, the Financial Review and Corporate 
Social Responsibility report. These key performance indicators 
include divisional sales and underlying operating profit, net debt, 
reportable safety incidents, energy usage and water 
consumption. 
Cautionary statement
The purpose of this report is to provide information to the 
members of the Company. It contains certain forward-looking 
statements with respect to the operations, performance  
and financial condition of the Group. By their nature, these 
statements involve uncertainty since future events and 
circumstances can cause results and developments to  
differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking 
statements reflect knowledge and information available at the 
date of preparation of this report and the Company undertakes 
no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. 
Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Company’s 
auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on 
Thursday 12 May 2011 at Manor of Groves Hotel, High Wych, 
Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire CM21 0JU.
By order of the Board
R Atkinson 
Secretary
9 March 2011 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 26
Corporate governance
This compliance statement is produced in relation to the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (‘the Code’) which 
was published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council.
Statement of compliance 
The Company considers that it has complied throughout the 
financial year ended 31 December 2010 with the provisions  
set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Application of the Code 
The main principles of Section 1 of the Code were applied  
as follows:
The Board
Operation of the Board
The activities of the Company are controlled by the Board 
which, during 2010, comprised two executive directors  
and six non-executive directors until 28 June 2010 when  
Mr G R Menzies resigned and the number of non-executive 
directors was reduced to five. The roles of Chairman and  
Chief Executive are clearly divided between Mr P S Wood who 
heads the Board in his capacity as non-executive Chairman  
and Mr A M Whitfield who has responsibility for the running of 
the Company’s business as Chief Executive. The non-executive 
directors all have wide business and boardroom experience 
gained in a broad range of business sectors.
The Board has reserved to itself a schedule of matters which 
includes setting long-term objectives for the Group and the 
strategies to be employed in achieving them, setting policies  
in the areas of safety, health and the environment, recruitment 
and employment, risk management and treasury and, subject 
to materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising of capital, 
financial commitments, capital expenditure, acquisitions  
and disposals and the prosecution, defence and settlement  
of litigation.
During 2010 the Board held six scheduled meetings to review 
current and projected performance and to determine strategic 
issues and 9 meetings in connection with the acquisition of 
PolymerLatex and the associated rights issue. The directors 
receive in advance full information on all matters to be 
discussed at Board meetings as well as a detailed review of 
performance prepared by the Chief Executive. The Board has 
established Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees 
which are discussed below.
In addition arrangements are made each year for the Board to 
visit up to two of the Group’s operational sites and meet local 
management. Ad hoc site visits are facilitated for individual 
non-executive directors on request.
The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive responsibility 
for the development and preparation of the business plan for 
the Group and the annual Group budget for recommendation  
to the Board. As the senior executive director, the Chief 
Executive is responsible for all aspects of day-to-day 
operational control of the Group and execution of the Group 
strategy. The Chief Executive has established and chairs an 
Executive Committee (whose other members are the divisional 
Chief Executives, the Finance Director, the Deputy Finance 
Director, the Company Secretary and the Director of Group 
Human Resources) to assist him in the performance of his 
duties and which meets once a month. The Chairman receives 
the minutes of the Executive Committee and all directors 
receive a monthly trading summary and commentary from the 
Finance Director and an update report from the Chief Executive.
Board membership and balance
The Chairman, Chief Executive and senior independent director 
are identified on page 22. The Chairmen and members of the 
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are identified 
below. The Board considers Dr A A Dobbie and Mr J K Maiden 
to be independent in accordance with the provisions of the 
Code. Mr G R Menzies was considered to be independent  
up until his resignation.
During 2010 the Company was in compliance with the 
requirements of Code provision A.3.2 for ‘smaller’ companies  
to have at least two independent non-executive directors. 
Following the re-entry of the Company into the FTSE 250 index  
on 14 September 2010 the Board is seeking two additional 
independent non-executive directors in order to achieve a 
balance of at least half the Board (excluding the Chairman) 
comprising independent non-executive directors.
The Board held a total of 15 meetings in 2010. In addition the 
Chairman held one separate meeting with the non-executive 
directors without the executive directors being present to 
appraise the performance of the executive management.  
The non-executive directors also met once without the 
Chairman to appraise his performance.
The table below shows the number of meetings of the Board, 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees held during 
the year and the number of meetings attended by each director. 
Where a director is unable to attend a Board or Committee 
meeting his views on agenda items are canvassed in advance 
of the meeting and incorporated into the discussions.
 
Number of 
meetings held Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
15 3 4 3
Number of 
meetings attended
D C Blackwood 15/15 N/A N/A N/A
A G Catto 15/15 N/A N/A N/A
A A Dobbie 15/15 3/3 4/4 3/3
Lee Hau Hian 15/15 N/A N/A N/A
J K Maiden 15/15 3/3 4/4 3/3
G R Menzies
1
5/5 1/1 2/3 0/0
A M Whitfield 15/15 N/A N/A 3/3
P S Wood 15/15 N/A N/A 3/3
1. Resigned on 28 June 2010. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 27
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Induction and training
Induction arrangements are in place in order to ensure  
new directors receive a full formal and tailored induction on 
appointment. The skills and knowledge of Board members  
are updated by briefings provided by the Company’s internal 
resources and materials and seminars offered by external 
advisers.
Performance evaluation
Performance evaluations of the Board, its committees and  
its directors were carried out in the last year by the following 
internal processes:
•	 an assessment of the performance of individual non-
executive directors is carried out by the Chairman through  
a rolling programme of one-to-one discussions using 
performance evaluation questions as the centrepiece for 
those discussions. Every non-executive director is assessed 
in this way once a year;
•	 the performance of the executive directors was reviewed  
in August 2010 at a meeting of the non-executive directors 
chaired by the Chairman;
•	 a meeting of the non-executive directors (in the absence of 
the Chairman) chaired by the senior independent director 
was held in November 2010 to evaluate the performance of 
the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive 
directors; and
•	 the Board and its Committees carry out an annual self-
assessment of performance led by the Chairman and the 
Chairman of each committee respectively. The results of 
assessment questionnaires completed by those Chairmen 
were reviewed by the relevant committees and the Board  
and were shared with and discussed by the Board as a  
whole at its meeting in November 2010.
Non-executive directors are appointed for three-year terms. 
Those non-executive directors who have served longer than 
nine years on the Board are subject to annual re-election by 
shareholders with other directors subject to re-election at  
least every three years.
Shareholder communications
Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular 
basis by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director and 
meetings take place following the announcement of interim and 
full year results and at other times according to circumstances.
The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication 
principles in order to ensure that Board members develop  
an understanding of the views of the Group’s major 
shareholders. These principles require the Chairman to be 
present with the Chief Executive and the Finance Director at 
sufficient shareholder presentations and meetings that he fully 
understands the issues and concerns of major shareholders. 
The Chief Executive reports on shareholder relations at each 
Board meeting. Communications with shareholders relating to 
corporate governance matters are conducted by the Chairman 
with the assistance of the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees. Written reports on all meetings 
between non-executive directors and institutional shareholders 
and their representative bodies are presented to the Board at 
the first opportunity following such meetings as is all 
correspondence with them.
The Board seeks to encourage participation of all shareholders, 
and in particular private investors, at the Company’s  
Annual General Meeting and endeavours to ensure all Board 
members are in attendance. In particular, the Chairmen of the 
Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are available 
to answer questions.
The Company makes use of its website www.yulecatto.com  
to communicate with its shareholders where it publishes interim 
and full year results, Company announcements, share price  
and corporate governance and other investor information.
Board committees
The Board has formally established Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees each with their own terms of 
reference which set out their respective roles and the authority 
delegated to them by the Board. Copies of the terms of reference 
are available upon request from the Company Secretary and can 
also be downloaded from the Company’s website.
Audit Committee
During 2010 the Audit Committee comprised Mr J K Maiden 
(Chairman), Dr A A Dobbie and Mr G R Menzies until 28 June 
2010 when Mr Menzies resigned from the Board following 
which the Committee comprised Mr Maiden and Dr Dobbie.  
Mr Maiden is considered by the Board to have ‘recent and 
relevant financial experience’ for the purposes of Provision  
C.3.1 of the Code due to his current financial position outside 
the Group. The Committee has established a detailed remit 
regarding the application of financial reporting and internal 
control principles, which covers:
•	 monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Group and any formal announcements relating to the  
Group’s financial performance and reviewing significant 
financial reporting judgements contained therein;
•	 reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls and the 
Group’s internal control and risk management systems.
The Finance Director and senior members of his department 
attend meetings of the Committee as part of the review of the 
Group’s interim and final statements prior to their submission  
to the Board. The Committee meets periodically with the 
Company’s auditors to discuss the adequacy of the Group’s 
financial management, internal controls and information 
systems. The Committee’s remit also includes the review  
of the terms of engagement, effectiveness, independence  
and objectivity of the auditors (including the extent of non-audit 
services and fees payable to the auditors) which is carried  
out and discussed with the auditors on a periodic basis. With 
regard to seeking to ensure the independence and objectivity  
of the auditors, the Audit Committee’s policy is to avoid the 
auditors providing services in areas which may create or be 
perceived to create a conflict of interest. Accordingly, other than 
in circumstances where time constraints render it impractical or 
assignments are of a minor nature, the auditors are not invited 
to tender or propose for services of the following nature: 
corporate finance, legal, information technology and systems, 
recruitment or remuneration, accounting, internal audit or 
control, acquisition due diligence, valuations or appraisals, 
actuarial or general business consulting. In addition the auditors 
have been requested not to provide services to executive 
directors or senior executives. Non-executive directors are 
required to disclose any relationship they have with the auditors. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 28
Corporate governance continued
The Group does not have an internal audit function.  
The Committee has reviewed this during the year and has 
concluded that there are in place appropriate procedures  
for assuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Group’s 
governance, risk management and control processes.  
The Board has accepted this recommendation.
The current auditors were first appointed in 2002 and their 
appointment was reviewed by the Committee in 2009. Details of 
audit and non-audit fees paid to them in 2010 are set out in note 
6 on page 49. Non-audit fees principally relate to miscellaneous 
services rendered in connection with the pending acquisition of 
PolymerLatex which were not considered to give rise to any 
conflict of interest. The Board accepts the Committee’s 
recommendation that the current auditors be proposed for 
reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
The Committee met formally 3 times during 2010 principally 
to discharge its duties in connection with the 2009 report  
and financial statements, the 2010 interim financial statements 
and the scope and planning of the audit of the 2010 report  
and financial statements. In addition the Chairman of the 
Committee had regular dialogue with the auditors during  
the course of the year. As well as complying with the terms  
of its remit during the year the Committee carried out a review 
of its content.
Nomination Committee
During 2010 the Nomination Committee comprised  
Mr P S Wood (Chairman), Dr A A Dobbie, Mr J K Maiden,  
Mr G R Menzies and Mr A M Whitfield. On 28 June 2010  
Mr Menzies resigned from the Committee and the Board.  
The Committee is responsible for: the regular review of the 
structure, size and composition of the Board and the making  
of recommendations with regard to any changes; leading the 
process for Board appointments and nominating candidates for 
non-executive positions; and considering succession planning. 
The Committee is leading the process seeking two additional 
independent non-executive directors referred to above.  
The Nomination Committee held 3 meetings during 2010.
Remuneration Committee
All matters relating to the Remuneration Committee and 
remuneration are covered in the Remuneration Report, set 
out on pages 30 to 33.
Accountability
An explanation of the directors’ responsibility for preparing the 
financial statements, their report that the business is a going 
concern, a responsibility statement and their statement as to 
disclosure of information to the auditors are set out on pages  
34 and 24 respectively. Statements by the auditors about their 
reporting responsibilities are set out on pages 35 and 73 
respectively. A report on the approach to internal control is  
set out below. The directors endeavour to make the annual 
report and financial statements as informative and 
understandable as possible.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the 
Group’s system of internal control and sets appropriate  
policies to ensure that the Code requirements on internal 
control are met.
The system of internal control deployed within the Group  
is designed to reduce the risks of failure to meet business 
objectives, but these risks cannot be eliminated. The internal 
control system adopted can therefore only provide reasonable, 
not absolute, assurance about meeting such business 
objectives or against material mis-statement or loss.
A process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant 
business risks faced by the Group has been in place since 
2000. This has since been built upon so as to embed further 
the process into the businesses and to enhance the usefulness 
of the relevant processes and information, and has been 
operated throughout 2010 and up to the date of approval  
of the annual report and accounts, and accords with the 
Turnbull Guidance.
The system is applied at all material subsidiaries, and a  
‘bottom up’ risk profile is created by evaluating the information 
at business, divisional and Group level. Individual directors 
within Yule Catto’s businesses identify and assess key risks 
associated within their area of responsibility based on formal 
management information and interaction with colleagues, 
customers, suppliers and other parties.
The individual submissions are consolidated, reviewed and 
agreed at a board meeting of the subsidiary. A business risk 
report is prepared that is closely linked to business strategy  
and takes account of key internal and external factors. Risks  
are prioritised using a common risk matrix, which forms the 
basis of a single corporate risk report that is reviewed and 
discussed by the Yule Catto Audit Committee.
The individual business risk reports are formally reviewed at 
a board meeting of the subsidiary every six months, out of 
which a revised report is submitted which identifies changes  
in the risk environment.
The process was last reviewed by the Yule Catto Board of 
Directors in March 2010.
The nature of the risks identified as a result of this process 
during the year primarily relate to matters of an operational  
and financial nature and the most significant of those which 
faced the Group in 2010 are reviewed in the reports of the 
Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the 
Directors’ Report.
Risks associated with safety, health and the environment are,  
by the nature of the Group’s business, always of the utmost 
concern and the Corporate Social Responsibility report on 
pages 14 to 21 reviews the Group’s performance in this 
connection in 2010. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 29
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
The processes which are used by the Board either directly  
or, where appropriate, through the Audit Committee to review 
the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management 
systems (including in relation to the financial reporting process 
and the process for preparing consolidated accounts) include 
the following:
•	 a review of the external audit work plan;
•	 consideration of reports from management and external 
parties, including the auditors, on the system of internal 
financial control and any material control weaknesses;
•	 a quarterly review of safety, health and environmental 
performance;
•	 discussion with management of the actions taken on any 
possible problem areas for the business identified by Board 
members or in the audit report; and
•	 consideration of a consolidated risk management report 
setting out the main conclusions from the internal control 
process.
In addition, the Board:
•	 receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee 
meetings;
•	 considers the role of the Group insurance programme;
•	 receives regular written and oral reports from management 
on all aspects of production, operations, financial and risk 
management matters; and
•	 in compliance with Provision C.2.1 of the Combined Code  
the Board regularly reviews and approves the effectiveness  
of the Group’s system of internal controls.
Environmental, social and governance matters
In January 2007 the Association of British Insurers (‘ABI’) 
published a revised version of its guidelines on responsible 
investment disclosure. These guidelines require statements  
on the extent to which environmental, social and governance 
matters are taken into account by the Board and identified, 
assessed, managed and monitored, particularly in relation  
to the risks and opportunities they present to the value of  
the Company.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
Environmental matters
The maintenance of high standards of environmental  
(together with health and safety) protection is central to the 
Company’s business. A separate statement on safety, health 
and environmental (‘SHE’) matters has been a feature of the 
annual report for a number of years. The Corporate Social 
Responsibility report statement on pages 14 to 21 incorporates 
the ABI guidelines and includes a report on the initiatives the 
Company has adopted regarding sustainable development.
Social and ethical matters
The Board takes account of social and ethical matters as part 
of its review of internal control which, by virtue of its approach  
to risk identification, covers areas which encompass social and 
ethical matters.
The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities 
in which the Group’s businesses operate and is supportive of 
local initiatives by management.
The Board is also aware of the reputational risk associated  
with social and ethical issues and has a Group-wide code of 
business conduct on corruption and anti-competitive activities, 
which is available on the Company’s website and upon request 
from the Company Secretary. The purpose of this code is to 
ensure that the Group’s employees have a clear understanding 
of the principles that are important in these areas when 
conducting the Group’s business. The application of the  
code is explained to senior management at regular intervals  
and they are charged with its communication throughout  
their businesses supported by internal and external training.  
A compliance procedure was initiated in 2007 involving annual 
certification by the senior management of each operating 
company and since 2009 a procedure for maintaining a register 
of, and where appropriate gaining prior approval for, gifts, 
entertainment and corporate hospitality has been instituted.  
A report is made to the Audit Committee annually on the code 
and the Company’s whistleblowing procedure.
Governance
The Board’s approach to governance, training of directors  
and identification and assessment of risk is set out above. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 30
Directors’ remuneration report
The following report complies with the relevant provisions of the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008 and satisfies the requirements 
of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and  
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which was 
published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council.  
All figures relating to shares (including shareholdings and share 
options) have been re-stated to take account of the effect of  
the rights issue announced on 13 December 2010.
Remuneration Committee 
During 2010 the Remuneration Committee comprised  
Dr A A Dobbie (Chairman), Mr J K Maiden and Mr G R Menzies 
until 28 June 2010 when Mr Menzies resigned from the Board 
following which the Committee comprised Dr Dobbie and  
Mr Maiden. 
The Committee is responsible for determining the Company’s 
policy on executive remuneration and the specific remuneration 
for the Chairman and each of the executive directors, including 
pension rights. The Committee is also responsible for reviewing 
the remuneration of senior executives throughout the Group. 
The Committee was assisted in its deliberations on executive 
directors’ remuneration by the Chief Executive and took advice 
from and used the services of Hewitt New Bridge Street (HNBS 
– a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited) and Grant Thornton UK 
LLP (Grant Thornton). Hewitt Associates became part of Aon 
Group in 2010 and Aon Limited provide insurance broking 
services to the Group. Grant Thornton provides corporate tax 
advice to the Company. The Board as a whole determines the 
remuneration of the non-executive directors, including members 
of the Remuneration Committee. 
 
The Remuneration Committee met 4 times during 2010.
Remuneration policy
Non-executive directors’ remuneration
It is the Board’s policy to review fees paid to non-executive 
directors periodically. A review of non-executive director 
remuneration was last carried out in December 2006  
with the assistance of advice provided by Monks, part of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . With effect from 1 January 2007 
non-executive director fees are as follows: £30,000 pa for those 
who do not sit on a committee; £33,000 pa for those who do 
sit on a committee; £36,000 pa for those who are Committee 
chairmen. The fees payable to the Chairman of the Board are 
£110,000 pa.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive awards under 
any of the Company’s share schemes or other employee benefit 
schemes nor does the Company make any contribution to their 
pension arrangements.
Executive directors’ remuneration
The Company’s policy for 2010 was and continues to be  
to structure executive pay in such a way that key executives 
may be recruited, motivated and retained through being  
offered remuneration packages that are competitive. The major 
element of the remuneration package of senior executives is  
a competitive basic salary which is reviewed with effect from  
1 January each year. For this purpose, the Committee uses 
industry and sector data and surveys, as appropriate, to help 
inform its decisions and to provide a reference point for the 
purposes of recommending basic salaries commensurate with 
operational performance and attainment of strategic objectives. 
Whilst not adopting set formulae the Committee is also sensitive 
to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the  
Group when considering annual salary increases and total 
remuneration. In awarding the executive directors a 3% increase 
in basic salary with effect from 1 January 2010 the Committee 
took into account the level of increases made to employees  
of the Group in the UK which were in line with this figure.  
The increase in basic salary with effect from 1 January 2011 
noted below under ‘Remuneration details’ were awarded by  
the Committee following consideration of the additional duties 
and responsibilities that will be required of the executive 
directors in connection with the acquisition of PolymerLatex and 
the increased scale and market capitalisation of the Group. The 
Committee also has the discretion to consider the Company’s 
performance on environmental, social and governance matters 
when setting the remuneration of the executive directors.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has overseen  
the introduction of incentives, which are designed to reward  
the achievement of predetermined targets by the individuals 
concerned. These incentives, which were designed in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule A to the Code, 
currently comprise an annual cash incentive plan and 
membership of an approved longer term incentive plan (the 
‘Performance Plan’). The Committee does not consider that  
the incentive structure for senior executives gives rise to 
environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour.
•	 Annual incentive arrangements
For 2010 the Company operated an incentive plan (the 
growth securities ownership plan (GSOP)) for the executive 
directors and senior group employees related to growth in 
profit before tax. As a result of the growth achieved in 2010 
maximum payments will be made to the executive directors 
and other participants under the GSOP . The maximum net 
amount payable to executive directors in 2010 under the 
GSOP was 60% and 80% of basic pay for the Finance 
Director and the Chief Executive respectively. 
For senior operational management the 2010 annual cash 
bonus payments were based on appropriate combinations  
of profit, cash flow, working capital and safety and 
environmental targets. In 2010 the bonuses were subject to 
limits of between 50 to 60% of basic pay, depending on levels 
of seniority. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 31
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
•	 Share plan
The Performance Plan was introduced in 2002 following 
shareholder approval at that year’s Annual General Meeting 
and covers the executive directors, senior group employees 
and senior operational management. An award consists of a 
right to acquire shares which can be exercised for a nominal 
price, subject to the Company satisfying performance 
conditions. The value of shares awarded under the 
Performance Plan in any financial year to any individual 
currently may not exceed 100% of their annual basic salary. 
Following review by the Remuneration Committee and 
shareholder approval awards made since 2006 have been 
subject to performance conditions related to relative and 
absolute growth in total shareholder return in order to better 
align the interests of the participants in the Performance Plan 
with shareholders. Details of performance conditions are set 
out at page 33. An award made prior to 2011 which vests in 
accordance with the performance conditions will only be 
exercisable and allocated shares may only be transferred as 
to one-half after the third anniversary of the date the award is 
made and as to the remaining half after the fourth anniversary 
of the date the award is made. An award made from 2011 
onwards which vests will be exercisable and allocated shares 
will be transferred in full after the third anniversary of the  
date the award is made. In order to further align the interests 
of the executive directors and shareholders there are share 
ownership requirements in connection with the Performance 
Plan requiring the retention of 30% of the shares acquired by 
executive directors until such time as ordinary shares in the 
Company have been built up to a level equivalent in value  
to their annual basic salary. 
During 2010 1,132,667 shares were awarded under the 
Performance Plan. 
The shares comprised in the awards granted in 2008 have 
vested in full as the performance conditions have been met. 
•	 Pension arrangements 
During 2010 Mr A M Whitfield and Mr D C Blackwood 
became eligible to participate in the Group personal pension 
plan and receive payments from the Company which they 
may use either in conjunction with that plan and/or to enable 
them to make their own arrangements. There are no 
unfunded pension promises or similar arrangements for 
directors. 
•	 Remuneration details
The amount and components of the directors’ remuneration 
are set out below. At the 2010 salary review basic salaries  
for the executive directors were increased with effect from  
1 January 2011 to £430,000 (13.2% increase) and £270,000 
(10% increase) for the Chief Executive and Finance Director 
respectively. No elements of remuneration other than basic 
salary are pensionable. 
•	 Service contracts
No director other than Mr A M Whitfield and  
Mr D C Blackwood has a service contract. Mr Whitfield’s 
contract is dated 22 November 2005, has no unexpired term,  
provides for a notice period of one year and makes no 
provision for pre-determined compensation on termination. 
Mr Blackwood’s contract is dated 12 September 2007 , has 
no unexpired term, provides for a notice period of one year 
and makes no provision for pre-determined compensation  
on termination. 
The Remuneration Committee’s policy on contracts and 
notice periods for executive directors is to seek to comply 
with best practices in corporate governance. 
All non-executive directors are appointed in writing. The first 
year of each director’s appointment is shown in the directors’ 
biographies on page 22. The periods of appointment and the 
requirements for re-election of non-executive directors are 
provided within the Performance Evaluation section of the 
Corporate Governance report on page 27.
•	 Non-executive directorships held by the executive directors
Mr Whitfield is a non-executive director of the Chemical 
Industries Association Limited for which he does not receive 
any remuneration. Mr Blackwood is a member of the Board 
for Actuarial Standards for which he receives and retains 
£10,000 pa respectively.
•	 Total shareholder return over five years
The following graph compares the share price performance 
of the Company (by reference to total shareholder return) with 
that of the FTSE 250 which is considered to be the most 
appropriate index against which to make a comparison.
AGM approval
The directors’ Remuneration Report has been submitted to the 
2011 Annual General Meeting for approval.
Yule Catto Shareholder Return versus FTSE 250 Total Return 
(Cumulative) Years Ended 31 December
0
50
100
150
200
250
10 09 08 07 06 05
 Yule Catto
 FTSE 250 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 32
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Audited information
Directors’ remuneration
Emoluments
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration and other benefits were:
Emoluments 1,381 1,366
The emoluments of the individual executive directors holding office during the year were:
 Base
salary
2010
£
Annual
incentive
arrangement
2010
£
Benefits
2010
£
Total
2010
£
Total
2009
£
A M Whitfield – Highest paid director 380,000 304,000 27,374 711,374 693,071 
D C Blackwood 245,500 147,300 17,356 410,156 399,860 
The annual incentive arrangement is discussed in more detail on page 30 of the Remuneration report.  
Pension arrangements
To fund their pension arrangements Mr A M Whitfield and Mr D C Blackwood received the following payments: 
2010
£
2009
£
A M Whitfield 95,000 92,500 
D C Blackwood 49,100 47,900 
Directors’ fees
The fees of the individual non-executive directors holding office during the year were: 
2010
£
2009
£
P S Wood – Chairman 110,000 103,833
The Hon. A G Catto 30,000 30,000
Dr A A Dobbie 36,000 35,500
Dato’ Lee Hau Hian 30,000 30,000
J K Maiden 36,000 36,000
G R Menzies 18,000 30,000
260,000 265,333 
The non-executive directors receive no other remuneration in addition to their fee. 
Shareholdings
Given below are details of the interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company at 31 December 2010  
and 31 December 2009:
 Ordinary shares Options
2010
 (re-stated)
2009
 (re-stated)
2009
(prior to
re-statement) 2010 2009
D C Blackwood 40,833 40,833 17,500 1,345,442 1,126,328
The Hon. A G Catto 2,046,955 3,073,377 1,315,604 – –
7,741,950* 12,177,020* 5,197,093* – –
Dr A A Dobbie 114,853 114,853 49,223 – –
Dato’ Lee Hau Hian 24,763 24,763 10,613 – –
J K Maiden nil nil nil – –
A M Whitfield 14,000 14,000 6,000 2,078,889 1,949,086
P S Wood 51,914 51,914 22,249 – –
* Non-beneficial interest.
On 4 January 2011 Mr J K Maiden purchased 2,523 shares. All directors holding shares on 13 December 2010, other than the 
Hon A G Catto, took up their full rights under the terms of the rights issue announced on that date.
Between 31 December 2010 and 19 February 2011 there were no other changes in the directors’ holdings. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 33
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Executive options
At 
01/01/10
 Number of options during the year
At
31/12/10
Exercise 
price
Notional 
value
 £
Exercise
 period Granted Lapsed Exercised
A M Whitfield 209,356 – 209,356 – – – – –
346,738 (i) – – – 346,738 – 696,943 2011-2018
1,392,992(ii) – – – 1,392,992 – 2,799,914 2012-2019
– 339,159(iii) – – 339,159 – 681,710 2013-2020
1,949,086 339,159 209,356 – 2,078,889 – 4,178,567
 
At 
01/01/10
 Number of options during the year
At
31/12/10
Exercise 
price
Notional 
value
 £
Exercise
 period Granted Lapsed Exercised
D C Blackwood 224,647(i) – – – 224,647 – 451,540 2011-2018
901,681(ii) – – – 901,681 – 1,812,379 2012-2019
– 219,114(iii) – – 219,114 – 440,419 2013-2020
1,126,328 219,114 – – 1,345,442 – 2,704,338
(i) The awards made in 2008 to Mr A M Whitfield and Mr D C Blackwood were subject to the following performance conditions: 
  (a) Absolute total shareholder return condition. Vesting in respect of 50% of the shares comprised in the award upon the 
Company’s total shareholder return (‘TSR’) over a three year period ended on 31 December 2010 increasing by the rise  
in RPI plus 15.76% or more compared with the Company’s TSR at the start of the three year performance period; vesting  
in respect of 25% of the shares comprised in the award upon the Company’s TSR increasing by the rise in RPI plus 9.27%  
over the three year performance period; and vesting in respect of between 25% to 50% of the shares for performance  
between these points on a straight line basis with lesser performance resulting in no part of the 50% of the shares vesting.
  (b) Relative total shareholder return condition. Vesting in respect of 50% of the shares comprised in the award upon the growth 
in the Company’s TSR over the three year performance period exceeding the growth of the FTSE 250 total return index  
over the same three year period by 7.69% or more; vesting in respect of 5% of the shares comprised in the award upon  
the growth in the Company’s TSR over the three year performance period being equal to the growth of the FTSE total return 
index over the same period; and vesting in respect of between 5% to 50% of the shares for performance between these points 
on a straight line basis with lesser performance resulting in no part of the 50% of the shares vesting.  
 
The 2008 awards have vested in full due to the maximum performance criteria being exceeded. 
(ii)  For the awards made in 2009 the same performance conditions apply as for the awards made in 2008 measured over a three 
year period ending on 31 December 2011.
(iii)  For the awards made in 2010 the same performance conditions apply as for the awards made in 2008 measured over a three 
year period ending on 31 December 2012.
The notional value of unexercised share options is based on the mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2010 of 201 pence. 
During the year the market price (as re-stated for the effect of the rights issue announced on 13 December 2010) ranged between 
103.65 pence and 202.79 pence.
By order of the Board
R Atkinson 
Secretary
9 March 2011 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 34
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
Financial statements, including adoption  
of going concern basis
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors 
are required to prepare the group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4  
of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent 
company financial statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under 
company law the directors must not approve the accounts 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view  
of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss  
of the company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements,  
the directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•	 make judgments and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
•	 state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements; and
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
•	 properly select and apply accounting policies;
•	 present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
•	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
•	 make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue  
as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the company and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Other matters
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•	 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
•	 the management report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the company and the undertakings included  
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that  
they face.
By order of the Board 
A M Whitfield D C Blackwood
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
9 March 2011 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 35
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of Yule Catto & Co plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of  
Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the 
related notes 1 to 37. The financial reporting framework that  
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as  
adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for  
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit  
and express an opinion on the group financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards  
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or  
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and  
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for 
the financial year for which the Group financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	 the directors’ statement, contained within Directors’ Report, 
in relation to going concern; 
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating  
to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended  
31 December 2010 and on the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
Stuart Henderson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Cambridge, United Kingdom
9 March 2011 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 36
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2010
 2010 2009
Note
Underlying 
performance
£’000
Special
items
£’000
IFRS
£’000
Underlying
performance
£’000
Special
items
£’000
IFRS
£’000
Continuing operations
Group revenue 4,5 626,765 5,689 632,454 516,712 11,236 527,948
Share of joint ventures’ revenue 4,5 19,026 – 19,026 15,450 – 15,450
Total sales 645,791 5,689 651,480 532,162 11,236 543,398 
Group revenue 626,765 5,689 632,454 516,712 11,236 527,948 
Company and subsidiaries before 
 special items 51,951 – 51,951 48,174 – 48,174
Impairment of goodwill 3 – – – – (30,000) (30,000)
Acquisition costs 3 – (4,182) (4,182) – – – 
Operations sold or closed  
 during the year 4 – 12,303 12,303 – 1,990 1,990
Company and subsidiaries 51,951 8,121 60,072 48,174 (28,010) 20,164 
Share of joint ventures 4,5 2,934 – 2,934 1,242 – 1,242 
Operating profit/(loss) 5 54,885 8,121 63,006 49,416 (28,010) 21,406
Interest payable 8 (8,266) – (8,266) (10,308) – (10,308)
Interest receivable 8 426 – 426 439 – 439 
(7,840) – (7,840) (9,869) – (9,869)
Fair value adjustment 3,8 – 2,645 2,645 – (4,401) (4,401)
Finance costs (7,840) 2,645 (5,195) (9,869) (4,401) (14,270)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 47,045 10,766 57,811 39,547 (32,411) 7,136
Taxation 9 (9,095) 6,558 (2,537) (7,981) 9,065 1,084 
Profit/(loss) for the year from  
 continuing operations 37,950 17,324 55,274 31,566 (23,346) 8,220 
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from  
 discontinued operations 3 – – – – 3,668 3,668
Profit/(loss) for the year 37,950 17,324 55,274 31,566 (19,678) 11,888
Profit attributable to  
 minority interests 26 1,300 4,236 5,536 1,572 630 2,202
Profit/(loss) attributable to  
 equity holders of the parent 26 36,650 13,088 49,738 29,994 (20,308) 9,686
37,950 17,324 55,274 31,566 (19,678) 11,888
Earnings per share*
From continuing operations
– Basic 12 16.2p 5.8p 22.0p 13.3p (10.7)p 2.6p 
– Diluted 12 15.7p 5.7p 21.4p 12.9p (10.3)p 2.6p
From continuing and discontinued operations
– Basic 12 16.2p 5.8p 22.0p 13.3p (9.1)p 4.2p
– Diluted 12 15.7p 5.7p 21.4p 12.9p (8.7)p 4.2p
Special items 
The special items are shown in more detail in note 3. 
* As restated for rights issue – see note 12. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 37
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2010
 2010 2009
Minority
interests
£’000
Equity 
holders 
of the parent
£’000
Total
£’000
Minority
interests
£’000
Equity
holders of
the parent
£’000
Total
£’000
Profit for the year 5,536 49,738 55,274 2,202 9,686 11,888 
Actuarial gains and losses – 76 76 – (12,619) (12,619)
Gains/(losses) on a hedge of a net  
 investment taken to equity – 1,732 1,732 – (253) (253)
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges  
 arising during the period – 4,495 4,495 – (678) (678)
Exchange differences on translation  
 of foreign operations 649 6,030 6,679 (825) (6,933) (7,758)
Tax relating to components of other 
 comprehensive income – 300 300 – 306 306 
Other comprehensive income for the period 649 12,633 13,282 (825) (20,177) (21,002)
Total comprehensive income for the period 6,185 62,371 68,556 1,377 (10,491) (9,114)
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Own 
shares
£’000
Hedging and
translation
reserve
£’000
Cash flow
hedging
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Minority
interest
£’000
Total
Equity
£’000
At 1 January 2010 14,566 33,034 949 – (934) – 19 47,634 6,903 54,537
Profit for the year – – – – – – 49,738 49,738 5,536 55,274
Other comprehensive 
  income for the period – – – – 7,762 4,495 376 12,633 649 13,282
Total comprehensive 
  income for the period – – – – 7,762 4,495 50,114 62,371 6,185 68,556
Dividends paid – – – – – – (2,913) (2,913) (6,585) (9,498)
Investment by 
  minority interest – – – – – – – – 130 130
Divestment by 
  minority interest – – – – – – – – (384) (384)
Share-based payments – – – – – – (776) (776) – (776)
At 31 December 2010 14,566 33,034 949 – 6,828 4,495 46,444 106,316 6,249 112,565
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Own 
shares
£’000
Hedging and
translation
reserve
£’000
Cash flow
hedging
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Minority
interest
£’000
Total
Equity
£’000
At 1 January 2009 14,566 33,034 949 – 6,252 678 2,056 57,535 9,157 66,692
Profit for the year – – – – – – 9,686 9,686 2,202 11,888
Other comprehensive  
  income for the period – – – – (7,186) (678) (12,313) (20,177) (825) (21,002)
Total comprehensive  
  income for the period – – – – (7,186) (678) (2,627) (10,491) 1,377 (9,114)
Dividends paid – – – – – – – – (3,631) (3,631)
Shares purchased by  
  ESOP trust 47 – – – 47 – 47
Share-based payments – – – (47) – – 590 543 – 543
At 31 December 2009 14,566 33,034 949 – (934) – 19 47,634 6,903 54,537 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 38
Consolidated balance sheet
31 December 2010
Note
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 124,027 124,027
Other intangible assets 15 363 604
Property, plant and equipment 16 102,568 103,815
Deferred tax assets 10 161 1,139
Investment in joint ventures 17 3,716 3,798
230,835 233,383
Current assets
Inventories 18 65,379 56,145
Trade and other receivables 19 111,285 99,006
Cash and cash equivalents 20 36,211 42,384
Derivatives at fair value 21 22,765 11,763
Total current assets 235,640 209,298
Current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (9,876) (38,924)
Trade and other payables 23 (140,079) (125,609)
Current tax liability 9 (28,763) (34,556)
Total current liabilities (178,718) (199,089)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (102,379) (101,106)
Trade and other payables 23 (144) (216)
Deferred tax liability 10 (6,672) (9,044)
Post retirement benefit obligations 24 (65,997) (78,689)
(175,192) (189,055)
Net assets 112,565 54,537
Equity 
Called up share capital 25 14,566 14,566
Share premium 26 33,034 33,034
Capital redemption reserve 26 949 949
Hedging and translation reserve 26 6,828 (934)
Cash flow hedging reserve 26 4,495 –
Retained earnings 26 46,444 19
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 106,316 47,634
Minority interests 26 6,249 6,903
Total equity 112,565 54,537
Analysis of net borrowings
Cash and cash equivalents 20 36,211 42,384 
Current borrowings 20 (9,876) (38,924)
Non-current borrowings 20 (102,379) (101,106)
Net borrowings (76,044) (97,646)
Deduct: special items 20 12,674 9,608
Net borrowings (underlying performance) (63,370) (88,038)
 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 9 March 2011. They are signed  
on its behalf by: 
 
A M Whitfield 
D C Blackwood 
Directors 
  Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 39
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2010
Note
 2010 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Operating
Cash generated from operations 27 42,228 64,499 
 Interest received 426 439 
 Interest paid (9,630) (10,959)
Net interest paid (9,204) (10,520)
 UK corporation tax paid (39) (139)
 Overseas corporate tax paid (8,693) (6,673)
Total tax paid (8,732) (6,812)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 24,292 47,167 
Investing 
Dividends received from joint ventures 17 2,667 1,899 
 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (10,592) (8,687)
 Sale of property, plant and equipment 43 2,253 
Net capital expenditure and financial investment (10,549) (6,434)
 Purchase of businesses 29 (371) – 
 Sale of businesses 28 16,075 8,760 
Net cash impact of acquisitions and disposals 15,704 8,760 
Net cash inflow from investing activities 7,822 4,225 
Financing
Equity dividends paid 11 (2,913) – 
Dividends paid to minority interests 26 (6,585) (3,631)
Investment by minority shareholder 130 – 
Purchase of own shares 26 – (47)
Repayment of borrowings 30 (35,978) (33,472)
Proceeds of non-current borrowings – 19,740 
Net cash outflow from financing activities (45,346) (17,410)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts during the year (13,232) 33,982 
Comprised of:
Cash and cash equivalents 30 (10,657) 20,157 
Bank overdrafts 30 (2,575) 13,825 
(13,232) 33,982 
Reconciliation of net cash flow from operating activities  
to movement in net borrowings
Net cash inflow from operating activities 24,292 47,167 
Add back: dividends received from joint ventures 17 2,667 1,899 
Less: net capital expenditure and financial investment (10,549) (6,434)
Less: dividends paid to minority interests 26 (6,585) (3,631)
Free cash flow before dividends 9,825 39,001 
Net cash impact of acquisitions and disposals 28,29 15,704 8,760 
Investment by minority shareholder 130 –
Purchase of own shares 26 – (47)
Equity dividends paid 11 (2,913) – 
Exchange movements 1,922 (270)
Movement in net borrowings (underlying performance) 24,668 47,444 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 40
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
31 December 2010
1 General information
Yule Catto & Co plc is a company incorporated in the United 
Kingdom under the Companies Act. The address of the 
registered office is given on page 22. 
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling 
because that is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Group operates. Foreign operations 
are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
In the current year, the following new and revised Standards 
have been adopted. 
•	 IFRS 2 (Amended 2009) – Share based payments
•	 IFRS 3 (Amended 2008) – Business combinations
•	 IAS 27 (Amended 2008) – Consolidated and separate 
financial statements
•	 IAS 28 (Amended 2008) – Investments in associate
•	 IAS 39 (Amended 2008) – Eligible hedged items
•	 IFRIC 17 – Distributions of non-cash assets to owners
•	 The improvements to IFRSs (May 2009)
No amendments to these financial statements have been  
made as a result of adopting these new and revised Standards 
and Interpretations except the expensing of acquisition costs  
as incurred.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements,  
the following Standards and Interpretations which have not 
been applied in these financial statements were in issue but  
not yet effective: 
•	 IFRS 9 – Financial instruments – classification and 
measurement
•	 IAS 24 (Amended 2009) – Related party disclosures
•	 IAS 32 (Amended 2009) – Classification of rights issue
•	 IFRIC 14 (Amended 2009) – Prepayments of a minimum 
funding requirement
•	 IFRIC 19 – Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity 
instruments
All amendments to the standards noted above result from  
the 2010 annual improvement process.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these 
Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have  
a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
2 Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’).  
The financial statements have also been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and 
therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 
of the EU IAS Regulation. The financial statements have been 
prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation 
of certain properties and financial instruments. As discussed in 
the Report of the Directors on page 24, the financial statements 
have been prepared on a going concern basis. The principal 
accounting policies adopted are set out below. 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each  
year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to 
govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity 
so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the 
year are included in the consolidated income statement from 
the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of 
disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are 
made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the 
accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group. 
The results of joint ventures are accounted for using  
equity accounting.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries 
are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. 
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests  
at the date of the original business combination (see below)  
and the minority’s share of changes in equity since the date  
of combination. Subsequently, any losses applicable to the 
minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated 
against the interests of the parent except to the extent that the 
minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an 
additional investment to cover the losses.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 41
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the 
cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly 
controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is recognised 
as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any 
impairment is recognised immediately in the consolidated income 
statement and is not subsequently reversed. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to 
each of the Group’s cash generating units expected to benefit 
from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units  
to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment 
annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the 
unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the 
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount 
of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets 
of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each 
asset in the unit. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled  
entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the 
determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition  
to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts 
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill 
written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not 
been reinstated and is not included in determining any 
subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets
Software development and environmental licensing costs 
resulting in development of a long-term intangible asset are 
measured initially at cost and are amortised on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Software – between 3 and 5 years
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s 
product development is recognised only if all of the following 
conditions in IAS 38 are met:
•	 an asset is created that can be separately identified (such  
as software and new processes);
•	 it is probable that the asset created will generate future 
economic benefits; and
•	 the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
No research or development costs met the criteria for required 
capitalisation under IAS 38 during the year.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be 
recognised, development expenditure is recognised as  
an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of 
depreciation and any provision for impairment. Except for 
freehold land and land grants in Malaysia, which are not 
depreciated, the cost or valuation of property, plant and 
equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its 
expected useful life as follows:
Freehold buildings – 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings  –  the lesser of 50 years and  
the period of the lease
Plant and equipment – between 3 and 10 years
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 
amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the 
extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does  
not generate cash flows that are independent from other 
assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which 
the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) 
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its 
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a 
revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated 
as a revaluation decrease.
When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to  
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the 
increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been 
recognised in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset 
is carried at its revalued amount, in which case the reversal of 
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 42
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Operating leases
Operating lease payments are expensed on a straight-line basis 
to the income statement over the term of the relevant lease. Any 
benefits received as an incentive to enter into an operating lease 
are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, 
direct labour costs and those overheads that have been 
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition. Cost is calculated using the weighted average 
method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling 
price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be 
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Provision is made 
for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to  
the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair  
value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method. Appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss 
where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired. 
Amortised costs
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to  
the profit and loss account using the effective interest method 
and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the 
extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are measured at initial recognition at fair value 
and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce 
exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements. 
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s 
policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide 
written principles on the use of financial derivatives, as set  
out in note 21.
Impairment of financial assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 
amounts of its financial assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.  
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the 
asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the 
impairment loss (if any).
Finance costs
Finance costs of debt are recognised in the income statement 
over the term of such instruments at an effective interest rate on 
the carrying amount. Finance costs that are directly attributable 
to the construction of tangible fixed assets are capitalised as 
part of the cost of those assets in accordance with IAS 23.
Foreign currencies
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, 
transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional 
currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the 
dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary 
assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies 
are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates 
prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical  
cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, 
the Group enters into forward contracts and options (see below 
for details of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such 
derivative financial instruments). 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s 
overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing 
on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are 
translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless 
exchange rates fluctuate significantly. Exchange differences 
arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the 
Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are 
recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which  
the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition  
of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. The Group has 
elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on 
acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs as sterling-
denominated assets and liabilities.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 43
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial 
instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign 
exchange rate risk, including foreign exchange forward 
contracts, interest rate swaps and foreign currency options.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date  
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.  
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial 
asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised 
as a financial liability. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in 
profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and 
effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the 
recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge 
relationship. The Group designates certain derivatives as either 
hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of 
foreign currency risk of firm commitments (cash flow hedges),  
or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedge accounting 
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which 
include derivatives, embedded derivatives and non-derivatives 
in respect of foreign currency risk, as either cash flow hedges, 
or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. 
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity  
documents the relationship between the hedging instrument 
and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives 
and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. 
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing 
basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument 
that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in 
offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of  
derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow  
hedges are deferred in equity. The gain or loss relating to the 
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss, 
and is included in the ‘other gains and losses’ line of the  
income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the 
periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss,  
in the same line of the income statement as the recognised 
hedged item. However, when the forecast transaction that is 
hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a 
non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred  
in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial 
measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or  
non-financial liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes  
the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at 
that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast 
transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When  
a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted 
for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the  
hedge is recognised in equity in the foreign currency translation 
reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss, and is included in  
the ‘other gains and losses’ line of the income statement.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently 
payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding  
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is 
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred 
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and 
associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the 
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow 
all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected  
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset  
is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income 
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt 
with in equity. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 44
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Retirement benefit costs 
The costs of defined benefit contributions to the Group’s 
pension schemes and of augmenting existing pensions are 
charged to the income statement on a systematic basis over 
the expected period of benefits from employees’ service.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes 
are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Actuarial gains on the defined benefit schemes are recognised 
in full in each period in which they occur. They are recognised 
outside of the consolidated income statement and are 
presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
The UK defined benefit scheme is funded, with the assets  
of the scheme held separately from those of the Group, in 
separate trustee-administered funds.  
For the German schemes, the assets are included within the 
assets of the respective companies, as permitted under local 
laws. The assets of the other overseas schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group.
Provisions
Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of  
sale of the relevant products, at the directors’ best estimate  
of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s liability.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the 
Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that  
has been communicated to affected parties.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable and represents amounts receivable  
for goods provided in the normal course of business, net  
of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and 
title has passed, where delivery is defined in accordance with 
Incoterms 2000. 
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based 
Payments. In accordance with the transitional provisions,  
IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 
7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2006.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments  
to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments  
are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value 
determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based 
payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will 
eventually vest.
Definitions
Total sales
Total sales represent the total of revenue from Yule Catto & Co 
plc, its subsidiaries, and its share of the revenue of joint ventures. 
Operating profit
Operating profit represents profit before financing costs and 
taxation. 
EBITDA
EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before depreciation, 
amortisation and special items.
Special items
The following are disclosed separately in order to provide  
a clearer indication of the Group’s underlying performance:
•	 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets;
•	 Impairment of non-current assets;
•	 Costs of business combinations as defined by IFRS 3 and 
related debt issue costs;
•	 Re-structuring and site closure costs;
•	 Fair value adjustment – mark to market adjustments in 
respect of cross currency and interest rate derivatives used 
for hedging purposes where IAS 39 hedge accounting is  
not applied;
•	 Other non-recurring and non-operating items; and
•	 Tax impact of above items.
Underlying performance represents the statutory performance 
of the Group under IFRS, excluding special items.
Net borrowings
Net borrowings represents cash and cash equivalents together 
with short and long-term borrowings, as adjusted for the effect 
of related derivative instruments irrespective of whether they 
qualify for hedge accounting.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 45
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
2 Significant accounting policies continued
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those 
involving estimations (see below), that the Group has made in 
the process of applying the accounting policies and that have 
the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 
financial statements.
Going concern
The assessment that the financial statements should be 
prepared on a going concern basis requires the directors to 
make a judgement that, after taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance, the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence  
for the foreseeable future.
Recognition of deferred tax assets
The Group activities give rise to significant deferred tax assets, 
particularly in respect of the UK pension liability, tax losses  
and accelerated capital allowances. Determination whether 
these assets should be recognised requires a high degree of 
management judgement and is dependent on management’s 
ability to project future earnings from activities that may apply 
loss positions carried forward against future income taxes.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires 
that management make estimates and assumptions that  
affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and 
expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are 
based on historical experience and various other factors that 
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the 
result of which form the basis of making the judgements about 
carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily 
apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are 
reviewed on an ongoing basis taking the current and expected 
future market conditions into consideration.
Impairment/reversal of impairment
The Group has significant investments in property, plant  
and equipment and goodwill. Changes in the circumstances 
or expectations of future performance of an individual asset  
may be an indicator that the asset is impaired requiring the 
book value to be written down to its recoverable amount. 
Impairments are reversed if the conditions for impairment are  
no longer present. Evaluating whether an asset is impaired or  
if an impairment should be reversed requires a high degree of 
judgement and may depend to a large extent on the selection  
of key assumptions about the future.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an 
estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating  
units to which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use 
calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows 
expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable 
discount rate in order to calculate present value. The industry 
growth rates used within the forecast future cash flows are 
developed with reference to external sources but are subject 
to estimation uncertainty. 
Post retirement benefit obligations
Included in the actuaries’ calculation of the post retirement 
benefit obligations are a number of assumptions. These are 
shown in detail in note 24.
Closure of manufacturing sites and site remediation costs
Included in costs to close the manufacturing sites are 
estimates for redundancy, decontamination and dismantling 
costs. These estimates are based on experience gained in 
previous closures but are subject to uncertainty arising from 
the individual sites’ circumstances, historical use and local 
regulations.
Current tax liability and deferred tax
The Group annually incurs significant amounts of income  
taxes payable to various jurisdictions around the world,  
and it also recognises significant changes in deferred tax  
assets and deferred tax liabilities, all of which are based on 
management’s interpretations of applicable laws, regulations 
and relevant court decisions. The quality of these estimates  
is highly dependent upon management’s ability to properly 
apply what can be very complex sets of rules and to recognise 
changes in applicable rules. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 46
3 Special items 
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Continuing operations
Total sales
Revenue of operations sold or closed during the year 5,689 11,236
Operating profit/(loss)
Operating profit of operations sold or closed during the year 890 1,990
Impairment of goodwill (see note 14) – (30,000)
Acquisition costs (see note 29) (4,182) –
Profit arising from the sale or closure of operations (see note 7) 11,413 –
8,121 (28,010)
Finance costs
Fair value adjustment (see note 8) 2,645 (4,401)
Profit/(loss) before taxation from continuing operations 10,766 (32,411)
Taxation (settlement of historical issues) 6,558 9,065
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 17,324 (23,346)
Discontinued operations
Total sales
Revenue of operations sold or closed during the year – 772
Operating profit of discontinued operations
Operating profit of operations sold or closed during the year – 22
Profit arising from the sale or closure of operations (see note 7) – 3,652
– 3,674
Taxation
Taxation on operating profit of operations sold or closed during the year – (6)
Profit for the year from discontinued operations – 3,668 
4 Segmental analysis 
The Group is organised into the 3 divisions described in the Group overview on page 2 of this annual report; that overview also 
provides a summary of the key products from which each segment derives its revenues. The chief operating decision maker of the 
Group is considered to the Executive Committee, which reviews internal reports prepared on a divisional basis in order to allocate 
the resources of the Group and to assess business performance. The 3 divisions, Polymer Chemicals, Pharma Chemicals and 
Impact Chemicals are therefore considered to be the Group’s reportable segments.
No single customer accounts for more than 10% of the Group’s revenues. No information is provided at the divisional level to the 
Executive Committee concerning interest revenues, interest expense, depreciation or amortisation, income taxes, other material 
non-cash items or material items disclosed in accordance with IAS 1.97.
 Total sales Operating profit
2010
Underlying
performance
£’000
Special
 items
£’000
IFRS
£’000
Underlying
performance
£’000
Special
 items
£’000
IFRS
£’000
Analysis by activity
Continuing activity
Polymer Chemicals 532,955 5,689 538,644 53,810 13,161 66,971
Share of Polymer joint ventures 19,026 – 19,026 2,934 – 2,934
551,981 5,689 557,670 56,744 13,161 69,905
Pharma Chemicals 62,933 – 62,933 4,450 (858) 3,592
Impact Chemicals 30,877 – 30,877 3,539 – 3,539
Total sales 645,791 5,689 651,480
Divisional operating profit 64,733 12,303 77,036
Unallocated corporate expenses (9,848) (4,182) (14,030)
Operating profit 54,885 8,121 63,006
 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 47
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
4 Segmental analysis continued
 Total sales Operating profit
2009
Underlying
performance
£’000
Special
 items
£’000
IFRS
£’000
Underlying
performance
£’000
Special
 items
£’000
IFRS
£’000
Analysis by activity
Continuing activity
Polymer Chemicals 427,862 11,236 439,098 50,520 1,990 52,510
Share of Polymer joint ventures 15,450 – 15,450 1,242 – 1,242
443,312 11,236 454,548 51,762 1,990 53,752
Pharma Chemicals 65,296 – 65,296 5,571 (30,000) (24,429)
Impact Chemicals 23,554 – 23,554 1,967 – 1,967
Total sales 532,162 11,236 543,398
Divisional operating profit/(loss) 59,300 (28,010) 31,290
Unallocated corporate expenses (9,884) – (9,884)
Operating profit/(loss) 49,416 (28,010) 21,406
 
Special items 
2010
Pharma
Chemicals
£’000
Polymer
Chemicals
£’000
Unallocated
corporate
expenses
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue of businesses sold or closed during the year – 5,689 – 5,689
Operating profit/(loss) of businesses sold or closed during the year – 890 – 890
Profit arising from the sale or closure of operations (see note 7) (858) 12,271 – 11,413
Acquisition costs – – (4,182) (4,182)
(858) 13,161 (4,182) 8,121
  
2009
Pharma
Chemicals
£’000
Polymer
Chemicals
£’000
Unallocated
 corporate
expenses
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue of businesses sold or closed during the year – 11,236 – 11,236
Operating profit of businesses sold or closed during the year – 1,990 – 1,990
Impairment of goodwill (30,000) – – (30,000)
(30,000) 1,990 – (28,010)
 
2010
Total 
assets
£’000
Total
 liabilities
£’000
Capital
expenditure
£’000
Depreciation
and
amortisation
£’000
Analysis by activity
Continuing activity
Polymer Chemicals 234,306 (155,541) 6,921 9,752
Pharma Chemicals 63,069 (21,261) 2,939 4,337
Impact Chemicals 9,700 (15,980) 718 222
307,075 (192,782) 10,578 14,311
Holding companies (4,554) (48,873) 147 307
302,521 (241,655) 10,725 14,618
Share of Polymer joint ventures (see note 17) 8,442 (4,726)
Goodwill (see note 14) 124,027
Net borrowings (see note 20) (76,044)
434,990 (322,425)
Net assets 112,565 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 48
4 Segmental analysis continued
2009
Total 
assets
£’000
Total
liabilities
£’000
Capital
expenditure
£’000
Depreciation
and
amortisation
£’000
Analysis by activity
Continuing activity
Polymer Chemicals 181,537 (154,221) 3,772 9,720
Pharma Chemicals 64,151 (20,893) 3,219 4,545
Impact Chemicals 8,340 (16,766) 292 76
254,028 (191,880) 7,283 14,341
Holding companies 18,594 (56,231) 33 411
272,622 (248,111) 7,316 14,752
Share of Polymer joint ventures (see note 17) 7,013 (3,368)
Goodwill (see note 14) 124,027
Net borrowings (see note 20) (97,646) 
403,662 (349,125)
Net assets 54,537
Geographical information
 Total sales Segment net assets Capital expenditure
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Analysis by region of operation
United Kingdom 160,082 165,454 (144,247) (164,506) 2,493 1,323
Other Europe 197,121 183,424 134,478 130,578 2,979 2,827
Asia 201,861 154,830 53,367 50,226 2,864 1,373
Rest of World 92,416 39,690 20,984 11,858 2,389 1,793
651,480 543,398 64,582 28,156 10,725 7,316
Goodwill 124,027 124,027
Net borrowings (76,044) (97,646)
Net assets 112,565 54,537
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Analysis of total sales by destination 
United Kingdom 76,663 71,753
Other Europe 221,869 198,053
Asia 220,269 160,123
Africa and Middle East 69,845 63,654
Rest of World 62,834 49,815
651,480 543,398
Inter-segmental sales
In addition to the amounts included above, inter-segmental sales of £264,000 (2009 £231,000) were made as set out below.
These sales were eliminated on consolidation.
2010
Polymer
 Chemicals
£’000
Pharma
 Chemicals
£’000
Impact
 Chemicals
£’000
Total
£’000
Polymer Chemicals – – – –
Pharma Chemicals – – – –
Impact Chemicals – 264 – 264
Total – 264 – 264
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 49
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
4 Segmental analysis continued
2009
Polymer
Chemicals
£’000
Pharma
 Chemicals
£’000
Impact 
Chemicals
£’000
Total
£’000
Polymer Chemicals – – – –
Pharma Chemicals – – – –
Impact Chemicals – 231 – 231 
Total – 231 – 231 
5 Operating profit
Company
and
subsidiaries
2010
£’000
Joint 
ventures
2010
£’000
Total
2010
£’000
Company 
and
subsidiaries
2009
£’000
Joint 
ventures
2009
£’000
Total
2009
£’000
Total sales 632,454 19,026 651,480 527,948 15,450 543,398
Cost of sales (501,381) (13,752) (515,133) (403,052) (12,317) (415,369)
Gross profit 131,073 5,274 136,347 124,896 3,133 128,029
Distribution costs (45,259) (1,280) (46,539) (42,027) (942) (42,969)
Administrative expenses (32,973) (1,060) (34,033) (32,705) (949) (33,654)
Special items 7,231 – 7,231 (30,000) – (30,000)
Operating profit 60,072 2,934 63,006 20,164 1,242 21,406
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Operating profit is stated after charging the following:
Depreciation 14,315 14,345
Amortisation 303 331
Hire of plant and equipment 2,127 2,001
Other lease rentals 3,004 3,047
Research and development expenditure 9,472 9,584
Profit arising from the sale or closure of operations (11,413) –
Impairment of goodwill – 30,000
Acquisition costs 4,182 – 
6 Auditors’ remuneration
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for:
 audit of the Company’s annual accounts 7 7
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for:
 audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 409 409
Total audit fees 416 416
Reporting accountant fees 515 –
Total audit and related service fees 931 416
Tax services 10 36
Services relating to pending acquisition of PolymerLatex 235 –
Other services 26 25
Total non-audit fees 271 61
The other services provided by the Group auditors relate to assistance given in grant applications and sundry projects. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 50
7 Profit/(loss) arising from the sale or closure of an operation
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Continuing operations
Closure of Uquifa’s Italian manufacturing site (858) – 
Sale of Revertex Finewaters Sdn Bhd 12,271 – 
11,413 – 
Discontinued operations
Sale of Oxford Chemicals Ltd – 3,944 
Write back of excess provision of Holiday Encres SA – 371 
Costs associated with prior year disposals – (663)
– 3,652 
11,413 3,652
In each case, assets retained that cannot be sold are written off. To the extent that workers are not redeployed, termination terms 
are agreed.
8 Finance costs
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 5,251 6,789
Interest payable on other loans 3,015 3,519
8,266 10,308
Less: interest receivable (426) (439)
Net interest payable 7,840 9,869
Fair value adjustment (2,645) 4,401
Total finance costs 5,195 14,270
The fair value adjustment is the mark to market adjustment in respect of cross currency and interest rate derivatives used for 
hedging purposes where IAS 39 hedge accounting is not applied.
9 Current taxation
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Continuing operations
Current tax
UK corporation tax 58 (11)
Overseas taxation 9,963 8,377
10,021 8,366
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (926) (385)
9,095 7,981
Special items (see note 3) (6,558) (9,065)
Total tax on profit before taxation 2,537 (1,084)
Discontinued operations
Tax on special items – UK – 6
Tax charge for the year on discontinued operations – 6
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 51
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
9 Current taxation continued
UK corporation tax is calculated at 28% (2009 28%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions 
is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Tax expense
Continuing operations 2,537 (1,084)
Discontinued operations – 6
Total tax expense 2,537 (1,078)
Reconciliation of tax expense to profit before taxation
The differences between the total tax expense shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate  
of UK corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows.
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Profit before taxation – continuing operations 57,811 7,136
Profit before taxation – discontinued operations – 3,674
Profit before taxation 57,811 10,810
Tax on profit before taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2009 28%) 16,187 3,027
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 4,006 727
Tax incentives and items not subject to tax (17,059) (5,718)
Losses not recognised less utilisation of losses not previously recognised (203) 988
Higher/(lower) tax rates on overseas earnings 484 (7)
Other deferred tax asset not recognised less amounts now recognised 88 458
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods (903) (501)
Effect of change of rate on deferred tax (63) (52)
Tax charge for year 2,537 (1,078)
Tax charges to other comprehensive income
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Deferred tax credit on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income (300) (306)
(300) (306)
Current tax liabilities
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Current tax liabilities (28,763) (34,556) Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 52
10 Deferred taxation
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax 
assets to the extent that it is probable that these assets will be recovered. No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted 
earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures. As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected  
to be payable on them in the foreseeable future. 
 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to offset) are shown below. 
Deferred tax liabilities
2010
Accelerated
 tax
 depreciation
£’000
Other
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January (5,568) (3,476) (9,044)
(Charge)/credit to income statement (581) 2,785 2,204 
Exchange adjustment 103 65 168 
At 31 December (6,046) (626) (6,672)
Deferred tax assets
2010
Pensions
£’000
Other
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 91 1,048 1,139 
Charged to income statement (230) (1,048) (1,278)
Credited through retained earnings 300 – 300 
At 31 December 161 – 161 
Deferred tax asset not recognised
Deferred tax assets are not recognised when it is not probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax 
asset could be utilised. The amounts of deferred tax not recognised at the balance sheet dates are as follows:
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
UK pension liability 17,208 19,589 
Tax losses 22,414 8,136 
Accelerated capital allowances 3,737 18,747 
Other timing differences (1,164) 628 
42,195 47,100
11 Ordinary dividends
2010
Pence per
share
2009
Pence per
share
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Interim dividend as originally disclosed 2.0 – 2,913 – 
Restatement (see note 37) (0.7) – 
Restated interim dividend 1.3 – 
Proposed final dividend 1.3 – 4,370 – 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included 
as a liability in these financial statements.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 53
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
12 Earnings per share
 2010 2009
Underlying
 performance
Special
 items IFRS
Underlying
 performance
Special 
items IFRS
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
From Continuing operations
Earnings (Profit attributable to equity holders  
 of the parent) 36,650 13,088 49,738 29,994 (23,976) 6,018 
Number
’000
Number
’000
Number
’000
Number
’000
Number
’000
Number
’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares  
 in issue – basic
As originally calculated 226,268 226,268 226,268 145,660 145,660 145,660 
Restatement (see note 37) 80,608 80,608 80,608 
Restated 226,268 226,268 226,268 
Basic earnings per share
As originally calculated 16.2p 5.8p 22.0p 20.6p (16.5)p 4.1p 
Restatement (see note 37)  (7.3)p 5.8p (1.5)p
Restated 13.3p (10.7)p 2.6p 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares  
 in issue – diluted
As originally calculated 232,786 232,786 232,786 149,382 149,382 149,382 
Restatement (see note 37) 82,668 82,668 82,668 
Restated 232,050 232,050 232,050 
Diluted earnings per share
As originally calculated 15.7p 5.7p 21.4p 20.1p (16.1)p 4.0p 
Restatement (see note 37)  (7.2)p 5.8p (1.4)p
Restated 12.9p (10.3)p 2.6p 
From Continuing and discontinued operations
Earnings (Profit attributable to equity holders  
 of the parent) 36,650 13,088 49,738 29,994 (20,308) 9,686  Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 54
12 Earnings per share continued
 2010 2009
Underlying
performance
Number
’000
Special 
items
Number
’000
IFRS
Number
’000
Underlying
performance
Number
’000
Special 
items
Number
’000
IFRS
Number
’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares  
 in issue – basic
As originally calculated 226,268 226,268 226,268 145,660 145,660 145,660 
Restatement (see note 37) 80,608 80,608 80,608 
Restated 226,268 226,268 226,268 
Basic earnings per share
As originally calculated 16.2p 5.8p 22.0p 20.6p (14.0)p 6.6p 
Restatement (see note 37) (7.3)p 4.9p (2.4)p
Restated 13.3p (9.1)p 4.2p 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 
 in issue – diluted
As originally calculated 232,786 232,786 232,786 149,382 149,382 149,382 
Restatement (see note 37) 82,668 82,668 82,668 
Restated 232,050 232,050 232,050 
Diluted earnings per share
As originally calculated 15.7p 5.7p 21.4p 20.1p (13.6)p 6.5p 
Restatement (see note 37) (7.2)p 4.9p (2.3)p
Restated 12.9p (8.7)p 4.2p
13 Employees
2010
Number
2009
Number
The average monthly number of employees during the year by activity was:
Polymer Chemicals 1,326 1,435 
Pharma Chemicals 388 421 
Impact Chemicals 80 155 
Holding companies 33 34 
1,827 2,045 
Share of joint ventures 45 48 
1,872 2,093 
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
The aggregate remuneration of all Group employees comprised:
Wages and salaries 50,650 51,600 
Social security costs 8,350 7,866 
Post retirement benefit obligations 3,289 4,208 
62,289 63,674 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 55
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
14 Goodwill
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Cost
At 1 January and 31 December 263,939 263,939
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January 139,912 109,912
Impairment losses for the year – 30,000
At 31 December 139,912 139,912
Net book value
At 31 December 124,027 124,027
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment at the balance sheet date, or more frequently if there are indications that 
goodwill might be impaired.
Cash Generating Units (‘CGU’) comprise primarily acquired entities monitored at business unit level. The exception is where 
management monitor a CGU across similar businesses as a whole or components of businesses largely independent of other 
parts of those businesses. 
The allocation of the carrying value of goodwill is represented below.
31 December
 2008 
Net book
 value
£’000
           31 December 2009 31 December 2010
Impairment
 during the
 year 
£’000
Net book
 value 
£’000
Impairment
 during the 
year
 £’000
Net book
 value 
£’000
Polymer Chemicals
Synthomer Ltd and Harlow Chemical Company Ltd 70,521 – 70,521 – 70,521
Synthomer GmbH 13,120 – 13,120 – 13,120
Synthomer Hasselt BV 3,089 – 3,089 – 3,089
Synthomer Vietnam Co Ltd 412 – 412 – 412
87,142 – 87,142 – 87,142
Pharma Chemicals
Uquifa Spain SA and Uquifa Mexico SACV 66,885 (30,000) 36,885 – 36,885
66,885 (30,000) 36,885 – 36,885
Total 154,027 (30,000) 124,027 – 124,027
The recoverable amounts for CGUs are determined from value in use calculations, based upon discounted cash flows. The key 
assumptions for those discounted cash flow calculations are the discount rate, profitability and growth rate. The discount rate  
is based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted, where appropriate, for the risk premium attributable to the 
particular CGU’s activities and geography of operation. Profitability and growth rates are based on past experience combined  
with management’s expectations for future business performance, which is informed by a number of factors including economic 
growth, internal plans and competitor and customer activity.
A discount rate of 9% has been used in each calculation. 
The profit used in the cash flows for the first year is derived from management forecasts; for years 2 to 10 a growth rate is applied. 
The profit for year 10 is then assumed to apply without further growth into perpetuity. Growth rates of between 4.0% and 5.0% 
have been used, representing management’s best estimate of each CGU’s circumstances, and these do not exceed the long-term 
growth rates for the markets concerned.
The estimated recoverable amount of the Group’s Pharma Chemicals division is similar to its carrying value and, consequently,  
any adverse change in key assumptions would, in isolation, cause an impairment loss to be recognised. Other than Pharma 
Chemicals, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the 
carrying value of any cash generating unit to exceed its recoverable amount. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 56
15 Other intangible assets
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
No development expenditure met the requirements to be recognised as an internally generated intangible asset, therefore  
all development costs in the period were expensed.
Software
£’000
Environmental
licences
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2010 5,551 215 5,766 
Exchange adjustments 546 – 546 
Additions 49 – 49 
Disposals (22) – (22)
At 31 December 2010 6,124 215 6,339 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2010 4,947 215 5,162
Exchange adjustments 528 – 528
Amortisation charge for the year 303 – 303
Disposals (17) – (17)
At 31 December 2010 5,761 215 5,976
Net book value
At 31 December 2010 363 – 363 
Software
£’000
Environmental
licences
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2009 6,163 215 6,378 
Exchange adjustments (626) – (626)
Additions 72 – 72 
Disposals (58) – (58)
At 31 December 2009 5,551 215 5,766
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2009 5,294 215 5,509
Exchange adjustments (620) – (620)
Amortisation charge for the year 331 – 331
Disposals (58) – (58)
At 31 December 2009 4,947 215 5,162
Net book value
At 31 December 2009 604 – 604 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 57
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
16 Property, plant and equipment
  Land and buildings
 Leaseholds
Plant and
equipment
£’000
Total
£’000
Freeholds
£’000
Long
£’000
Short
£’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2010 45,514 4,887 7,298 329,803 387,502 
Exchange adjustments 264 3 1,038 2,584 3,889 
Additions 345 – 36 10,344 10,725 
Sale of subsidiary undertaking (1,255) – – (2,255) (3,510)
Disposals – – – (1,499) (1,499)
At 31 December 2010 44,868 4,890 8,372 338,977 397,107 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2010 18,732 2,304 863 261,788 283,687 
Exchange adjustments (137) – 124 (166) (179)
Depreciation charge for the year 729 129 164 13,293 14,315 
Sale of subsidiary undertaking (198) – – (1,599) (1,797)
Disposals – – – (1,487) (1,487)
At 31 December 2010 19,126 2,433 1,151 271,829 294,539 
Net book value
At 31 December 2010 25,742 2,457 7,221 67,148 102,568 
  Land and buildings
 Leaseholds
Plant and
equipment
£’000
Total
£’000
Freeholds
£’000
Long
£’000
Short
£’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2009 48,189 4,889 6,766 341,378 401,222 
Exchange adjustments (3,139) (2) (519) (13,914) (17,574)
Additions 1,252 – 1,051 4,941 7,244 
Disposals (788) – – (2,602) (3,390)
At 31 December 2009 45,514 4,887 7,298 329,803 387,502 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2009 18,800 2,175 776 261,365 283,116 
Exchange adjustments (785) – (62) (9,916) (10,763)
Depreciation charge for the year 1,031 129 149 13,112 14,421 
Disposals (314) – – (2,773) (3,087)
At 31 December 2009 18,732 2,304 863 261,788 283,687 
Net book value
At 31 December 2009 26,782 2,583 6,435 68,015 103,815 
Freehold land amounting to £9,357,000 (2009 £9,357 ,000) has not been depreciated.
Of the depreciation charge for the year £nil (2009 £76,000) relates to discontinued operations. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 58
17 Investment in joint ventures
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2009
£’000
At 1 January
Share of non-current assets 1,028 1,091
Share of current assets 6,135 10,219
Share of current liabilities (3,365) (6,362)
3,798 4,948
 Share of income 19,026 15,450
 Share of expenses (15,955) (14,096)
3,071 1,354
 Tax (137) (112) 
 Dividends paid during the year (2,667) (1,899) 
 Exchange adjustments (349) (493)
 Retained loss (82) (1,150)
At 31 December
Share of non-current assets 974 1,028
Share of current assets 7,468 6,135
Share of current liabilities (4,726) (3,365)
3,716 3,798
A list of principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures is given on page 82.
18 Inventories
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Raw materials and consumables 26,886 22,750 
Work in progress 1,656 1,398 
Finished goods 36,837 31,997 
65,379 56,145 
The value of stock written off during the year was £1,605,000 (2009 £853,000).
 There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of inventories and their replacement cost.
19 Trade and other receivables
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Trade receivables 100,031 86,468 
Amounts owed by joint ventures 549 395 
Other receivables 8,378 7,793 
Prepayments and accrued income 2,327 4,350 
111,285 99,006 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 59
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
19 Trade and other receivables continued
Credit risk
Amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management
based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. The Group has no significant concentration 
of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of customers. 
Before accepting a new customer, the Group uses appropriate procedures to assess the potential customer’s credit quality  
in order to set a credit limit.
Ageing of trade receivables 
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Not yet due 85,505 74,844 
0-60 days overdue 14,828 11,854 
61-120 days overdue 832 986 
Over 120 days due 1,633 2,140 
102,798 89,824 
Less: provision for impairment (2,767) (3,356)
 100,031 86,468 
Provision for impairment of receivables 
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
At 1 January 3,356 2,722 
Exchange adjustments (22) 11 
(Charge)/credit for the year (66) 733 
Amounts written off as uncollectible (501) (110)
At 31 December 2,767 3,356 
The provision is predominantly against trade receivables more than 61 days overdue.
20 Cash and borrowings
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Current borrowings
Bank loans
Bank loans and overdrafts 6,565 3,608 
Malaysian ringgits 100 million six-year amortising term loan 3,311 2,372 
Other loans
$136,000,000 7.66% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010 – 27,949 
£15,000,000 6.99% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010 – 5,000 
9,876 38,929 
Less: capitalised costs – (5)
9,876 38,924  Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 60
20 Cash and borrowings continued
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Non-current borrowings
Bank loans
Unsecured £30 million revolving credit facility expiring 2011 – – 
Malaysian ringgits 100 million six-year amortising term loan 14,853 15,936 
Other bank loans 461 1,283 
Other loans
$43,000,000 5.55% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2012* 27,794 26,996 
$70,000,000 5.78% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2014* 45,246 43,948 
$22,000,000 5.98% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2016* 14,220 13,812 
102,574 101,975 
Less: capitalised costs (195) (869)
102,379 101,106 
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest based on LIBOR or foreign equivalents or government 
bond rates appropriate to the country in which the borrowing is incurred. 
At 31 December 2010, the Group had available £30 million (2009 £30 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met. This facility was cancelled by the company in January 2011 following receipt of 
the rights issue proceeds and a new facility of £210 million was signed but not drawndown.
* In aggregate £87.3 million, associated with which is the currency impact of derivatives of £12.7 million, net £74.6 million.
 The directors calculate the carrying value of the Group’s borrowings as follows:
 Analysis of borrowings at carrying value by currency 
Sterling
£’000
US dollar
£’000
Euro
£’000
Other
£’000
Total
£’000
31 December 2010
 Bank loans and overdrafts 3,277 97 2,967 224 6,565
 Bank loans – – 437 18,188 18,625
 Loan notes – 87,260 – – 87,260
 Capitalised costs (195) – – – (195)
3,082 87,357 3,404 18,412 112,255
 Cash and cash equivalents (36,211)
 Net borrowings 76,044 
 Deduct: special item (12,674)
 Net borrowings (underlying performance) 63,370 
31 December 2009
 Bank loans and overdrafts – 14 3,410 184 3,608
 Bank loan – – 1,283 18,308 19,591
 Loan notes 5,000 112,705 – – 117,705
 Capitalised costs (874) – – – (874)
4,126 112,719 4,693 18,492 140,030
 Cash and cash equivalents (42,384)
 Net borrowings 97,646 
 Deduct: special item (9,608)
 Net borrowings (underlying performance) 88,038 
 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months 
or less.
 The special item represents the revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the related cross currency swaps to the year 
end rate, together with the transitional adjustment required to reflect movements in fair value caused by variations in interest rates, 
and subsequent amortisation thereof, to the extent that these constituted effective hedges prior to the adoption of IFRS.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 61
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
21 Financial instruments
 The Group’s treasury function operates procedures designed to reduce or eliminate financial risk and ensure that funds  
are available for current and future needs. The policies are approved by the Board and the use of financial instruments is  
strictly controlled. 
 The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the 
return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, 
which includes the cash and borrowings disclosed in note 20, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising 
issued capital, reserves and retained earnings, as disclosed in note 26.
 The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise borrowings, some cash and liquid resources and various items, such as 
trade debtors and trade creditors, that arise directly from its operations. The Group also uses interest rate swaps, currency swaps 
and forward foreign currency contracts to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its 
sources of finance.
 It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall  
be undertaken. 
 Set out below is a comparison by category of book values and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities:
 Carrying value  
 at 31 December
 Fair values 
 at 31 December
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Fair value of financial assets
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 108,958 94,656 108,958 94,656 
Cash and cash equivalents 36,211 42,384 36,211 42,384
Derivatives at fair value 22,765 11,763 22,765 11,763
167,934 148,803 167,934 148,803
Fair value of financial liabilities
Loan notes 87,065 116,831 92,775 118,754
Bank loans and overdrafts 25,190 23,199 25,190 23,199 
Trade and other payables excluding accruals 117,699 103,664 117,699 103,664 
229,954 243,694 235,664 245,617
Fair values have been obtained from the relevant institutions where appropriate. Where market values are not available, fair values 
of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flow at prevailing interest rates 
and by applying year end exchange rates. The carrying amount of short-term borrowings approximates to book value.
The fair value of the Group’s financial instruments are measured using inputs other than quoted prices that are directly  
or indirectly observable.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are market risk and liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees 
policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below, together with related disclosure required by IFRS.
Market risk
 The Group’s main exposure to market risk is in the form of interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. The policies adopted  
to address these risks are as follows:
 Interest rate risk
  The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, loan notes and bank borrowings. The Group borrows 
at both fixed and floating rates of interest and uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest profile in order to 
manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
 Foreign currency risk
  The Group uses currency borrowings, forward contracts and currency swaps to hedge overseas net assets, which are 
predominantly denominated in euros. Profit translation exposures are not hedged.
  The Group hedges currency transaction exposures at the point of confirmed order, using forward foreign exchange contracts. 
The Group’s policy is, where practicable, to hedge all exposures on monetary assets and liabilities. Consequently, there are no 
material currency exposures to disclose (2009 none). Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 62
21 Financial instruments continued
Impact on income statement
Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts amounting to £2,644,680 have been credited to the income statement in the year 
(2009 charge of £4,400,652). These changes are shown separately as a special item in the consolidated income statement.
Hedge accounting 
The Group has a number of cross currency and interest rate swaps that are used to reduce the exposure to interest rate and 
currency risk.
These swaps are fully effective at eliminating the risks they address. The Group has reviewed the requirements necessary to 
permit the application of hedge accounting under IAS 39. It has concluded that the costs involved in meeting these requirements 
cannot be justified and therefore IAS 39 hedge accounting will not be applied.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to which hedge accounting is not applied are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise.
As disclosed in note 29, the Group anticipates making a euro purchase of €443 million in respect of the pending acquisition.  
To the extent that this will be funded out of sterling resources, the Group has taken out forward foreign exchange contracts to  
fix the sterling value of a percentage of this anticipated euro purchase. These contracts have been accounted for as cash flow 
hedges as permitted by IAS 39.
In addition the Group has taken out forward foreign exchange contract to fix the sterling value of it’s net investments in certain 
foreign operations, which have a euro functional currency. These contracts have been accounted for as net investment hedges  
as permitted by IAS 39.
Interest rate risk profile
Financial liabilities
 After taking into account the various interest rate and currency swaps entered into by the Group, the currency and interest rate 
exposure of the Group as at 31 December 2010 was:
Floating rate
borrowings
2010
£’000
Fixed rate
borrowings
2010
£’000
Total
borrowings
2010
£’000
Floating rate
borrowings
2009
£’000
Fixed rate
borrowings
2009
£’000
Total
 borrowings
2009
£’000
Sterling 37,668 40,000 77,668 2,223 105,000 107,223
Euro 3,404 – 3,404 4,693 – 4,693
US dollar 97 – 97 14 – 14
Other 18,412 – 18,412 18,492 – 18,492
59,581 40,000 99,581 25,422 105,000 130,422
Cash and cash equivalents (36,211) (42,384)
Net borrowings (underlying performance) 63,370 88,038
 The effective interest rate for the year was 4.8% (2009 6.9%).
Sensitivity analysis 
 The following table illustrates the effect on the income statement and items that are recognised directly in equity that would result 
from reasonably possible movements in UK and US interest rates and in euro and US dollar to sterling exchange rates, before  
the effect of tax.
 2010 2009
  Income statement
Equity
IFRS
-/+ £m
 Income statement
Equity
IFRS
-/+ £m
Underlying
-/+ £m
IFRS
-/+ £m
Underlying
-/+ £m
IFRS
-/+ £m
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
UK interest rate +/- 1.0% 0.4 1.5 – 0.1 2.4 – 
Euro interest rate +/- 1.0% 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 
US interest rate +/- 1.0% – 3.1 – – 3.8 – 
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
Euro exchange rate -/+ 10% 1.1 1.1 3.1 0.5 0.5 3.2 
US dollar exchange rate -/+ 10% – 1.2 – – 1.1 – 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 63
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
21 Financial instruments continued
The interest rate sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and  
non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount  
of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
The foreign currency sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their 
translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates. The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as 
loans to foreign operations within the Group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the functional currency 
of the lender or borrower.
Liquidity risk
The objective of the Group is to meet financial commitments as and when they fall due. The Board closely monitors liquidity 
through monthly management accounts.
At the year end, Yule Catto & Co plc had the following principal facilities:
A committed syndicated bank revolving credit facility of £30 million. This facility was cancelled by the company in January 2011 
following receipt of the rights issue proceeds and a new facility of £210 million was signed but not drawndown. 
Unsecured loan notes totalling approximately £75 million raised from the US private placement market in 2004. With maturity 
between 2012 and 2016, these loan notes provide the Group’s long-term requirements. Please see note 20 for further details. 
A RM 100 million (£18 million) six year amortising loan through its Malaysian subsidiary Synthomer Sdn Bhd.
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for non-derivative financial liabilities:
 2010 2009
 Amount due Amount due
within 
one
 year
£’000
between 
1 and 
2 years
£’000
between 
2 and 5
 years
£’000
after 5 
years
£’000
Total
£’000
within 
one year
£’000
between 
1 and 2
 years
£’000
between 
2 and 5
 years
£’000
after 
5 years
£’000
Total
£’000
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other  
 payables excluding 
 accruals 117,555 144 – – 117,699 103,448 216 – – 103,664 
Variable interest rate 
  instruments
Bank loans and  
 overdrafts 10,502 3,935 11,872 461 26,770 6,427 4,400 14,200 – 25,027 
Fixed interest rate  
 instruments
Loan notes 5,008 32,802 53,027 15,071 105,908 40,855 4,864 82,541 15,464 143,724 
133,065 36,881 64,899 15,532 250,377 150,730 9,480 96,741 15,464 272,415
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for non-derivative financial assets:
 2010 2009
 Amount due Amount due
within 
one
 year
£’000
between 
1 and 
2 years
£’000
between 
2 and 5
 years
£’000
after 5 
years
£’000
Total
£’000
within 
one year
£’000
between 
1 and 2
 years
£’000
between 
2 and 5
 years
£’000
after 
5 years
£’000
Total
£’000
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other
 receivables excluding 
 prepayments 108,958 – – – 108,958 94,656 – – – 94,656 
Variable interest rate  
 instruments
Cash and cash 
 equivalents 36,211 – – – 36,211 42,384 – – – 42,384 
145,169 – – – 145,169 137,040 – – – 137,040  Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 64
21 Financial instruments continued
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for its derivative financial instruments:
 2010 2009
 Amount due Amount due
within 
one
 year
£’000
between 
1 and 
2 years
£’000
between 
2 and 5
 years
£’000
after 5 
years
£’000
Total
£’000
within 
one year
£’000
between 
1 and 2
 years
£’000
between 
2 and 5
 years
£’000
after 
5 years
£’000
Total
£’000
Interest rate swaps – – – – – 3,984 – – – 3,984 
Cross currency swaps (2,212) (2,441) (2,658) (186) (7,497) (3,845) (2,370) (4,732) (333) (11,280)
Foreign exchange
 forward contracts 4,576 – – – 4,576 26 – – – 26 
2,364 (2,441) (2,658) (186) (2,921) 165 (2,370) (4,732) (333) (7,270)
In accordance with IFRS 7 , the above table shows undiscounted cash flows. In contrast IAS 39 requires these items to be carried 
in the balance sheet at fair value, which is based on discounted cash flows. 
22 Assets held for sale
 There were no assets held for sale at the year end (2009 nil).
23 Trade and other payables
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Amount due within one year
Trade creditors 90,880 78,961 
Other creditors 26,675 24,487 
Accruals and deferred income 22,524 22,161 
140,079 125,609
Amount due in greater than one year
Other creditors 144 216
140,233 125,825
Accruals and deferred income includes £756,000 (2009 £1,413,000) in respect of restructuring costs.
Average trade creditor days in 2010 was 64 (2009 68). This figure represents trade creditor days for all trading operations within 
the Group, calculated as a weighted average based on cost of sales.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
24 Post retirement benefit obligations
Charge to income statement in respect of the Group’s pension schemes
 2010 
 £’000
 2009 
 £’000
 2008 
 £’000
 2007 
 £’000
 2006 
 £’000
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
Defined benefit 1,761 717 2,478 3,168 699 3,867 977 427 1,404 1,598 763 2,361 2,200 763 2,963
Defined   
 contribution 1,400 881 2,281 486 762 1,248 388 771 1,159 159 952 1,111 299 712 1,011
3,161 1,598 4,759 3,654 1,461 5,115 1,365 1,198 2,563 1,757 1,715 3,472 2,499 1,475 3,974
Defined benefit  
 – special item – – – – – – – – – (10,797) – (10,797) – – – 
3,161 1,598 4,759 3,654 1,461 5,115 1,365 1,198 2,563 (9,040) 1,715 (7,325) 2,499 1,475 3,974
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 65
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
24 Post retirement benefit obligations continued
The fair value of the assets in the schemes, and the present value of the liabilities in the schemes at each balance sheet date were:
 2010 
 £’000
 2009 
 £’000
 2008 
 £’000
 2007 
 £’000
 2006 
 £’000
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
Present value of
 funded 
 defined
 benefit
 obligations (250,180) (15,274)(265,454) (241,475) (13,971) (255,446) (205,721) (13,449) (219,170) (228,966) (15,530) (244,496) (260,425) (16,591) (277,016)
Fair value of 
 scheme 
 assets 193,722 5,735 199,457 171,515 5,242 176,757 138,293 5,318 143,611 195,325 7,935 203,260 191,137 7,995 199,132
Post retirement 
 benefit  
 obligations (56,458) (9,539) (65,997) (69,960) (8,729) (78,689) (67,428) (8,131) (75,559) (33,641) (7,595) (41,236) (69,288) (8,596) (77,884)
   
UK pension schemes
The Group participates in a funded scheme with both a defined benefit and defined contribution section (the Yule Catto Group 
Retirement Benefit Scheme). The scheme’s defined benefit section was closed to new members with effect from 31 December 
1998 and with effect from 1 January 1999 a defined contribution section was introduced and is open to all eligible Group 
employees. During 2009 the Group announced that it intended to close the defined benefit scheme to future accrual. This process 
commenced in 2009 and was completed in September 2010.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the companies concerned.
Contributions to the scheme are charged to the profit and loss account to spread the cost of pensions over employees’ working 
lives within the Group.
Defined benefit scheme
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 6 April 2006 and updated to 31 December 2010 by a qualified actuary. The major 
assumptions used by the actuary were:
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Rate of increase in salaries N/A 3.00% 2.60% 3.10% 3.30%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.25% 3.00% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
Rate of increase in pensions in deferment 2.25% 3.00% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
Discount rate 5.40% 5.70% 6.50% 5.90% 5.20%
Rates of return on plan assets 7.12% 8.22% 7.31% 7.33% 6.95%
Inflation assumption 3.25% 3.00% 2.60% 3.10% 2.80%
Amount charged to operating profit
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Current service cost 607 1,493 
Expected return on plan assets (12,296) (11,393)
Interest cost relating to pension scheme liabilities 13,450 13,068 
1,761 3,168
Actuarial loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 7,576 21,209 
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities (6,500) (32,753)
1,076 (11,544) Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 66
24 Post retirement benefit obligations continued
History of experience gains and losses
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Difference between the expected and  
 actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (£’000) 7,576 21,209 (64,742) (5,891) 13,800 
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 3.91 12.37 (46.82) (3.02) 7.22
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities
Amount (£’000) (6,500) (32,753) 25,273 25,872 (30,988)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (%) (2.60) (13.56) 12.29 11.30 (11.90)
Total actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the statement  
 of recognised income and expense
Amount (£’000) 1,076 (11,544) (39,469) 19,981 (17,188)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (%) 0.43 (4.78) (19.19) 8.73 (6.61)
The actual return on plan assets was £19,872,000 (2009 £32,602,000).
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows:
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
At 1 January (241,475) (205,721)
Current service cost (607) (1,493)
Interest cost (13,450) (13,068)
Contributions from scheme members (48) (438)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities (6,500) (32,753)
Cash paid by sponsoring companies 577 1,229
Benefits paid 11,323 10,769
At 31 December (250,180) (241,475)
Movements in the fair value of the scheme assets were as follows:
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
At 1 January 171,515 138,293 
Expected return on scheme assets 12,296 11,393 
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 7,576 21,209 
Contributions from sponsoring companies 13,610 10,951 
Contributions from scheme members 48 438 
Benefits paid (11,323) (10,769)
At 31 December 193,722 171,515 
Contributions from the sponsoring companies are expected to be £9,600,000 in 2011.
The fair value of the assets in the scheme, the present value of the liabilities in the scheme and the expected rate of return at each 
balance sheet date were: 
2010
%
2010
£’000
2009
%
2009
£’000
2008
%
2008
£’000
2007
%
2007
£’000
2006
%
2006
£’000
Equities 7.70 110,402 8.00 113,373 9.00 90,241 8.00 148,447 7.90 154,821 
Bonds 5.40 60,829 5.70 54,243 6.70 47,614 5.17 44,925 4.92 36,316 
Property 7.70 10,480 – – – –
Cash 2.00 12,011 2.00 3,899 4.25 438 4.25 1,953 4.25 – 
Total fair value of assets 193,722 171,515 138,293 195,325 191,137 
Present value of scheme
  liabilities (250,180) (241,475) (205,721) (228,966) (260,425)
Post retirement benefit
  obligations (56,458) (69,960) (67,428) (33,641) (69,288)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 67
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
24 Post retirement benefit obligations continued
Overseas pension schemes 
The Group operates a number of smaller overseas pension and post-retirement schemes. The assets of these schemes are held 
separately from those of the Group with the exception of the German schemes, where in line with common practice, the assets 
are held within the respective company. 
Defined benefit schemes
The aggregated pension disclosure below for the overseas defined benefit schemes has been compiled from a number of 
actuarial valuations at 31 December 2010. The major assumptions do not differ significantly from those disclosed above in relation 
to the UK pension schemes. 
Amount charged to operating profit
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Current service cost 216 224 
Expected return on plan assets (68) (239)
Interest cost relating to pension scheme liabilities 569 714 
717 699
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income  
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 527 2 
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities (1,527) (1,077)
(1,000) (1,075)
The actual return on plan assets was £595,000 (2009 £241,000 gain).
Analysis of the movements in the net balance sheet liability before deferred tax 
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Net liability at 1 January (8,729) (8,131)
Total expense as detailed above (717) (699)
Contributions made 490 572 
Actuarial gain (1,000) (1,075)
Exchange movements 417 604 
Net liability at 31 December (9,539) (8,729)
25 Share capital
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Issued and fully paid
145,663,187 (2009 145,663,187) ordinary shares of 10 pence each 14,566 14,566 
Issued and nil paid
194,217,582 (2009 nil) ordinary shares of 10 pence each (see note 29) – – 
Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income. 
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company removed references to authorised share capital from its articles  
of association at the annual general meeting on 6 May 2010. This change took effect from 6 May 2010. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 68
25 Share capital continued
Share options
As at 31 December 2010 the following options were outstanding:
Executive share options Number Option price
Exercisable between 2010-2012 2,194 (a)
Exercisable between 2011-2018 1,018,471 (a)
Exercisable between 2012-2019 4,364,415 (a)
Exercisable between 2013-2020 1,132,673 (a)
(a)  Options granted under the Performance Share Plan and the Longer-Term Deferred Bonus Plan with a total exercise price of £55.
26 Changes in equity
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Own 
shares
£’000
Hedging
 and
translation
reserve
£’000
Cash flow
hedging
reserve
£’000
Minority
interest
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2010 14,566 33,034 949 – (934) – 6,903 19 54,537
Profit for the year – – – – – – 5,536 49,738 55,274
Actuarial gains and losses – – – – – – – 76 76
Tax relating to components of 
  other comprehensive income – – – – – – – 300 300
Exchange differences on cash  
  flow hedging deferred to equity – – – – – 4,495 – – 4,495
Exchange differences on  
 translation of overseas
 operations – – – – 6,030 – 649 – 6,679
Net investment hedging – – – – 1,732 – – – 1,732
Total recognised income 
 for the period – – – – 7,762 4,495 6,185 50,114 68,556
Dividends paid – – – – – – (6,585) (2,913) (9,498)
Investment by minority interest – – – – – – 130 – 130
Divestment by minority interest – – – – – – (384) – (384)
Shares purchased by ESOP trust – – – – – – – – –
Share-based payments – – – – – – – (776) (776)
At 31 December 2010 14,566 33,034 949 – 6,828 4,495 6,249 46,444 112,565
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Own 
shares
£’000
Hedging
 and
translation
reserve
£’000
Cash flow
hedging
reserve
£’000
Minority
interest
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2009 14,566 33,034 949 – 6,252 678 9,157 2,056 66,692
Profit for the year – – – – – – 2,202 9,686 11,888
Actuarial gains and losses – – – – – – – (12,619) (12,619)
Tax relating to components of 
  other comprehensive income – – – – – – – 306 306
Exchange differences on cash  
  flow hedging deferred to equity – – – – – (678) – – (678)
Exchange differences on  
  translation of overseas
 operations – – – – (6,933) – (825) – (7,758)
Net investment hedging – – – – (253) – – – (253)
Total recognised (expenditure)/ 
 income for the period – – – – (7,186) (678) 1,377 (2,627) (9,114)
Dividends paid – – – – – – (3,631) – (3,631)
Shares purchased by ESOP trust – – – 47 – – – – 47
Share-based payments – – – (47) – – – 590 543
At 31 December 2009 14,566 33,034 949 – (934) – 6,903 19 54,537
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 69
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
27 Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Operating profit – continuing operations 63,006 21,406
Operating profit for the year from discontinued operations – 3,674
Less: share of profits of joint ventures (2,934) (1,242)
60,072 23,838
Depreciation and amortisation 14,616 14,771
Impairment of goodwill – 30,000
Profit arising from the sale or closure of operations (11,413) (3,652)
Acquisition costs 4,182 –
Profit on sale of fixed assets (36) (76)
Share-based payments 333 (1,306)
Cash impact of termination of businesses (1,445) (3,591)
Pension funding in excess of IAS 19 charge (12,191) (10,678)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (8,362) 4,690
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (14,210) 20,779
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 10,682 (10,276)
Cash generated from operations 42,228 64,499
28 Disposal of subsidiaries
The Group disposed of the following interest in Group companies in 2010:
Company name Date of sale Purchaser Division Sale type
Revertex Finewaters Sdn Bhd 2 June 2010 Third party trade Polymer Chemicals Share
The net assets of the company at the date of disposal were as follows:
Revertex
Finewaters
Sdn Bhd
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 1,713
Inventories 1,316
Trade receivables 3,440
Net borrowing 386
Deferred tax liability (140)
Current tax liability (92)
Trade payables (2,774)
3,849
Less minority interest (384)
3,465
Profit on disposal 12,271
Total consideration 15,736
Satisfied by:
Cash (net of disposal costs) 16,075
Accrued costs of disposal (339)
15,736
The impact of this disposal on the Group’s results in the current period and prior periods is disclosed in note 3. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 70
29 Acquisition of subsidiary
On 13 December 2010, Yule Catto & Co plc entered in to an agreement to acquire the entire issued share capital of PolymerLatex 
Deutschland Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH for a total transaction value of €443 million (£376 million). This acquisition is to be 
funded partly by a 4 for 3 right issue to raise £225 million and partly by increased bank borowings. Completion of the acquisition 
is conditional on the receipt of competition clearance from the relevant authorities. Further details can be found in the Prospectus 
dated 13 December 2010.
Costs associated with this transaction of £4,182,000 are included in special items (see note 3). £371,000 of these costs were 
settled in 2010. 
30 Analysis of changes in net borrowings
1 January
2010
£’000
Reclassification 
of borrowings
£’000
Cash inflows\
(outflows)
£’000
Exchange and
other movements
£’000
31 December
2010
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 42,384 – (10,657) 4,484 36,211 
Current borrowing – Bank overdrafts (3,608) – (2,575) (382) (6,565)
38,776 – (13,232) 4,102 29,646 
Current borrowings (35,316) (3,311) 35,878 (562) (3,311)
Non-current borrowings (101,106) 3,311 100 (4,684) (102,379)
Net borrowings (97,646) – 22,746 (1,144) (76,044)
Deduct: special item 9,608 12,674
Net borrowings (underlying performance) (88,038) (63,370)
    
The special item represents the revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the related cross currency swaps to the year 
end rate, together with the transitional adjustment required to reflect movements in fair value caused by variations in interest rates, 
and subsequent amortisation thereof, to the extent that these constituted effective hedges under UK GAAP .
31 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and  
are not included in this note. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed in the Company’s financial 
statements where appropriate.
Key management compensation
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 2,987 2,938
Post retirement benefit obligations 257 250
Share-based payments 1,148 1,069
4,392 4,257
The key management figures given above include the directors and all participants of the Performance Share Plan.
32 Commitments 
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Capital expenditure authorised but not provided for in the accounts
Contracted 3,970 1,064 
2010
£000
2009
£000
Commitments under operating leases are as follows
Payments under operating leases which fall due:
Within 1 year 3,208 2,538 
Between 2 and 5 years 6,090 6,037 
After 5 years 5,785 6,081 
15,083 14,656 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 71
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
33 Contingent assets, contingent liabilities and guarantees
Guarantees of the parent company in respect of bank and other facilities of subsidiaries and joint ventures totalled £18,782,000 
(2009 £18,309,000).
Other guarantees and contingent liabilities of the Group amount to £1,076,000 (2009 £1,376,000).
The Company and its subsidiaries have, in the normal course of business, entered into guarantees and counter-indemnities  
in respect of performance bonds, relating to the Group’s own contracts.
In connection with a disputed tax assessment in the amount of ¤11,020,000 by the Spanish tax authorities, Union Quimico 
Farmaceutica SA has given a charge dated 5 November 2010 over its two manufacturing sites. The charge guarantees a total  
sum of ¤13,230,000.
34 Share-based payments
Save As You Earn share option plan
 This plan, which is available to almost all UK employees, provides for a grant price equal to the average quoted market price of  
the Group shares on the date of grant. The vesting period is five to seven years, followed by an exercise period of six months after 
which the options expire. Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Options
2010
Weighted 
av. exercise
price (£)
2010
Options
2009
Weighted 
av. exercise
price (£)
2009
Outstanding at 1 January 13,872 2.610 13,872 2.610 
Lapsed during the period (13,872) 2.610 – 2.610 
Outstanding at 31 December – 13,872 
Exercisable at 31 December – 13,872 
 No grants have been made under the plan since 7 November 2002, and the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 2 to awards 
made before that date. For options expected to be settled with shares purchased by the Yule Catto Employee Benefit Trust in the 
open market, the charge to profit reflects the anticipated cash cost of these shares spread over the vesting period. For options 
expected to be settled by the issue of new shares, no charge to profit is made.
Executive share option schemes
Details of the share option schemes available to senior management are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 33. 
 For grants made after 7 November 2002, the charge to profit is calculated on the assumption that, given that the exercise price 
is effectively nil, the share price at grant provides a reasonable estimate of the option value at grant. 
 For grants made before 7 November 2002, the charge to profit is based on the anticipated cash cost of acquiring shares to meet 
the options exercised. 
Options
2010
Weighted 
av. exercise
price (£)
2010
Options
2009
Weighted 
av. exercise
price (£)
2009
Outstanding at 1 January 5,780,786 – 1,226,535 – 
Restated (see note 37) 678,273
Outstanding at 1 January (restated) 5,780,786 – 1,904,808 –
Granted during the period 1,132,673 – 4,364,415 – 
Exercised during the period – – (119,533) – 
Lapsed during the period (395,706) – (368,904) – 
Outstanding at 31 December 6,517,753 – 5,780,786 – 
Exercisable at 31 December 2,194 2,194 
 
 For options outstanding as at 31 December 2010, the exercise price was £nil and the weighted average remaining contractual life 
was 5.0 years (2009 5.7 years).  Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 72
34 Share-based payments continued
Yule Catto Employee Benefit Trust
The Company established a trust, the Yule Catto Employee Benefit Trust, on 17 July 1996 to distribute shares to employees 
enabling the obligations under the Yule Catto Longer-Term Performance Share Plan and the Yule Catto Longer-Term Deferred 
Bonus Plan to be met. The Trust is managed by the RBC Trustees (Guernsey) Limited, an independent company located in 
Guernsey. At 31 December 2010, the Trust held 3,418 (2009 3,418) ordinary shares in the company with a market value of  
£7,000 (2009 £5,000) and a provisional allotment of 4,597 nil paid ordinary shares in the company with a market value of £4,000 
(2009 nil). The dividends on these shares have been waived. All of the shares are under option. Costs are amortised over the life  
of the plans.
35 Share price information
The middle market value of the listed ordinary shares at 31 December 2010 was 201.0 pence. During the year, the market price 
ranged between 103.7 pence and 202.8 pence. The market value of the listed ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 was 19.5 pence. 
The latest ordinary share price is available on the Financial Times Cityline service, telephone 09058 171690. 
The share prices in the proceeding paragraph have been restated as discussed in note 37.
36 Reconciliation of EBITDA
 Underlying performance IFRS
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Operating profit 54,885 49,416 63,006 21,406
Less: profit arising from the sale or closure of operations – – (11,413) –
Less: operating profit of businesses sold or closed during the year – – (890) (1,990)
Add: Acquisition costs – – 4,182 –
Add: Impairment of goodwill – – – 30,000
Add back: amortisation 303 331 303 331
Add back: depreciation 14,315 14,345 14,315 14,345
EBITDA 69,503 64,092 69,503 64,092
 
37 Impact of Rights Issue
The company announced a 4 for 3 rights issue on 13 December 2010. The new shares were provisionally allotted nil paid on  
31 December 2010.
 To the extent that these new shares contained a bonus element, the following have been restated in accordance with accepted 
practise up to and including 30 December 2010: 
 
 Earnings per share reduced by a factor of 64.39%   
 Dividends per share reduced by a factor of 64.39% 
 Share option  increased by a factor of 155.3% 
Share price   reduced by a factor of 64.39% 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 73
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of Yule Catto & Co plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements  
of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 
which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related 
notes 1 to 16. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for  
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
and express an opinion on the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s  
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates  
made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2010;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you  
if, in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by  
law are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements 
of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Stuart Henderson (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Cambridge, United Kingdom
9 March 2011 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 74
Company balance sheet
31 December 2010
Note
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 6 2,559 2,533 
Investments 7 334,137 334,130 
336,696 336,663 
Current assets
Debtors 8 1,705 978 
Cash at bank and in hand 940 1,603 
Derivatives at fair value 18,189 11,737 
20,834 14,318 
Creditors – due within one year
Borrowings 9 (3,266) (32,944)
Other creditors 10 (109,307) (112,756)
(112,573) (145,700)
Net current liabilities (91,739) (131,382)
Total assets less current liabilities 244,957 205,281 
Creditors – due after more than one year
Borrowings 9 (87,065) (83,887)
Net assets 157,892 121,394 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 11 14,566 14,566 
Share premium 12 33,034 33,034 
Revaluation reserve 12 822 824 
Capital redemption reserve 12 949 949 
Profit and loss account 12 108,521 72,021 
Capital employed 157,892 121,394 
Analysis of net borrowings
Cash at bank and in hand 940 1,603 
Borrowings due in less than one year (3,266) (32,944)
Borrowings due after more than one year (87,065) (83,887)
Net borrowings (89,391) (115,228)
Deduct: special item 12,674 9,608 
Net borrowings (underlying performance) 9 (76,717) (105,620)
The financial statements of Yule Catto & Co plc (registered number 98381) were approved on 9 March 2011. 
A M Whitfield
D C Blackwood
Directors Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 75
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Notes to the Company financial statements
31 December 2010
1 Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.  
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year  
and the preceding year.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation  
of certain fixed assets, and comply with applicable UK 
accounting standards.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate  
of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged,  
at the forward contract rate. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date  
are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date  
or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
 
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation, net of 
depreciation and any provision for impairment. Except for 
freehold land, which is not depreciated, the cost or valuation  
of tangible fixed assets is depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over their expected useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings – 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings –  the lesser of 50 years and  
the period of the lease
Plant and equipment – between 3 and 10 years
Revaluation of properties
The Company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions 
of FRS 15 ‘Tangible Fixed Assets’ and retained the book 
amounts of certain freehold properties which were revalued 
prior to implementation of that standard.
Where depreciation charges are increased following a 
revaluation, an amount equal to the increase is transferred 
annually from the revaluation reserve to the profit and loss 
account as a movement on reserves. On the disposal or 
recognition of a provision for impairment of a revalued fixed 
asset, any related balance remaining in the revaluation reserve 
is also transferred to the profit and loss account as a movement 
on reserves.
Investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision  
for impairment.
Debt
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after 
deduction of issue costs. 
Dividends
Dividends are accrued where declared and unpaid at the 
balance sheet date.  
Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is 
provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using 
the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences 
that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay 
more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have 
occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences are 
differences between the Group’s taxable profits and its results 
as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion 
of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from 
those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and 
therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available 
evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there 
will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal  
of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences 
are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date. 
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to  
the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at 
their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the 
profit and loss account using the effective interest method and 
are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the 
extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at  
the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce 
exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements. 
The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes. 
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s 
policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide 
written principles on the use of financial derivatives.  Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 76
1 Accounting policies continued
Net borrowings
Net borrowings represents cash and cash equivalents together with short and long-term borrowings, as adjusted for the effect  
of related derivative instruments irrespective of whether they qualify for hedge accounting.
Pension funding
The costs of contributions to the Group’s pension schemes and of augmenting existing pensions are charged to the profit and  
loss account on a systematic basis over the expected period of benefits from employees’ service.
The UK defined benefit scheme is funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the Group, in separate 
trustee-administered funds. 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
2 Auditors’ remuneration
The audit fee of Yule Catto & Co plc amounted to £7,000 (2009 £7 ,000).
3 Employees
2010
Number
2009
Number
The average monthly number of employees during the year was: 26 29 
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
The aggregate remuneration of all Company employees comprised:
Wages and salaries 2,291 2,260 
Social security costs 275 273 
Post retirement benefits 155 153 
2,721 2,686
 
4 Profit/(loss) attributable to equity shareholders
UK GAAP basis*
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Attributable to Yule Catto & Co plc 38,913 (10,053)
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 no profit and loss account is presented for Yule Catto & Co plc. 
*The above has been calculated on a UK GAAP basis as this is consistent with the continued presentation of Yule Catto & Co plc’s accounts under UK GAAP.
5 Ordinary dividends
2010
Pence per
share
2009
Pence per
share
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Interim dividend as originally disclosed 2.0 – 2,913 – 
Restatement (see note 37 to the consolidated financial statements) (0.7) – 
Restated interim dividend 1.3 – 
Proposed final dividend 1.3 – 4,370 – 
 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included  
as a liability in these financial statements.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 77
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
6 Tangible fixed assets
 Land and buildings
Freeholds
£’000
Long
leaseholds
£’000
Plant and
equipment
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2010 2,777 89 1,442 4,308 
Additions – – 147 147 
Disposals – – – – 
At 31 December 2010 2,777 89 1,589 4,455 
At cost 12 – 1,589 1,601 
At professional valuation in 1985 2,765 89 – 2,854 
2,777 89 1,589 4,455 
Depreciation
At 1 January 2010 491 47 1,237 1,775 
Charge for the year 20 2 99 121 
Eliminated on disposals – – – – 
At 31 December 2010 511 49 1,336 1,896 
Net book value
At 31 December 2010 2,266 40 253 2,559 
Net book value
At 31 December 2009 2,286 42 205 2,533 
Properties included at valuation would have been stated on a historical cost basis at cost of £1,877,000 (2009 £1,877 ,000) and 
depreciation of £437,000 (2009 £420,000).
Freehold land amounting to £1,781,000 (2009 £1,781,000) has not been depreciated.
7 Investments
Subsidiaries
£’000
Joint
ventures
£’000
Other
investments
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2010 334,942 500 59 335,501 
Additions – – 18 18 
At 31 December 2010 334,942 500 77 335,519 
Provisions
At 1 January 2010 1,118 220 33 1,371 
Amortisation – – 11 11 
At 31 December 2010 1,118 220 44 1,382 
Net book value
At 31 December 2010 333,824 280 33 334,137 
Net book value
At 31 December 2009 333,824 280 26 334,130 
Details of the principal Group companies are given on page 82. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 78
8 Debtors
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Other debtors 1,605 900 
Prepayments and accrued income 100 78 
1,705 978 
9 Borrowings
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Current borrowings
Bank loans
Bank loans and overdrafts 3,266 –
Other loans
$136,000,000 7.66% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010 – 27,949 
£15,000,000 6.99% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 8 September 2010 – 5,000 
3,266 32,949 
Less: capitalised costs – (5)
3,266 32,944 
Non-current borrowings
Bank loans
Unsecured £30 million revolving credit facility expiring 2011 – – 
Other loans
$43,000,000 5.55% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2012* 27,794 26,996 
$70,000,000 5.78% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2014* 45,246 43,948 
$22,000,000 5.98% Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes due 2 September 2016* 14,220 13,812 
87,260 84,756 
Less: capitalised costs (195) (869)
87,065 83,887
* In aggregate £87.3 million, associated with which is the currency impact of derivatives of £12.7 million, net £74.6 million.
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest based on LIBOR or foreign equivalents. 
At 31 December 2010, the Company had available £30 million (2009 £30 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in 
respect of which all conditions precedent had been met. This facility was cancelled by the company in January 2011 following 
receipt of the rights issue proceeds and a new facility of £210 million was signed but not drawn down.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 79
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
9 Borrowings continued
Analysis of borrowings at carrying value by currency
The directors calculate the carrying value of the Company’s borrowings as follows:
Sterling
£’000
US dollar
£’000
Euro
£’000
Total
£’000
31 December 2010
 Bank loans and overdrafts 2,994 175 97 3,266 
 Loan notes – 87,260 – 87,260 
 Capitalised costs (195) – – (195)
2,799 87,435 97 90,331 
 Cash and cash equivalents (940)
 Net borrowings 89,391 
 Deduct: special item* (12,674)
 Net borrowings (underlying performance) 76,717
31 December 2009
 Loan notes 5,000 112,705 – 117,705 
 Capitalised costs (874) – – (874)
4,126 112,705 – 116,831 
 Cash and cash equivalents (1,603)
 Net borrowings 115,228 
 Deduct: special item* (9,608)
 Net borrowings (underlying performance) 105,620
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months 
or less.
*  The special item represents the revaluation of US dollar loan notes from the rate of the related cross currency swaps to the year end rate, together with the transitional 
adjustment required to reflect movements in fair value caused by variations in interest rates, and subsequent amortisation thereof, to the extent that these constituted 
effective hedges under pre FRS 26 UK GAAP.
10 Other creditors
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Amount due within one year
Trade creditors 1,674 1,088 
Other taxation and social security 97 114 
Other creditors 2,216 2,341 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 96,922 104,111 
Accruals and deferred income 8,398 5,102 
109,307 112,756 
11 Share capital
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Issued and fully paid
145,663,187 (2009 145,663,187) ordinary shares of 10 pence each 14,566 14,566 
Issued and nil paid
194,217,582 (2009 nil) ordinary shares of 10 pence each – – 
Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income. 
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company removed references to authorised share capital from its articles of 
association at the annual general meeting on 6 May 2010. This change took effect from 6 May 2010. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 80
11 Share capital continued
As at 31 December 2010 the following options were outstanding:
Executive share options Number Option price
Exercisable between 2010-2012 2,194 (a)
Exercisable between 2011-2018 1,018,471 (a)
Exercisable between 2012-2019 4,364,415 (a)
Exercisable between 2013-2020 1,132,673 (a)
(a)  options granted under the Performance Share Plan and the Longer-Term Deferred Bonus Plan with a total exercise price of £55.
12 Share premium and reserves
Share
premium
£’000
Revaluation
reserve
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Profit and
loss account
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2010 33,034 824 949 72,021 106,828 
Profit for the year – – – 38,913 38,913 
Dividends – – – (2,913) (2,913)
Retained profit for the year – – – 36,000 36,000 
Share-based payments – – – 500 500 
Revaluation depreciation – (2) – – (2)
At 31 December 2010 33,034 822 949 108,521 143,326 
13 Related party transactions
There were no related party transactions during the year (2009 none).
14 Guarantees and other financial commitments
The Company has given guarantees amounting to £18,782,000 (2009 £18,309,000) in respect of bank and other facilities  
of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
15 Pension commitments 
The Group participates in a funded scheme with both a defined benefit and defined contribution section (the Yule Catto Group 
Retirement Benefit Scheme). The scheme’s defined benefit section was closed to new members with effect from 31 December 
1998 and with effect from 1 January 1999 a defined contribution section was introduced and is open to all eligible Group 
employees. During 2009 the Group announced that it intended to close the defined benefit scheme to future accrual. This process 
commenced in 2009 and was completed in September 2010.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the companies concerned. 
The pension charge for the year for the Company amounted to £14,213,000 (2009 £6,972,000).
In accordance with FRS 17 , the Company will account for its contributions to the defined benefit scheme as if it were a defined 
contribution scheme because it is not possible to identify the Company’s share of the assets and liabilities in the scheme on a 
consistent and reasonable basis. The latest actuarial valuation of the scheme prepared for the purposes of making transitional 
disclosure in accordance with FRS 17 shows a net pension liability of £56,458,000 at 31 December 2010.
FRS 17 disclosure
Due to the application of IAS 19 to the Group financial statements, resulting in changes to the required disclosures at Group level, 
the disclosure requirements of FRS 17 for the Group have been included below.
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 6 April 2006 and updated to 31 December 2010 by a qualified actuary. The major 
assumptions used by the actuary were:
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Rate of increase in salaries N/A 3.00% 2.60% 3.10% 3.30%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.25% 3.00% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
Rate of increase in pension in deferment 2.25% 3.00% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50%
Discount rate 5.40% 5.70% 6.50% 5.90% 5.20%
Inflation assumption 3.25% 3.00% 2.60% 3.10% 2.80%
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
31 December 2010 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 81
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
15 Pension commitments continued
The fair value of the assets in the scheme, the present value of the liabilities in the scheme and the expected rate of return at each 
balance sheet date were:
2010
%
2010
£’000
2009
%
2009
£’000
2008
%
2008
£’000
2007
%
2007
£’000
2006
%
2006
£’000
Equities 7.70 110,702 8.00 113,673 9.00 90,541 8.00 148,747 7.90 155,121
Bonds 5.40 60,829 5.70 54,243 6.70 47,614 5.17 44,925 4.92 36,316 
Property 7.70 10,480 – – – – – – – – 
Cash 2.00 12,011 2.00 3,899 4.25 438 4.25 1,953 4.25 – 
Total fair value of assets 194,022 171,815 138,593 195,625 191,437
Present value of scheme
 liabilities (250,180) (241,475) (205,721) (228,966) (260,425)
Deficit in the scheme (56,158) (69,660) (67,128) (33,341) (68,988)
Related deferred tax asset – – – – – 
Net pension liability (56,158) (69,660) (67,128) (33,341) (68,988)
Contributions from the sponsoring companies are expected to be £9,600,000 in 2011.
Analysis of the amount that would have been charged to operating profit under FRS 17
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Current service cost 607 1,493 
607 1,493 
Analysis of the amount that would have been charged to net finance income under FRS 17
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Expected return on pension scheme assets (12,296) (11,393)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 13,450 13,068 
1,154 1,675 
Analysis of the actuarial (loss)/gain that would have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 7,576 21,209 
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities (6,500) (32,753)
1,076 (11,544)
History of experience gains and losses
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Difference between the expected and  
 actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (£’000) 7,576 21,209 (64,742) (5,891) 13,800 
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 3.90 12.34 (46.71) (3.01) 7.21
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£’000) (6,500) (32,753) 25,273 25,872 (30,988)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (%) (2.60) (13.56) 12.29 11.30 (11.90)
Total actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in  
 the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (£’000) 1,076 (11,544) (39,469) 19,981 (17,188)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (%) 0.43 (4.78) (19.19) 8.73 (6.61)
16  Share-based payments
For details of share-based payments please refer to note 34 to the consolidated financial statements on page 71. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 82
Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures
Operating companies
Country of
incorporation
and operation
Effective
Group interest
in equity
%
Arkem (Pty) Ltd South Africa 50
#
Distributor of speciality chemicals and allied products
Synthomer Middle East Company Saudi Arabia 49
#
Synthetic resin emulsions
Revertex Chemicals (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100
Synthetic resin and emulsions and allied products
Revertex (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 70
Synthetic resin and emulsions, natural rubber latices, plasticers
and allied products
Synthomer BV Netherlands 100
Compounds of synthetic rubber latices
Synthomer GmbH Germany 100
Synthetic rubber latices and related compounds
Synthomer Ltd England 100*
Synthetic rubber latices and emulsions
Synthomer SA Belgium 100
Compounds, dispersions and adhesives
Synthomer SAE Egypt 88
Compounds of synthetic and natural rubber latices
Synthomer Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100
Synthetic rubber latices and related compounds
Synthomer Vietnam Co. Ltd Vietnam 60
Synthetic adhesives
Union Quimico Farmaceutica SA (UQUIFA) Spain 100
Pharmaceutical actives and intermediates
Uquifa Mexico S.A.C.V. Mexico 100
Pharmaceutical actives and intermediates
William Blythe Ltd England 100
Inorganic chemicals
Holding companies
Holiday Chemical Holdings England 100
Yule Catto International SA France 100
Yule Catto BV Netherlands 100
Yule Catto Financing Ltd Ireland 100
Yule Catto Holdings GmbH Germany 100
Yule Catto International Ltd England 100*
Yule Catto Spain SL Spain 100
Yule Catto Nederland BV Netherlands 100
# Joint ventures
* Shares held by Yule Catto & Co plc Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 83
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Underlying performance (a)
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2008
£’000
2007
£’000
2006
£’000
Total sales 645,791 532,162 591,081 503,533 476,216 
EBITDA (b) 69,503 64,092 56,961 54,585 53,056 
Operating profit (c) 54,885 49,416 41,694 41,165 40,270 
Finance costs (7,840) (9,869) (10,502) (11,497) (11,443)
Profit before taxation 47,045 39,547 31,192 29,668 28,827 
Basic earnings per share (f) (g) 16.2p 13.3p 11.2p 10.0p 8.6p 
Dividends per share (f) 2.6p N/A 2.6p 6.2p 6.0p 
Dividend cover (f) 6.2 N/A 4.4 1.6 1.4 
Net borrowings (e) (63,370) (88,038) (135,482) (170,831) (166,271)
Free cash flow before dividends (d) 9,825 39,001 7,781 14,012 8,479 
Capital expenditure 10,592 8,687 17,707 16,994 18,468 
IFRS – continuing operations
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2008
£’000
2007
£’000
2006
£’000
Total sales 651,480 543,398 602,153 512,925 485,137 
EBITDA (b) 69,503 64,092 56,961 54,585 53,056 
Operating profit (c) 63,006 21,406 40,786 41,032 22,533 
Finance costs (5,195) (14,270) (1,887) (7,050) (7,825)
Profit before taxation 57,811 7,136 38,899 33,982 14,708 
Basic earnings per share (f) (g) 22.0p 2.6p 14.3p 11.5p 1.7p 
Dividends per share (f) 2.6p N/A 2.6p 6.2p 6.0p 
Dividend cover (f) 8.5 N/A 5.5 1.9 0.3 
Net borrowings (e) (76,044) (97,646) (161,448) (150,341) (150,656)
Free cash flow before dividends (d) 9,825 39,001 7,781 14,012 8,479 
Capital expenditure 10,592 8,687 17,707 16,994 18,468 
(a) As presented in the consolidated income statement on page 36.
(b) As defined in the accounting policies at note 2 and derived in note 36.
(c) As defined in note 2 to the financial statements on pages 40 to 45.
(d) As shown with the consolidated cash flow statement on page 39.
(e) As defined in note 2 to the Financial Statements and derived in note 30.
(f) As restated see note 37.
(g) As restated see note 12.
Five year financial summary Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 84
Notice of meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company will be held at the Manor of Groves Hotel, High Wych, 
Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire, CM21 0JU on Thursday 12 May 
2011 at 2.30 pm for the following purposes:
Resolutions 12, 13 and 14 will be proposed as special 
resolutions. All other resolutions will be proposed as  
ordinary resolutions.
Ordinary business
1.  To receive and adopt the report of the Directors and audited 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
2.  To consider the recommendation of the Directors as  
to a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 
and if thought fit to declare a final dividend accordingly.
3.   To approve the report of the Board on Directors’ 
remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2010.
4.  To re-elect as a director the Hon. A G Catto.
5.  To re-elect as a director Dato’ Lee Hau Hian.
6. To re-elect as a director Dr A A Dobbie.
7. To re-elect as a director Mr J K Maiden.
8. To re-elect as a director Mr D C Blackwood.
9.  To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to 
hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General 
Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
10.  To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration  
of the auditors.
Special business
11.   To resolve that the authority conferred on the Directors by 
Article 5.2 of the Company’s Articles of Association be 
renewed for the period ending at the end of the Annual 
General Meeting in 2012 or on 30 June 2012, whichever  
is the earlier, and for such period the Section 551 Amount 
shall be £11,329,358. Such authority shall be in substitution 
for all previous authorities pursuant to Section 551 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
12.  To resolve that subject to the passing of Resolution 11 
above, the power conferred on the Directors by Article 5.3 
of the Company’s Articles be renewed for the period 
referred to in such Resolution and for such period the 
Section 561 Amount shall be £1,699,403. Such authority 
shall be in substitution for all previous powers pursuant  
to Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006.
13.  That the Company be unconditionally and generally 
authorised for the purpose of Section 701 of the Companies 
Act 2006 (‘the Act’) to make market purchases (as defined 
in Section 693(4) of the Act) of ordinary shares of 10p each 
in the capital of the Company provided that:
  a)  the maximum number of shares which may be purchased 
is 33,988,076;
 b)  the minimum price which may be paid for each share  
is 10p (exclusive of expenses);
 
 c)  the maximum price which may be paid for a share is  
an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing 
middle market quotations of the Company’s ordinary 
shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily 
Official List for the five business days immediately 
preceding the day on which such share is contracted  
to be purchased (exclusive of expenses); and
 d)  this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier,  
15 months after the passing of this Resolution (except in 
relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which 
was concluded before the expiry of such authority and 
which might be executed wholly or partly after such 
expiry) unless such authority is renewed prior to  
such time.
14.  That a general meeting other than an Annual General 
Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ 
notice.
By order of the Board
R Atkinson
Secretary
9 March 2011
Registered office:
Temple Fields
Central Road
Harlow
Essex
CM20 2BH
Registered in England and Wales number 98381 Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Financial highlights 01 
Group overview 02 
Yule Catto – a world class business 03 
Chairman’s statement 04 
Chief Executive’s report  06 
 Polymer Chemicals  06 
 Pharma Chemicals 10 
 Impact Chemicals 10 
 Financial review 12 
 Corporate Social Responsibility report 14
Independent auditors’ report 73 
Company balance sheet 74 
Notes to the Company financial statements 75 
Independent auditors’ report 35 
Consolidated income statement 36 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 37 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 37 
Consolidated balance sheet 38 
Consolidated cash flow statement 39 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 40 
Directors and advisers 22 
Report of the directors 23 
Corporate governance 26 
Directors’ remuneration report 30 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 34 
Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures 82 
Five year financial summary 83 
Notice of meeting 84 
The Group delivered a 19% 
improvement in underlying 
profit before tax and achieved 
a further substantial reduction 
in its debt over the course  
of the year.
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 85
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Note 2. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the  
time (as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by  
the CREST Application Host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to 
retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by 
CREST. After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed 
through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through 
other means. 
10.  CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors 
or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland 
Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for  
any particular message. Normal system timings and limitations will, 
therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.  
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take 
(or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored 
member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that 
his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action 
as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by 
means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, 
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or 
voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections  
of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST 
system and timings. 
11.  The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the 
circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations 2001. 
12.  Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more 
corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its 
powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation  
to the same shares. 
13.  Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting 
the threshold requirements set out in that Section have the right to 
require the company to publish on a website a statement setting  
out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts 
(including the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are 
to be laid before the Annual General Meeting; or 
  (ii) any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company 
ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual 
accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437  
of the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not require the 
shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its 
expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Where the Company is required to place a statement on 
a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must 
forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not later than the 
time when it makes the statement available on the website. The 
business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting 
includes any statement that the Company has been required under 
Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
 
14.  Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.  
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating 
to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer 
need be given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the 
preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential 
information, (b) the answer has already been given on a website in the 
form of an answer to a question, or (c) it is undesirable in the interests 
of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question  
be answered. 
15.  A copy of this notice, and other information required by  
Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at  
www.yulecatto.com.
Designed and produced by The College www.thecollege.uk.com
Notes to the Notice of meeting
1.  Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any  
of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at  
the meeting. A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in 
relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy  
is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or 
shares held by that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder 
of the Company. A proxy form which may be used to make such 
appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice. 
2.  To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy 
must be received by post or (during normal business hours only)  
by hand at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, 
Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY or at the electronic address 
provided in the proxy form, in each case no later than 48 hours before 
the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjourned meeting. 
3.  The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any 
CREST Proxy Instruction (as described in paragraph 9 below) will 
not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting 
and voting in person if he/she wishes to do so. 
4.  Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated 
under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 
rights (a ‘Nominated Person’) may, under an agreement between 
him/her and the shareholder by whom he/she was nominated, have 
a right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a 
proxy for the Annual General Meeting. If a Nominated Person has no 
such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she 
may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to 
the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights. 
5.  The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the 
appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply 
to Nominated Persons. The rights described in these paragraphs 
can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company. 
6.  To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting 
(and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the 
votes they may cast), Shareholders must be registered in the 
Register of Members of the Company at close of business on 
Tuesday 10 May 2011 (or, in the event of any adjournment, on the 
date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting). 
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline 
shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to 
attend and vote at the meeting. 
7.  The Company’s capital consists of 339,880,769 ordinary shares 
with voting rights. 
8.  CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through 
the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by 
using the procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST 
Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those 
CREST members who have appointed a service provider(s), should 
refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will 
be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf. 
9.  In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the 
CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message  
(a ‘CREST Proxy Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in 
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications, 
and must contain the information required for such instruction, as 
described in the CREST Manual (available via www.euroclear.com/
CREST). The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the 
appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given 
to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be 
transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID 3RA50) by 
the latest time(s) for the receipt of proxy appointments specified in  Yule Catto & Co plc  Annual Report 2010
Yule Catto & Co plc
Temple Fields
Harlow
Essex CM20 2BH
UK
T +44 (0)1279 442 791
F +44 (0)1279 641 360
www.yulecatto.com
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual Report
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Being part of 
all our lives
