 innovative international responsive bold analysis
expertise partnership challenging interactive intelligence
leadership advice insight:
annual report and accounts 2002
the sixth
sense of
business 2 TNS annual report 2002 2 TNS annual report 2002
TNS is one of the world’s leading market information groups. 
From offices located in Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific, 
we work together to provide continuous and custom research and
analysis in over 110 countries. We include among our clients most 
of the major multi-national corporations.
Expert teams in specialist sectors around the world combine 
in-depth market knowledge with the latest research techniques and
sophisticated technology, to provide immediate and informed market
measurement, analysis and insight. We think creatively to help our
clients interpret this information into innovative business solutions,
enabling them to develop more effective relationships with their
customers. We become for them the sixth sense of business.
Highlights 2002
Business performance 2002 2001 Change %
Turnover including joint ventures £618.9m £582.7m 6.2
Operating profit* £59.8m £55.2m 8.3
Operating margin* 9.7% 9.5%
Profit before tax* £48.8m £43.5m 12.2
Adjusted earnings per share* 8.6p 8.0p 7.5
Total dividend per share 2.6p 2.4p 8.3
*including joint ventures and before goodwill charges
Statutory results 2002 2001 Change %
Turnover excluding joint ventures £603.2m £575.1m 4.9
Operating profit before joint ventures 
and associates £38.3m £40.5m (5.4)
Profit before tax £28.6m £29.6m (3.4)
Basic earnings per share 3.3p 4.3p (23.3)
TNS and the TNS logo are trade marks owned by Taylor Nelson Sofres plc Our business is evolving to the next stage of its development. 
We have built our global network, based originally on strong local
presence in all the world’s main markets. Now, increasingly, we
operate as TNS – one company with a global presence, making us 
a leader in the market information industry. 
Information remains the bedrock of our business. But today clients 
are looking for more. They want more understanding, clearer direction,
greater certainty. We are providing them with this by becoming their
sixth sense of business. In the next few pages, my executive
committee colleagues show how we are building on our skills, our
expertise and our unique business mix to bring clients closer to their
customers; by giving them greater insight into how people behave 
and what they want. 
06 Making the right 
connections
Bruce Shandler
10 Seeing the total 
solution
Pedro Ros
08 More than information
Jean-Michel Portier
04  Going the extra mile
Sam van der Feltz
24 hours around the world, TNS provides immediate and informed market measurement, analysis and insight.
02 Around the world 
in 24 hours
Mike Penford
Mike Kirkham
Chief Executive
12 At a glance
14 Chairman’s statement
16 Chief Executive’s statement
18 Finance Director’s review
22 Group profit and loss 
account
23 Group and company balance
sheets
24 Group cash flow statement
25 Statement of total recognised 
gains and losses
Reconciliation of movements 
in equity shareholders’ funds
26 Notes to the financial 
statements
53 Independent auditors’ report
54 Main board directors
55 Executive committee
56 Directors’ report
59 Corporate governance
62 Remuneration report
67 Shareholder information
68 Five year summary 08.00
Almaty  Beijing  Guangzhou  Shanghai  Hong Kong  Kolkata  Bangalore  Chennai  New Delhi  Mumbai  Hyderabad  Jakarta  Tokyo  Kuala Lumpur                
09.00
07.00
2 TNS review
What does having a global presence mean to TNS?
Our worldwide reach is one of the group’s greatest assets.
We have a significant presence in all of the world’s main
markets. Our challenge is to leverage that position by using
the network as a distribution channel – a means of bringing
new products and services to the market. By combining this
with our ability to share knowledge, skills and information
across the group, we will make this valuable asset work to its
fullest extent.
Is the group succeeding in acquiring products to sell into 
other markets?
TNS Sport illustrates how being part of the group can add
even more than additional geographic coverage. Before
joining TNS in 2001, the company had developed a good
reputation for sponsorship evaluation in the UK and was
operating internationally through franchises. Its clients
include large corporate sponsors, sports federations,
individual teams or clubs, sports marketing agencies and
governing bodies. They began to want more in-depth
services, involving additional consumer research. The group
was able to meet this demand by combining expertise in
sports sponsorship with the TNS name for consumer
research. This immediately gave TNS Sport a broader range
of products and services, helping it to win new clients and
extend its business with existing ones. Operating as part of
TNS Media Intelligence, the company has used the sector’s
expertise in various countries to win new business. Other
countries are calling in TNS Sport to act as experts on
specific projects. 
Is it common practice to share expertise around the group?
This is a key driver that allows us to introduce new products
and services, particularly in developing markets, faster than
would otherwise be possible. Take political polling –
internationally, we believe we are the largest political polling
organisation in the world. This is very much a localised
activity but the skill sets are the same. So, when our business
in Korea wanted to establish itself in this area, it turned for
help to our specialists in France, where we are the No 1
polling company. By combining the advice and resource it
gained from elsewhere in the group with its local
knowledge, TNS is now the leading political pollster 
in Korea. 
Around the world in 24 hours www.tns-global.com 3
            Mataki City  Cebu City  Davao City  Singapore  Seoul  Taipei  Bangkok  Ho Chi Minh City  Hanoi  Can Tho City  Nha Trang City  Hai Phong  Danang City  Hué  Dalat City
10.00
11.00
Other examples include our rapid establishment of a
regional panel presence in Asia, which now spans eight
countries, using methodology developed for our European
panels and shared client knowledge. The group has taken its
well-established TV audience measurement and media
intelligence skills to the fast-growing Chinese market. In the
space of six years, we have become the number one provider
of these services in China. The TV audience measurement
service operated by our joint venture reports on the viewing
habits of more people than any other in the world and in
adex we monitor around 600 TV channels daily. 
How does the network lend itself to the development of 
pan-regional services?
The group is the largest market information provider in the
Nordic region; the ideal platform for the development of
pan-Nordic services. Internet measurement is a good
example. Using innovative, licensed technology, our site-
centric service has been adopted as the standard for internet
measurement in Denmark, where TNS also specialises in
TV, radio and print readership measurement. Internet has
been fully integrated into our complete media offering.
From that strong base, we have extended into Norway and
Finland and now Sweden where, within a year, we have won
over 40 major clients. 
Pedro Ros will talk later about the value we derive from
having a pan-regional panel presence in Asia. The strength
of this and our European panels is enhanced by the focus we
are placing on global delivery systems. These systems allow
the group to transport ideas easily around the network. 
They enable us to provide clients with consistent global
information, helping them to make regional comparisons
about the performance of their brands and services.
Mike Penford Responsible for UK and
Ireland, Healthcare, branded solutions and
development of syndicated services
Based in the UK
Contact mike.penford@tns-global.com
Regional
Prior to the 2002 World
Cup, a study that polled
over 10,000 people from ten
Asian countries showed that
the battle for Asia’s favourite
football player was being
closely fought between the
UK’s David Beckham (21%)
and Ronaldo of Brazil (19%) Key account management has been established as an integral
part of TNS ongoing strategy. Why? 
Key account management is increasingly a significant driver
for growth in our business. By focusing attention on major
international clients, we are better able to service their
multi-national needs. Healthcare is just one example of a
sector where we have done this very successfully. 
But doesn’t key account management mean more than that – 
what does it mean for your clients? 
It is beneficial to our clients – they receive informed
solutions delivered by a stable team that really understands
their business. 
As we build this partnership, we are in a position to identify
new opportunities and to offer additional products and
services. We gain understanding of clients’ issues in such
depth that we can provide real business intelligence, helping
to develop their decision-making process and offer them an
independent view. 
The ultimate result is that we have become the preferred
supplier to some of the world’s leading companies. 
What gives TNS the confidence to pursue such a strategy?
Our confidence comes from the powerful presence and
quality of people we have around the world. We are in a
position to take both a global and local view of our major
clients’ business issues, in the same way that they
themselves are doing. Whether they look at the world as one
market, or take a regional approach, we have the flexibility
to mirror their view. 
Can you really expect to grow your business with one client
both geographically and into new services?
McDonald’s is an excellent example of where we have
achieved just that. Our association began over ten years ago
in the UK and has grown into a group-wide relationship.
McDonald’s require dedicated teams to provide information
and work with them in using it to make better business
decisions. By focusing on McDonald’s needs, we have
grown our own business. 
The original brand tracking study has now extended to 
29 European countries and Asia Pacific. Miriad™, our
software system, has been introduced as an analysis tool in
Going the extra mile
4 TNS review
Brisbane  Canberra  Melbourne  Sydney  Noumea  Papeete  Brisbane  Canberra  Melbourne  Sydney  Noumea  Papeete  Brisbane  Canberra  Melbourne  Sydney  Noumea        
12.00
13.00 selected markets. We conduct mystery shopping in Spain
and Latin America and are piloting the service in Japan. 
On top of that, our team spends a good deal of time talking
to the client to assess their requirements, allowing us to be
proactive in introducing other products that meet their
needs, such as employee studies and sports sponsorship
evaluation. 
TNS has focused on developing sector expertise. Does this
contribute to successful key account management?
It is an important element of our strategy. Take Motorola, 
a company for which we are now a global preferred research
supplier. It is no secret that telecoms companies have had a
tough time lately but over recent years we have grown our
business with Motorola significantly, mostly on consumer
brand and retail tracking. 
This is an outstanding example of where we combine our
global presence with sector expertise – we really understand
their business. Our key account team works from the US,
UK, Malaysia, China, India, Argentina and Chile, leading
projects that came out of Motorola’s Chicago headquarters.
And how do we manage the client’s needs and issues in
Chicago? We have a TNS expert resident in their HQ,
working as part of their Consumer Insights team. 
Is key account management a driver only in custom business?
It has for a long time also been a valuable tool in the
successful growth of our consumer panels. In many cases,
we have people working out of our clients’ offices. This is an
important factor in client retention and early identification
of new opportunities. Unilever, for example, is a major
client – we have a large team dedicated to that account,
which has a close relationship at senior management level.
This has allowed us to develop a consultancy-type role.
www.tns-global.com 5
Sam van der Feltz Responsible for
Northern and Central Europe
Based in the Netherlands
Contact sam.vanderfeltz@tns-global.com
         Papeete  Brisbane  Canberra  Melbourne  Sydney  Noumea  Papeete  Brisbane  Canberra  Melbourne  Sydney  Noumea  Papeete  Brisbane  Canberra  Melbourne  Sydney
14.00
15.00
16.00
Insight
TNS Global Employee
Commitment survey 2002
interviewed almost 20,000 
full-time employees across 33
countries, using EmployeeScore
to assess levels of employee
commitment. 57% are
committed to the job they 
do but only 51% to the
company they work for 6 TNS review
The group is widely regarded as a leader in internet research.
What has driven your success in this area?
We combine proven research methodologies, specialist
sector expertise and technological know how, which has
enabled us to build a reputation for providing leading
internet research solutions. This is not just helping us to 
win new business; it is also proving to be instrumental in
attracting high quality people who want to work at the
cutting edge of online research.
Where is the largest market for internet research?
To date, by far the largest market for internet research has
been the US, which has grown as online research replaces
traditional methods. In response, early last year we consider-
ably strengthened the internet research capabilities of our
custom business in the US, by acquiring the custom research
division of Greenfield Online (GFOL), which conducts
hundreds of studies annually for blue chip clients. This
brought into the group one of the most experienced teams in
the US in the design and execution of internet research. As
part of the deal, the group secured preferential rights to use
Greenfield’s online panel of over one million individuals.
Are you seeing demand for online research in all of your
specialist sectors?
Yes, especially in IT, Telecoms, Healthcare and Financial
Services. The IT sector is particularly well suited to internet
research, given that a high proportion of survey targets are
online users. Combining our specialist knowledge of the IT
industry with our internet research capabilities, we have
been able to deliver effective online research solutions to our
IT clients.
TNS has a reputation for innovation. How is the group
developing its internet capabilities? 
We have developed web-based research tools that help our
clients to address common internet marketing issues. For
example, WebEval™ is used to evaluate website usability,
while AdEval™ assesses advertising effectiveness. In
addition, the group has been web enabling its branded
solutions. We had already developed an online version of
Miriad™ and have recently introduced The Buy Test™
online, which allows clients to evaluate and test their TV
advertising completely through the internet.
Making the right connections
San Francisco  Los Angeles  Chicago  Montréal  Québec  Dallas Clarksville  Youngstown  Chesapeake  West Chester  Edina  Horsham  Kansas City                
17.00
18.00 www.tns-global.com 7
How has the internet enhanced the way the group delivers
information to clients?
We are seeing a significant increase in the take up of
TNSInfo™, our web portal system that provides clients with
a single online source of information. 
Our clients like TNSInfo. Not only does it give them a secure
source of data that is always up to date, it can be accessed by
multiple users via the internet wherever they are in the
world. TNSInfo offers functionality that enables users to
customise their web page, receive alerts when there are
market developments and undertake their own data analysis. 
The market information and analysis we provide is part of
our clients’ day to day business. TNSInfo is an effective way
of ensuring that information is immediately accessible and
usable. It was recently adopted by a Dutch car dealership as
the method of delivering 900 customer satisfaction reports
to 120 car dealers each month. The results of those reports
provide the basis for the dealers’ monthly bonuses.
Therefore, it is critical that we deliver the results on a timely
basis and in a clear and accurate format. TNSInfo is the
obvious choice.
TNSInfo is an effective tool for the wide dissemination of
information. What role does it play managing key accounts?
Over half of our top 50 clients use TNSInfo and there are
now more than 280 client sites in use in over 52 countries. 
Sam van der Feltz talked earlier about the work we do for
McDonald’s around our global network. TNSInfo has been
very effective in supporting those activities. For example, we
currently provide web delivery of personalised information
to McDonald’s users in 25 countries. TNSInfo has also been
instrumental in helping the group secure new business with
key account clients. 
We will continue to rollout TNSInfo across the network and
develop it as an interactive communications tool, both with
clients and internally for teams managing key accounts.
Bruce Shandler  Responsible for US
custom business and IT
Based in the US
Contact: bruce.shandler@tns-global.com
            San Diego  Atlanta  Princeton  New York  Tucker  Torrance  White Plains  Wilton  Eugene  Chula Vista  Bala Cynwyd  Del Mar  Jenkintown  Princeton
19.00
20.00
21.00
International
TNS Government Online
study interviewed almost 
29,000 people across 31 countries.
30% said they had accessed
government online services, up
from 26% in 2001. Most significant
increases were in Australia, Turkey,
Netherlands and US. Services 
most commonly used were to
search for and download
information  8 TNS review
The proliferation of the media means that its influence 
today is more significant than ever. How does TNS Media
Intelligence help companies understand this increasingly
complex area?
First, we offer a wide range of local and international
monitoring services; these give clients an understanding of
the extent of their media and advertising exposure, and that
of their competitors. Beyond this we undertake a range of
analysis and evaluation, which allows them, for example, to
understand whether they are using the most effective
combination of media for their marketing activities.
A key benefit for our clients is that they can receive, from
one supplier, data and analysis that is comparable across
different forms of media as well as different markets. This
enables them to take a regional, or even a global view on
their strategies. 
How does TNS add insights to the information it collects?
We have a unique source of historical references from our
extensive media databases, some dating back as far as thirty
years, which we use to identify and analyse trends in
advertising and media. We have also developed a range of
analytical and diagnostic tools that can be used, among other
things, to provide an up to date view of the competitive
environment.
In addition, our team of experienced media and advertising
professionals has in-depth market knowledge. They can
devise innovative solutions to media issues. They provide
expert analysis, evaluation and commentary to assist clients
with a range of matters, such as how to optimise the
effectiveness of media, advertising and sponsorship
expenditure, as well as formulate appropriate
communications strategies. 
Technology must play a key role in your ability to provide
such powerful information.
Technology is fundamental to our ability to track, store,
analyse and deliver information continuously on such a
significant scale. Its application has enabled the group to
achieve great efficiencies in media monitoring. For example,
we have developed automatic recognition systems for
monitoring television and radio advertisements, which
identify an ad the first time it appears and then automatically
register each subsequent appearance. 
More than information
Santiago de Chile  Buenos Aires  São Paolo  Mexico City  Monterrey  Tijuana  Santiago de Chile  Buenos Aires  São Paolo  Mexico City  Monterrey                 
22.00
23.00
Predictive
In January, TNS CMR
Media Intelligence forecast
that US advertising expenditure
would grow by 3% in 2003. 
It predicts spending increases
in 2003 for all major media, 
with Spanish language
television, cable TV and internet
expected to lead the way www.tns-global.com 9
              Tijuana  Santiago de Chile  Buenos Aires  São Paolo  Mexico City  Monterrey  Tijuana  Santiago de Chile  Buenos Aires  São Paolo  Mexico City
In the US, TNS tracks over 100 million advertising
occurrences each year, covering more than one million
brands. 
Technology also allows us to deliver to clients immediately,
information that is unique to them. We have developed
extensive online multi-media databases that give clients an
up to the minute view of media coverage and allow them to
download media references and advertisements. The
demand for ever-faster access to data comes from all our
client groups. These range from public relations agencies to
multi-national companies and government services,
including the Spanish Parliament, to which we supply a
daily review of press, radio and television, together with a
media impact analysis.
With globalisation a driving force behind this market, is there
an increasing appetite for international information? 
That’s certainly the case for many of our multi-national
clients, such as L’Oréal, for which we provide worldwide
creative monitoring services. To provide this level of service,
we have developed the capability to integrate and deliver
consistently high quality data from around the world. 
Further, we have responded to our clients’ demands for
information on an international basis by establishing global
monitoring services including Women’s World Adex, which
tracks advertising in women’s magazines from around the
world, and Euro Presse, which monitors the editorial
content in 60 international titles. 
We are rolling out our media services into new regions as
clients launch their products there, such as China, a market
where there is great potential for growth in media activities.
A major consumer buying and lifestyle study of Chinese
print media readers, which we based on long term
established surveys we undertake in France and
Scandinavia, demonstrates how we effectively transfer 
our expertise across the global network.
Jean-Michel Portier Responsible for
Media Intelligence and France
Based in France
Contact jean-michel.portier@tns-global.com
24.00
01.00 ‘Adding value’ is a phrase often used when talking about
market information – what does it mean?
Adding value means helping our clients to get closer to their
customers, by giving them deeper understanding of people’s
behaviour. This allows them to anticipate better the needs of
their customers by providing greater insight into what
people really want – by becoming their sixth sense of
business. With our technology, we can provide clients with
enormous amounts of data but, increasingly, they rely on us
to analyse it for them and advise on appropriate action. 
We have moved from purely describing markets to
predicting future developments. 
TNS has an outstanding reputation in TV audience
measurement. Have the group’s analytical abilities
contributed to this?
The introduction of satellite and digital TV has brought
considerable change to TV audience measurement. With 
the huge number of commercials and programmes being
transmitted, broadcasters and agencies need more than 
raw data. In response, TNS has developed InfoSysTV™ , a
powerful and flexible analysis system, which answers a wide
variety of questions relating to audience behaviour. It is used
in 12 countries by over 4,000 individual users at more than
550 client organisations. It was recently introduced into the
UK and already over 90 per cent of the UK broadcast sector
uses the system to analyse one of the world’s most complex
TV markets. This is high visibility business, with many
clients signing contracts for two years or more.
Is this approach applicable to panel business?
Added value services have been an important element in the
successful development of TNS consumer panels and a
number of new tools are being launched in 2003. Clients use
this analysis to help run their business and our ability to
deliver on a regional scale is very important. Take Colgate
Palmolive in Asia, which has a multi-country, three-year
contract with us. They appreciate the fact that not only can
we compare take-up of a new product launch right across
the region, but also tell them why this has happened. 
We analyse the data in different ways, such as highlighting
the fastest growing categories across each country, enabling
the regional development team to allocate its promotional
resources accordingly. 
Seeing the total solution
Dublin  Lisbõa  Barcelona  Cardiff  Edinburgh  London  Bruxelles  Amsterdam  Paris  Luxembourg  Bielefeld  Milano  Belgrade  Tirana  Sarajevo  Sofia  Bucharest               
10 TNS review
02.00
03.00
04.00 www.tns-global.com 11
Pristina  Kyiv  Warsaw  Budapest  Riga  Vilnius  Prague  Oslo  Stockholm  Copenhagen  Tallinn  Helsinki  Skopje  Athens  Bratislava  Moscow  Istanbul  Ramat Gan
The group has an impressive range of branded solutions; 
what is their role in adding value?
Our recent experience with Renault Nissan is a good
illustration of how we combine products and skills to
provide decision-making tools for clients. This client was
looking for an advertising effectiveness solution for use in 
11 European countries. We drew from expertise across our
sectors in France to form a special team. That team put
together our advertising pre-test, ad tracking, post-test and
media tracking solutions, to produce what we consider to be
one of the most comprehensive advertising tools of its kind.
It assists the client in optimising its selection of media and
communications opportunities.
How do you add value in a data rich environment?
In the Healthcare sector, pharmaceutical companies have
access to a wealth of information but recognise the need to
identify undiagnosed patients earlier. To meet this need,
TNS has developed GeoMedics, which is unique in
identifying neighbourhoods with specific healthcare needs
yet to be diagnosed. This is invaluable information for both
pharmaceutical companies and health service providers.
First launched in the UK, it has potential for expansion into
new markets and new applications are being developed. 
TNS is ideally positioned to build this service, as it requires
in-depth knowledge of the healthcare market, combined
with expertise in consumer data analysis. 
Finally, what is the way forward for the group?
We will continue to maximise the benefits we derive from
our key strengths – our multi-national reach combined with
our local knowledge, our sector expertise and business mix,
our highly skilled people and advanced technology; to all of
these attributes we bring energy and enthusiasm. 
By doing this, we become the company that clients naturally
look to for informed and insightful business solutions across
the world.
Pedro Ros  Responsible for Consumer
Panels, Southern Europe and Latin
America
Based in Spain
Contact pedro.ros@tns-global.com
05.00
06.00
Added value
Only 42% of mobile phone
users in Europe are interested 
in 3G. Bored with the hype, they
want to see the real benefits.
Interest increases when they
realise it can mean high-speed
internet and email. Moving away
from selling 3G as a concept to
packaging services for specific
users may stimulate uptake Media Intelligence TV Audience Measurement
TNS at a glance
12 TNS annual report 2002
What are the main
activities in this
sector? 
Continuous measurement of
consumer purchases and
behaviour using state of the art
technology
Sophisticated data analysis to
provide added value
information to clients
Advertising expenditure
tracking, creative content,
editorial and sports
sponsorship monitoring
Evaluation services across a
wide range of media, including
print, TV, radio, internet,
cinema and outdoor
In depth analysis and strategic
information to support
marketing and public relations
activities
Measurement of people’s
television viewing habits using
Peoplemeter technology to
provide accurate viewing data
to clients, 365 days a year
What types of client
benefit from TNS’
expertise? 
Multi-national and local fmcg
companies, fresh food
suppliers and retailers
Media owners, advertising
agencies, public relations
firms, broadcasters,
publishers, government
departments and NGOs, as
well as international and local
companies
Broadcasters, advertising
agencies, advertisers and TV
production companies
Where does TNS
operate in this
sector? 
TNS operates consumer panels
across 20 countries in Europe,
Asia Pacific and Latin America
TNS operates in 20 countries
in Europe, North America and
Asia Pacific
TNS technology is used to
conduct TV audience
measurement in 25 countries
What insights does
TNS offer its clients? 
TNS provides clients with
valuable insights into
consumer behaviour. These
include evaluation of the effect
of pricing, promotions and
advertising, as well as the use
of panel data in the category
management process and
evaluation of new product
development activity
TNS Media Intelligence
services enable clients to
understand how to enhance
their media exposure and get
the most value from their
advertising, media and
sponsorship expenditure
TNS technology ensures the
provision of continually up-
dated information, to permit
timely tactical changes to
communications plans
TNS audience estimates are
used to negotiate prices for
commercial airtime and plan
TV advertising campaigns
Broadcasters also use TNS
audience data to evaluate the
success of programmes and to
devise future programming
schedules
How has TNS been
growing this sector? 
Extending coverage across the
network, with focus on Asia
Pacific and Latin America
Providing pan-regional
services
Introducing specialist panels,
in response to client demand
Developing in-depth value
added analytical services
Using TNSInfo for web
delivery of personalised data
Key acquisitions to strengthen
the sector and product range
Extending the range of media
covered
Taking cinema monitoring and
sports sponsorship evaluation
across the network
Further development of
sophisticated collection and
delivery methods, as well as
analytical and diagnostic tools
Extending use of InfoSysTV
software, a powerful, flexible
audience analysis and planning
system
Increasing number of countries
in which TV audience
measurement is conducted
Use of Portable People Meters
in partnership with Arbitron
to measure TV and radio
audiences
Consumer Panels Specialist sectors IT Telecoms Healthcare Automotive
www.tns-global.com 13
With its knowledge of the
sector, derived from a team of
world class IT research
specialists and former industry
employees, TNS understands
the needs of IT clients,
enabling it to provide tailored
research solutions
A complete portfolio of
customised services, ranging
from fieldwork to advisory
services
Syndicated services to provide
local and regional information
and analysis to telecoms clients
Custom research throughout
the life cycle of a pharmace-
utical drug, especially new
product development and
post-launch brand tracking
Syndicated healthcare services,
international omnibuses,
multi-client patient record
based monitors and internet
doctor panels
A full range of qualitative and
quantitative research relating
to the automotive industry,
provided by TNS’ team of
industry specialists
Many of the world’s leading
multi-national IT companies
Telecoms service providers,
mobile phone equipment
manufacturers, content
providers and government
regulators
Leading international
pharmaceutical companies and
health services
Major automotive manufac-
turers and distributors, leading
oil and tyre companies and
advertising agencies
TNS provides IT research
solutions in over 85 countries
TNS Telecoms operates across
the global network
TNS has dedicated healthcare
specialists in the key European
markets, the Americas and
Asia Pacific
TNS provides automotive
research in over 30 countries in
Europe, the Americas and Asia
Pacific
TNS research services cover
each stage of the product life
cycle, including market
segmentation, new product
evaluation, advertising
effectiveness tracking, brand
equity evaluation, brand
commitment and customer
satisfaction
Syndicated telecoms services
enable clients to assess
relationships with business
and residential customers,
determine what drives them to
switch providers and protect
their best customers from
competitors
Customised brand and adver-
tising tracking and customer
satisfaction studies span the
network, providing clients
with local and regional data
TNS helps clients develop and
define market opportunities
for new products and track
their post-launch performance
to assess success
TNS offers a range of
syndicated services that
provide companies with
valuable insights into sizing
and segmenting markets, and
tracking brand performance
Specialised customised
services cover brand tracking,
advertising development and
customer loyalty
TNS uses its in-depth
knowledge of the industry to
conduct car clinics and mystery
shopping programmes, as well
as after sales industry and
market projection studies. 
TNS also runs syndicated
vehicle quality studies for car
manufacturers
Developing leading internet
based research solutions 
Strengthening key account
management to win multi-
country business
More pan-European and 
pan-Asian studies
Developing syndicated
services – Pan European UMTS
monitor launched in 2002
Launching indices, such as the
Nordic Telecom Index, and
developing for other regions
Strengthening key account
management relationships
Developing syndicated
services such as transact SRI
and transact Geomedics
Prime, a panel that monitors
individuals’ health and
treatment, launched in US 
Increasing focus on data collec-
tion and delivery via internet
Strengthening regional
presence
Continued promotion and
strengthening of TNS’ position
as a leader in multi-country
tracking studies
Strengthening  presence in
major multi-country
syndicated services
Extending regional team in
Asia Pacific to develop and
manage multi-country projects
in that region 14 TNS annual report 2002
2002 results
I believe our results for 2002 represent a creditable
performance and indicate that our strategy will deliver
longer-term returns for our shareholders. In order to be in a
position to deliver those returns when the markets in which
we operate recover, we continued to invest in developments
aligned with our strategic aims, while taking a rigorous
approach to costs during the year.
During 2002, the group’s reported turnover including joint
ventures increased by 6.2 per cent to £618.9 million 
(2001 £582.7 million). This includes acquisitions made
during the year to strengthen the group’s position in the US
market and Media Intelligence sector and reinforce its online
research capabilities, as well as to extend its operations into
Sweden and Greece. Underlying growth, excluding the
effect of currency, acquisitions and operations discontinued
during the year, was 0.5 per cent. Turnover excluding joint
ventures was £603.2 million (2001 £575.1 million).
Operating profit including joint ventures and before
goodwill charges was up 8.3 per cent to £59.8 million 
(2001 £55.2 million). During the year, the group continued
to focus on cost control and reviewed the viability of both
lower-margin contracts and lower-performing businesses. 
The latter led to the closure of certain operations, the cost of
which held back the degree of margin growth for the year.
However the other actions taken, together with progressing
the business mix to 50 per cent syndicated/continuous 
and 50 per cent ad hoc customised, contributed to an
improvement in operating margin before goodwill charges
to 9.7 per cent (2001 9.5 per cent). Group operating profit
before joint ventures and after goodwill charges fell by 5.4
per cent to £38.3 million (2001 £40.5 million). 
Profit before tax and goodwill charges grew by 12.2 per cent
to £48.8 million (2001 £43.5 million). Goodwill charges of
£20.2 million (2001 £13.9 million) comprise amortisation of
£13.9 million (2001 £9.0 million) and impairments of 
£6.3  million (2001 £4.9 million). Given the ongoing
uncertainty over the section of the US telecoms market in
which Indetec operates, the goodwill carrying value of
£4.3m has been written off. The balance of the impairment
relates to Tellex, reflecting the current difficult trading
environment for media intelligence companies in the UK.
Profit before tax and after goodwill charges decreased by 
3.4 per cent to £28.6 million (£29.6 million).
Adjusted earnings per share before goodwill charges were
8.6p, an increase of 7.5 per cent (2001 8.0p). Basic earnings
per share fell by 23.3 per cent to 3.3p (2001 4.3p). The board
is recommending a final dividend of 1.7p per share 
(2001 1.6p), giving an 8.3 per cent increase in the total
dividend for the year of 2.6p (2001 2.4p).
Board developments
During 2002, we were pleased to welcome two new non-
executive directors to the group. Rob Rowley, previously
Finance Director of Reuters Group PLC, joined the board in
September. He brings significant business and finance
experience, together with a broad understanding of the
information industry, all of which are highly relevant to our
operations. He was nominated senior independent director
with effect from the start of this year.
Rémy Sautter became a non-executive director in November
2002. He is Chairman of Channel 5 and RTL Radio. His
extensive experience in international media and with French
business and financial institutions will be of great value to
us, as we continue to develop and grow the company. 
At the end of 2002, Deputy Chairman Nick Hodges retired
from the board. Nick joined us as a non-executive director at
the time of the Sofres merger in 1997, which transformed the
group into a world leader. With his highly-developed
understanding of the commercial world, he made a
Chairman’s statement
In a year when our clients’ marketing budgets were under severe pressure, TNS increased
both profit before goodwill and turnover, to become the world’s third largest market
information company in terms of revenue.
14 TNS annual report 2002 www.tns-global.com 15
significant contribution to the board’s deliberations and
decisions. Jacques-Henri David, who had been a non-
executive director since 1998, left the board on 31 January
2003. His international business experience has been very
useful to us as we developed our global network. 
On behalf of shareholders, I thank these directors for their
valuable input and, on a personal level, I am most grateful
for the advice and support they have given to me.
Reinforcing the group’s position
Over the past few years, we have built the group into one of
the world’s strongest forces in market information and TNS
now operates increasingly as one company with a global
presence. Our new branding reinforces this positioning and
emphasises the power and coherence of our network,
reflecting our ability to develop key account relationships
with our multi-national clients. It also supports the greater
focus we are placing on added value and advisory services. 
Recognising our people 
As a global leader, we are attracting into the group high
calibre people, those with ambitions to work in one of the
industry’s top companies. This includes people with
particular expertise in our specialist sectors, as well as
market information professionals. They, like those already
working with us, are people with the drive, skills and
ambition to exploit the group’s significant potential to 
the full. 
By increasing our focus on training and development, 
we ensure that these skills are further advanced. TNS
University, Finance in Business, Managing People and
Performance are just some of the many training programmes
that we have developed to build and strengthen the quality
of our teams. Over the past year, we have seen a number of
the younger managers from within the group move up into
the top position in their operations. 
As our people develop, so do our reward systems and we are
extending the use of performance-driven incentives, to align
the interests of senior management closely with those of
shareholders. 
As I write this, we are living in a time of great political and
economic uncertainty. Such times are difficult ones in which
to operate but I am constantly reassured by the sheer hard
work and dedication shown by my 9,000 colleagues around
the world. On behalf of shareholders, I thank them for all
that they have done and continue to do.
Tony Cowling Chairman
98
99
00
01
02
98
99
00
01
02
618.9
582.7
479.3
380.9
342.0
Turnover*
£ million
Profit before tax and
goodwill charges
£ million
48.8
43.5
37.8
32.5
25.3*
www.tns-global.com 15
* before exceptional profit
* including joint ventures 16 TNS annual report 2002
The markets in which we operate
In order to put our 2002 results into context, it is important
to understand the operating environment. To do this, it is
helpful to split the market into its constituent parts. 
Syndicated business, such as consumer panels and television
audience measurement services, together with continuous
tracking contracts, maintained their growth. Media
Intelligence, however, was affected by the poor advertising
and public relations environment and, although our business
was flat, we believe that the market for these services
probably declined. On the customised ad hoc side, there
were regional variations but the market became weaker as
the year progressed and will not recover substantially until
we see some economic recovery. 
Growing fast in Asia Pacific
The Asia Pacific region still accounts for a relatively small
percentage of our turnover but the performance in 2002
illustrates our ability to push ahead in areas with the
greatest growth potential. Over the past few years, we have
been investing steadily in consumer panels in Asia and now
offer pan-regional data. There is further potential to build up
this business through the introduction of new products and
services, many of which will be modelled on those already
used by our European panels. 
We operate in 13 countries in the region but our largest
business is now in China, where the group has established a
strong and profitable position. The television audience
measurement service, operated by our joint venture,
monitors the viewing habits of more people than any other
service in the world. During 2002, we increased to 16 the
number of cities in which we run metered panels and we
have 85 diary panels. 
At the same time, our Media Intelligence and Consumer
Panel activities grew significantly, benefiting from the
transfer of technology and products from other parts of the
group. We are also introducing the TNS Sport monitoring
service into China, ahead of the Beijing Olympics. Our
concentration on one of the world’s fastest-growing
economies is a further example of how we are investing in
the future of the group.
Focus on key account management
An important development in the industry is the increased
emphasis on key account management. This has enabled us
to develop significant business with clients such as
Motorola, McDonald’s, AstraZeneca and Novartis. In each
case, the depth of our global coverage, sector expertise and
range of services have been important factors. 
The success of this approach is exemplified by our
appointment as IBM’s primary corporate research provider.
Under this agreement, IBM will outsource its corporate
headquarters market information needs to TNS. This
includes customer commitment and global brand research
covering over 85 countries and will use TNS branded
solutions. 
Responding to demand for increased analysis 
and understanding
A further change in the market information industry, 
which benefits TNS, is the growing demand from clients 
for increasingly sophisticated analysis and solutions-based
services. 
A recent contract win illustrates how we are able to meet
this demand. In early 2003, in France, we developed an
innovative system for advising clients on the optimum
media selection for all their consumer communications. 
This approach combines expertise from various parts of our
business and was instrumental in securing a major contract
from Renault Nissan.  
Chief Executive’s statement
The group’s advance over the past few years has been driven by a strategy that remains
appropriate for today’s markets. Our concentration on this strategy and our continued
investment into new developments should fuel our longer-term growth. www.tns-global.com 17
This demand for analytical solutions also applies to
television audience measurement (TAM), leading to the
success of InfoSysTV, the group’s integrated analysis
system, which is now in use in 12 countries. Following its
recent introduction into the UK, virtually all broadcasters,
including the BBC, are now using the system as their
primary analysis tool. We continue to invest in InfoSysTV
and new modules will be introduced during 2003. 
One planned adaptation is to enable the system to analyse
data from the Portable People Meter (PPM), the new
approach to audience measurement that we are marketing in
conjunction with its developer, Arbitron. TNS recently won
a contract with two Belgian broadcasting companies to
research both the listening and viewing habits of the Flemish
community. This is the first commercial implementation of
a PPM panel in the world, although we have been success-
fully using the technology within our TAM service in
Singapore for the past two years. 
The ability to monitor both television and radio exposure
with the same device opens up tremendous opportunities
for insight into audience behaviour. We are about to start an
extensive test of this system in Russia, where TNS already
operates a TAM service.
Looking ahead
In 2003, we expect our markets to progress along broadly
similar lines to the previous year. Syndicated panel and
continuous services should maintain steady growth, while
Media Intelligence and customised ad hoc are dependent on
the recovery in advertising/public relations and the
economic environment respectively. Given these factors, 
we do not expect the overall market to achieve growth above
the low single digit level. 
TNS will maintain its focus on initiatives that allow the
group to derive the maximum benefit from its global
network, sector spread and mix of continuous/syndicated
and customised activities, which we believe to be unique
within our industry. 
We will continue to invest in developments that position
the group at the forefront of the industry and that should
drive organic growth.  
We are targeting an operating margin in excess of 10 per cent
in 2003, as we benefit from the actions taken in 2002,
together with an ongoing focus on cost control and progress
in business mix. 
With the current political and economic uncertainty, it is
difficult to predict the group's outlook for the year as a
whole. January saw a steady start to the year, with total
committed orders ahead of 2002.
Mike Kirkham Chief Executive 18 TNS annual report 2002
OPERATING REVIEW
Turnover
Acquisitions contributed  6.9 per cent of turnover growth.
Two items held back turnover: foreign currency translation,
0.8 per cent and discontinued operations 0.3 per cent.
Commentary is given on results before goodwill charges, as
this is the primary basis on which the business is managed.
Commentary is also given on statutory numbers.
Regional turnover performance
Year to 31 Dec Change
2002 2001 Reported Underlying
£m £m % %
UK 125.4 132.5 (5.3) (6.2)
France 109.3 107.5 1.6 0.7
Rest of Europe 178.9 167.1 7.1 2.1
Total Europe 413.6 407.1 1.6 (0.9)
Americas 150.4 130.7 15.1 (1.2)
Asia Pacific 54.9 44.9 22.2 17.6
Total 618.9 582.7 6.2 0.5
UK
Turnover in the UK declined by 6.2 per cent on an
underlying basis. The majority of this fall can be attributed
to the termination of the BARB TV audience measurement
contract at the end of 2001. The remainder occurred within
the customised business, which was noticeably softer
towards the end of the year. Despite difficult market
conditions, the healthcare business in the UK continued to
build on the success of 2001. 
Within UK continuous and syndicated research, the
consumer panel business had a good year. The household
panel recorded some significant client wins and the success
of the strategy of introducing new individuals panels was
illustrated by good revenue growth. In the media sector, 
the acquisition of the broadcast division of BMC News was
completed in April. This business has been integrated into
TNS Media Intelligence and the anticipated cost synergies
are being achieved. 
France
Underlying growth of 0.7 per cent was recorded in France
with a good performance in Consumer Panels, IT/Telecoms
and Automotive. Towards the end of the year, the group
won some significant contracts, particularly for multi-
country business. However, growth levels were impacted by
the termination of the NetValue internet panel contract at
the end of 2001, which represented over four per cent of the
country’s turnover. 
Rest of Europe
This region continued its record of steady progress. Growth
in Germany was again ahead of the market, fuelled by an
increase in tracking contracts in Healthcare and Business
Services. There was evidence, however, of a slowdown in
the German market during the second half. TNS’ market-
leading position across the Nordic countries was reinforced
by the acquisition made in Sweden in July. The Russian
business, acquired in 2001, has developed well, as local
management takes full advantage of the benefits associated
with being part of an international group. Markets in
Southern Europe were generally slow during 2002 but the
group performed well, particularly in Consumer Panels and
Healthcare. In May, TNS entered the Greek market through a
joint venture. 
Americas
The group’s position in the US was strengthened as
strategically important acquisitions were made to reinforce
both syndicated and customised activities. On an underlying
Finance Director’s review
Reported turnover, including joint ventures, increased by 6.2 per cent to £618.9 million in
2002. Operating in a difficult worldwide market environment, the group achieved underlying
improvement of 0.5 per cent. www.tns-global.com 19
basis, the US customised business grew by around four per
cent, once again out-performing the market. This excellent
performance was driven primarily by significant contract
wins in the IT sector and the success of branded solutions.
The integration of Greenfield Online has significantly
improved the group’s capabilities in internet data collection,
which is becoming increasingly important in the US market.
The acquisition in April of Elrick & Lavidge provided
improved coverage of the important FMCG sector and the
business has performed ahead of the group’s expectations.
The weak US advertising market had an adverse impact on
the group’s US media intelligence business, compounded by
the loss of some clients through company failure and
mergers. As a result, TNS CMR reported a slight underlying
decline for the year. 2002 was, however, an important year
in terms of new product development and the strengthening
of internet advertising tracking. TNS CMR has a strong
market position and should perform better as the advertising
market begins to recover.
In Latin America, Consumer Panels grew in local currency.
The custom businesses in Mexico and Argentina continued
to be affected by the difficult economic environment but
saw some improvement in the second half.
Asia Pacific
From its well-established position across Asia Pacific, the
group again performed well, achieving underlying growth of
17.6 per cent. The joint venture operations in China
continued to flourish, with good growth in custom, Media
Intelligence and TV audience measurement, as well as
Consumer Panels. Consumer Panels generally in Asia again
achieved strong results and pan-regional coverage was
extended as the new panel in Vietnam came on line. On a
country basis, Korea, Taiwan and Thailand performed
particularly well. 
Sector turnover performance
Year to 31 Dec Change
2002 2001 Reported Underlying
£m £m % %
Consumer 187.8 182.6 2.8 (0.8)
Media 160.9 152.3 5.6 (3.0)
Business services 92.1 85.7 7.4 1.2
IT/Telecoms 69.8 59.8 16.8 8.2
Healthcare 47.3 42.8 10.4 9.1
Other activities 61.0 59.5 2.7 (1.3)
Total 618.9 582.7 6.2 0.5
Consumer
Underlying performance was impacted by the loss of the
NetValue contract, which represented about 2.5 per cent of
the sector as a whole. In Europe, steady growth was achieved
in Consumer Panels, with the addition of a number of new
added-value products for existing panels and new services. 
The household panel in France benefited from an extension
to its portfolio of services, while the focus on a global
approach to data delivery continues to be an important
development. There are on-going plans for the introduction
of more new products and the further development of the
sector’s successful key account management strategy. 
With an increasing demand in Asia and Latin America for
information about consumer behaviour, panels in these
regions continue to grow. The group anticipates maintaining
steady progress in this area of activity.
Overall, the consumer customised business performed
better in the second half, with the exception of the UK,
where clients deferred a number of projects into 2003. The
strongest growth was in Asia Pacific and Latin America,
mirroring the demand for information experienced by the
Consumer Panel operations. 
98
99
00
01
02
98
99
00
01
02
59.8*
55.2*
44.4
34.0
28.5
Operating profit before
goodwill charges
£ million
Operating margin
before goodwill
charges
per cent
9.7
9.5
9.3
8.9
8.3
* including joint ventures 20 TNS annual report 2002
Demand for Consumer Panels is expected to grow but the
performance of the customised business will be more
dependent on the economic climate. 
Media
The underlying sector decline of 3.0 per cent is due to the
termination of the BARB contract at the end of 2001.
Without this impact, the sector would have seen growth of
1.4 per cent. Media Intelligence services in general were
affected by the continued weakness in advertising and public
relations. Some growth was achieved in Europe and Asia,
principally driven by good performances in Russia and
China but this was held back by the decline in TNS CMR in
the US. The foundations of this predominantly syndicated
business, however, were reinforced during the year, both by
acquisition and the introduction of new services. 
The online advertising tracking division in the US was
strengthened by the acquisition of Evaliant. The further
development of online services for the immediate delivery
to clients of advertising expenditure and creative data has
led to new business wins. In the UK, France and Spain, new
web-based product offerings proved successful and are
expected to provide growth going forward. Recovery in the
advertising and public relations markets will be the trigger
for an upturn in this sector’s turnover performance. 
The performance of the television audience measurement
sector was also supported by strong growth in Russia and
China. The group’s technology was used in retaining the
Belgian contract and its diary service in Estonia was
switched to Peoplemeters. These meters were also installed
under a licence arrangement in the Dominican Republic and
were introduced into a national service in Serbia. Early this
year, the group won a five-year contract for radio and TV
measurement in the Flemish-speaking areas of Belgium, in
association with Arbitron, and its TAM contract in Israel
was extended for a further four years. 
Business services
The US and Germany continued to perform well in this
sector. Significant reductions in research spend by the large
professional services firms resulted in a disappointing
outturn in the UK, while France saw a downturn in its
corporate communication and image work. In the current
economic climate, this sector will continue to be challenging
in 2003.
IT/Telecoms
The group’s ability to provide analysis of multi-national data
and key account management in the IT sector have been the
main drivers of the outstanding performance in this sector.
TNS’ recent appointment as the primary corporate research
provider for IBM is a clear illustration of the success of this
approach. The group is also benefiting from its ability to
provide interactive solutions and the use of branded
solutions in brand and advertising tracking and customer
satisfaction studies. 
Key account management has also proven successful in the
Telecoms sector, with major international accounts being
co-ordinated on a regional basis and a strong emphasis on
transferring skills from one part of the network to another.
In the US, the severe downturn in the telecoms market,
combined with financial problems at two of its major
clients, led to a further decrease in Indetec turnover. This
business has now been brought under the management of
TNS Intersearch, offering US clients a combined syndicated
and custom TNS Telecoms service.  
While the IT and Telecoms industries are still under
pressure, the ongoing demand for information on consumer
demand and behaviour is expected to continue.
Healthcare
TNS Healthcare has a very strong reputation in the market
and continued to build on its excellent performance in 2001,
improving by 9.1 per cent on an underlying basis.
International business continued to grow, as the group won
further new product development contracts. In the UK, the
Omnimed survey among GPs has grown well, particularly
benefiting from its internet data collection. The focus on
development of new syndicated services has continued,
particularly in the sales research area. The group is
leveraging its healthcare expertise across the network, by
introducing specialists into Asia and European countries
where it has not had a local healthcare presence previously. 
The US and French domestic business disappointed in the
second half, as some sizeable studies conducted during that
period in 2001 were not repeated and, with fewer new drug
approvals in the US, the market appeared to slow. However,
with its strong market position, the group expects to see
growth in this sector during 2003.  www.tns-global.com 21
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Operating profit and margin
Operating profit including joint ventures and before
goodwill charges increased by 8.3 per cent to £59.8 million
(2001 £55.2 million). Operating margin before goodwill
charges improved from 9.5 per cent to 9.7 per cent, partly
due to the improved mix of continuous/syndicated services
to customised ad hoc, now 50:50 (2001 49:51). A review 
of the Indetec business in the US and Tellex in the UK
resulted in impairments of £6.3 million to the carrying 
value of goodwill. Total goodwill charges for 2002 were
£20.2 million (2001 £13.9 million), including the
impairment of £6.3 million (2001 £4.9 million). 
Operating margin after goodwill charges was 6.4 per cent
(2001 7.1 per cent) and operating profit including joint
ventures was down by 4.1 per cent to £39.6 million 
(2001 £41.3 million).
Associates
Income from associates rose to £0.2 million (2001 £nil), 
due to improved performance in those companies. There 
has been no change in associate holdings.
Interest
The net interest charge was £10.5 million (2001 
£10.8 million), reflecting improved treasury management
during the course of the year, together with lower interest
rate levels. Interest cover against EBITDA was 7.6x 
(2001 6.9x). The additional finance charge of £0.7 million
(2001 £0.9 million) represents the amortisation of bank
facility arrangement fees of £0.3 million (2001 £0.3 million),
together with notional interest relating to deferred
consideration on acquisitions of £0.4 million (2001 
£0.6 million). Notional interest is not a cash item but is
recognised in accordance with FRS 7.
Effective tax rate
The group’s effective tax rate before goodwill charges was
31.5 per cent (2001 30.5 per cent), with the rise primarily due
to the greater level of profits generated from higher tax
countries. 
Minority interests
Minority interests increased to £0.7 million (2001 
£0.4 million) due to the improved profit performance in a
number of subsidiaries, in particular the Russian media
businesses. In addition, the 2002 results include a full year 
of the MDC group, which was acquired in March 2001.
Capital expenditure
Total capital expenditure for 2002 amounted to 
£16.2 million (2001 £20.0 million). The main category of
asset expenditure was computer hardware and software,
which includes work undertaken on web portals and the
acquisition of palm pilot kits for use in consumer panels.
Capital investment into the business continued at a similar
rate to 2001, excluding the expenditure on major property
improvements undertaken that year. 
Cash flow and net debt
Net cash inflow from operating activities was £67.0 million
(2001 £72.7 million). The movement in working capital is
primarily due to an increase of 5.9 per cent in trade debtors,
to £134.6 million (2001 £127.1 million), slightly below the
rate of turnover growth. Net cash outflow from acquisitions
and disposals was £19.4 million (2001 £85.2 million) and
closing net debt reduced to £204.8 million (2001 
£209.2 million). 
Impact of financial reporting standards
The group continues to monitor the accounting treatment
for its pension obligations under the transitional
arrangements of the proposed new standard, FRS 17. As at
the year end the market value of assets was £12.6 million 
and the net present value of the liabilities was £14.6 million. 
The net pension liability under FRS 17, net of deferred tax,
would be £2.3 million, compared with the SSAP 24
provision carried on the balance sheet at the year end of 
£2.6 million. The group has adopted FRS 19 ‘Deferred
Taxation’ in the accounts by maintaining full provisions for
deferred taxation.
David Lowden Finance Director Group profit and loss account
for the year ended 31 December
2002 2001
Notes £m £m
Continuing activities 601.9 582.7
Acquisitions 17.0 –
Turnover 618.9 582.7
Less share of joint ventures (15.7) (7.6)
Turnover excluding joint ventures 2 603.2 575.1
Cost of sales (212.3) (206.0)
Gross profit 390.9 369.1
Administrative expenses (352.6) (328.6)
Operating profit
Continuing activities (after goodwill charges of £18.6m, 2001 £13.7m) 38.7 40.5
Acquisitions (after goodwill charges of £1.0m, 2001 £nil) (0.4) –
Operating profit before joint ventures and associates 2 38.3 40.5
Share of operating profit of joint ventures
(after goodwill charges of £0.6m, 2001 £0.2m) 1.3 0.8
Operating profit including joint ventures before goodwill charges 2 59.8 55.2
Goodwill charges (20.2) (13.9)
Operating profit including joint ventures 39.6 41.3
Share of operating profit of associates 0.2 –
Profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 39.8 41.3
Interest receivable and similar income 0.8 0.6
Interest payable 5 (11.3) (11.4)
Other finance charges 5 (0.7) (0.9)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 3 28.6 29.6
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 6 (15.5) (13.3)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 13.1 16.3
Minority interests (0.7) (0.4)
Profit for the year 12.4 15.9 
Dividends 8 (10.0) (9.0)
Retained profit for the year 2.4 6.9 
Adjusted earnings per share before goodwill charges 9 8.6p 8.0p
Basic earnings per share 9 3.3p 4.3p
Diluted earnings per share 9 3.2p 4.1p
Dividend per share 8 2.6p 2.4p
There is no difference between the profit on ordinary activities before taxation and the retained profit for the year stated above, 
and their historical cost equivalents.
22 TNS annual report 2002 Group and company balance sheets
at 31 December
GROUP COMPANY
2002 2001 2002 2001
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 10 178.6 202.0 – –
Tangible assets 11 56.1 58.3 – – 
Investments
Share of gross assets of joint ventures 22.3 19.2 – –
Share of gross liabilities of joint ventures (3.7) (2.1) – –
13 18.6 17.1 – –
Associates 13 0.9 0.7 – –
Other investments 13 8.3 7.9 412.8 417.5 
27.8 25.7 412.8 417.5 
262.5 286.0 412.8 417.5 
Current assets
Stock 14 28.8 34.0 – – 
Debtors 15 159.3 144.4 54.5 40.9 
Cash at bank and in hand 35.6 24.1 1.8 4.9 
223.7 202.5 56.3 45.8 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 16 (219.2) (192.6) (49.2) (24.1)
Net current assets 4.5 9.9 7.1 21.7 
Total assets less current liabilities 267.0 295.9 419.9 439.2 
Creditors: amounts falling due after 
more than one year 16 (202.5) (220.6) (286.4) (312.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 17 (23.6) (32.3) – – 
Net assets 40.9 43.0 133.5 126.4 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 20 19.6 19.5 19.6 19.5 
Share premium 22 105.3 102.7 105.3 102.7 
Other reserves 22 1.2 0.9 0.8 0.5 
Merger reserve 22 – – 1.6 1.6 
Profit and loss account 22 (90.5) (85.2) 6.2 2.1 
Equity shareholders’ funds 35.6 37.9 133.5 126.4
Minority interests 5.3 5.1 – – 
40.9 43.0 133.5 126.4
The financial statements on pages 22 to 52 were approved by the board on 10 March 2003 and were signed on its behalf by
David Lowden, Finance Director
www.tns-global.com 23 Group cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December
2002 2001
Notes £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Net cash inflow from continuing operating activities 24 67.0 72.7
Dividends from associated undertakings 0.1 0.1
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 0.9 0.5
Interest paid (10.7) (12.0)
Dividends paid to minority interests (0.4) –
Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance (10.2) (11.5)
Taxation
Taxation paid (15.3) (11.6)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (16.2) (19.8)
Purchase of intangible fixed assets – (0.2)
Purchase of investments (0.1) (0.1)
Purchase of own shares (2.2) –
Sale of tangible fixed assets 1.0 1.0 
Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment (17.5) (19.1)
Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 24 (5.9) (73.7)
Purchase of businesses 24 (13.6) –
Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings and businesses 24 0.2 0.6
Purchase of joint ventures and associates (0.2) (12.1)
Sale of joint ventures 0.1 –
Net cash outflow from acquisitions and disposals (19.4) (85.2)
Equity dividends paid (9.5) (8.5)
Cash outflow before financing (4.8) (63.1)
Financing
Proceeds on exercise of share options 3.8 4.8
Increase in debt 12.5 63.1
Increase in cash in the year 24 11.5 4.8
24 TNS annual report 2002 Statement of total recognised gains and losses
for the year ended 31 December
2002 2001
£m £m
Profit for the year 12.4 15.9
Amounts arising on the exercise of share options 0.3 0.5
Translation differences on foreign currency net investments less translation differences
on foreign currency loans taken out to fund those investments (7.3) (2.5)
Tax on gains/(losses) on foreign currency borrowings hedging foreign investments 0.7 (0.5)
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year 6.1 13.4
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
for the year ended 31 December
2002 2001
£m £m
Profit for the year 12.4 15.9
Dividends (10.0) (9.0)
2.4 6.9
Amounts deducted in respect of shares issued to a qualifying employee share ownership trust (1.1) (1.0)
Amounts arising on the exercise of share options 0.3 0.5
Share of former associates – (0.4)
Translation differences on foreign currency net investments less translation differences on
foreign currency loans taken out to fund those investments (net of taxation) (6.6) (3.0)
New share capital issued (including share premium) 2.7 1.7
Net (reduction)/addition to equity shareholders’ funds (2.3) 4.7
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 37.9 33.2
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 35.6 37.9
www.tns-global.com 25 26 TNS annual report 2002
Notes to the financial statements
1 Accounting policies 
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with applicable UK Accounting
Standards. The transitional arrangements of FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’ have been adopted, which require additional disclosures
in respect of retirement benefits, as set out in note 19. FRS 19 ‘Deferred Taxation’ has been adopted in these financial statements.
The adoption of this standard represents a change in accounting policy, however the effect is not material and therefore
comparative figures have not been restated. A summary of the principal group accounting policies, which have been applied
consistently, is given below.
Basis of consolidation
The group financial statements consolidate the results of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and its subsidiary undertakings up to 
31 December 2002. The results of all subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of are accounted for under acquisition
accounting rules and are included in the profit and loss account from the effective date of control. Intra-group sales and profits are
eliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures are those entities in which the group holds a long-term interest and which are jointly controlled by the group and
one or more venturers under a contractual agreement. Joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method of
accounting.
Associates are those undertakings, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the group holds a long-term participating
interest and exerts a significant influence. The group’s share of profits/losses of associates is included in the group profit and loss
account and the group’s share of their net assets, together with goodwill arising on acquisition, is included in the group balance
sheet.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable net assets
acquired. Goodwill arising on consolidation for acquisitions made since 1 January 1998 is amortised in equal annual instalments
over its estimated useful economic life of up to 20 years, and charged to the profit and loss account. Goodwill is subject to an
impairment review at the end of the first full year following an acquisition and at any other time, if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Foreign currencies
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet
date. Transactions in foreign currencies are converted at rates of exchange prevailing at the date the transactions were made.
Foreign exchange differences are dealt with through the profit and loss account, except for differences arising on the retranslation
of loans taken out to finance overseas subsidiaries, which are dealt with through reserves. 
Financial statements of overseas operations are translated using the closing rate net investment method, except that profits and
losses of overseas operations are translated at the average exchange rate applicable to the period. Differences arising on
translation of the net assets of overseas operations are dealt with through reserves and are reported in the statement of total
recognised gains and losses.
Revenue recognition
Revenue and profits on short term projects are recognised on the completion of the project. Costs incurred on projects up to
completion are included within work-in-progress. Revenue and profits on long term or continuous projects are recognised on the
satisfactory completion of each phase of the project. Costs incurred on projects are included within work-in-progress until
completion of each phase. Amounts invoiced to clients in advance of revenue and profits being recognised are shown as
payments received on account within creditors. Provisions are made for losses on projects as soon as they are identified.
Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions for any permanent diminution in the value of investments.
Tangible and intangible fixed assets
Fixed assets are stated at original cost or, where appropriate, fair value when acquired, less accumulated depreciation. Assets
under construction consist of costs directly attributable to purchasing and installing tangible fixed assets ahead of their productive
use. External and internal costs are capitalised to the extent that they enhance the future economic benefits of the business. www.tns-global.com 27
Internal costs are only capitalised if they are also incremental to the group. Provisions are made where the value of assets has been
impaired in relation to their value-in-use to the business and charged to the profit and loss account. Depreciation is calculated to
write off the cost less the estimated residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows:
Freehold land no depreciation
Freehold buildings 33 years
Short leasehold land and buildings period of lease
Patents, licences and other 20 years or remaining life if shorter
Goodwill 20 years or estimated useful economic life if shorter
Software and databases 15 years or remaining life if shorter
Leasehold improvements 10 years or period of lease if shorter
Fixtures, fittings, equipment and motor vehicles 3 – 10 years
No depreciation is charged on assets under construction until they are brought into use by the business.
Finance and operating leases
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised and depreciated over their useful lives, or the term of
the lease if shorter, at the rate applicable to fixed assets of a similar category owned by the group. Rentals under operating leases
are charged directly to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Work-in-progress
Work-in-progress is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes direct costs incurred on incomplete client
projects and an appropriate element of specifically attributable overheads.
Pension arrangements
The group operates a number of contributory pension plans. The majority of employees participate in defined contribution plans
that are set up through insurance companies. Contributions are also made to personal pension plans at equivalent rates.
Payments in respect of such current service contributions are charged in the financial statements as they fall due.
The group also operates defined benefit plans which provide pensions based on final salaries. The expected cost of pensions in
respect of these plans is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the service lives of
employees in the plans. Variations from the regular cost are spread over the expected remaining service lives of current employees
in the plan. The pension cost is assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified independent actuaries.
Employee share ownership plans and QUEST
Shares in Taylor Nelson Sofres plc held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) and the Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) 
have been included within fixed asset investments and are stated at cost less provisions for any permanent diminution in value.
Net operating income from the plans is included under interest receivable and similar income in the group’s consolidated profit
and loss account. Costs of administration are included in the profit and loss account as they accrue. Profits arising on the disposal
of shares held by the EBT as a result of the exercise of options are taken to other reserves. Contributions made by the company
to the QUEST in respect of SAYE options exercised during the year are charged directly to reserves.
Deferred consideration
Where acquisitions involve further payments that are deferred or contingent on levels of performance achieved in the years
following acquisition, the profit and loss account is charged with notional interest to eliminate the benefit which the group is
temporarily saving. The notional interest charged is calculated by reference to the period of deferral, current interest rates and the
amount of the likely payments.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Tax deferred or accelerated by the effect of timing
differences is accounted for to the extent that a transaction or event that has occurred at the balance sheet date gives rise to an
obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that, based on
available evidence, it is more likely than not that suitable taxable profits will arise from which the reversal of the asset can be
deducted.
Bank facility arrangement fees
Bank facility arrangement fees are capitalised and charged to the profit and loss account in equal annual instalments over the life
of the bank facilities. 28 TNS annual report 2002
Notes to the financial statements
2Geographic analysis
In the opinion of the directors, the group has only one class of business, which is the provision of market information services.
2002 2001
Continuing Acquisitions Total Total
£m £m £m £m
Turnover
Sales by origin
Europe
group 409.3 2.1 411.4 405.2
joint ventures 2.2 – 2.2 1.9
Americas
group 133.9 14.9 148.8 128.7
joint ventures 1.6 – 1.6 2.0
Asia Pacific
group 43.0 – 43.0 41.2
joint ventures 11.9 – 11.9 3.7
Total 601.9 17.0 618.9 582.7
group 586.2 17.0 603.2 575.1
joint ventures 15.7 – 15.7 7.6
Sales by destination
Europe
group 391.2 2.1 393.3 385.5
joint ventures 2.2 – 2.2 1.9
Americas
group 150.9 14.9 165.8 147.7
joint ventures 1.6 – 1.6 2.0
Asia Pacific
group 44.1 – 44.1 41.9
joint ventures 11.9 – 11.9 3.7
Total 601.9 17.0 618.9 582.7
group 586.2 17.0 603.2 575.1
joint ventures 15.7 – 15.7 7.6
Intra-group turnover between geographic segments is not considered material.
Operating profit before goodwill charges
Europe
group 40.6 (0.1) 40.5 38.9
joint ventures 0.1 – 0.1 0.3
Americas
group 15.7 0.7 16.4 14.4
joint ventures –– – 0.1
Asia Pacific
group 1.0 – 1.0 0.9
joint ventures 1.8 – 1.8 0.6
Total 59.2 0.6 59.8 55.2
group 57.3 0.6 57.9 54.2
joint ventures 1.9 – 1.9 1.0 www.tns-global.com 29
2Geographic analysis (continued)
2002 2001
Continuing Acquisitions Total Total
£m £m £m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
Europe
group 32.8 (0.3) 32.5 34.0
joint ventures 0.1 – 0.1 0.3
Americas
group 5.1 (0.1) 5.0 5.8
joint ventures (0.2) – (0.2) –
Asia Pacific
group 0.8 – 0.8 0.7
joint ventures 1.4 – 1.4 0.5
Operating profit including joint ventures 40.0 (0.4) 39.6 41.3
group 38.7 (0.4) 38.3 40.5
joint ventures 1.3 – 1.3 0.8
Income from interests in associated undertakings 0.2 –
Interest receivable 0.8 0.6
Interest payable and other finance charges (12.0) (12.3)
28.6 29.6
Net assets
Europe
group 33.1 29.9
joint ventures 0.4 0.5
Americas
group 2.9 9.7
joint ventures 2.8 2.8
Asia Pacific
group (0.9) (0.5)
joint ventures 15.4 13.8
Net operating assets 53.7 56.2
group 35.1 39.1
joint ventures 18.6 17.1
Unallocated amounts
current and deferred taxation (6.2) (7.1)
dividends payable (6.6) (6.1)
Net assets 40.9 43.0 Notes to the financial statements
3Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
2002 2001
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after (charging)/crediting
Depreciation charge for the year:
tangible owned fixed assets (19.1) (18.4)
tangible leased assets (0.2) (0.1)
Goodwill charges for the year:
amortisation (13.3) (8.8)
impairment (see note 10) (6.3) (4.9)
Amortisation of other intangible fixed assets (0.4) (0.7)
Profit on disposal of fixed assets 0.3 –
Auditors’ remuneration for:
audit services (0.9) (0.6)
non-audit services (0.7) (0.6)
Operating lease rentals:
plant and machinery (0.6) (0.9)
property (20.0) (17.3)
Property rents receivable 2.2 1.8
Auditors’ remuneration for audit service includes £13,000 (2001 £12,000) in respect of the company. Non-audit fees relate primarily
to taxation advisory and compliance services. Additional auditors’ remuneration of £nil (2001 £0.4m) for non-audit services has been
capitalised in the year.
Cost of sales for continuing activities was £200.5m (2001 £206.0m) and for acquisitions was £11.8m.
Administrative costs for continuing activities were £347.0m (2001 £328.6m) and for acquisitions were £5.6m.
4Employee information
Average number of employees (including directors) 2002 2001
Marketing 3,318 2,782
Production services 4,573 4,832
Administration 1,172 1,071
9,063 8,685
Staff costs (including directors) £m £m
Wages and salaries 183.3 168.8
Social security costs 31.4 30.0
Other pension costs (see note 19) 6.1 5.8
220.8 204.6
Details of directors’ remuneration are shown in the remuneration report on pages 62 to 66.
5 Interest payable and other finance charges
2002 2001
£m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts 11.3 11.4
Interest payable 11.3 11.4
Amortisation of arrangement fee 0.3 0.3
Notional interest relating to deferred consideration 0.4 0.6
Other finance charges 0.7 0.9
30 TNS annual report 2002 6Taxation on profit on ordinary activities
2002 2001
Analysis of charge for the year £m £m
Current tax
UK – corporation tax at 30% (2001 30%) 3.7 5.2
– adjustments in respect of previous periods 0.2 (0.9)
Foreign tax – corporation taxes 14.5 13.1
– adjustments in respect of previous periods 0.2 0.1
Share of joint ventures and associates tax 0.4 0.2
19.0 17.7
Double taxation relief (2.9) (4.5)
Total current tax charge for the year 16.1 13.2
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences (0.6) 0.1
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 15.5 13.3
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The rate of current tax charge on ordinary activities varied from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2001 30%)
due to the following factors:
2002 2001
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 28.6 29.6
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate 
of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2001 30%) 8.6 8.9
Effects of:
non deductible expense – goodwill and other 6.0 4.2
timing differences (0.2) (0.2)
utilisation of losses (0.2) (0.2)
higher rates of overseas taxation 1.5 1.3
adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods 0.4 (0.8)
Total current tax charge for the year 16.1 13.2
Factors which may affect future tax charges
There are no unprovided deferred tax liabilities in the company or group. The group is carrying deferred tax assets of £1.6m
(2001 £1.1m) relating to net operating losses and short term timing differences, which have been offset against the group’s deferred
tax liability of £1.1m (2001 £1.2m). The group expects to use these losses in the foreseeable future. There are no other factors
expected to affect the group’s tax rate going forward.
2002 2001
Deferred tax (asset)/liability £m £m
Capital allowances (0.1) (0.2)
Tax losses carried forward (0.9) (0.6)
Pension costs (0.2) (0.2)
Provision for potential capital gains tax liability 0.7 0.7
Other – 0.4
Undiscounted provision for deferred tax – (asset)/liability (0.5) 0.1
(Asset)/liability at 1 January 2002 0.1
Deferred tax credited to profit and loss account (0.6)
(Asset)/liability at 31 December 2002 (0.5)
www.tns-global.com 31 Notes to the financial statements
7Profit for the year
As permitted under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the parent company’s profit and loss account has not been included in
these financial statements. The retained profit after dividends for the year was £4.6m (2001 loss of £2.5m).
8 Dividends
2002 2001
£m £m
Interim paid of 0.9p per share (2001 0.8p) 3.5 3.0
Final proposed of 1.7p per share (2001 1.6p) 6.5 6.0
10.0 9.0
The trustee of the ESOP has waived its right to all but 0.001p per share of the dividends due on the 2,312,241 shares it holds at 
31 December 2002, until further notice. The amount waived in respect of the 2002 interim dividend was £22,000 (2001 £24,000) and
the maximum to be waived in respect of the 2002 final dividend on shares currently held by the ESOP is £39,000 (2001 £44,000).
The trustees of the EBT have also waived their right to all but 0.001p per share of the dividends due on the 7,467,266 shares the
EBT holds at 31 December 2002, until further notice. The amount waived in respect of the 2002 interim dividend was £67,000 
(2001 £77,000) and the maximum to be waived in respect of the 2002 final dividend on shares currently held by the EBT is £127,000
(2001 £137,000).
The final proposed dividend does not include a dividend on shares issued on the exercise of employee share options and allotment
of new shares since 31 December 2002 or on other options which may be exercised prior to 23 May 2003, the record date. 
9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share have been calculated on the profit after taxation and minority interests of £12.4m (2001 £15.9m) and on
380,639,215 shares (2001 373,724,213), being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those
held in the ESOP and the EBT, which are treated as cancelled.
The diluted earnings per share have been calculated in accordance with the provisions of FRS 14, with the weighted average
number of shares in issue being adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential shares for the period they were outstanding.
Shares held by the ESOP and the EBT which are under performance-based options are included in the diluted weighted average
number of shares, as the performance conditions are deemed to have been met for the purposes of this calculation. The diluted
weighted average number of shares is 386,581,928 (2001 383,693,389).
Adjusted earnings per share before goodwill charges have been calculated on the profit after taxation and minority interests of
£32.6m (2001 £29.8m), which excludes goodwill charges of £20.2m (2001 £13.9m) and on the basic weighted average number of
shares. The directors believe that earnings per share before goodwill charges assists in understanding the underlying performance
of the group.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year for the purpose of these calculations is as follows:
2002 2001
Weighted average number of shares (millions)
Share capital 390.4 388.6
Shares held by ESOP (2.6) (3.3) 
Shares held by EBT (7.2) (11.6)
Basic earnings per share denominator 380.6 373.7
Dilutive effect of share options 6.0 10.0
Dilutive earnings per share denominator 386.6 383.7
32 TNS annual report 2002 10 Intangible fixed assets
Patents and
Goodwill licences Other Total
Group £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2002 218.8 5.0 1.4 225.2
Exchange differences (12.9) 0.1 0.1 (12.7)
Additions (see note 12) 18.3 – 0.1 18.4
Disposals (10.1) – (0.2) (10.3)
At 31 December 2002 214.1 5.1 1.4 220.6
Amortisation
At 1 January 2002 20.5 1.6 1.1 23.2
Exchange differences (0.9) 0.1 – (0.8)
Charge for year 13.3 0.4 – 13.7
Impairment 6.3 – – 6.3
Disposals (0.3) – (0.1) (0.4)
At 31 December 2002 38.9 2.1 1.0 42.0
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 175.2 3.0 0.4 178.6
At 31 December 2001 198.3 3.4 0.3 202.0
In accordance with FRS 11 ‘Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill’, the carrying value of the goodwill held in respect of a number
of the group’s subsidiary undertakings has been compared to their recoverable amounts represented by their value in use to the
group. The review has resulted in impairment charges of £4.3m in respect of Indetec and £2.0m in respect of Tellex, a UK media
intelligence business (2001 impairments of £4.9m). The discount rates used in the calculations to arrive at the valuations are
between 9% and 12%.
Disposals of goodwill represents reductions in amounts provided for deferred consideration and other acquisition related liabilities
following revisions to estimates of the amounts payable.
The company has no intangible fixed assets.
www.tns-global.com 33 Notes to the financial statements
11 Tangible fixed assets
Short
Freehold land leasehold land Software and
and buildings and buildings databases Equipment Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2002 20.4 3.6 12.7 104.7 141.4
Exchange differences 0.9 – 0.1 0.1 1.1
Additions 1.0 – 2.5 12.7 16.2
Acquisitions ––– 0.7 0.7
Reclassification 2.0 (2.0) – – –
Disposals – (0.1) (2.0) (17.8) (19.9)
At 31 December 2002 24.3 1.5 13.3 100.4 139.5
Depreciation
At 1 January 2002 5.7 0.9 6.8 69.7 83.1
Exchange differences 0.3 – 0.1 (0.1) 0.3
Charge for year 0.8 0.2 2.8 15.5 19.3
Reclassification 0.5 (0.5) – – –
Disposals – (0.1) (1.9) (17.3) (19.3)
At 31 December 2002 7.3 0.5 7.8 67.8 83.4
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 17.0 1.0 5.5 32.6 56.1
At 31 December 2001 14.7 2.7 5.9 35.0 58.3
Freehold land and buildings includes land of £1.5m (2001 £1.5m) which is not being depreciated. Software and databases includes
assets under construction with a cost and net book value of £0.7m (2001 £nil). The company has no tangible fixed assets.
34 TNS annual report 2002 12 Acquisitions
During the year the group made acquisitions for a total consideration of £18.3m, the most significant of which were the acquisitions
of the business and assets of Elrick & Lavidge Marketing Research (April 2002) and the custom research division of Greenfield Online
(January 2002), both in the US, the broadcast division of BMC News, a UK media intelligence business (April 2002) and Svenska
Gallup in Sweden (August 2002). The group also increased its holdings in two joint ventures, Telegal and Single Source in Israel, from
26% to 51%, and in an associate, SiS Asia in Singapore, from 50% to 100%. These entities have been treated as subsidiary
undertakings from the date of increase. The group has also purchased the remaining minority interests of its subsidiaries Modus in
Hungary (49%), TNS Hospitality and Leisure in the UK (25%) and TNS Media Facts in the Czech Republic (10%).
Details of the assets acquired are shown below.
Provisional 
Book value Revaluations fair value 
£m £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 1.1 (0.4) 0.7
1.1 (0.4) 0.7
Current assets
Stock – work-in-progress 0.1 – 0.1
Debtors 2.4 – 2.4
Cash at bank and in hand 0.2 – 0.2
2.7 – 2.7
Total assets 3.8 (0.4) 3.4
Liabilities
Creditors (2.0) – (2.0)
Share of net assets 1.8 (0.4) 1.4
Goodwill 16.9
Consideration 18.3
Settled by:
cash 17.4
deferred consideration – non-contingent 0.9
18.3
Tangible assets have been revalued and written down by £0.4m to reflect their value in use to the group. 
Further adjustments to goodwill relating to acquisitions made in previous years have been made, resulting in an increase in
goodwill of £1.4m. Goodwill has also been reduced by £10.1m due to the release of acquisition related liabilities no longer
considered payable.
www.tns-global.com 35 Notes to the financial statements
13 Fixed asset investments
Investment in Other Associated
own shares investments Total undertakings
Group £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2002 6.5 2.4 8.9 1.2
Exchange differences ––– 0.1
Additions 2.2 0.1 2.3 –
Share of profits after dividends ––– 0.1
Disposals (1.9) – (1.9) –
At 31 December 2002 6.8 2.5 9.3 1.4
Provisions against other investments
At 1 January 2002 – (1.0) (1.0) (0.5)
At 31 December 2002 –(1.0) (1.0) (0.5)
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 6.8 1.5 8.3 0.9
At 31 December 2001 6.5 1.4 7.9 0.7
Additions to investment in own shares represent ordinary 5p shares in the company that were purchased in the open market
during the year for future use by the EBT. At 31 December 2002, the ESOP trust held 2,312,241 ordinary 5p shares in the
company (2001 2,748,046). Of those, 839,610 have had options granted over them under the long-term incentive plan.
At 31 December 2002, the EBT held 7,467,266 ordinary 5p shares in the company (2001 8,541,813). Of those, 5,023,006 have had
rights granted over them under the long-term incentive plan. Shares over which options have not yet been granted had a market
value at 31 December 2002 of £6.0m. Profits arising on the disposal of shares following the exercise of share options relating to
the EBT are taken to other reserves.
Interests in joint ventures £m
At 1 January 2002 (before goodwill amortisation)
net assets 4.8
goodwill 12.5
17.3
Additions – goodwill 0.2
Disposals – net assets (0.1)
Exchange differences 0.9
Share of profits retained 1.1
At 31 December 2002 (before goodwill amortisation) 19.4
Goodwill amortisation
At 1 January 2002 0.2
Charge for year 0.6
At 31 December 2002 0.8
Net book value at 31 December 2002
net assets 6.7
goodwill 11.9
18.6
Net book value at 31 December 2001
net assets 4.8
goodwill 12.3
17.1
36 TNS annual report 2002 13 Fixed asset investments (continued)
Long term loans Investment Interests in
to subsidiary in own subsidiary Other
undertakings shares undertakings investments Total
Company £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2002 141.3 6.5 279.0 0.1 426.9
Additions – 2.2 – – 2.2
Repayments (3.7) – – – (3.7)
Disposals – (1.9) – – (1.9)
At 31 December 2002 137.6 6.8 279.0 0.1 423.5
Provisions against investments
At 1 January 2002 –– (9.3) (0.1) (9.4)
Amounts written off investments –– (1.3) – (1.3)
At 31 December 2002 –– (10.6) (0.1) (10.7)
Net book value
At 31 December 2002 137.6 6.8 268.4 – 412.8
At 31 December 2001 141.3 6.5 269.7 – 417.5
In the opinion of the directors, the value of the interests in the group undertakings is not less than that stated in the relevant 
balance sheets. 
www.tns-global.com 37 Notes to the financial statements
13 Fixed asset investments (continued)
Details of the principal investments in which the group or company holds more than 20% of the nominal value of any class of share
capital, each of which is represented by ordinary shares, are set out below. Each group undertaking operates principally in its
country of incorporation and has been included in the consolidated results. The principal activity of all the undertakings listed is the
provision of market information. All holdings are indirectly owned unless otherwise stated.
OWNERSHIP
Country of 2002 2001
incorporation % %
Subsidiary undertakings
CMR US 100 100
EMNID GmbH & Co Kg Germany 100 100
Gallup A/S Denmark 100 100
Louis Harris France SA France 100 100
NIPO BV Netherlands 100 100
Norske Gallup Institutt A/S Norway 100 100
Secodip SA France 100 100
Sofres AM SA Spain 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres Asia Pacific Pty Ltd Australia 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres Korea Korea 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres UK Ltd 
(directly owned – formerly TNS Group Ltd) UK 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres Mexico SA Mexico 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres Intersearch Corp US 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres SA France 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres SA Spain 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres Suomi Oy Finland 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres Entertainment Group Inc. US 100 100
Joint ventures
CVSC Sofres Media Co Ltd China 68 68
CVSC TNS Research Co Ltd China 46 46
Finnpanel Finland 50 50
Latinpanel South America 33 33
Taylor Nelson Sofres NRC Japan 55 55
TNS ICAP Greece 51 51
Associated companies
GIE Audiepub France 33 33
Marktest Portugal 40 40
Telecontact International Netherlands 49 49
38 TNS annual report 2002 14 Stock – work-in-progress
GROUP COMPANY
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m 
Work-in-progress 28.8 34.0 – –
15 Debtors
GROUP COMPANY
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m 
Trade debtors 134.6 127.1 – –
Amounts owed by joint ventures 0.7 0.2 – –
Amounts owed by associated undertakings 0.9 0.7 – –
Dividends receivable 0.6 0.1 54.5 40.8
Deferred tax asset 0.5 – – –
Other debtors 6.8 6.8 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 15.2 9.5 – 0.1
159.3 144.4 54.5 40.9
Further analysis of the group’s deferred tax balances is provided in note 6; of this, £0.4m is recoverable after more than one year. 
16 Creditors
GROUP COMPANY
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m 
Amounts falling due within one year
Bank loans 40.8 17.6 40.6 16.5
Payments received on account 55.2 54.5 – –
Trade creditors 22.9 21.7 – –
Amounts owed to joint ventures 1.3 0.6 – –
Amounts owed to associated undertakings 0.2 0.2 – –
Corporation tax 6.7 7.0 – –
Other taxation and social security 27.5 27.5 0.1 0.1
Dividends payable 6.6 6.1 6.5 6.1
Other creditors 9.5 11.5 0.1 0.1
Obligations under finance leases – 0.3 – –
Accruals and deferred income 48.5 45.6 1.9 1.3
219.2 192.6 49.2 24.1
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 87.3 98.0
Bank loans 199.6 215.4 199.1 214.8
Other 2.9 5.2 – –
202.5 220.6 286.4 312.8
Bank loans in the company include gross borrowings of US$133.0m (£82.6m), v148.0m (£96.5m) and £25.0m, which have been
secured by guarantees issued by certain of the group’s subsidiary undertakings including Taylor Nelson Sofres BV, which also has
its shares pledged as security. Interest on the secured committed bank facility of £250m (2001 £250m) is payable at the rate of
0.875% above LIBOR. In addition, the company has uncommitted facilities of £60m (2001 £58m) upon which interest is payable at
between 0.25% and 0.875% above LIBOR. 
www.tns-global.com 39 Notes to the financial statements
16 Creditors (continued)
GROUP COMPANY
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m 
Bank loans are repayable as follows
Between one and two years 50.0 15.9 50.0 15.9
Between two and five years 149.4 199.1 149.1 198.9
Over five years 0.2 0.4 – –
199.6 215.4 199.1 214.8
£0.7m (2001 £3.0m) of other creditors is payable between one and two years, £1.6m (2001 £1.8m) between two and five years and
£0.6m (2001 £0.4m) in five years or more.
17 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Contingent 
deferred Deferred
consideration Pensions Other taxation Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2002 27.0 2.3 2.9 0.1 32.3
Exchange differences 0.2 0.1 0.2 – 0.5
Created 0.3 0.1 1.9 (0.6) 1.7
Released (8.6) (0.1) (0.6) – (9.3)
Utilised (1.8) (0.2) (0.8) – (2.8)
Reclassifications –– 0.3 0.5 0.8
Notional interest 0.4 – – – 0.4
As at 31 December 2002 17.5 2.2 3.9 – 23.6
The company had no provisions.
Provisions for contingent deferred consideration have been discounted where the effect is material, using discount rates
comparable with bank lending rates available to the group. Deferred consideration represents amounts that the group is
contractually bound to pay in the future for acquisitions. The amounts are determined by future results of the acquired businesses.
The provisions are determined with reference to the latest information available and are expected to be paid within one to five
years of the balance sheet date.
Pension provisions are calculated from actuarial valuations of defined benefit plans or retirement benefit plans across the group.
The provisions will be satisfied over the current service lives of employees.
Other provisions consists of liabilities arising as a result of ongoing litigation or claims and other amounts that are not individually
material to the group. The amounts are expected to be paid within one to five years. 
The deferred tax asset has been transferred to debtors (see note 15).
40 TNS annual report 2002 18 Financial instruments
Taylor Nelson Sofres operates a central treasury function providing services to the group. It arranges loans and funding, invests
surplus liquidity and manages financial risk. Group Treasury is not a profit centre and no speculative trades are permitted or
executed. It operates within specific policies, agreed by the board, to control and monitor financial risk within the group and
reports regularly to the board against these policy requirements. Monthly reports to the board summarise new Treasury activity
and measures of effectiveness. Prudent and controlled use is made of financial instruments where appropriate, principally to
reduce fluctuation in interest costs. Forward exchange contracts and options are used to reduce fluctuation in exchange rates.
Transactions are effected with relationship banks as counter parties.
For the purposes of the disclosures which follow in this note, short term debtors and creditors and provisions which arise directly
from the group’s operations have been excluded as permitted under FRS 13. The disclosures therefore focus on those financial
instruments that play a significant medium to long term role in the financial risk profile of the group. An analysis of the carrying
value of all financial assets and liabilities is given in the fair value table on page 43.
Currency risk
The group’s principal exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise on the translation of overseas net assets and profits into
sterling for accounting purposes. The principal foreign currencies for the group are euro and US dollar. The group’s transactional
foreign exchange exposure results mainly from sales and purchases of services between members of the group and is hedged by
matching cash flows through a netting process. Any minor residual exposures are covered on a short term basis by spot or
forward exchange contracts.
Translation exposures arising on consolidation of the group’s overseas net assets are minimised by broadly matching assets with
borrowings in each major foreign currency. This provides a hedge against currency fluctuations by matching currency loans with
the underlying assets in the same currency. The net movement in exchange reserves after the effect of hedging is a loss of £6.6m
after taxation (2001 loss of £3m). The risk of currency translation of profits denominated in foreign currency is partly mitigated by
the use of option contracts. In 2002 the financial effect of such items was immaterial.
Interest rate risk
The group has an exposure to variations in interest rates on its borrowings and manages these by fixing debt through drawings of
loans for extended periods and the use of interest rate hedging products such as swaps and forward rate agreements. Group
Treasury policy requires between 25% and 75% of borrowings to be maintained at fixed rates. However, to benefit from the
current low levels of interest rates, the board has approved an increase in the maximum level of fixed rate debt to 100%. 
At the year end, gross debt was £240.4m (2001 £233.3m), of which £148.9m (62%) (2001 £122.3m (52%)) was at fixed rate. 
Net debt at 31 December 2002 was £204.8m (2001 £209.2m). Cash held by the group was invested in short term cash deposits
with relationship banks, at interest rates based on LIBID.
The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to fluctuations in interest rates on borrowings. Receipts and
payments on such instruments are recognised on an accruals basis, over the life of the instrument.
A 1% rise in interest rates would effect the overall interest charge as follows: UK, £0.2m reduction (2001 £0.1m reduction);
US, £0.4m increase (2001 £0.2m increase); euro, £0.2m increase (2001 £0.5m increase).
Liquidity risk
The group maintains a balance between certainty of funding and a flexible, cost effective structure. Policy therefore dictates at
least 20% capacity based on current debt profile be maintained. At 31 December 2002, £250m (2001 £250m) of committed
facilities and £60m (2001 £58m) of uncommitted facilities were available to the group.
www.tns-global.com 41 Notes to the financial statements
18 Financial instruments (continued)
Currency and interest rate disclosure of financial assets and liabilities
The various interest rate and currency exposures of the group’s financial liabilities at 31 December were
AVERAGE YEARS TO MATURITY
Total Floating rate Fixed rate Floating Fixed
£m £m £m rate rate
2002
Sterling 24.6 – 24.6 – 2.8
Euro 117.8 30.8 87.0 2.1 2.4
US dollar 115.3 60.8 54.5 2.4 1.8
Other 0.3 – 0.3 – 1.1
258.0 91.6 166.4 2.3 2.3
2001
Sterling 33.2 0.1 33.1 1.0 3.9
Euro 109.0 58.2 50.8 3.4 3.6
US dollar 117.3 52.4 64.9 3.1 3.6
Other 0.9 0.2 0.7 1.0 4.9
260.4 110.9 149.5 3.2 3.7
Floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates based on LIBOR or PIBOR. Fixed rate financial liabilities relate to the hedged
proportion of borrowings, deferred consideration and future property rental provisions. The weighted average interest rate for fixed
rate financial liabilities is sterling 6.56% (2001 5.88%), euro 5.20% (2001 4.79%) and US dollar 4.71% (2001 4.01%).
The currency and interest rate exposures of financial assets at 31 December were
2002 2001
£m £m
Sterling 20.5 8.2
Euro 7.5 8.7
US dollar 4.7 5.3
Other 2.9 1.9
35.6 24.1
Financial assets represent cash and attract interest at floating rates.
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the group’s financial liabilities is 
TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
1
GROSS BORROWINGS
2
NET BORROWINGS
3
2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year 54.0 19.2 40.8 17.9 5.2 (6.2)
Between one and 
two years 52.1 18.8 50.0 15.9 50.0 15.9
Between two and 
five years 151.7 218.4 149.4 199.1 149.4 199.1
Over five years 0.2 4.0 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.4
258.0 260.4 240.4 233.3 204.8 209.2
1
Bank loans, obligations under finance leases, future property rentals, and deferred consideration
2
Bank loans and obligations under finance leases
3
Gross borrowings less cash
42 TNS annual report 2002 18 Financial instruments (continued)
The maturity profile of the group’s committed but undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 December was
2002 2001
£m £m
Within one year 45.9 –
One to two years – 34.1
45.9 34.1
Analysis of net monetary assets and liabilities by reference to principal functional currencies
2002 2001
Euro US dollar Other Total Euro US dollar Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Functional currency
of group operations
Sterling 3.1 1.5 – 4.6 1.0 0.2 – 1.2
Euro – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
US dollar (0.1) – – (0.1) (0.1) – – (0.1)
Other ––– – ––––
3.0 1.6 – 4.6 0.9 0.3 – 1.2
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The table below comprises book value and fair value of the group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31 December. Fair value is
based on the market price of comparable instruments at the balance sheet date.
2002 2001
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Overdraft and borrowings (240.4) (240.4) (233.3) (233.3)
Deferred consideration and future property rentals (17.6) (17.6) (27.1) (27.1)
Cash and liquid funds 35.6 35.6 24.1 24.1
(222.4) (222.4) (236.3) (236.3)
Derivative instruments held to manage currency exposure 
on future interest payments –(0.2) ––
Derivative instruments held to manage interest rate exposure –(5.3) – (1.4)
Hedging gains and losses
At 1 January 2002 there were unrecognised losses on interest rate hedges of £1.4m. During 2002 £1.9m of losses were
recognised in the interest charge. The decrease in fair value relating to existing and new hedges during the year was £5.8m 
(2001 decrease of £1.4m). At 31 December 2002, there were unrecognised losses on interest rate hedges of £5.3m (2001 £1.4m),
of which £3.1m is expected to be recognised in 2003 income and £2.2m in 2004 or later.
Gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting has been used
The group matches currency assets to loans/funding in the same or closely related currency. Under SSAP 20, the residue is
passed to reserves. In 2002, this totalled a loss of £7.3m (2001 loss of £2.5m). £5.7m of net exchange gains on foreign currency
loans (2001 £1.7m) have been offset in reserves against exchange losses on the net investment in overseas subsidiaries of £13.0m
(2001 £4.2m).
www.tns-global.com 43 Notes to the financial statements
19 Pensions and similar obligations
The group operates a number of pension plans for its employees throughout the world, as well as complying with local laws and
regulations relating to the payment of retirement benefits. The assets of all pension plans are held separately from those of the
group. There were no prepayments or accruals in respect of any of the group’s pension plans in the current or previous year.
UK
The pension plans in the UK are primarily defined contribution plans and the group’s contribution to such plans ranges from 4% to
8% of salary, rising with the age of employees. There are two defined benefit plans which are closed to new members. Both plans
were valued by independent qualified actuaries in 2001 using the projected unit method. The market value of assets of these plans
was £3.6m, which represented 172% of the benefits which have accrued to members. The principal assumptions used were a
discount rate of 5.8% and that salary increases would be 3.0% per annum. The cost in the year for defined contribution plans was
£2.0m (2001 £1.8m) and for defined benefit plans was £nil (2001 £nil).
France
Companies in France participate in state compulsory arrangements. Regulations in France require that a lump sum is paid to
employees on retirement, based on their final salary and the number of years service. The provision required to meet these
amounts was assessed by independent qualified actuaries in 2002 and full provision has been made for the £1.5m (2001 £1.5m)
liability identified. Movements in the liability are charged or credited to the profit and loss account in the year they are identified.
US
There are defined contribution pension plans in operation in the US, where the group undertakes to pay a contribution based on
amounts paid by employees up to a maximum. Costs are charged to the profit and loss account in the period they are incurred.
The group also operates a defined benefit plan. The plan was valued by independent qualified actuaries in 2002 using the unit
credit method. The market value of assets of this plan was £1.2m, which represented 175% of the accrued benefits. The cost in
the year for defined contribution plans was £0.1m (2001 £0.3m) and for defined benefit plans was £nil (2001 £nil).
Netherlands
The group operates a defined benefit plan in the Netherlands. This plan is insured, although indexation increases to pensions in
payment remain the responsibility of the company. Provision for these indexation increases is made based on actuarial
assessments made by independent qualified actuaries. The cost in the year was £0.6m (2001 £0.1m).
Other countries
Where there are local requirements to provide lump sum payments at the time employees retire, provision has been made based
on actuarial assessments.
FRS 17 disclosures
On 30 November 2000, the Accounting Standards Board introduced a new standard, FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’, replacing
SSAP 24 ‘Accounting for Pension Costs’. FRS 17 is fully effective for periods ending on or after 1 January 2005, though
disclosures are required in the transitional period. The second year of disclosures is set out below. 
The following assumptions have been used to arrive at the FRS 17 valuations:
2002 2001
Nether- Nether-
UK France US lands UK France US lands
%%%% %%%%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.90 2.50 3.30 1.50 3.00 2.50 3.00 2.00
Rate of increase for pensions in payment ––– 1.50 –– – 2.00
Discount rate 5.50 5.40 6.20 5.40 5.80 5.80 6.90 5.80
Inflation assumption 2.40 1.50 2.30 1.50 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00
Long term expected rate of return on equities 6.25 6.25 6.25 6.25 6.25 6.25 6.25 6.25
Long term expected rate of return on bonds and cash 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25
44 TNS annual report 2002 19 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
The assets and liabilities of the pension plans at 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2001 are as shown below:
2002 2001
Nether- Nether-
UK France US lands Other Total UK France US lands Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance sheet
Equities 0.2 – 0.6 2.3 – 3.1 0.2 – 1.0 1.6 – 2.8
Bonds and cash 3.0 – 0.3 6.2 – 9.5 3.4 – 0.3 6.4 – 10.1
Market value of assets 3.2 – 0.9 8.5 – 12.6 3.6 – 1.3 8.0 – 12.9
Value of liabilities (2.9) (1.7) (0.9) (8.1) (1.0) (14.6) (2.1) (1.9) (0.7) (7.6) (0.7) (13.0)
(Deficit)/surplus 0.3 (1.7) – 0.4 (1.0) (2.0) 1.5 (1.9) 0.6 0.4 (0.7) (0.1)
Related deferred tax (0.1) – – (0.2) – (0.3) (0.4) – (0.2) (0.1) – (0.7)
0.2 (1.7) – 0.2 (1.0) (2.3) 1.1 (1.9) 0.4 0.3 (0.7) (0.8)
Funding level 110% – 100% 105% – 86% 171% – 185% 105% – 99%
Provisions carried 
under SSAP 24 (2.6) (3.0)
Increase in net assets 
under FRS 17 0.3 2.2
The following amounts would be recorded in the profit and loss account under FRS 17:
2002
Nether-
UK France US lands Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost – (0.1) – (0.6) (0.3) (1.0)
Other finance income
Interest on liabilities (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.4) – (0.7)
Expected return on assets 0.2 – 0.1 0.4 – 0.7
0.1 (0.1) – – – –
www.tns-global.com 45 Notes to the financial statements
19 Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
Under FRS 17, the group’s deficit on its profit and loss account reserve would decrease from £90.5m to £90.2m (2001 decrease
from £85.2m to £83.0m).
The movement in the FRS 17 valuations from 31 December 2001 to 31 December 2002 would be reflected as follows if they were
recorded in the group accounts:
£m %
1
Nether- Nether-
UK France US lands Other Total UK France US lands Other Total
Statement of total
recognised gains
and losses 
Actual less expected
return on assets (1.2) – (0.4) – – (1.6) (38) – (44) – – (13)
Change of assumptions (0.3) (0.1) (0.2) (1.2) – (1.8) (10) (6) (22) (15) – (12)
Gain/(loss) on plan
liabilities 0.1 0.5 – 1.5 – 2.1 329 – 18 – 14
(1.4) 0.4 (0.6) 0.3 – (1.3)
2002
Nether-
UK France US lands Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Movement in FRS 17 provision
Previous surplus/(deficit) 1.5 (1.9) 0.6 0.4 (0.7) (0.1)
Contributions 0.1 – – 0.3 – 0.4
Service cost – (0.1) – (0.6) (0.3) (1.0)
Other finance income 0.1 (0.1) – – – –
Statement of total recognised gains and losses (1.4) 0.4 (0.6) 0.3 – (1.3)
Current surplus/(deficit) 0.3 (1.7) – 0.4 (1.0) (2.0)
1
The percentage for actual less expected return on assets is expressed as a percentage of the market value of assets. The
percentage for change of assumptions and gain/(loss) on scheme liabilities are expressed as a percentage of the value of liabilities.
46 TNS annual report 2002 20 Share capital
2002 2001 2002 2001
Number of shares Number of shares £000 £000
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 5p each 510,000,000 510,000,000 25,500 25,500
Allotted, called up and paid
At 1 January 389,236,975 388,158,336 19,462 19,408
Share options exercised during year
Executive Share Plans 1,230,740 500,941 62 25
Savings Related Share Plans 26,182 31,573 1 2
QUEST 456,144 543,888 23 27
WESP issues 202,352 2,237 10 –
At 31 December 391,152,393 389,236,975 19,558 19,462
During 2002, 1,230,740 shares were issued to employees following the exercise of options under the Executive Share Option Plan
for a total consideration of £1,575,000. Since 31 December 2002, a further 18,980 shares have been issued to employees on the
exercise of options granted under the plan.
During 2002, 26,182 shares were issued to employees following the exercise of options under the Savings Related Share Option
Plan for a total consideration of £33,000. Since 31 December 2002, no further shares have been issued to employees on the
exercise of options granted under the plan.
During 2002, 456,144 shares were issued to the QUEST for a total consideration of £885,000. These shares were subsequently
transferred to employees to satisfy options exercised under the Taylor Nelson Sofres Savings Related Share Option Plan. 
Since 31 December 2002, no further shares have been issued to the QUEST on the exercise of options granted under the plan.
During 2002, 202,352 shares were issued to employees following the exercise of options under the WESP for a total consideration
of £231,000. Since 31 December 2002, no further shares have been issued to employees on the exercise of options granted under 
the plan.
www.tns-global.com 47 Notes to the financial statements
21 Options and rights in shares of the company
At 31 December, options had been granted and were still outstanding in respect of the company’s shares under the company
share option plans. Details of the plans are set out in the remuneration report. The exercise of options under the Executive Share
Option Plan, the Savings Related Share Option Plan and the WESP may be satisfied either by the issue of new shares or shares
purchased in the market.
The long term incentive plans use shares held by the ESOP and EBT trusts.
Exercise price Exercise 2002 2001
Year of grant pence period Number of shares Number of shares
Long Term Incentive Plans
1996 12.125 1999 - 2003 19,250 49,000
1996 – 1999 - 2003 – 15,000
1997 12.125 2000 - 2004 68,000 97,000
1998 12.125 2001 - 2005 636,360 1,018,176
1998 95.000 2001 - 2005 2,182,731 3,352,278
1998 75.000 2001 - 2005 2,045,000 3,670,000
1999 75.000 2002 - 2006 500,000 500,000
2002 75.000 2005 - 2009 295,275 –
2002 – 2004 - 2009 116,000 –
5,862,616 8,701,454
Executive Share Option Plans
1992 11.36 1995 - 2002 – 121,031
1993 22.95 1996 - 2003 49,512 73,274
1994 27.72 1997 - 2004 55,014 55,014
1996 47.48 1999 - 2006 57,213 143,036
1997 47.48 2002 - 2007 202,449 268,469
1998 86.25 2001 - 2008 1,226,750 1,633,000
1999 136.75 2002 - 2009 1,301,234 1,935,000
1999 185.00 2002 - 2009 40,000 40,000
2000 237.50 2003 - 2010 1,403,000 1,538,000
2001 218.00 2004 - 2011 1,690,000 1,810,000
2001 203.50 2004 - 2008 430,000 430,000
2002 232.50 2005 - 2009 1,009,701 –
2002 195.00 2005 - 2009 1,692,500 –
2002 184.00 2005 - 2009 1,078,500 –
2002 184.00 2005 - 2012 181,500 –
2002 141.00 2005 - 2009 260,000 –
10,677,373 8,046,824
48 TNS annual report 2002 21 Options and rights in shares of the company (continued)
Exercise price Exercise 2002 2001
Year of grant pence period Number of shares Number of shares
Savings Related Share Option Plan
1995 25.63 2000 - 2002 – 80,636
1996 31.81 2001 - 2003 90,711 90,711
1997 38.17 2002 17,352 381,312
1997 38.17 2004 129,723 142,799
1998 108.00 2002 – 650
1998 87.00 2003 384,854 419,782
1998 87.00 2005 119,406 128,012
1999 167.00 2002 1,972 47,977
1999 135.00 2004 307,350 346,550
1999 135.00 2006 60,966 73,215
1,112,334 1,711,644
Worldwide Employee Share Plan
1999 91.50 2004 - 2005 763,259 872,439
1999 129.50 2004 - 2005 86,854 91,426
1999 114.25 2002 - 2003 – 260,424
1999 145.00 2005 36,192 45,110
1999 181.00 2003 26,256 31,010
2000 249.50 2003 - 2004 93,024 109,100
2000 200.00 2005 - 2006 393,320 446,483
2000 200.00 2007 - 2008 49,899 52,728
2000 235.56 2005 - 2006 47,924 60,254
2000 248.50 2005 - 2006 5,837 5,837
2001 213.50 2004 - 2005 113,613 119,337
2001 171.00 2006 - 2007 466,827 487,425
2001 171.00 2008 - 2009 37,467 45,847
2001 218.40 2006 - 2007 21,712 24,056
2001 213.50 2006 - 2007 4,244 4,634
2001 160.00 2004 - 2005 39,147 40,544
2001 128.00 2006 - 2007 112,192 112,192
2002 228.00 2005 189,956 –
2002 183.00 2007 654,964 –
2002 194.00 2007 2,013 –
2002 228.00 2007 1,960 –
2002 224.00 2007 5,623 –
2002 183.00 2009 53,184 –
2002 131.00 2005 - 2006 25,893 –
2002 105.00 2007 - 2008 83,755 –
3,315,115 2,808,846
In accordance with UITF 17, the company has elected to apply the exemption for approved SAYE plans and equivalent overseas
plans to the Savings Related Share Option Plan and the WESP .
www.tns-global.com 49 Notes to the financial statements
22 Share premium account and reserves
Share premium Other Merger Profit and
account reserves reserve loss account
Group £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2002 102.7 0.9 – (85.2)
Exchange differences ––– (6.6)
Arising on issue of shares 2.6 – – -
Amounts deducted in respect of shares issued 
to the QUEST (see note 20) ––– (1.1)
Amounts arising from the exercise of share options 
(see note 13) – 0.3 – –
Retained profit for the year ––– 2.4
At 31 December 2002 105.3 1.2 – (90.5)
Goodwill arising on consolidation prior to 1 January 1998 of £143.3m has been eliminated against reserves.
Company
At 1 January 2002 102.7 0.5 1.6 2.1
Exchange differences ––– 0.1
Arising on issue of shares 2.6 – – –
Amounts deducted in respect of shares issued 
to the QUEST (see note 20) ––– (0.6)
Amounts arising on the exercise of share options 
(see note 13) – 0.3 – –
Retained profit for the year ––– 4.6
At 31 December 2002 105.3 0.8 1.6 6.2
The merger reserve in the company arises on the issue of shares as consideration for acquisitions and has been offset against the
goodwill reserve on consolidation.
23 Related party transactions
2002 2001
Transactions with associated undertakings £m £m
Turnover 0.3 0.6
Purchases (0.5) (0.5)
Amounts owed to associated undertakings at 31 December (0.2) (0.2)
Amounts owed from associated undertakings at 31 December 0.9 0.7
Transactions with joint ventures
Turnover 1.0 0.8
Purchases (1.1) –
Amounts owed to joint ventures at 31 December (1.3) (0.6)
Amounts owed from joint ventures at 31 December 0.7 0.2
50 TNS annual report 2002 24 Consolidated statement of cash flow
Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities
2002 2001
Total Total
£m £m
Operating profit 38.3 40.5
Amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets 20.0 14.4
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 19.3 18.4
Profit on sale of fixed assets (0.3) –
Decrease in stock – work-in-progress 6.1 6.7
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (12.5) 6.0
(Decrease) in creditors (4.4) (14.6)
Increase in provisions 0.5 1.3
Net cash inflow from continuing operating activities 67.0 72.7
2002
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt £m
Increase in cash in the year 11.5
Cash inflow from increase in debt (12.5)
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (1.0)
Translation difference 5.7
Non-cash movement (0.3)
Movement in net debt in the year 4.4
Net debt at 1 January 2002 (209.2)
Net debt at 31 December 2002 (204.8)
At 1 Jan Exchange Non-cash At 31 Dec
2002 Cash flow movement Acquisitions movements 2002
Analysis of net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 24.1 11.3 – 0.2 – 35.6
Loans repayable within 
one year (17.6) (9.5) 2.2 – (15.9) (40.8)
Loans repayable after more 
than one year (215.4) (3.3) 3.5 – 15.6 (199.6)
Obligations under 
finance leases (0.3) 0.3 – – – –
(209.2) (1.2) 5.7 0.2 (0.3) (204.8)
The net non-cash movement represents the amortisation of arrangement fees.
2002
Analysis of the net cash outflow in respect of the purchase of subsidiary undertakings and businesses £m
Cash consideration
prior year acquisitions (2.1)
2002 acquisitions (17.4)
(19.5)
Net cash acquired 0.2
Net cash outflow in respect of the purchase of subsidiary undertakings and businesses (19.3)
www.tns-global.com 51 Notes to the financial statements
25 Financial commitments
GROUP COMPANY
2002 2001 2002 2001
Capital commitments £m £m £m £m 
Contracted but not provided for 0.5 – – –
2002 2001
Property Equipment Property Equipment
Annual lease commitments £m £m £m £m 
Operating leases which expire
Within one year 3.1 0.7 1.1 0.5
In two to five years 7.1 1.0 10.1 0.7
Over five years 6.6 – 6.9 –
16.8 1.7 18.1 1.2
26 Guarantees and contingencies
Bank loans and credit facilities of the group have been jointly and severally guaranteed by the company and certain subsidiary
undertakings. The maximum liabilities which could arise under these arrangements are £250m (2001 £250m). At 31 December
2002, amounts outstanding were £204.1m (2001 £215.9m). The shares of Taylor Nelson Sofres BV and Integres Holdings BV,
subsidiary undertakings, have been pledged as security in relation to these arrangements.
Sofres SA has provided guarantees in the form of a letter of intent in relation to loans taken out to purchase properties in France.
At 31 December 2002, the total loans outstanding were £0.5m (2001 £0.5m), of which £nil (2001 £nil) was secured over relevant
properties.
A number of group companies have provided guarantees relating to rental commitments and commercial contracts in the normal
course of business. At 31 December 2002, the total amounts guaranteed were £1.0m (2001 £1.8m).
Various group companies are party to legal actions and claims, the most significant of which are associated with property (£0.8m)
and employment-related matters (£3.0m). Although there is uncertainty regarding the final outcome of these claims, the directors
believe that adequate provision has been made for anticipated liabilities.
The group is also involved in various other legal proceedings arising out of the normal course of business. The directors believe
that the outcome of these proceedings is uncertain but is unlikely to have a material effect on the group’s financial position.
52 TNS annual report 2002 www.tns-global.com 53
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the group profit and loss account, the group and company balance sheets,
the group cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders’
funds and the related notes to the financial statements. We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to
the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors’ remuneration report (‘the auditable part’).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report in accordance with
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements
and the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors’ report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of 
any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. The other information comprises only the
financial highlights, review section, TNS at a glance, chairman’s statement, chief executive’s statement, finance director’s review,
main board directors, executive committee, directors’ report, corporate governance statement, the unaudited part of the directors’
remuneration report, shareholder information, financial calendar and five year summary.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. 
We are not required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion
on the effectiveness of the company’s or group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part 
of the directors’ remuneration report. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the
directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors’
remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
■ the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at 31 December 2002 and
the profit and cash flows of the group for the year then ended;
■ the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
■ those parts of the directors’ remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London, 10 March 2003
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of  Taylor Nelson Sofres plc 54 TNS annual report 2002
Tony Cowling 
3
Chairman
Age 67. A founder member of Taylor Nelson in 1965, he has
played a key role in building the company to its present position,
initiating many of its major acquisitions and specialist divisions.
Became Chief Executive of Taylor Nelson AGB plc in 1989 and
Executive Chairman of the merged Taylor Nelson Sofres at 
the end of 1997. He relinquished his CEO responsibilities in 
June 2001.
Mike Kirkham 
3
Chief Executive
Age 56. Joined AGB Research in 1970 and was appointed to the
Taylor Nelson AGB board in 1992. He has extensive international
experience, having had responsibility for a number of the group’s
activities in Europe, North America and Asia. In 1999, he was
appointed Head of the sector executive committee, responsible
for growing international specialist sector activities. Became Chief
Executive in June 2001.
David Lowden 
Finance Director
Age 45. Joined the group and was appointed to the board in
February 1999. He previously held senior finance positions at
Asprey & Garrard Limited, ACNielsen, Nielsen International and
Federal Express Corporation.
Ian Portal 
Company Secretary
1 Non-executive director and member of the 
remuneration committee
2 Member of the audit committee
3 Member of the nomination committee
Main board directors
clockwise from above
Rob Rowley 
Dr Stephan Buck
Rémy Sautter
Dr Neil Cross
above Tony Cowling
left Mike Kirkham
below David Lowden
Dr Stephan Buck
123
Chairman of the nomination committee
Age 66. Joined the board of AGB in 1968, shortly after its
foundation and was associated with its growth to become the
largest market research company in Europe. In particular Dr Buck
set up and managed TV audience measurement services
internationally. He is an Honorary Fellow of the Market Research
Society and co-editor of its Journal.
Dr Neil Cross 
123
Chairman of the audit committee
Age 57. Joined the board in December 1996. He was a director 
of 3i Group plc from 1989 to December 1996. Among his current
non-executive directorships are Alliance UniChem Plc, Close
Technology & General VCT PLC (Chairman) and Dawson Holdings
PLC. He is also Chairman of The Royal Society for the
encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (the RSA).
Rob Rowley 
123
Senior Independent Director
Chairman of the remuneration committee
Age 53. Joined the board in September 2002. From 1990 to 2001
he was on the board of Reuters plc, serving as Finance Director
from 1990 to 2000 and then as Chief Executive of Reuterspace.
He is currently Executive Deputy Chairman of Cable & Wireless
plc and a non-executive director of Prudential plc.
Rémy Sautter 
13
Age 57. Joined the board in November 2002. He is Chairman of
Channel 5 and RTL Radio. He is also a non-executive director of
PartnerRe Ltd., a NYSE-listed global reinsurance company and
two media companies listed in France: M6-Métropole Télévision
SA and Wanadoo SA. www.tns-global.com 55
The day-to-day running of the group is the
responsibility of the TNS executive committee,
which comprises Mike Kirkham, Chief
Executive and David Lowden, Finance
Director, together with an international team
of senior managers.
Mike Penford
Associate Director
Age 49, based in the UK. Joined the group in 1993 and took
charge of UK panel operations. In 1997, he became Head of the
Consumer Panels sector. From 2001, he has had responsibility for
the UK and Ireland, the Healthcare sector, TNS Branded
Solutions, TNS Interactive and the development of syndicated
services. 
Mike Petch
Age 47, based in the UK. Joined the group in 1986 as Personnel
Director of AGB International and has remained with the company
through a period of significant change and growth. During that
time, he has gained considerable international HR experience and
is now Group Director of Human Resources.
Jean-Michel Portier
Associate Director
Age 50, based in France. Joined Sofres in 1987 as Scientific and
Technical Director and became Chairman of Secodip in 1992.
From 1994 to 1999, he was also Chief Executive of Europanel. 
In 1999, he was appointed Head of the Media Intelligence sector
and in 2001 took additional responsibility for France. 
Pedro Ros
Associate Director
Age 41, based in Spain. Joined the group in 1985, working initially
in the consumer panel division and then in a number of different
roles in Spain. He was appointed Country Manager in 1994, a
position he held until 1999, when he became Regional Director for
Southern Europe and Latin America. In 2001, he took additional
responsibility for Consumer Panels worldwide. 
Bruce Shandler
Associate Director
Age 55, based in US. Started his research career in 1970 with
Alan Widra & Associates, a small field service research company.
He developed this business into Intersearch, one of the largest
custom research companies in the US and was appointed
President in 1991. He became CEO of TNS Intersearch, when it
joined the group in 1997 and took responsibility for the IT sector
in 2001.
Sam van der Feltz
Associate Director
Age 48, based in the Netherlands. Joined the group in 2001 
with responsibility for Northern and Central Europe. Previously, 
he spent 22 years at Unilever in a number of international
management roles, including Managing Director, Elida Gibbs BV
and Chairman of the Dutch ice cream division. He was also a
member of the board of Unilever Netherlands. 
Executive committee
top left to right
Mike Petch, Bruce Shandler
mid left to right Jean-Michel Portier, 
Sam van der Feltz, Mike Penford
left Pedro Ros 56 TNS annual report 2002
Directors’ report
The directors of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc submit their annual report for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Principal activities of the group, review of the year and post balance sheet events
The principal activities of the group, together with a review of the trading results for the year and future developments are contained
in the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s statement and the Finance Director’s review on pages 14 to 21. There were no
post balance sheet events. 
Dividends
The directors recommend a final dividend for 2002 of 1.7p per share, payable on 7 July 2003 to shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 23 May 2003. The total dividend for the year, including the interim dividend of 0.9p per share paid in 2002,
amounts to 2.6p per share (2001 2.4p). 
Directors
The directors of the company at the date of this report are as shown on page 54. Nick Hodges and Jacques-Henri David retired 
as directors of the board on 31 December 2002 and 31 January 2003, respectively. Rob Rowley was appointed to the board on 
1 September 2002 and Rémy Sautter on 12 November 2002 and, in accordance with the articles of association, both retire and offer
themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting. Dr Stephan Buck, Dr Neil Cross and Mike Kirkham retire by rotation at the
annual general meeting and also offer themselves for re-election. Details of directors’ interests and, in relation to the executive
directors only, awards under the share option and long-term incentive plans are given in the remuneration report on pages 62 to 66.
There were no changes in the directors’ registered interests in the shares of the company during the period from 31 December 2002
to 10 March 2003, other than as a result of the retirements mentioned above. No director had any material interest at any time during
the year in any transaction of significance in relation to the group’s business.
Development activities
The group has a policy of investing in the development of services consistent with the overall group strategy. These investments 
are controlled by the executive committee against an annual budget approved by the board. 
Substantial shareholdings 
As at 4 March 2003, the company has been notified of the following substantial interests (3 per cent or more) in its ordinary 
share capital:
Shareholder Holding %
FMR Corporation 33,842,514 8.65
Henderson Global Investors 33,032,050 8.44
Insight Investments 31,647,631 8.09
Threadneedle Asset Management 27,458,354 7.02
Scottish Widows Investment 20,325,161 5.20
Legal & General Investment Management 13,380,873 3.42
Creditor payment policy
The group’s policy is to agree the terms and conditions of transactions with all suppliers in advance and to comply with them, 
subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier. Taylor Nelson Sofres plc has no trade creditors. Group trade creditors at 
31 December 2002 were equivalent to 40 days’ purchases during the year.
Environmental policy
Given the nature of its activities, the group continues to have a minimal impact on the environment. The directors recognise, however,
that the group is a part of a wider community involving employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders and
that group companies have a responsibility to act in a way that respects the environment. Initiatives have been taken, therefore, by
many group companies to improve environmental practices. These include effective recycling systems, as well as practices for the
efficient use of electricity.  www.tns-global.com 57
Health and safety 
The group aims to provide and maintain a safe environment for all employees, customers and visitors to its premises and to comply
with relevant health and safety regulation. 
Employee involvement
Full and open communication with employees is a priority for the group whose key asset is its staff. Internal communications are
designed to ensure that employees are well informed about the group’s strategy and performance, as well as of developments at a
group-wide and local level. The Intranet system is now available to the majority of employees around the world, supported by print
and email communications. Emails can target specific populations of staff or all current employees. Local employee forums and 
work councils exist in a number of EU countries and the European Works Council discusses cross-border issues.
When vacancies arise, they are advertised internally. Consideration is given to all applications for employment regardless of gender,
race, ethnic origin, disability, age, sexual orientation, or religious or political beliefs. The group is supportive of the employment and
advancement of disabled persons or employees who become disabled during their employment.
The group encourages employee participation in its future through share ownership. The Worldwide Employee Sharesave Plan
allocated 1,055,865 ordinary shares during 2002. The Executive Share Option Plan granted options in 2002 over 4,130,201 ordinary
shares. 1,318,392 awards were made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan during the year. The group employed an average of 
9,063 people worldwide in 2002.
Charitable and political donations 
The group continues to support charitable causes and in 2002 donated £17,127 (2001 £21,277). The group made no political
donations in 2002 (2001 £nil).
Authority to buy-in shares
Under article 51 of its articles of association the company is empowered to purchase its own shares. The directors consider that 
the power to make purchases in the market of the company’s own shares should be maintained and the necessary special resolution
will be proposed at the annual general meeting. This power was not exercised during 2002.
Tax status
The company is not a close company within the provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and this position has not
changed since 31 December 2002.
Annual general meeting
The 2003 annual general meeting will be held on 14 May 2003 at 11.30 am at Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, Westgate, London W5 1UA.
The notice convening the annual general meeting is contained in a separate circular sent to shareholders with this report. 
Auditors
Following the conversion of the company’s auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers to a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) from 
1 January 2003, PricewaterhouseCoopers resigned on 4 February 2003 and the directors appointed its successor,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , as the company’s auditors. A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to 
the company will be proposed at the annual general meeting. 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period. In preparing those financial statements
the directors are required to:
■ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
■ make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
■ state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements.
The directors confirm that they complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 58 TNS annual report 2002
Directors’ report
continued 
position of the company and the group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern
The financial statements, which appear in this report, have been prepared on a going concern basis. After making appropriate
enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future.
By order of the board
Ian Portal
Company Secretary 
10 March 2003 www.tns-global.com 59
Corporate governance
The board is committed to good corporate governance and supports the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, issued by 
the Financial Services Authority (the ‘Combined Code’). During 2002, the group complied with all of the provisions set out in 
section 1 of the Combined Code, except to the extent that the notice period in the service contract of Mike Kirkham, the Chief
Executive, is two years, as explained in the remuneration report. 
Composition of the board
The board comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, as well as four non-executive directors. The non-executive
directors, with their broad range of experience, bring an important independent perspective to board decision making. 
In addition to the board members, the company has five associate directors who are invited to attend board meetings. They do not
have a right to vote at such meetings, however, it does allow them the opportunity to participate in key discussions whilst providing
all board members with access to the senior managers responsible for the operation of the business. 
Tony Cowling chairs the board and Mike Kirkham is Chief Executive. The board has agreed their respective roles and responsibilities,
to ensure they are clearly defined and that there are appropriate checks and balances in place. Rob Rowley has acted as senior
independent director since 1 January 2003, following the retirement of Nick Hodges on 31 December 2002.
Biographical information on each of the directors is given on page 54.
Function of the board
The board is accountable to shareholders for the group’s business operations and affairs. It participates in the establishment of 
the group’s strategy and then oversees its implementation; the presence of the associate directors at board meetings assists in this
process. The board is also responsible for monitoring the group’s financial and operational performance, ensuring that appropriate
risk management is in place and is being adhered to. In addition, the board ensures that appropriate corporate governance
procedures are established in order to protect the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. 
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for consideration by the board that includes approval of financial statements,
transfer of company assets, major acquisitions and disposals, expenditure authority levels and treasury and risk management
procedures. The full board met nine times during 2002. 
Retirement by rotation
In accordance with the company’s articles of association, executive directors retire by rotation and submit themselves for re-election
every three years and non-executive directors every two years. 
Information and advice
Board members are regularly briefed on matters affecting the group’s activities, such as significant industry developments, as well 
as changes to the legal and regulatory environment in which the group operates. Board reporting is designed to ensure that all
information relevant to board decisions is submitted by the executive to board members in a timely manner prior to each board
meeting. There is an agreed procedure whereby all members of the board may obtain independent professional advice in the
furtherance of their duties. Such advice was not sought by any director during 2002. All directors also have access to the services 
of the Company Secretary. 
Board committees
The board has established three committees to assist in fulfilling its duties: an audit committee, a nomination committee and a
remuneration committee. Terms of reference have been adopted in respect of each committee. 
The audit committee consists of non-executive directors only, as shown on page 54, and is chaired by Dr Neil Cross. Its
responsibilities include monitoring internal control, approving the group’s accounting policies, reviewing the interim and annual
financial statements before their submission to the board and keeping under review the scope and costs of audit and the nature and
extent of non-audit services provided by the auditors. The external auditor attends all audit committee meetings and has direct
access to the committee chairman. The committee is entitled to take independent professional advice and has full independent
powers of investigation and access to information. The audit committee met twice during 2002. 
The nomination committee comprises all non-executive directors, the group Chairman and the Chief Executive and is chaired by 
Dr Stephan Buck. The role of the nomination committee is to devise criteria for board membership and review candidates for
directorships, both executive and non-executive. The nomination committee met three times during 2002.  60 TNS annual report 2002
Corporate governance
continued 
The composition and responsibilities of the remuneration committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the principles of
the Combined Code in establishing director remuneration, are included in the remuneration report on pages 62 to 66. The
remuneration committee met seven times during 2002. 
Internal controls
The board is responsible for ensuring the group has an appropriate system of internal controls. Within the group’s regional/sector
structure, day to day management of those controls is delegated to senior management of the relevant operating units. Each year all
operations perform an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls in place in their business through an internal control
questionnaire and report their findings to the group. In March 2002, a formal business review function and process were approved by
the audit committee and board. Under the review, a number of group businesses are subject to a detailed review, on the basis of a
risk assessment, including financial, operational and compliance controls. Recommendations for change are agreed with local
management and the findings are reported to the executive committee and ultimately to the audit committee and the board. During
2002, five such reviews were performed. By these mechanisms the board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the group’s
system of internal controls for the year ended 31 December 2002. The group’s system of internal controls is designed to manage,
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The executive committee, the composition of which is shown on page 55, is responsible to the board for the overall implementation
of the strategy in the day to day running of the business. It has set out a procedure for risk management that is reviewed regularly
and on which it reports to the board. The executive committee has reviewed the key business, financial, operational and compliance
risks facing the group, prioritised their significance and assessed the current procedures and processes in place to detect and
address them. Initiatives have been put in place to address the key risks, which supports the group in achieving its strategy.
The board is of the view that there are appropriate on-going procedures for identifying and evaluating significant risks faced by the
group. These procedures have been in place for the financial year covered by this report and up to the date the annual report and
accounts were approved. The procedures comply with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined Code. 
Financial controls and reporting
The group operates a comprehensive system for financial reporting to the board, based on an annual budget and regular forecasts.
Financial performance is reported and appraised regularly and the operational management team identifies any new business
matters, key risks facing the operating units and recent acquisitions in its reports to the board. The board approves the budget in line
with the group’s corporate strategy.
Pension funds
Assets of the pension funds established for the benefit of the group’s employees are held separately from those of the group. 
In the UK these are held under trust by Taylor Nelson Sofres Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises both employee
representatives and group board members, in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 1995. In the Netherlands, these
are held by Stichting NIPO Pension funds. In the US, the group operates a number of section 401K plans with independent providers,
as well as the CMR LLC Union Pension Plan, the assets of which are held under trust by Northwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. 
Details of pension commitments are given on pages 44 to 46.
Shareholder communication
The group has in place a structured programme of communications with shareholders. Executive directors meet regularly with
existing and prospective institutional investors in the UK, Europe and the US, to provide background information regarding the group
and to improve their understanding of the company’s business and strategy. In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules 
of the UK Listing Authority, price-sensitive information is released to both institutional and private shareholders at the same time. 
Group results are announced twice yearly and the presentations made to analysts are webcast on the group’s website, 
www.tns-global.com, on the day of the announcement. 
The senior independent director meets with the company’s brokers twice a year to keep abreast of institutional shareholders’
attitudes to the company. The annual general meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to meet with and question the
directors.
During 2002, 14 announcements were made to the Stock Exchange informing the market of acquisitions, financial results and board
changes. These announcements together with current and back issues of the annual and interim reports and webcasts of the www.tns-global.com 61
company’s financial results presentations, are available on the group’s website. Shareholders can register on the website to receive
copies of press releases and financial results by email.
Annual general meeting
At least 20 working days’ notice is given to shareholders of the annual general meeting. All results of proxy votes are read out and
made available for review during the meeting. The Chairman, executive directors and chairmen of the audit, nomination and
remuneration committees all attend the annual general meeting and are available to answer questions from shareholders.
New developments
The board is currently considering the Derek Higgs review of the role of the non-executive directors and Sir Robert Smith’s report on
proposed guidance for audit committees, both published in January 2003, and will report to shareholders on the impact these reports
have on the company for its financial year commencing 1 January 2004.  62 TNS annual report 2002
Remuneration report
Composition and role of the remuneration committee
The remuneration committee comprises all the non-executive directors as detailed on page 54 and throughout 2002 was chaired by
Nick Hodges. From January 2003, Rob Rowley has been chairman of the committee. With the exception of Dr Stephan Buck, all
members of the remuneration committee in both 2002 and 2003 are considered to be independent in corporate governance terms.
The board believes that Dr Stephan Buck’s knowledge of the group and of the market research industry is invaluable to the
remuneration committee and therefore supports his position as a committee member.
Mike Petch, Group Human Resources Director and Jane Drysdale, Group Compensation and Benefits Director provide supporting
information to the remuneration committee. The Chairman, Tony Cowling and Chief Executive, Mike Kirkham attend the meetings as
required, by invitation. 
External advice is received from time to time from New Bridge Street Consultants (NBSC) on remuneration matters that affect senior
executives. In addition, the group participates in and purchases a number of remuneration surveys, the data from which are used to
help formulate remuneration decisions. NBSC provides compensation advice on other remuneration-related matters to the HR team,
but does not undertake tax or audit services, or any other services that may lead to a conflict of interest. 
The remuneration committee’s role is to advise the board on overall remuneration policy and, on its behalf, to determine the
remuneration packages of the executive directors and senior executives. The committee’s responsibilities are: 
■ to ensure that, in determining salary, its policy and practices support business strategy by being competitive and cost-effective;
■ to align the interests of executive directors and senior executives with those of shareholders, through the establishment of
appropriate short and long-term incentives;
■ to determine performance targets applicable to the annual bonus and long-term incentives;
■ to ensure that the determination of remuneration packages follows formal and transparent procedures.
Remuneration policy
The following remuneration principles apply across the group to all employees, including executive directors and senior executives:
■ total remuneration should be structured to facilitate the recruitment and retention of key individuals;
■ remuneration should be competitive in the local and global market places;
■ bonus plans should be in place to encourage delivery against challenging annual financial targets;
■ long-term alignment of individuals’ interests with company performance should be strengthened through share option plans and
equity participation;
■ individuals should have an appropriate balance of salary, short and long-term incentives and benefits within their total
remuneration.
Mike Kirkham’s and David Lowden’s remuneration packages are structured to have a maximum annual cash bonus opportunity of
100 per cent and 75 per cent of base pay respectively. They also have the opportunity to be considered for an annual grant of
options over shares with a maximum market value, at the time of grant, of two times their earnings. The value of Mike Kirkham’s
benefits equate to approximately 11 per cent of his base pay and for David Lowden, the benefits value is approximately 9 per cent of
base pay. Tony Cowling is no longer eligible for share option grants and approximately three quarters of his annual remuneration is
given in the form of base pay, with the balance being his annual cash bonus plan capped at £75,000, and benefits worth
approximately 4 per cent of base pay.    
The committee takes into account external market data supplied by independent professional sources. For benchmarking purposes,
the group continues to position itself against companies in the FTSE 250, with a specific focus on those organisations with sector
and size similarities. A number of the group’s key senior executives are located outside the UK, for example in France, the
Netherlands, the US, Spain and Singapore and so total remuneration is compared internationally and locally, with particular regard to
the levels of remuneration in the industries and businesses in which the company competes. The remuneration committee’s objective
is that cash remuneration is typically positioned at the median of the comparative market place, with high performing individuals able
to increase their total remuneration above the median through their annual bonus plans.
The fees of the non-executive directors are a matter reserved for the board as a whole, excluding the non-executive directors. 
The non-executive directors do not participate in the company’s pension, annual bonus or share option plans. 
Chairman and executive directors’ remuneration elements
Base pay
This is reviewed annually on 1 January and reflects the rate for the specific role. Base pay increases recognise external pay
movements and individual performance and base pay is the only pensionable element of remuneration. www.tns-global.com 63
Annual bonus
Executive directors and senior executives have annual cash bonus plans that reward growth in profit and operating margin. 
Each year’s performance provides the platform for the next year’s targets, giving a continuous drive for higher levels of achievement.
The bonuses are a maximum of £75,000, 100 per cent of base pay and 75 per cent of base pay for Tony Cowling, Mike Kirkham and
David Lowden respectively.
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentive arrangements are employed as a performance incentive and as a key retention tool. Executive directors are
eligible to participate in the 2001 Executive Share Option Plan, the Equity Participation Plan and, in exceptional circumstances, the
Long-Term Incentive Plan. Participation is at the discretion of the remuneration committee, subject to plan rules and within the terms
of the agreed remuneration policy.
Pension
Mike Kirkham and David Lowden are members of a money purchase pension plan governed by an independent trust. The group
contributes 8 per cent of salary for Mike Kirkham and 6 per cent of salary for David Lowden. Tony Cowling’s membership of the plan
ceased in January 2002.
Benefits
Individual private health insurance, independent financial and taxation counselling and health screening are provided. There is no
company car benefit for any director. 
Long-term incentive plans 
At the annual general meeting in June 2001, shareholders approved two new incentive plans. These were the 2001 Executive Share
Option Plan, which replaced the 1994 Executive Option Plan, and the Equity Participation Plan. The remuneration committee has
agreed that executive directors should be encouraged to hold shares in the group and it is planned that this shareholding will be
achieved through a policy of retention of a proportion of the shares gained through the options plans.
2001 Executive Share Option Plan (ESP)
Executive directors and selected employees are eligible to participate in the plan at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Annual grants of options may be made over shares worth up to twice the value of an individual’s remuneration. Grant levels are
subject to the individual’s performance and value to the business. Options are exercisable between three and ten years after grant,
subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions:
■ for 50 per cent of each grant, growth in EPS before goodwill charges must exceed inflation plus an average of 4 per cent per
annum over three years; and
■ for the remaining 50 per cent, growth in EPS before goodwill charges must exceed inflation plus an average of 8 per cent per
annum over three years.
If performance conditions have not been met after three years, re-measurement will take place annually for up to two further years,
using the original year as a fixed base. If performance conditions have not been satisfied at this point, the options will lapse. Fixed-
base re-testing is appropriate for this plan, as it is a critical retention tool for the group that demands high levels of performance from
its participants. EPS was chosen as a suitable performance measure, as it provides a meaningful and clear measure of improvement
in the company’s financial performance and, as it is disclosed in the accounts, is transparent to shareholders. 
2001 Equity Participation Plan (EPP)
Shareholders gave authority for this plan in 2001 and it is intended that 2003 will be the first year of its use. Executive directors and
selected employees are eligible to participate in the plan at the discretion of the remuneration committee. 
Under the plan, employees may deposit company shares to a market value not exceeding 50 per cent of the individual’s base salary
in any one year. In return, a matching award will be granted over shares with a market value on the day of grant equal to half the pre-
tax amount, which would have been required by the individual to acquire the deposited shares. A matching award will normally be
exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of its grant, and is conditional upon the deposited shares being retained and
the executive remaining in employment at this time. 
The plan has been structured to provide an incentive for executives to build and maintain a shareholding in the company through
regular annual purchases of shares, thereby creating a clear alignment with shareholders. As the plan is designed to be highly
retentive, it is not the intention of the remuneration committee to attach performance conditions to the matching award. 64 TNS annual report 2002
Remuneration report
continued
Worldwide Employee Share-save Plan (WESP) 
The company continues to operate the WESP that was adopted in 1999 and replaced the Savings Related Share Option Scheme
(SRSOS). The plan is a share option plan in which the employee saves from salary, up to a maximum of £150 per month, over a fixed
period of time, for a minimum of three years, and is then given the opportunity to purchase fixed price shares from his or her fund.
The group uses the WESP to encourage global ownership of shares by employees.
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP)
The company’s LTIP is used to make awards of shares to selected employees and executive directors in recruitment or acute
retention situations, or other exceptional circumstances, at the discretion of the remuneration committee. Awards under the LTIP may
be structured as nil cost options or requiring the payment of an exercise price, which is set at the time of the grant. Performance
conditions, set by the remuneration committee, are normally attached to awards.
Service contracts
The remuneration committee has established all aspects of directors’ service contracts in the light of specific circumstances of the
group and current practice. There is typically no fixed term to the contracts and the remuneration committee has agreed that, going
forward, notice periods within any new contracts will be 12 months. In the event of termination, all contractual obligations would be
honoured by the company, subject to mitigation.
Contract or Date due Early termination 
appointment  date for re-election Notice period liabilities  
Dr Stephan Buck April 1992 May 2003 Not applicable None 
Tony Cowling July 2001 May 2004 12 months rolling Note
1
Dr Neil Cross Dec 1996 May 2003 Not applicable None
Jacques-Henri David
2
Feb 1998 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 
Nick Hodges
3
Dec 1997 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable  
Mike Kirkham Jan 1993 May 2003 24 months rolling
4
Note
1
David Lowden March 1999 May 2005 12 months rolling
5
Note
1
Rob Rowley Sept 2002 May 2003 Not applicable None 
Rémy Sautter Nov 2002 May 2003 Not applicable None 
Notes
1 If the contract were terminated without giving proper notice, damages for breach of contract would be salary and any other benefits such as
pension contribution, health and life assurance but subject to mitigation by the director. If the contract were terminated with proper notice being
given, no damages would be paid.
2 Jacques-Henri David retired from the board and all remuneration ceased with effect from 31 January 2003.
3Nick Hodges retired from the board and all remuneration ceased with effect from 31 December 2002.
4 The committee believes that the 24-month notice period is appropriate for Mike Kirkham’s role as chief executive, where his particular
contribution and expertise is invaluable to the group. This provision within the contract was deemed appropriate when the contract
commenced following the merger with AGB in 1992. 
5 David Lowden’s notice period increases to 24 months in the event of change of control, if he is not offered a position in the reconstructed
company on generally equivalent terms.
Directors’ interests in shares of the group
31 DECEMBER 2001 
31 DECEMBER 2002 (or date of appointment)
Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial   
Dr Stephan Buck 63,000 – 63,000 –
Tony Cowling 2,815,820 690,130 3,015,820 721,911 
Dr Neil Cross 20,000 – 20,000 –
Jacques-Henri David 10,000 – 10,000 –
Nick Hodges 15,000 – 15,000 –
Mike Kirkham 194,654 – 144,654 – 
David Lowden 25,000 – 15,000 – 
Rob Rowley – – –– 
Rémy Sautter –– ––  www.tns-global.com 65
Directors’ emoluments
TOTAL PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS
Salary Bonus Benefits Fees 2002 2001 2002 2001
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Dr Stephan Buck 1– – – 102 102 92 – – 
Tony Cowling 2 257 75 1 – 333 546 2 27 
Dr Neil Cross – – – 30 30 29 – – 
Jacques–Henri David3– – – 30 30 29 – – 
Martin Frame 4 – – – – 0 242 – – 
Nick Hodges 5 – – – 33 33 32 – – 
Mike Kirkham 2 330 161 5 – 496 400 26 23 
David Lowden 270 105 5 – 380 346 16 15 
Rob Rowley 6– – – 10 10 0 – – 
Rémy Sautter 7– – – 4 4 0 – – 
Hugh Stammers 8– – – – 0 90 – 7 
Pierre Weill 9–– – – 0 1,126 – – 
857 341 11 209 1,418 2,932 44 72 
Notes 
1 Fees to Dr Stephan Buck include £72,110 as payment for consulting services to the group, which will cease from April 2003.
2 Earnings for 2001 reflect the changes in responsibilities from June 2001.
3 Jacques–Henri David retired from the board on 31 January 2003.
4 Martin Frame resigned from the board on 31 December 2000. On 31 August 2001 he left full–time employment with the group, receiving
£242,480 compensation for the remaining period of his two year contract. He is employed on a part-time basis for a period of five years from
1 September 2001, in which capacity he receives payments of £4,000 per annum. On 18 March 2002 he exercised options over 600,000 shares
at an average of 75p. Market value was 232p per share on that date, giving a gain of £939,064.
5Nick Hodges retired from the board on 31 December 2002. 
6 Rob Rowley was appointed to the board on 1 September 2002.
7 Rémy Sautter was appointed to the board on 12 November 2002.
8 Hugh Stammers resigned from the board on 12 June 2001 but continued in the group's employ until 30 June 2002, earning salary of £89,960,
pension contributions of £14,394, bonus of £14,521 and healthcare benefit of £418. He received a payment of £104,481 on leaving the group.
On 12 December 2002 he exercised his remaining options to acquire 600,000 shares at an average of 75p each. Market value was 154p per
share on that date, giving a gain of £474,000.
9 Pierre Weill resigned from the board on 12 June 2001. He has been retained as a consultant to the group for a period of three years from 
1 November 2001, in which capacity he received payments to a value of £302,180 in 2002. Directors’ interests in share options
1 Jan 31 Dec Market price 
Plan 2002 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2002 Option price on grant Exercise period 
Tony Cowling WESP 1,687 – – – 1,687 200p 267.5p 1 Jul 2005 – 31 Dec 2005
WESP 1,973 – – – 1,973 171p 242.5p 1 Jul 2006 – 31 Dec 2006 
WESP – 833 – – 833 228p 236p 1 Jul 2005 – 31 Dec 2005 
ESP 80,000 – – – 80,000 203.5p 205p 30 Jun 2004 – 30 Jun 2008 
LTIP 568,182 – – – 568,182 95p 141.75p 30 Jun 2001 – 10 Jun 2005 
LTIP 181,818 – – – 181,818 12.125p 136p 30 Jun 2001 – 2 Jun 2005 
LTIP – 116,000 – – 116,000 Nil 177p 12 Apr 2004 – 1 Jul 2009 
Mike Kirkham SRSOS 3,700 – – – 3,700 135p 147.5p 1 Jul 2004 – 31 Dec 2004 
WESP 403 – – – 403 249.5p 267.5p 1 Jul 2003 – 31 Dec 2003 
WESP – 1,808 – – 1,808 183p 236p 1 Jul 2007 – 31 Dec 2007 
ESP 200,000 – – – 200,000 203.5p 205p 30 Jun 2004 – 30 Jun 2008 
ESP – 15,000 – – 15,000 184p 177p 31 Jul 2005 – 31 Jul 2012 
ESP – 285,000 – – 285,000 184p 177p 31 Jul 2005 – 31 Jul 2009 
LTIP 568,182 – – – 568,182 95p 141.75p 30 Jun 2001 – 10 Jun 2005 
LTIP 181,818 – – – 181,818 12.125p 136p 30 Jun 2001 – 2 Jun 2005    
David Lowden SRSOS 5,000 – – – 5,000 135p 147.5p 1 Jul 2004 – 31 Dec 2004  
ESP 150,000 – – – 150,000 203.5p 205p 30 Jun 2004 – 30 Jun 2008  
ESP – 15,000 – – 15,000 184p 177p 31 Jul 2005 – 31 Jul 2012  
ESP – 185,000 – – 185,000 184p 177p 31 Jul 2005 – 31 Jul 2009  
LTIP500,000 – – – 500,000 75p 147.5p 30 May 2002 – 20 May 2006
2,442,763618,641 – – 3,061,404
Notes
1 Options granted under the SRSOS and the WESP are not subject to any performance conditions.
2 Options granted under the ESP are subject to the performance conditions outlined in the policy section.
3 Options granted under the LTIP are subject to the following performance conditions (but see also note 4 below): 
The real compound annual growth of the group’s EPS, before goodwill charges, over three consecutive financial years must exceed at least 
6 per cent. In most cases, the options are only exercisable in full if the rate so calculated is 12 per cent. Should the exercise conditions not be
met, re-testing may occur on a rolling three-year basis throughout the life of the plan.
4 Options over 116,000 shares were granted for nil consideration to Tony Cowling. No performance conditions were attached to this award, as it
represented the final element of compensation payable to him for the change in his role in June 2001.
5 The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2002 was 152p and the range during the year was 121.5p to 247.5p.
Performance graph
This graph illustrates the performance of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and the FTSE 250 index over the past five years. The company has
been a constituent of this index from May 1998 and the directors feel that it is the most meaningful one for comparative purposes. 
Ian Portal  Company Secretary
10 March 2003
66 TNS annual report 2002
Remuneration report
continued
Value to the end of 2002 of £100 invested
in Taylor Nelson Sofres on 31 December
1997, compared with £100 invested in the 
FTSE Mid 250 Return Index
■ Taylor Nelson Sofres
■ FTSE Mid 250 return
31 Dec 97 31 Dec 98 31 Dec 99 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02
£350
£300
£250
£200
£150
£100
£50 www.tns-global.com 67
Website
Information about Taylor Nelson Sofres, including share price information, is available on the group’s internet site 
www.tns-global.com. Material likely to be of particular interest to investors can be found in the Investor Centre. The site contains
copies of announcements made to the London Stock Exchange, interactive versions of the group’s annual reports, as well as
webcasts of the company’s financial results presentations. It is possible to register on the site to receive email alerts when new
announcements become available on the internet. The TNS Investor Centre won the 2002 Investor Relations Best Practice Website
Award for a FTSE 250 company.
Registrar
The company’s registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC. Any enquiries about shareholdings in Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, for
example changes to name or address or loss of share certificate, should be sent in writing to: Computershare Investor Services PLC,
PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH. Tel +44 (0)870 702 0000. E-mail: web.queries@computershare.co.uk. 
Please ensure that all correspondence refers to Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and clearly states the registered name and address of 
the shareholder.
Electronic communications
Shareholders are able to ask the company to communicate with them electronically, rather than by post. Shareholders wishing to take
advantage of this service may do so by registering their email address on the Computershare website, which can be accessed
through the Investor Centre at www.tns-global.com. Registration is free and easy to complete. All that is required for registration is
the shareholder reference number that is shown on dividend tax vouchers and share certificates. Shareholders who have registered
for this service will be sent an electronic notification to let them know when the company’s annual report becomes available on the
group’s website.
Shareholders are able to look up a range of information on the Computershare website, including the number of Taylor Nelson Sofres
shares they hold, details of the registered name and address and dividend payment instructions. If shareholders have more than one
account arising from inconsistencies in name and address details, they may avoid duplicate sets of mailings by asking
Computershare to amalgamate their holdings.
ADR program
The company has a sponsored Level 1 American Depository Receipt (ADR) program, for which The Bank of New York acts as
Depository. A Level 1 ADR program is not listed on a US stock exchange and trades in the over-the-counter (OTC) market. The ADR
trading symbol is TYNLY and price quotes can be obtained from www.pinksheets.com. One ADR represents 15 ordinary shares.
When dividends are paid to shareholders, the Depository makes the equivalent payment in US dollars to ADR holders. 
For ADR shareholder enquiries, please contact: Shareholder Relations, The Bank of New York, PO Box 11248, Church Street Station,
New York, NY 10286-1258, USA. Tel +1 610 312 5315. From the USA 1-888-BNY-ADRS (toll free). 
Email: shareowner_svcs@bankofny.com. Website: www.adrbny.com.
Investor relations
For investor enquiries, please contact: Janis Parks, Head of Investor Relations, Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, Westgate, London W5 1UA.
Tel +44 (0)20 8967 1584. Fax +44 (0)20 8967 1386. Email: janis.parks@tns-global.com.
Financial calendar
Annual general meeting: 14 May 2003 at 11.30 am at Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, Westgate, London W5 1UA
Results and final dividend 2002: Announced on 10 March 2003. Ex-dividend date 21 May 2003. Record date 23 May 2003. 
Dividend payable 7 July 2003
Six months results 2003: To be announced on 8 September 2003
Advisers
Auditors: PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH. Tel +44 (0)20 7583 5000
Stockbrokers: Cazenove, 12 Tokenhouse Yard, London EC2R 7AN. Tel +44 (0)20 7588 2828
Deutsche Bank AG London, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB. Tel +44 (0)20 7545 8000
Bankers: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Waterhouse Square, 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2TH. Tel +44 (0)20 7427 8000
Financial advisers: Deutsche Bank AG London, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB. Tel +44 (0)20 7545 8000
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited, New Court, St Swithin’s Lane, London EC4P 4DU. Tel + 44 (0)20 7280 5000
Shareholder information and financial calendar 68 TNS annual report 2002
2002 2001 2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 
Continuing activities 601.9 582.7 479.3 380.9 339.8
Acquisitions 17.0 ––––
Discontinued operations – ––– 2.2
618.9 582.7 479.3 380.9 342.0
Less share of joint ventures (15.7) (7.6) – – –
603.2 575.1 479.3 380.9 342.0
Operating profit before goodwill charges
Continuing activities 57.3 54.2 44.4 34.0 28.3
Acquisitions 0.6 ––––
Discontinued operations – ––– 0.2
57.9 54.2 44.4 34.0 28.5
Goodwill charges (19.6) (13.7) (5.4) (1.4) (0.1)
Operating profit 38.3 40.5 39.0 32.6 28.4
Share of operating profit of joint ventures 
(after goodwill charges of £0.6m, 2001 £0.2m) 1.3 0.8 – – –
Operating profit including joint ventures
(before goodwill charges, associates and
non operating exceptional items) 59.8 55.2 44.4 34.0 28.5
Goodwill charges (20.2) (13.9) (5.4) (1.4) (0.1)
Operating profit including joint ventures 39.6 41.3 39.0 32.6 28.4
Profit on disposal of operations – ––– 3.0
Income from interests in associated undertakings 0.2 – 1.2 0.9 0.2
Net interest paid including finance charges (11.2) (11.7) (7.8) (2.4) (3.4)
Profit before taxation 28.6 29.6 32.4 31.1 28.2
Taxation (15.5) (13.3) (11.6) (10.4) (8.0)
Profit after taxation 13.1 16.3 20.8 20.7 20.2
Minority interests (0.7) (0.4) (0.3) (0.4) (1.1)
Profit for the year 12.4 15.9 20.5 20.3 19.1
Dividends (10.0) (9.0) (7.8) (6.5) (5.2)
Retained profit for the year 2.4 6.9 12.7 13.8 13.9
Net assets employed
Fixed assets 262.5 286.0 205.9 120.0 60.6
Net current assets/(liabilities) 4.5 9.9 10.7 (17.0) 22.5
267.0 295.9 216.6 103.0 83.1
Long term liabilities (202.5) (220.6) (157.8) (49.2) (70.9)
Provision for liabilities and charges (23.6) (32.3) (22.6) (30.9) (7.6)
Net assets 40.9 43.0 36.2 22.9 4.6
Basic earnings per share (pence) 3.3 4.3 5.5 5.5 5.2
Adjusted earnings before goodwill charges (pence) 8.6 8.0 7.0 5.9 4.4
Dividends per share (pence) 2.6 2.4 2.1 1.8 1.4
The preceding years have been restated to reflect rights issues and discontinued operations.
Five year summary Head and registered office
Taylor Nelson Sofres plc  
Westgate London W5 1UA  
Tel +44 (0)20 8967 0007  
Fax +44 (0)20 8967 4060
www.tns-global.com
Registered number 912624
Design and production The Workroom Tel +44 (0)20 7608 0840 Email design@workroom.co.uk  Images Adrian Bradbury  Portrait photography Tim Barker  Print The Colourhouse imagination attitude wit 
Taylor Nelson Sofres plc
Westgate  London W5 1UA  United Kingdom Tel +44 (0)20 8967 0007 Fax +44 (0)20 8967 4060  www.tns–global.com
