 Annual report and accounts 2005
Delivering insight 
Adding value TNS is a market information company:
• The world’s largest provider of custom
research and analysis 
• A leader in political and social polling
• A major supplier of consumer panel, media
intelligence and TV and radio audience
measurement services. 
TNS operates across a global network in over 70 countries, allowing us
to provide internationally consistent, up-to-the-minute and high
quality information and analysis.
The group’s employees deliver innovative thinking and excellent
service to local and multi-national clients worldwide. In the custom
business, they combine in-depth sector knowledge with expertise in
the areas of new product development, positioning and segmentation
research, brand and advertising research and stakeholder management. 
TNS’ strategic goal is to be recognised as the global leader in delivering
value added information and insights that help our clients to make
more effective decisions.
TNS is the sixth sense of business.
www.tns-global.com
Contents
1 Financial highlights
2 Chairman’s statement
4 Chief Executive’s statement
12 Finance Director’s review
18 Business review
28 Corporate and social responsibility
32 Directors’ biographies
34 Directors’ report
37 Corporate governance
41 Remuneration report
50 Independent auditors’ report
51 Consolidated income statement
52 Balance sheets
53 Cash flow statements
54 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
55 Notes to the financial statements
95 Shareholder information and financial calendar
96 Five year summary the sixth sense of business
™
1
■ Underlying revenue up 4.1%; stronger performance in 
second half
■ Adjusted operating proﬁt up 9.5%; adjusted operating margin
up 40 basis points to 11.3%
■ Adjusted earnings per share up 15.7% to 14.7p
■ Total dividend per share raised by 14.3% to 4.0p
■ Strong cash generation in second half; net debt reduced 
to £295.4m
Business performance* 2005 2004 Change %
Revenue £999.0m £945.3m 5.7
Adjusted operating profit £112.6m £102.8m 9.5
Adjusted operating margin 11.3% 10.9%
Adjusted profit before tax £97.8m £81.0m 20.7
Adjusted earnings per share 14.7p 12.7p 15.7
Total dividend per share 4.0p 3.5p 14.3
Statutory results
Operating profit £99.8m £91.1m 9.5
Profit before tax £85.0m £69.3m 22.7
Earnings per share 11.8p 10.0p 18.0
* Adjusted results are before goodwill impairment, share based payments, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, exceptional
pension curtailment credit and integration costs. Earnings per share are shown before deferred tax on goodwill. Underlying revenue
is defined on page 12. 
Financial highlights TNS annual report 2005 2
Chairman’s statement 
I am pleased to report that the group achieved good progress in
the past year. Adjusted profit before tax increased by 20.7% to
£97.8m and adjusted earnings per share were up 15.7% to 14.7p.
The dividend for the year rose 14.3% to 4.0p.
Donald Brydon, Chairman
It is less than two months since I was appointed Chairman of your company. I have
met a large number of people in the company in a short time, particularly at a very
positive and impressive senior management conference in Lisbon. Generally, it is
possible to detect quickly the mood in a company and I have to report that I have
found a strong heartbeat and very professional and energised management. 
What is immediately apparent is that TNS is a high quality company that has built a
unique position in a growing market. Its three main syndicated services –
Worldpanel, Media Intelligence and TV and Radio Audience Measurement – are all
leaders and innovators in their markets. TNS is the world’s largest custom research
company, with arguably the industry’s strongest custom network and broadest
range of products and services. 
What we must do now is ensure that the group achieves the full potential offered by
this market-leading position. To that end, David Lowden was appointed Chief
Executive in January. As Finance Director and then Chief Operating Officer, he has
helped shape the business he now leads. I look forward to working with him to take
the company to the next stage in its development.
Elsewhere in this report, David describes the new strategic goal for the group and
the four core principles that support it. He has restructured the organisation to
ensure that the group is in a position to implement successfully the strategy that has
been devised following consultation with clients and management. This strategy
responds to the changing demands of the market and is clearly focused on client
needs. His plans focus strongly on innovation and people development; TNS
already does these things well but now it will do them better and that will drive
success. The board is fully supportive of these moves, which represent a natural
evolution for the group. 
At the beginning of 2006, Tony Cowling reached the age of 70 and retired from his
position as Chairman. Tony was a founder member of the company in 1965 and
subsequently Chief Executive. His vision and drive were fundamental to the
creation of the TNS we see today. I am delighted that Tony has agreed to accept the
role of TNS President and that the group will still benefit from his considerable
knowledge around specific sectors of our business. 
Tony’s contribution has spread wider than just TNS. He has also been a central
figure in market research and many of the leading people in the industry owe him a
debt of gratitude for his support and encouragement and for the opportunities he
has given to them. This was recognised in January, when he was awarded the
Market Research Society Gold Medal, to celebrate his outstanding lifetime
achievement and contribution to market research. 
It is a privilege to succeed Tony as Chairman of TNS.
Also in January 2006, Mike Kirkham stood down as Chief Executive, after almost
five years in the role. Mike’s career with the group began in 1970, when he joined
AGB Research, and he was appointed to the Taylor Nelson AGB board in 1992.  the sixth sense of business
™
3
At AGB, Mike led the team that developed the PeopleMeter television audience
measurement system. Within the enlarged group, he was responsible for growing
international specialist sector activities before becoming Chief Executive in 2001.
Under his stewardship, TNS became the world’s second-largest market information
group. I am very pleased that Mike’s advice and experience continue to be available
to the company.
I am sure all shareholders would want me to thank both Tony and Mike for their
remarkable contribution to TNS.
I welcome the appointment of Pedro Ros to the board as Managing Director – Global
Clients and Services. Pedro has had a broad range of experience within TNS since
joining the group in 1985 and brings to the board significant international skills
within market research. His appointment is significant in emphasising the
importance of servicing our major multi-national clients through our expertise in
their business sectors. 
In December 2005, Rob Rowley stood down as a non-executive director and I thank
him for his valuable contribution. Paul Murray joined the board in May 2005 and
succeeded Rob as Senior Independent Director in August. 
The TNS board remains fully compliant with the principles of the Combined Code. 
There are many challenges and opportunities facing the industry: client
globalisation, new technologies, industry consolidation and media fragmentation
being perhaps the most obvious. How companies react to these challenges depends
on the quality of their people. We are indeed fortunate in the experience, talents and
enthusiasm of those who service our clients at all levels in the company. Everything
that we do is for the benefit of our clients and the stability and continuity of our
people is central to success. I would like to thank them, and everyone who works
within TNS, for their loyalty, creativity and sheer hard work.
In 2005, TNS achieved another year of steady underlying revenue growth and
significant improvement in earnings. In the areas of the business that have done less
well, action has been taken that should deliver improved performance. I am
confident that the company will continue to deliver the service our clients require
and, therefore, appropriate returns for our shareholders.
Donald Brydon
Chairman TNS annual report 2005 4
David Lowden, Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s statement 
In 2005, TNS achieved strong underlying revenue growth
across its syndicated services and in the custom businesses of
Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Middle
East & Africa. 
While the performance of our US custom business was disappointing, we saw a
return to growth in our UK custom business during the second half of the year. 
In total, the group delivered underlying revenue growth of 4.1 per cent for the year
and an increase of 15.7 per cent in adjusted earnings per share.
Our markets
Market information continues to be recognised as a growth industry. Growth in
custom research is being driven by demand from the emerging economies, with
China, India and Brazil leading the increase in business in their regions. As the
internet brings down the cost of data collection in the US, the volume of research
being commissioned there is rising. While the mature markets of Western Europe
are growing more slowly, Central and Eastern Europe continue to see an increase 
in demand. In all regions, there is rising demand from newer users of market
information, such as the Technology sector. Markets for syndicated services 
around the world are maintaining their steady growth.
Syndicated services
The group continues to invest in its syndicated services, where we have strong
market positions, clear competitive advantage and highly experienced management.
By expanding the size of our consumer panels under the Worldpanel brand and
introducing new technology in a number of markets, we have continued to increase
data granularity and strengthen our position. 
The group has extended and upgraded its Media Intelligence activities in Europe,
Asia and the US. In Europe, we have built on our strong position in the French 
news monitoring market with the successful integration of Presse+, which has
widened our client base and added to our international services. In Russia, 
we have added local advertising monitoring to our services. In the US, we have
reinforced our competitive position through the upgrade of our monitoring
technology and delivery platforms and expanded coverage through the
introduction of a number of new services.
Our TV and radio audience measurement (TRAM) business has had another very
successful year and has reinforced its position in the emerging markets, with new
contract wins in Asia and extension of services in China and Russia. The group is
meeting the challenge of measuring audiences in the digital broadcasting age, with
new services in Europe and the US. InfoSys, which provides detailed audience data
analysis, is now used by 6,000 people in 20 countries around the world. 
Custom business
TNS is the world’s largest custom research business and, in 2005, we achieved good
underlying revenue growth across most areas. The group has been investing in the
development of its managed access panels in the US, Europe and Asia Pacific. We
have reinforced our global account management and our sector expertise. We have
further developed our Areas of Expertise, which address all the core marketing
issues. For example, in the field of New Product Development, we are launching a the sixth sense of business
™
5
new business solution to provide accurate pre-launch sales and volume forecasts,
and we have recently introduced a new approach to Brand and Advertising research.
By combining all of these elements and applying them throughout our global
network, we believe we are gaining share across most of our custom business. In
2005, our businesses in Continental Europe performed very well, achieving under-
lying growth significantly ahead of the market. In the faster growing markets of Asia
Pacific, Latin America and Middle East & Africa we also had an excellent year.
After a difficult first half in the UK, when our custom operations were impacted by
a sharp downturn in the market, the business recovered in the second half. We are
building our presence in the non-consumer segments of the market, as well as
placing greater emphasis on business driven by our Areas of Expertise.
In the US, the market is growing, as clients recognise the value of information being
collected by use of internet access panels and also as market research spend
continues to increase in less traditional sectors. TNS is the market leader for custom
research in the US. We have the broadest range of sector expertise and product
offering, well-established major client relationships and a high quality managed
access panel. In a competitive environment, however, we are not yet delivering on
our potential. At the start of 2006, we reorganised the business to achieve improved
client focus. We believe that these changes should allow us to rebuild our position
during the year and lead to a longer-term recovery. 
Moving forward – evolution of strategy
Our market is changing and it is clear that the growth opportunities for TNS lie
within the areas of added value information and insight. It is here that clients,
particularly the major multi-nationals, are looking to spend a growing proportion 
of their market information budgets, as their needs become increasingly complex. 
We include among our clients most of the world’s major companies – from the largest
consumer packaged goods (CPG) groups, to the leading pharmaceutical companies,
from all the big automobile manufacturers, to the latest players in the fast-changing
technology market. In 2005, we had considerable success in expanding the scope of
the work we did with them. With one of the world’s largest CPG companies, for
example, we moved from traditional concept testing to strategic, value added
research programmes in the US and globally. We trebled the size of our business with
a well-established technology company, by combining our sixth sense of business
thinking with excellent project execution from an international team.
But there is more that we can do. TNS’ strategy is, therefore, based around
delivering the business insights and innovation our major clients seek. 
Our approach involves strengthening our service offering around four core
principles: client orientation; service excellence and cost efficiency; expertise and
innovation; and people development. This will be implemented through changes 
to our global and regional business sectors – in order to ensure that we are drawing
on the strength of our network to win the growing multi-country business. ➞ TNS annual report 2005 6
Our strategic goal
Our strategic goal is to 
be recognised as the 
global leader in delivering
value added information
and insights that help our
clients to make more
effective decisions the sixth sense of business
™
7
Our four core principles
Client 
orientation
Service excellence
and cost efﬁciency
Expertise and
innovation
People 
development TNS annual report 2005 8
Organisational changes
Under the leadership of Pedro Ros, as Managing Director – Global Clients and
Sectors in the custom business, we are putting greater emphasis on servicing our
major, multi-national clients through our expertise in their business sectors. 
We will continue to build our global partnership account teams and develop an
international project management group.
Our regional custom business will continue to drive growth in client relationships
in local markets. It will be organised around three regions: North America, Europe,
and Asia Pacific–Latin America–Middle East & Africa (ALM). To achieve service
excellence and cost efficiency, we are increasing focus on global operations, to
ensure that we deliver the quality of data collection and provision required by
clients, in the most cost-effective manner. 
TNS has been at the forefront of establishing global access panel coverage. 
Its flagship managed access panel in the US is now complemented by panels in
Europe’s six largest markets and across seven countries in Asia Pacific. At the start of
2006, we saw the recommissioning of several online tracking studies conducted on
the European panel. In Asia, enquiries for panel projects are already significantly
higher than last year, as we benefit from being ‘first to market’ with access panels
across the region. In response, the size and scope of the panels is being increased in
all markets. 
A newly-appointed Head of Global Access Panels will ensure we maximise this
coverage and deliver a consistently high quality of service. He will take best practice
across the group to produce research results faster, standardise and automate
processes to achieve cost reductions and ensure the integrity of research results.
Innovation has been a key driver in our syndicated services. It has also led to the
successful growth of our Areas of Expertise and TNSInfo, our web portal delivery
system that allows clients to store and organise all their marketing information in
one place on the internet. Its unique interactive features allow clients to set up alerts
when new information is added, analyse the data online and access this service from
wherever they are around the world. A first in the industry, TNSInfo has been a key
factor in a number of contract wins. During 2005, it was further developed.
Dashboard, a highly visual and user-friendly display of key performance indicators
is now used by a number of clients from right across the business. 
We were one of the first research companies in the US to recognise the potential of
multi-cultural marketing and to develop innovative programmes to deal with the
special issues related to reaching into Hispanic, African-American and other ethnic
markets. In 2005, a number of our major CPG clients used TNS specialist expertise,
and the multi-cultural representation of our US access panel, to help them to
understand this growing market.
We are putting greater
emphasis on servicing
our major, multi-
national clients through
our expertise in their
business sectors.
Chief Executive’s statement   the sixth sense of business
™
9
Clients continue to look to us for new thinking across the business and we have
scope to do more, based on our understanding of their needs and building on our
range of different research techniques. I have appointed a Head of Strategic
Development and Marketing, who will be responsible for a co-ordinated focus on
investment in new ideas and services across the custom and syndicated businesses,
which will help us deliver more innovative solutions to our clients. 
Outlook 
As clients’ own markets become increasingly competitive and fast-changing, we
expect that the demand for market information will continue to grow. In the major
consumer and media syndicated markets, this growth should remain steady,
although we will continue to expand these markets through the innovative
introduction of new products and services.  The regional pattern of market
development in custom research in 2006 is expected to be similar to 2005; 
the emerging markets will continue to see the fastest growth, the US market 
should remain fairly strong but growth in Western European markets will be at 
a slower pace.
Looking at TNS revenue in 2006, we anticipate steady growth in Europe, our 
largest region. While we may not be able to maintain the significant market out
performance achieved in Continental Europe in 2005, these businesses should
continue to see good growth and we expect an improvement year-on-year in the
UK. The US custom business should stabilise but it is too early in the year to predict
exactly when that business will return to growth. Our ALM operations should
continue to perform well.
By sector, while the consumer market remains challenging, we anticipate some
recovery through the year. Media, Business Services and Healthcare should grow
well. We expect good demand in Technology but the sector will be impacted by the
continued cut-backs in business from one of our major US clients.
Looking at the group overall, we would expect 2006 to represent another year of
progress in both underlying revenue and operating margin.
In the longer term, I am confident that our new strategic focus and organisational
structure will help drive us towards our goal of being recognised as market
information’s global leader in delivering value added information and insights that
help our clients make more effective business decisions.  
David Lowden 
Chief Executive
As clients’ own markets
become increasingly
competitive and 
fast-changing, we
expect that the demand
for market information
will continue to grow.  together Client orientation
■ Strong focus on global
clients and sectors
■ Partnership account
teams and international
project management  
■ Global approach
supported by strength 
of network
■ Added emphasis on sales
development
■ TNS Areas of Expertise
provide greater insights
clients demand
the sixth sense of business
™
11
Core principle TNS annual report 2005 12
Finance Director’s review
The following are the first full year results reported by TNS
under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS),
as endorsed by the European Union. 
To assist understanding of the
underlying performance of the
business, operating profit, profit before
tax and earnings per share have been
disclosed on an adjusted basis. Adjusted
operating profit is before goodwill
impairment, amortisation of acquired
intangible assets, share based payments,
exceptional pension credit and
integration costs. Adjusted earnings per
share also excludes deferred tax on
goodwill (see Taxation below). 
The group’s calculation of underlying
revenue growth remains consistent
with that published in 2004.
Underlying revenue growth is
calculated by taking the increase in 2005
revenue over 2004 pro forma revenue,
at constant exchange rates. The pro
forma revenue assumes that any
acquisitions were owned, and
discontinued operations excluded, for
the comparable period in the prior year.
Revenue
Reported revenue increased by 5.7 per
cent to £999.0 million (2004 £945.3
million). Foreign exchange movements
had a positive impact of 1.3 per cent on
reported revenue. At constant exchange
rates, the group increased underlying
revenue by 4.1 per cent for the year.
Operating profit and margin
Adjusted operating profit increased by
9.5 per cent to £112.6 million (2004
£102.8 million), providing an adjusted
operating margin of 11.3 per cent (2004
10.9 per cent).  Adjusted operating
profit, including the charge for share
based payments, was £108.1 million
(2004 £100.2 million). Reported
operating profit increased by 
9.5 per cent to £99.8 million (2004
£91.1 million).
Goodwill impairment
Under IFRS, goodwill is no longer
amortised but is instead subject to an
annual impairment review. In 2005,
impairment of goodwill was £10.3
million, primarily recorded against TES,
the group’s US cinema advertising
monitoring unit. In 2004, the charge 
for impairment of goodwill was 
£3.5 million.
Share based payments
Under IFRS, the value of share options
granted to employees is recorded as an
expense on the income statement. The
charge only applies to options granted
on or after 7 November 2002. The
charge for share based payments in 2005
was £4.5 million (2004 £2.6 million). 
Interest
The net interest charge fell to 
£15.2 million (2004 £22.8 million),
reflecting reduced debt levels and the
refinancing of bank facilities at lower
interest rates announced in March 2005.
Interest cover against EBITDA,
excluding other finance charges, was
9.2x (2004 7.4x). Interest cover is
calculated on net interest expense of
£15.2 million and EBITDA before share
based payments of £140.0 million
(operating profit, adding back
depreciation, amortisation, goodwill
impairment and share based payments).
Associates
Income from associates fell to 
£0.4 million (2004 £1.0 million),
primarily due to the sale of Burke, Inc.
in December 2004.
Profit before tax
Adjusted profit before tax increased 
20.7 per cent to £97.8 million (2004
£81.0 million). Adjusted profit before
Andy Boland, Finance Director the sixth sense of business
™
13
tax, including the charge for share based
payments, increased by 19.0 per cent to
£93.3 million (2004 £78.4 million).
Reported profit before tax increased by
22.7 per cent to £85.0 million (2004
£69.3 million). 
Taxation
The tax charge for the year was 
£30.2 million (2004 £23.6 million),
representing a reported rate of 35.5 per
cent (2004 34.1 per cent). Under IFRS,
where goodwill is deductible against
tax, a deferred tax liability is recognised,
even if such a liability would only
unwind on the eventual sale or
impairment of the business in question.
This has led to a tax charge for
deductible goodwill of £0.1 million
(2004 £3.2 million) for the year.
Excluding deferred tax on goodwill the
tax charge was £30.1 million (2004
£26.0 million, excluding the benefit of
tax credits arising on integration costs of
£5.6 million), representing an
underlying rate of 31.5 per cent (2004
31.5 per cent). 
Minority interests
Minority interests increased to 
£2.7 million (2004 £2.1 million), largely
due to a strong performance in Russia
and the acquisition of Interscience in
Brazil in March 2005.
Earnings per share
Based on a weighted average of 441.6
million shares, adjusted earnings per
share were 14.7p (2004 12.7p), an
improvement of 15.7 per cent. Including
the charge for share based payments
(IFRS2), adjusted earnings per share
were 13.9p (2004 12.3p). Basic earnings
per share were 11.8p (2004 10.0p). See
note 9 to the financial statements. 
Dividend per share
The board is recommending a final
dividend of 2.75p per share (2004 2.4p),
giving a 14.3 per cent increase in total
dividend for the year to 4.0p (2004
3.5p). The dividend will be paid on 
7 July 2006 to shareholders on the
register on 26 May 2006.
Net debt and cash flow
Net debt at 31 December 2005 was
£295.4 million compared with 
£329.4 million at 31 December 2004
(£342.9 million at 30 June 2005).
Movement in working capital generated
a net outflow of £8.4 million for the
year. Operating cash flow was 
£128.4 million (2004 £113.4 million).
Net capital expenditure was 
£20.7 million (2004 £25.8 million). 
Net debt to EBITDA at 31 December
2005 was 2.1x (2004 2.7x) using
EBITDA before share based payments 
of £140.0 million (2004 £121.8m).
Adjusted after charge 
TNS adjusted for share based Reported under
definition payments (IFRS2) IFRS
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Operating profit £m 112.6 102.8 108.1 100.2 99.8 91.1
Operating margin % 11.3 10.9 10.8 10.6 10.0 9.6
Profit before tax £m 97.8 81.0 93.3 78.4 85.0 69.3
EPS pence 14.7 12.7 13.9 12.3 11.8 10.0
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
0 
100 
200 
300 
400 
500 
Progression in adjusted 
operating margin
%
Reduction in net debt since 
acquisition of NFO
£m
2000-2003: As reported under UK GAAP ,
including joint ventures, before goodwill charges
and exceptional items.
2004-2005: As reported under IFRS, before
goodwill impairment, amortisation of intangible
acquired assets, share based payments, 
exceptional pension credit, integration costs
(and deferred tax on goodwill).
9.5
417.0
367.7
329.4
9.7
9.9
10.9
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Post 2003 2004 2005
NFO
11.3
295.4 TNS annual report 2005 14
Regional revenue performance
Europe (including Middle East and
Africa)
Underlying revenue growth in Europe
was strong at 6.3 per cent, with an
excellent performance in both France
and Germany but more modest growth
in the UK.
In the UK, underlying revenue grew by
1.2 per cent, representing a recovery in
the second half. In the custom business,
second half growth was driven by good
performance in non-consumer areas
such as financial services and
Healthcare, as well as some stabilisation
in the Consumer sector. Demand for
TNS’ syndicated services continued to
be good. In Worldpanel, the first stage
of the expansion of the consumer panel
was successfully completed and
contributed to further new business
wins.
In France, underlying revenue growth
was 8.6 per cent for the year. A strong
performance was recorded across most
sectors of the business, including
Healthcare. The strong position of the
Media Intelligence business in France
was bolstered by the acquisition of
Presse+ and the business performed
well throughout the year. 
In the Rest of Europe, underlying
revenue growth was 7.7 per cent, well
ahead of the market. Germany
continues to perform well, especially
given the backdrop of a weak economic
environment, with Healthcare and
financial services, in particular, making
good progress. Most other parts of the
region, including Spain, also grew well
in the year.
Americas
In the Americas, underlying revenue
declined by 3.7 per cent, due to a
disappointing performance in the US
custom business, which was impacted
by further reductions in marketing
expenditure by a key technology client
in the second half and by a weak
performance in the Consumer and
Business Services sectors. 
Growth in the developing markets of
Latin America continued to be strong in
2005 and TNS’ position in both
Worldpanel and custom, including
recently acquired TNS Interscience in
Brazil, contributed to another very good
performance across the region. 
Asia Pacific
Demand for market information in the
Asia Pacific region remains buoyant.
TNS additionally benefits from the
strength of its operations in both
syndicated services and custom research
across the region. Underlying growth 
in Asia Pacific was again strong at 
10.0 per cent. 
Sector revenue performance
Consumer
Worldpanel continued to show steady
growth in 2005, demonstrating the
value of purchasing behaviour
information for retailers and consumer
goods companies. Panel expansion
programmes in the UK and Spain were
successfully implemented and
contributed to good performance. 
The Consumer sector was flat overall,
held back by weaker demand in the
custom business, where conditions in
developed markets such as the UK and
US were challenging. 
Finance Director’s review
24
35
10
16
15
● UK
● France
● Rest of Europe
● Americas
● Asia Pacific
● Consumer
● Media
● Business Services
● Technology
● Healthcare
● Other 
11
13
14
9
34
19
Revenue by region %
Revenue by sector % the sixth sense of business
™
15
Media
Underlying growth of 6.6 per cent
reflected a good performance from both
Media Intelligence and TRAM. Media
Intelligence progressed strongly in
Europe and reinforced its competitive
positioning in the US, although poor
attendance figures had an adverse
impact on cinema monitoring. TRAM
had an excellent year, including contract
wins in Hong Kong and Singapore and
expansion of services in China and
Russia. 
Business Services
The demand for research services from
some sectors within Business Services
remained challenging in 2005. The first
half was also impacted by the loss of
third party business on the US access
panel. However, there was good
progress within financial services in
most major markets and Business
Services recovered well in the second
half, to achieve modest growth in
underlying revenue of 1.4 per cent for
the year. 
Technology
Changes in Technology clients’ markets
are fuelling demand for market
information, which has led to some
good contract wins. The group achieved
strong growth in Asia Pacific and Latin
America, driven by the demand in those
regions for international research and
the added value provided by TNS’ Areas
of Expertise. In the case of one key US
client, however, a change in direction
has led to a substantial reduction in
studies conducted by TNS. This held
back underlying growth in the sector 
to 2.0 per cent. 
Healthcare
Underlying growth in the Healthcare
sector was strong at 6.0 per cent. 
A global account strategy and new
initiatives to measure the performance
of and attitudes to existing
pharmaceutical brands helped drive
strong growth in Europe, especially in
the UK and Germany. The group is also
having success in taking its sector
expertise into Asia and Latin America.
Although TNS is building its brand
performance services in the US, that
market continues to be more
challenging due to concerns on drug
safety and regulatory changes.
Other
TNS continues to perform well in the
Automotive sector, especially in the US
and Asia Pacific, where its car clinic
offering and expertise in new product
development is helping to win
significant new business. 
Growth in Polling & Social was also
strong, as the sector saw the benefit of
the first full year of the contract with
the EU for the Standard Eurobarometer
and good levels of activity relating to
the European Constitution, as well as
Presidential elections in Germany. 
Andy Boland 
Finance Director
Regional revenue performance
Year to 31 December Change
2005 £m 2004 £m Reported % Underlying %
UK 159.1 158.2 0.6 1.2
France 147.4 135.1 9.1 8.6
Rest of Europe 354.3 324.5 9.2 7.7
Europe 660.8 617.8 7.0 6.3
Americas 238.7 241.4 (1.1) (3.7)
Asia Pacific 99.5 86.1 15.6 10.0
Total 999.0 945.3 5.7 4.1
Sector revenue performance
Year to 31 December Change
2005 £m 2004 £m Reported % Underlying %
Consumer 334.6 330.0 1.4 (0.1)
Media 191.8 176.4 8.7 6.6
Business Services 131.8 133.0 (0.9) 1.4
Technology 111.0 104.9 5.8 2.0
Healthcare 87.4 80.7 8.3 6.0
Other 142.4 120.3 18.4 14.9
Total 999.0 945.3 5.7 4.1 TNS annual report 2005 16
Service excellence and
cost efficiency
■ Meeting high quality
standards in service
delivery
■ Globally managed access
panels provide greater
data integrity
■ Increased standardisation
of data collection systems
■ Improved utilisation of 
call centres
■ Additional offshoring 
of data processing,
analysis and software
development reliable
Core principle TNS annual report 2005 18
Business review
TNS is the world’s second largest market information group, the only pure play
market information group with a full listing on the London Stock Exchange.
We employ more than 13,000 people in over 70 countries around the world. 
Key performance data
Through a combination of organic improvement and acquisitions, TNS has delivered a strong record of financial growth. 
200
400
600
800
1000
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Revenue
£m
582.7
618.9
805.2
945.3
999.0
3
6
9
12
15
2001   2002  2003 2004  2005
Adjusted earnings per share
pence
8.0
8.6
10.2
12.7
14.7
2001-2003: As reported under UK GAAP , including joint ventures, before goodwill charges and exceptional items. 
2004-2005: As reported under IFRS, before goodwill impairment, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share based payments, exceptional
pension credit, integration costs (and deferred tax on goodwill).
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Share price
pence
•
TNS  
•
FTSE All Share Media Index                         Source: Datastream
20
40
60
80
100
120
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Adjusted operating profit
£m
79.7
102.8
112.6
55.2
59.8
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Dividend per share
pence
2.4
2.6
3.0
3.5
4.0 the sixth sense of business
™
19
Our markets
The global market information market was valued at around 
$21.5 billion in 2004.
Growth drivers
Through the second half of the 1990s,
the global market information industry
grew at an estimated compound rate of
8-9 per cent per year. While the rate of
growth slowed with the global
economic cycle in the early 2000s, long-
term growth potential is good, and is
thought by commentators to be ahead
of that of the advertising industry and of
GDP. These developments are driven by
a number of factors.
Globalisation
The main driver of industry growth in
the 1990s, as clients extended their
operations and, therefore, their market
information requirements, into
emerging markets. As the major multi-
nationals take an increasingly global
view of their marketing, they look for
high-quality multi-country information
collected and delivered using consistent
methodology. Remains a key growth
driver.
Example of TNS response: Established
consumer panels across Asia.
New sectors
The trend of deregulation in mature
markets brought new clients, as
industries that had previously been
dominated by monopolies were opened
up to competition. This is now more of
a trend in emerging markets but
bigger processing power, has enabled
faster delivery of increasing amounts of
complex information and analysis.
Examples of TNS response:
Establishment of internet access panels
and TNSInfo. Use of state-of-the art bar
code scanning technology for consumer
panels.
Market segmentation and rapid change
Markets and customer loyalties are
moving faster than ever before and
becoming more complex and difficult to
predict, leading to increased reliance on
market information. With a reduction
in product life cycles, new products
have less time to prove themselves.
Example of TNS response: Launch of
new sales forecasting offering.
Impact of media fragmentation 
Media fragmentation is fuelling demand
for research on brand values, brand
power and customer brand perception,
as well as a need for quantitative
reasoning to support investment in
advertising. New services are required
to measure digital media. 
Examples of TNS response: Development
of new brand equity framework. New
services to measure and analyse digital
TV viewing. 
■ Global market 
■ Top ten market information companies
Source: ESOMAR industry reports & TNS estimates
demand from these less traditional
users of market information continues
to grow around the world. 
Example of TNS response: Developed
expertise in the Technology sector.
Outsourcing of analysis and supplier
rationalisation
The move to outsource data collection is
mostly complete. The trend now is for
clients to outsource the analysis of that
data. A demand for increasingly
complex analysis, and the associated
investment in software and expertise, 
is likely to lead to acceleration in this
trend. This is linked to a rationalisation
of suppliers used by major multi-
national organisations. As clients look
to market information companies for
increasingly sophisticated analysis, they
are seeking to develop partnership
relationships with the few companies
that have the scale and expertise to meet
their needs.
Example of TNS response: Move to global
partnerships and Areas of Expertise.
Technology
Use of the internet for data collection
and delivery has dramatically shortened
lead times. Availability of broadband to
clients and respondents, combined with
Market information top ten
Rank Company Quoted holding company 2005 revenue $m
1 ACNielsen/Nielsen Media VNU 3535
2 TNS Taylor Nelson Sofres 1818
3 IMS IMS Health 1755
4 Kantar Group (IIC) WPP Group 1475
5 GfK  GfK Group 1150
6 Ipsos Ipsos 883
7 Synovate Aegis 601
8 IRI 555*
9 Westat 390*
10 Arbitron Arbitron 310
Source: Company announcements, translated by TNS at average rates
* 2004 revenue (2005 figure not available at date of this report)
2004
2000
53% $21.5 bn
$15.5 bn 41%
Top 10 market information companies’
increase in share of growing market internet has brought down contract
prices. We believe the evidence of the
US – where use of the internet is most
developed, representing approximately
30 per cent of the custom market –
indicates that this leads to an increase in
the volume of research commissioned
by clients. 
Clients are tending to spend a
proportion of the budget savings made
through use of internet data collection
on increased value added analysis and
consultation. 
Data collection using the internet still
represents less than 5 per cent of the
European market. 
There is a distinction between managed
access panels such as the TNS panel,
which provide higher quality of data
and analytics, and those newer panels,
often list-based, that operate at the
commodity end of the market. It is
becoming apparent that quality and
integrity of data remain important to
clients and some of the newer entrants
to the market are being forced to review
their business models to deal with this
quality issue.
Market segmentation
The market information industry
comprises two main types of research.
Syndicated services
The information is collected on a
regular basis, owned by the research
provider and sold to multiple clients.
Key attributes are:
• ‘must-have’ data that provides
measure of the market
• higher barriers to entry – higher
margin
• long-term contracts
• steady growth rates
• mainly consumer and media.
Custom research
Commissioned and owned by the
client, ranging from one-off, ad hoc
studies to multi-year, continuous
market tracking. 
Ad hoc custom
• more discretionary
• lower competitive barriers –
traditionally lower margin but with
potential to improve
• greater potential growth in good
economic environment
• increasing trend towards value added
services
• value of normative databases.
Continuous tracking 
• long-term or repeat contracts
• growing importance of multi-
national projects.
TNS annual report 2005 20
Our markets
25
60
15
Opportunities and threats 
Opportunities
Recent market developments provide
significant opportunities to market
information companies and mostly
favour the major industry players, such
as TNS.
• Growing demand for global services
• Increasing demand in emerging
markets – multi-national and local
• Move to preferred supplier
relationships
• Move towards advisory services
• New products and services needed in
fast-changing markets
• Increase in demand for continuous
tracking
• Media fragmentation – increased
reliance on market information
• Demand for ROI information for
advertising services.
Threats 
To the major players, such as TNS.
• Client consolidation
• Impact of economic slowdown on
custom research spend
• Niche/boutique players
• Pricing pressure and increased
involvement of procurement
departments.
Some developments, such as digital
broadcasting, industry consolidation,
proliferation of client-owned databases
and new technologies, represent both
an opportunity and a threat. 
Impact of the internet 
Along with other developments in
technology, the internet allows market
information companies to collect and
deliver increased amounts of
information and at a faster pace. The
reduced cost in data collection via the
● Syndicated 
● Ad hoc custom
● Continuous custom
TNS syndicated/custom 
research split 2005 % the sixth sense of business
™
21
TNS strategy and structure
Client needs in market information are changing. TNS has
evolved its strategy and structure to meet that change.
TNS’ strategic goal is to be recognised as
the global leader in delivering value
added information and insights that
help our clients to make more effective
decisions. 
The strategy is based on four core
principles:
• Client orientation
• Service excellence and cost efficiency
• Expertise and innovation
• People development.
The group’s structure and TNS senior
leadership team reflect the new strategy.
Syndicated services
TNS has three major syndicated
services, each with a market leading
position, that frequently provide the
benchmark measurement and industry
standard in their markets. TNS
maintains its leading position through
innovation and by continuing to invest
in all three areas. 
Media Intelligence
TNS Media Intelligence
™
is dedicated to
worldwide media analysis: providing
advertising expenditure tracking,
evaluation and consultative services for
broadcast, internet and print media, in
addition to news monitoring and
creative tracking capabilities. Media
Intelligence clients include media
owners, advertising agencies,
advertisers, public relations firms,
broadcasters, publishers, government
departments and NGOs, as well as
international and local companies. 
TNS Media Intelligence is a world-
leading provider of strategic advertising
intelligence, operating in 23 countries
with more than 16,000 clients. It is the
market leader in the US and France,
with significant operations throughout
Europe and Asia.
Worldpanel™
TNS Worldpanel
™
provides continuous
measurement and analysis of consumer
purchasing and usage behaviour. Clients
include both global and local consumer
packaged companies, private label
manufacturers, retailers, fresh food
suppliers, market analysts and other
organisations. 
Data is collected using technology
matched to the development of each
market, including bar code and till
receipt scanners, internet, SMS text
messaging and diary. That data is then
interrogated and interpreted by our
consumer panel specialists around the
world, in order to provide clients with
essential insights into consumer
behaviour and what the implications 
are for marketing strategies, promotion
and branding. 
Senior Leadership team in 2006 reflects new strategy
Global Clients and
Sectors
Pedro Ros
Regional Custom Strategic
Development and
Marketing
John Abraham
Finance
Andy Boland
Human Resources
and Internal
Communications
Mike Petch
Legal
Paul Wright
IT
Tony Barbosa
Worldpanel
Judith Passingham
Media Intelligence
Jean–Michel Portier
TRAM
Mike Gorton
Custom business Syndicated business
Chief Executive
David Lowden TNS annual report 2005 22
TNS strategy and structure
TV and Radio Audience
Measurement
TNS systems are used to measure and
analyse television viewing and radio
listening habits for broadcasters,
advertising agencies and platform
operators in 28 countries around the
world. Value added analysis is delivered
to clients through the TNS proprietary
software, InfoSys
™
, which is now used
in 20 countries. 
Audiences are measured using the latest
household and metering technology. 
As TV and radio are increasingly
shifting to digital broadcast, TNS is at
the forefront of this trend with both its
use of personal measurement, through
Arbitron Portable People Meters
(PPM
SM
), and Return Path technology
from digital set top boxes.
TNS custom business
Regions
TNS is the world’s largest custom
research company, with operations
organised around three regions, which
drive growth in client relationships in
local markets and focus on service
excellence and cost efficiency.
• Europe
• North America
• Asia Pacific-Latin America-Middle
East & Africa (ALM).
Global clients and sectors
Supporting the regions in custom
research, TNS sector operations are
organised to focus on servicing multi-
national clients, through our specialist
knowledge in their business sectors.
Within each specialist sector, dedicated
global account teams exist to form and
develop strong partnerships with major
clients, in order to provide them with
more value added business insights. 
With vast experience and breadth of
knowledge in the Consumer sector and
using all of our Areas of Expertise, TNS
advises clients in this sector on key
issues affecting their businesses
through the whole product lifecycle,
from concept screening, through to
customer satisfaction.
One such issue in the Consumer sector
is innovation management. In rapidly
changing markets, with shortening
product lifecycles, manufacturers 
are constantly challenged to innovate
and develop new brands. Using 
our expertise in New Product
Development, with tools such as
InnoSuite
™
, TNS supports innovation
management, from early creativity to
measuring return on launch
investment.
Financial Services
Within the Financial Services sector,
TNS distinguishes itself by offering a
truly global breadth of services. As the
financial services industry has become
increasingly international, TNS has
emphasised this advantage by the
creation of a Financial Services practice
as one of our global sectors. 
TNS understands the commercial issues
facing the Financial Services sector –
commoditisation and the need for brand
differentiation, the impact of
technology, increased regulatory
pressure and empowerment of
consumers. TNS runs custom research
projects such as global brand health
programmes and syndicated services, as
well as advising financial services clients
on current issues such as online theft
and identity fraud. 
Automotive
TNS is the leading provider of
automotive market information,
addressing the complex research needs
of major automotive manufacturers,
component suppliers, oil companies
and dealership and repair specialists
worldwide. TNS offers a complete
portfolio of research services including
advertising and brand tracking, car
clinics, dealer and customer satisfaction
research and vehicle quality surveys. 
The unparalleled global presence of TNS
is a key strength for the Automotive
sector. The ability to see the bigger
picture and also understand local
market needs, when coordinating
international projects in up to 50
countries in Europe, the Americas, Asia
Pacific, the Middle East and Africa, is
highly valued by clients.
Consumer
TNS is the world’s leading provider of
custom research to the consumer sector,
working with major consumer goods
companies and retailers around the
world. TNS now manages this area as
one of our specialist global sectors. 
● Europe
● North America
● ALM
23
65
12
Revenue split by region 2005 % Global operations
Clients require that the data on which
TNS recommendations are based be
collected efficiently and to a high
quality standard. Within the regional
businesses, a Global Operations group
exists to ensure that this takes place
through:
• standardised data collection systems
• use of online managed access panels
• improved utilisation of call centres
• offshoring of data processing.
the sixth sense of business
™
23
TNS Financial Services works with the
world’s leading banks, building
societies, insurance companies, asset
management companies and regulatory
bodies, as well as lawyers and
accountancy firms. We have over 25
years dedicated sector experience and
our clients value the specialist know-
ledge and strategic guidance we deliver.
Healthcare
TNS provides consistent, global
advisory market research in the
Healthcare sector: expertise to support
new product introductions, solutions
for brand and sales force optimisation
and assessment of promotional
effectiveness. Clients are the global
pharmaceutical companies,
biotechnology, medical device and
supply companies, as well as advertising
agencies. 
TNS provides the full range of advanced
research capabilities throughout the
sector’s product life cycle, including
pre-launch landscaping, market
assessment, new product development,
positioning and segmentation, message
creation, pricing and reimbursement,
forecasting, attitude and awareness
measurement and post-launch tracking. 
TNS Healthcare delivers insights across
stakeholder groups, including
physicians, patients and consumers that
help companies anticipate and
understand their markets and react with
more informed, strategic decisions.
Polling & Social
We believe TNS to be the world’s
largest provider of polling and social
research services. Clients include public
sector organisations, non-governmental
organisations and the news media. 
We tell clients about the major trends in
opinion; how the public is feeling about
its elected leaders and their policies. We
predict what the outcomes of any up
and coming elections are likely to be and
provide analyses of society for policy
makers and for academic research.
We combine years of local expertise
into a comprehensive global view,
applying strict technical standards
through high-quality services,
complemented by the wide suite of TNS
business solutions, especially adapted
to polling and social research.
Technology
TNS works with software and hardware
companies, mobile phone and
microchip manufacturers, network
operators, as well as content and
internet service providers on a global
basis. TNS Technology specialists
provide insights and recommendations
on key strategic marketing objectives;
for example, measuring demand for
new applications, such as mobile TV.
Constantly evolving markets create
opportunities in the Technology sector. 
As IT, telecoms, media and
entertainment continue to converge,
TNS advises organisations on where
their own revenue opportunities lie.
And as the Technology sector becomes
increasingly focused on service, TNS is
also helping clients understand what is
driving customer satisfaction, in order
to help them reduce ‘churn’ and
maximise return on their investment. 
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
Source: Inside Research September 2005
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005e
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.3
1.6
Worldwide online research spending
$bn
TNS offshore research 
centre in India
ORSC employs over 300 people,
who provide a range of services 
to TNS group companies. These
services include data processing,
technical support, IT helpdesk,
software development, questionnaire
scripting, charting/reporting and
online coding. TNS annual report 2005 24
Managed access panels
Access panels are pre-recruited samples
of respondents who have agreed to
participate in market research surveys.
Use of access panels in market research
results in more efficient surveys and
quicker results for clients. TNS believes
that using managed internet access
panels is a crucial part of efficient and
high-quality data collection.
TNS' approach is to operate high-
quality managed access panels that
achieve both greater cost-efficiency and
also higher quality results due to:
• controls that protect respondent
usage rates and reduce ‘churn’
• higher co-operation rates and more
representative samples
• more flexible and precise sample
selection that allows for more
complex and precise surveys.
TNS has what it considers to be the
highest-quality managed internet access
panel in the US, with over three million
members. In 2005, TNS rolled out its
European access panel in six major
markets and launched its pan-regional
access panel in Asia Pacific. 
TNS strategy and structure
20
40
60
80
100
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
300
600
900
1200
1500
Number of portals
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Managed
access panels =
cost efficiency +
quality
7
275
573
1,029
1,495
5
10
15
20
25
30
5
10
15
20
25
30
Number of users
000s
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
20
1,350
4,660
12,897
29,911
TNSInfo™
As well as employing the internet to
collect information, TNS is also at the
forefront in the use of technology to
deliver information to clients.
TNSInfo is the group’s online client
portal, allowing clients access to all of
their marketing information instantly
and from one single source. It delivers
customised information to relevant
people within the client organisation
and allows them to analyse data and
make immediate business decisions.
TNSInfo is a crucial part of the TNS
response to client demand for up-to-
date insights and has been a key driver
in helping to win new business.
Rapid growth in use of TNSInfo
10
20
33
49
63
70
29
21
18
12
7
8
61 59
49
39
30
22
Use of the internet in the TNS US
access panel
■ Mail
■ Telephone
■ Internet
Source: TNS estimates the sixth sense of business
™
25
Areas of Expertise 
As clients look for more insight and
analysis from market information, one
of the ways in which TNS meets that
demand is through our focus on four
main Areas of Expertise in custom
research. Each of the Areas of Expertise
is embedded within the service offering
New product development 
Idea generation
Concept testing 
Product testing 
Marketing mix optimisation
Sales forecasting 
Primary business solutions 
Innosuite™
VISIT™ (Virtual In Store Interactive
Testing) 
Positioning and Segmentation
research (incorporating 
Motivational research)
Market structure
Needs segmentation
Brand positioning
Brand portfolio management
Primary business solution 
Needscope™
Brand and Advertising research
Advertising pre-testing
Advertising tracking
Brand tracking
Brand equity measurement
Primary business solutions 
AdEval™
The Conversion Model™ 
MarketWhys™
Stakeholder management
Customer satisfaction/retention
Internal service quality
Employee commitment
Corporate reputation
Primary business solution 
TRI*M™
Innovative new
approach to
brand and ad
of each region, so that we deliver to
clients consistently high quality of
recommendations across TNS’ global
network and in all industry sectors.
Together, the four Areas of Expertise
encompass each stage of the 
marketing cycle.    Expertise and innovation
■ New products and
services to deliver 
insight to clients
■ Innovation forums 
harness best ideas 
from around group
■ Enhanced knowledge
management
■ TNS aims to be the
industry thought leader
original
the sixth sense of business
™
27
Core principle TNS annual report 2005 28
People development
Look Inside
The group conducted its first global
employee commitment study in 2005,
using our highly acclaimed TRI*M
stakeholder management system. 
This study covered 13,000 TNS
employees across the group and had a
comparatively high, 79 per cent
response rate.
The study aimed to improve knowledge
and understanding of employees’
interests in, and attitudes to TNS, and
to use this information to identify
strengths and weaknesses in the group’s
relationship with employees. The
results have been communicated to all
employees via local presentations.
Workshops at group and local level have
taken place to develop action plans,
which aim to improve employee
commitment. The group will conduct 
a further survey in 2006 to ensure
progress is being made on key issues,
with Look Inside 2 planned for the
following year. 
Internal communications
Following Look Inside, additional
emphasis is being placed on internal
communications around the group. 
Our strategy in this area focuses on 
four different areas of activity. The 
first is providing all employees with
information about business initiatives
and helping them gain a better
understanding of our business. This is
achieved through electronic, print and
audio-visual media. Secondly, we are
providing our leaders and managers
with the expertise and confidence to
communicate effectively with their
teams, including listening skills and
managing feedback.
and individuals, who contribute to the
sixth sense of business through service
excellence and innovation. 
Careers at TNS 
TNS operates as a global network,
offering employees the opportunity to
work across all sectors of industry and
in both custom and syndicated research.
Career forums are being used in many
of our business areas, to develop career
pathways and employees are
encouraged to advance their careers
internationally. 
Community
The TNS group operates locally and
globally and so too with its community-
related activities. We have offices in
over 70 countries around the world and
each community has its own
challenges, needs and opportunities.
We encourage local management,
therefore, to support their own
employees in playing an active part in
their community, in ways they think
appropriate. This leads to a huge variety
in the type of endeavour – from straight
donations to innovative fund raising,
from mentoring to employee
volunteering – in support of many
different types of organisation, ranging
from major charities to local schools. 
There is not space in this report to
describe all these activities. However,
responses from local TNS offices to
some of the devastating natural disasters
of 2005 provide a good illustration. 
Our colleagues in the US and Canada
banded together to raise desperately
needed funds for displaced hurricane
victims following the devastating
hurricanes that hit the US Gulf Coast in
August 2005. Through region-wide
employee “Jeans Day” and a Mardi Gras
The third area is strengthening face-to-
face communication, to facilitate better
collaboration and sharing across the
group. Finally, the group is committed
to measuring the effectiveness of
internal communication within the
business and its impact on employee
attitudes and behaviour.
Talent and development
Sixth sense of business competencies
The TNS competency framework was
reviewed in 2005 and updated to reflect
the sixth sense of business brand values.
This will form the basis for
performance assessment, recruitment
and development planning.
Maximising Growth through People
In 2005, the group launched a new
global programme, with the objective of
reviewing the performance and
potential of the top 200 leaders within
the business. It uses new leadership
competencies that clearly define the
behaviours required to continue to lead
TNS into a successful future. 
There will be increased focus on talent
development from 2006 at all levels in
the organisation and, to lead this
activity, the group has appointed a
Group Talent Director. In early 2006,
we launched the Tony Cowling
Academy of Excellence, a new central
learning and development resource. 
The main purpose of the academy will
be to create increased learning and
development opportunities for TNS
employees in a consistent and readily
accessible format, closely aligned to the
sixth sense of business.
Recognition
TNS operates an annual global
recognition scheme that aims to
highlight and reward successful teams
TNS corporate social responsibility
At the beginning of 2006, Chief Executive David Lowden committed the 
group to a renewed focus on people development, one of the core principles
supporting the group’s new strategic goal. the sixth sense of business
™
29
bead sale, along with a TNS company
matching programme, employees raised
nearly $100,000. 
Many members of the US access panel
took the option of donating their survey
incentive rewards points to charitable
organisations benefiting hurricane 
relief efforts and thus contributed a
further $130,000. These efforts were 
in addition to many other local
fundraising programmes, benefiting a
variety of causes, initiated and managed
by North American employees
throughout 2005.
Colleagues from the TNS Dubai office
responded immediately to the powerful
earthquake that struck South Asia in
October. Working with the Pakistani
embassy, within 72 hours of the
earthquake they sent food, clothing,
blankets, sleeping bags and tents to the
affected area, as well as raising cash to
fund urgent medical supplies. 
Across TNS Middle East & Africa,
which in 2005 celebrated its 25th
anniversary, money was raised to help
the earthquake victims in Kashmir. 
A 2006 desk calendar was produced and
circulated to clients and colleagues,
depicting children from the region who
had been affected by earthquakes and
other disasters, both natural and 
man-made.
From a global perspective, TNS is
working to support UNICEF. It is
appropriate for an international group
of TNS’ scale to work with a global
charity, whose focus on children is one
with which we can all identify. The
relationship began in January 2005
when, in response to the tsunami
disaster, TNS made an initial donation
of $250,000. $200,000 was sent
published under Corporate Governance
in the Investors section of the group's
website. The group is included in the
FTSE4Good Index and has been
assigned a ‘low impact’ weighting for
environmental impact.
The group considers the minimisation
of environmental impact from its
business operations to be a prime
objective of its CSR activities. During
2005, we completed a study into the
consumption of energy, water, paper
and IT resources in the UK, with the
assistance of the Carbon Trust, an
organisation focused on reducing
carbon emissions. As part of that
process, TNS UK established an energy
and waste programme that has led to a
15 per cent reduction in kilowatts of
electricity used at its main site and has
disposed of approximately 70 per cent
of its redundant electronic equipment in
an environmentally friendly manner. 
In November 2005, the UK launched an
energy and waste policy to apply best
practice throughout the UK by
establishing benchmarks and targets. 
TNS does not yet centrally monitor
environmental practices across the
group but is aware that good
environmental practices are encouraged
in many countries. For example, in the
US, rigorous policies and practices are
in place for recycling paper, aluminium,
plastics, fluorescent light tubes, printer
toner cartridges and outdated electronic
equipment.
Best practice in environmental
management is to be shared around the
group and further steps will be taken to
strengthen the TNS environmental
policy.
immediately and has been used for
education and child protection projects
in Sri Lanka and Indonesia. At the time,
we also indicated our interest in
sponsoring a long-term project with
UNICEF and $50,000 was set aside to
start this up.
The chosen project, branded
‘Imagine…’, is the first global
fundraising campaign for TNS, which is
raising money to support pre-school
education projects in Cambodia.
Throughout the second half of 2005, a
variety of fund raising activities were
held around the group, helping to bring
us together as one global team working
for others.
In addition, TNS is well positioned to
provide international and multi-
country research for charities and not-
for-profit organisations, by conducting
much-needed research on an economic
and, in some cases, at cost basis. 
We are increasingly committed to
contributing our knowledge and
expertise to the collection of consumer
opinions and information on social
issues of global concern. One of the
most significant initiatives of this
nature, in which TNS participates, is the
twice yearly ‘Voice of the People’ survey,
a study covering more than 60
countries. It provides insights on global
views and opinions for international
organisations including the World
Economic Forum, the World Bank,
Transparency International and the
International Committee of the Red
Cross. This is managed through our
Polling & Social sector. 
The environment
TNS formalised its environmental
policy in December 2004 and it is
TNS supports pre-school education projects in Cambodia aspirational Core principle
the sixth sense of business
™
31
People development
■ Listening to our employees
and taking action 
■ Improved training – 
Tony Cowling Academy 
of Excellence
■ More effective talent
management and 
career development
■ Spotlight on internal
communications TNS annual report 2005 32
Board of directors 
Donald Brydon David Lowden Andy Boland 
Pedro Ros Alice Perkins Paul Murray
Rémy Sautter Sharon Studer the sixth sense of business
™
33
Donald Brydon CBE 
Chairman
Age 60.  Joined the board as Chairman
on 12 January 2006. He is Chairman 
of Smiths Group plc and The London
Metal Exchange and is Senior
Independent Director of Scottish 
Power plc. Following 20 years with
Barclays Group, during which time he
was Chairman and Chief Executive of
BZW Investment Management, he
joined AXA Group in 1997 and is
currently Chairman of AXA Investment
Managers SA. In the past five years, 
he has also been Chairman of
Amersham plc and Senior Independent
Director of Allied Domecq plc. 
Executive directors
David Lowden
Chief Executive
Age 48.  Joined the group as Finance
Director in 1999 and was appointed
Chief Operating Officer, with
responsibility for the group’s regional
operations, in 2003. He became Chief
Executive on 12 January 2006. 
He previously worked for a number of
international companies, including
ACNielsen and Federal Express
Corporation.
Andy Boland
Finance Director
Age 36.  Joined the group and was
appointed to the board in 2004. Prior to
that he held a number of senior finance
positions at WPP Group plc and
Cordiant Communications Group plc. 
Pedro Ros
Managing Director –
Global Clients and Sectors
Age 44. Joined the board on 16 January
2006. He has worked in a variety of
positions within the syndicated and
custom business of TNS since joining
the group in 1985. Most recently he has
had responsibility for the Southern
Europe, Middle East & Africa and Latin
America regions.
Non-executive directors
Paul Murray
Senior Independent Director
Age 44.  Joined the board in May 2005
and was appointed Senior Independent
Director in August 2005. He was
Finance Director of Carlton
Communications plc from 2001 to
2004. Prior to that he was Finance
Director of LASMO plc. He is currently
a non-executive director of Thomson
SA and a partner in Tangent LLP.
Alice Perkins CB 
Age 56. Joined the board in March 2005.
She left the civil service and her role in
the Cabinet Office as the civil service’s
Group HR Director in September 2005
and is now building a portfolio across
the private and not-for-profit sectors.
She became a non-executive director of
BAA plc on 1 March 2006 and, from
1997-2001, was a non-executive director
of The Littlewoods Organisation plc.
Rémy Sautter 
Age 60.  Joined the board in 2002. 
He is Chairman of RTL Radio and Vice-
Chairman of the board of Channel 5. 
He is also a non-executive director of
PartnerRe Ltd., a NYSE-listed global
reinsurance company and two media
companies listed in France: 
M6-Métropole Télévision SA and 
Pages Jaunes SA.
Dr Sharon Studer 
Age 54.  Joined the board in 2003. 
She sits on the Oxford University Audit
Committee. Previously she was the
partner responsible for KPMG’s
Information, Communications and
Electronics consulting practice, was
Vice President of Control Data’s
worldwide Marketing and ran 3Com’s
home/office international networking
business.
Note
Mike Kirkham will retire from the
board at the AGM on 10 May 2006.
Board committees
Audit committee
Paul Murray (Chairman)
Alice Perkins
Sharon Studer
Nomination committee
Rémy Sautter (Chairman)
Donald Brydon
Alice Perkins
Remuneration committee
Sharon Studer (Chair)
Paul Murray
Alice Perkins
Rémy Sautter
Ian Portal
Company Secretary TNS annual report 2005 34
Directors’ report
The directors of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc submit their annual report for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal activities of the group, review of the year and post balance sheet events
A description of the group’s markets and principal activities, together with reviews of the trading results, developments for the
year and likely future developments are contained in the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s statement, the Finance
Director’s review and the Business review on pages 2  to 25.
There were no post balance sheet events.
Financial risk management
The group recognises that its international operations and debt financing expose it to a range of financial risks. These include
changes in interest rates on debt and changes in currency exchange rates on foreign currency investments and earnings from
those investments. The group has a formalised risk management policy to manage these financial risks over the short and
medium term and compliance with the policy is monitored by the directors on a regular basis. This policy is detailed in note 22 to
the financial statements.
Share capital
Details of movements in the company’s issued share capital during 2005 are shown in note 26 to the financial statements.
Dividends
The directors recommend a final dividend for 2005 of 2.75p per share, payable on 7 July 2006 to shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 26 May 2006. The total dividend for the year, including the interim dividend of 1.25p per share paid in 2005,
amounts to 4.0p per share (2004 3.5p).
Waiver of dividends
Details regarding the waiver of dividends are described in note 8 to the financial statements.
Directors
The directors of the company who held office during the year are shown on page 33. Stephan Buck and Neil Cross retired from the
board at the 2005 annual general meeting. Rob Rowley retired from the board on 31 December 2005 and Tony Cowling on 
12 January 2006. Alice Perkins and Paul Murray joined the board as non-executive directors on 2 March 2005 and 11 May 2005
respectively.  In 2006, Donald Brydon joined the board as Chairman on 12 January and Pedro Ros as an executive director on 
16 January. Mike Kirkham will retire from the board at the 2006 annual general meeting (the 2006 AGM). In accordance with the
articles of association, the board is recommending the re-election of Sharon Studer and the election of Paul Murray, Donald
Brydon and Pedro Ros at the 2006 AGM.
Details of directors’ interests and, in relation to the executive directors only, awards under the share option and long-term
incentive plans are given in the remuneration report on pages 41 to 49. There were no changes in the directors’ registered interests
in the shares of the company during the period from 31 December 2005 to 6 March 2006. No director had any material interest at
any time during the year in any transaction of significance in relation to the group’s business. the sixth sense of business
™
35
Substantial shareholdings
As at 22 February 2006, the company had been notified of the following substantial interests (3 per cent or more) in its ordinary
share capital (numbers of shares and percentage interest are as at the date of notification).
Shareholder Holding %
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group (acting as fund managers and 
inclusive of assets managed by Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Ltd group) 44,880,147 10.03
Fidelity International 35,528,113 7.93
Zurich Financial Services 24,018,389 5.40
Capital Group Companies (a holding company for several subsidiary 
companies engaged in investment management business) 22,294,841 4.96
Insight Investment Management 17,925,387 4.04
Legal & General Group 15,345,657 3.43 
Note The above list includes all institutions that have disclosed notifiable positions both during and prior to the previous year. There are additional institutions
with aggregate, non-disclosable holdings of above 3 per cent.
Creditor payment policy
The group’s policy is to agree the terms and conditions of transactions with all suppliers in advance and to comply with them,
subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier. Taylor Nelson Sofres plc has no trade creditors. The equivalent of 45 days
worth of purchases were due to trade creditors of the group at the year end.
Charitable and political donations
The group continues to support charitable causes and in 2005 donated £291,719 (2004 £96,067). For more information regarding
the group’s charitable activities, please refer to the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 28 and 29. The group made no
political donations in 2005 (2004 £nil).
Health and Safety
The group aims to provide and maintain a safe environment for all employees, customers and visitors to its premises and to
comply with relevant health and safety regulation.
Employee policies
Wherever possible, vacancies that arise are advertised internally. Consideration is given to all applications for employment
regardless of gender, race, ethnic origin, disability, age, sexual orientation, religious or political beliefs. The group is supportive of
the employment and advancement of disabled persons or employees who become disabled during their employment. 
Employee involvement
The group encourages employee participation in its future through share ownership. During 2005, 461,530 ordinary shares were
allocated to the Worldwide Employee Sharesave Plan, 66,820 shares were allotted under the Employee Stock Plan, 262,691 share
options were awarded under the Executive Share Option Plan, 135,635 share options were awarded under the 1993 Long-term
Incentive Plan, 3,299,600 performance shares and 221,900 performance options were awarded under the 2005 Long-term
Incentive Plan and 241,249 shares were awarded under the Equity Participation Plan. During the year, the group employed an
average of 13,580 people worldwide.
Further information regarding employee involvement is contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 28 
and 29.
Authority to buy-in shares
Under article 51 of its articles of association the company is empowered to purchase its own shares. The directors consider that the
power to make purchases in the market of the company’s own shares should be maintained and the necessary special resolution
will be proposed at the 2006 AGM. This power was not exercised during 2005. TNS annual report 2005 36
Annual general meeting
The 2006 AGM will be held on 10 May 2006 at 9.30 am at Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, TNS House, Westgate, London W5 1UA. 
The notice convening the 2006 AGM is contained in a separate circular sent to shareholders with this report.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at the 2006 AGM.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state
of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period. In preparing those financial
statements the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume the group will continue in
business.
The directors confirm that they complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are also responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the company and the group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with
International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union and with those parts of
the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of
the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
Going concern
The financial statements, which appear in this report, have been prepared on a going concern basis. After making appropriate
enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and company has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
By order of the board
Ian Portal
Company Secretary
6 March 2006 the sixth sense of business
™
37
Corporate governance 
PART ONE – APPLICATION OF COMBINED CODE PRINCIPLES
The board practises good corporate governance and supports the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance,
issued by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003 (the Combined Code). The company has applied the principles of the
Combined Code as follows:
The board
In 2005, the board comprised the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director, as well as five
independent non-executive directors. The non-executive directors, with their broad range of experience, bring an important
independent perspective to board decision making.
The board reviewed and updated the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive during the year, to ensure
they are comprehensively and clearly defined and that there are appropriate checks and balances in place. Paul Murray took over
from Rob Rowley as Senior Independent Director on 12 August 2005. On 12 January 2006, Donald Brydon succeeded Tony
Cowling as Chairman and David Lowden became Chief Executive, taking over from Mike Kirkham. 
Biographical information on the board directors is given on page 33.
The board is accountable to shareholders for the group’s business operations and affairs. It participates in the establishment of
the group’s strategy and oversees its implementation. The board is responsible for monitoring the group’s financial and
operational performance and appropriate risk management. In addition, it ensures that appropriate corporate governance
procedures are in place to protect the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
In 2005, the Chairman met regularly with the non-executive directors to consider their views. They constructively challenged
and helped develop proposals on strategy at board meetings and at the biannual strategy meetings. 
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board that includes the approval of long-term
objectives and commercial strategy, financial statements, major changes to the group’s corporate structure, major acquisitions
and disposals, dividend payments, expenditure authority levels and treasury and risk management procedures. The following
table identifies the number of board and committee meetings held during 2005 and the attendance record of individual
directors.
Board meetings Committee meetings
Note Regular Ad hoc Audit Nomination Remuneration
Number of meetings in year 884 7 5
Executive directors
Andy Boland 86 – – –
Tony Cowling  78 –7 –
Mike Kirkham 8 4            – 6 –
David Lowden 8 6           –         – –
Non-executive directors
Stephan Buck 1 2 2 – 2 2
Neil Cross 2 2 2 2               – 2
Paul Murray 3 552 – 3
Alice Perkins 4 5 4 – 5                   3
Rob Rowley 83 35 4
Rémy Sautter 77 –6 4
Sharon Studer 884 – 5
Notes
1 resigned 11 May 2005
2 resigned 11 May 2005
3 appointed 11 May 2005 
4 appointed 2 March 2005
– indicates not a member of that committee TNS annual report 2005 38
Independent non-executive directors
The board has determined that all of its non-executive directors are ‘independent’ as defined in the Combined Code. 
The terms and conditions of appointment for each of the non-executive directors are highlighted in the remuneration report.
Information and professional development
The group has a comprehensive induction process for newly appointed directors to meet key personnel and, on request, major
shareholders. Both Alice Perkins and Paul Murray underwent thorough induction programmes in 2005, having separate
meetings with key personnel across the group. Presentations were received by the board on key areas of the business and site
visits were made to Belgium and Denmark. During the year, some directors attended tailored training programmes, specific to
their individual needs, such programmes being available to all board members. The board is also regularly briefed on matters
affecting the group’s activities, such as significant industry developments, as well as changes to the legal and regulatory
environment in which the group operates. Reporting is designed to ensure that management submits to board members all
information relevant to board decisions, in a timely manner prior to each board meeting. There is an agreed procedure whereby
all board members may obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties. Such advice was not sought by
any director during 2005. All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Performance evaluation
The annual board and committee evaluations were carried out during 2005. The directors’ evaluations took the form of
questionnaires and interviews conducted by the Chairman. The results were collated, analysed and fed back to board members.
The Chairman’s review was led by the Senior Independent Director with the non-executive directors.
This was followed up by a review of board and committee performances, which involved all board directors and was also
conducted by questionnaire. The results were reviewed by board members following which a short set of action plans, to
improve board performance, was agreed for the coming year.
Retirement by rotation
In accordance with the company’s articles of association, executive directors retire by rotation and submit themselves for 
re-election every three years and non-executive directors every two years. Following performance evaluations, those directors
up for re-election this year continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
Insurance
The company has purchased and maintains appropriate directors’ and officers’ and company reimbursement insurance in
respect of legal action against its directors.  Also, a deed poll was entered into during the year by the company, providing
indemnities to directors as permitted by the Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004.
Board committees
The board has three committees to assist in fulfilling its duties: an audit committee, a nomination committee and a
remuneration committee. Terms of reference for each of these committees were reviewed during the year although no
amendments were considered necessary by the board. They are posted on the group’s website and hard copies are available on
request from the Company Secretary.
Audit committee
During the year the audit committee consisted of three independent non-executive directors, at least one of whom had recent
and relevant financial experience. The committee is chaired by Paul Murray, who took over from Neil Cross after the annual
general meeting (the 2005 AGM). Its primary responsibilities include monitoring internal control and risk management
systems, approving the group’s accounting policies, reviewing the interim and annual financial statements before their
submission to the board and keeping under review the scope and costs of audit, as well as the nature and extent of non-audit
services provided by the auditors.
The committee reviewed internal business and internal control reports, together with external audit reports. The external
auditor attended all audit committee meetings and met separately with the committee’s chairman.
The committee has adopted a formal policy for the supply of non-audit services provided by its external auditors. Its aim is to
ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditors is not compromised whilst, at the same time, allowing the company
to benefit from their expertise where it is needed. The policy provides that proposals for all non-audit work carried out by the
company’s external auditors, incurring fees of over £50,000, require the approval of the audit committee. All such proposals
need to be accompanied by a written note to the committee, specifying why the work would not compromise the external the sixth sense of business
™
39
auditors’ independence and objectivity and stating why the external auditors are being recommended for the work. In addition,
the policy provides that all other non-audit work carried out for the group by the company’s external auditors, which incurs fees
of less than £50,000, be reported to the board on a regular basis. A summary of the fees for non-audit work, which includes
assurance, tax advisory and tax compliance work, during 2005 is given on page 62. 
The committee is entitled to take independent professional advice and has full independent powers of investigation 
Nomination committee
During the year the nomination committee consisted of three independent non-executive directors, as well as the Chairman
and Chief Executive.  The committee is chaired by Rémy Sautter who took over from Stephan Buck after the 2005 AGM. Its role
is to review regularly the composition of the board, consider succession planning and nominate to the board, for approval,
candidates to fill board vacancies.
Under the board appointment process, the nomination committee agrees a job specification that takes account of skills analysis
of the existing board members. Specialised external consultancies are asked to tender for the business. The chosen consultancy
provides a list of potential candidates, from which the committee agrees a short list. Interviews are held by members of the
committee and the successful candidate is recommended for board approval. This process was followed for the appointments of
Alice Perkins, Paul Murray and Donald Brydon.
Remuneration committee
The composition and responsibilities of the remuneration committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the
principles of the Combined Code in setting directors’ remuneration, are included in the remuneration report on pages 41 to 49.
Financial controls and reporting
The group operates a comprehensive system for financial reporting to the board, based on an annual budget and regular
forecasts. Financial performance is reported and appraised regularly and the operational management team identifies any new
business matters, key risks facing the operating units and recent acquisitions in its reports. The board approves budgetary
expenditure in line with the group’s corporate strategy.
Internal control
The board is responsible for ensuring the group has an appropriate system of internal controls. Day-to-day management of
those controls is delegated to senior management of the relevant operating units. Each year, all operations perform an
assessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls in place in their business, through an internal control questionnaire and
report their findings to the group. 
The group has a business review and internal audit department which reviews financial, operational and compliance controls in
a number of key business areas each year. Recommendations are reported to senior management and, ultimately, to the audit
committee and board. In 2005, the business review department performed audits at 13 of the group’s subsidiary companies and
limited reviews at a further 12.  A key responsibility is monitoring the implementation of recommendations previously made;
consequently the status of all recommendations is updated quarterly and reviewed by the executive management team.  
An update is provided to the audit committee.
By these mechanisms the board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the group’s system of internal controls for the
year ended 31 December 2005. The group’s system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement
or loss.
In 2005, the key business, financial, operational and compliance risks facing the group were reviewed and prioritised. 
The procedures in place to detect risks were addressed and the results were reported to the board.
These procedures have been in place for the financial year covered by this report and up to the date the annual report and
accounts were approved. The procedures comply with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
Code of conduct
The company has in place a code of conduct which is publicised throughout the organisation. The code provides guidance and
assistance on how employees should conduct business throughout the group, including how to manage relationships with the
company’s stakeholders. An ethics help-line allows employees to report suspected breaches of the code of conduct to the
Company Secretary, who reports directly to the Chairman.  During the year, all enquiries to the help-line were independently
investigated and where appropriate reported to the audit committee. TNS annual report 2005 40
Investor relations
The group has in place a structured programme of communication with institutional shareholders and financial analysts.
Executive directors and the Head of Investor Relations meet regularly with financial analysts and existing and prospective
institutional investors in the UK, Continental Europe and North America. The purpose of these meetings is to provide
background information regarding the group and to improve understanding of the company’s business and strategy, within the
constraints imposed to ensure that inside information is not selectively disclosed. The group is conscious of the need to
communicate information to shareholders and potential shareholders in such a way as to avoid the creation or continuance of a
false market in its shares. In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, inside
information is released to both institutional and private shareholders at the same time. Group results are announced twice a year
and, in addition, trading updates are issued to the market in January and July of each year. Results and operational presentations
made to investors and analysts are webcast live on the group’s website, www.tns-global.com.  
In 2005, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director communicated with the company’s brokers, to keep abreast of
institutional shareholders’ attitudes to the company and consulted with major shareholders on governance issues. All non-
executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders. All directors are also kept informed
of shareholders’ views via investor relations board reports, brokers’ briefings and surveys of shareholders’ opinion. The annual
general meeting provides an opportunity for all shareholders to meet with and question the directors.
During 2005, 13 Regulatory News Service announcements were released, informing the market of acquisitions, financial results,
the impact of IFRS and board changes. These announcements, together with current and back issues of annual and interim
reports, investor presentation webcasts and other items of interest to shareholders, are available on the group’s website.
Pension funds
The group operates a number of pension plans and post-retirement benefit plans for its employees throughout the world. 
The pensions consist of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans. 
Assets of the pension funds established for the benefit of the group’s employees are held separately from those of the group. 
In the UK these are held under trust by Taylor Nelson Sofres Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises both employee
representatives and group board members, in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 1995. In the Netherlands,
these are held by Stitching NIPO Pension funds. In the US, the group has consolidated its section 401(k) plans and now uses a
single independent provider, Fidelity Management Trust Company. TNS CMR LLC also maintains a Union Pension Plan, the
assets of which are held under trust by Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N.A, together with defined benefit plans sponsored by TNS
CMR. TNS also maintains a defined benefit plan, the former NFO WorldGroup, Inc. Pension Plan, the assets of which are held
under trust by KeyBank. That pension plan is now frozen. Details of pension commitments are given on pages 78 to 81.
Annual general meeting
The notice of the annual general meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All results of proxy votes are read out, made available for review during the meeting and recorded in the minutes of the meeting
and released to the market. The Chairman, executive directors and chairs of the audit, nomination and remuneration
committees all attended the 2005 AGM and were available to answer questions from shareholders.
PART TWO – COMPLIANCE WITH COMBINED CODE
Throughout 2005, the board is pleased to confirm that the group fully complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code.
By order of the board
Ian Portal
Company Secretary
6 March 2006 the sixth sense of business
™
41
Remuneration report 
The remuneration committee comprises four non-executive directors as detailed on page 33. Sharon Studer was appointed as
chair with effect from 1 January 2005. All current members of the remuneration committee are considered by the board to be
independent in corporate governance terms. Mike Petch, Group Human Resources Director and Jane Drysdale, Group
Compensation and Benefits Director provided support to and information for the remuneration committee in 2005. 
The remuneration committee's role is to advise the board on overall remuneration policy and, on its behalf, to determine the
remuneration packages of the executive directors and senior executives. The committee’s responsibilities are to ensure that: 
• in determining salary, its policy and practices support business strategy by being competitive and cost-effective;
• the structure and level of total remuneration are broadly consistent with the principles of corporate governance as contained
within the Combined Code, incorporating appropriate emphasis on reward for performance;
• the interests of executive directors and senior executives are aligned with those of shareholders, through the establishment of
appropriate short and long-term incentives;
• performance targets applicable to variable remuneration are agreed;
• comments are solicited from principal shareholders regarding the company’s remuneration principles;
• the determination of remuneration packages follows formal and transparent procedures, and that due regard is given to any
relevant legal requirements, the provisions and recommendations of the Combined Code and the UK Listing Authority’s
Listing Rules and associated guidance.
To achieve its goals, the committee needs access to consistent, standardised information regarding remuneration in comparable
companies and ongoing remuneration trends. To that end, it receives input from New Bridge Street Consultants (NBSC), Mercer
Human Resource Consultants (Mercer) and ORC Worldwide (ORC) on remuneration matters that affect senior executives. 
In addition, the group participates in and purchases a number of remuneration surveys, the data from which are used to help
formulate remuneration decisions. NBSC, Mercer and ORC provide compensation advice to the human resources team on other
remuneration-related matters, but do not undertake tax or audit services, or any other services that may lead to a conflict of interest.
The group defines its key management as set out in note 28 to the financial statements.
Remuneration policy 
The group’s remuneration principles were reviewed in 2005 to increase the focus on incentivisation and to strengthen the link
between remuneration and individual, team and company performance. These principles are applied across the group to all
employees, including executive directors and senior executives, and remain relevant for 2006:
• total remuneration should be structured to facilitate the recruitment, retention and incentivisation of key individuals; 
• performance excellence should be rewarded with highly competitive remuneration packages; 
• remuneration should be competitive in local and global market places;
• annual bonus plans should be in place to encourage delivery against challenging and appropriate annual financial targets;
• executives’ long-term interests should be aligned with company performance through the group’s long-term incentive plan,
which is designed to motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained, long-term growth;
• individuals should have an appropriate balance of fixed and variable elements within their total remuneration, with increased
emphasis on reward for performance.
In reviewing executive directors’ base pay, the committee takes into account external market data supplied by independent
professional sources. For competitive benchmarking purposes, the group continues to position itself against companies in the FTSE
mid-250, with specific focus on those organisations with sector and size similarities where possible. A number of the group’s key
senior executives are located outside the UK. Total remuneration, therefore, is compared both internationally and locally. In 2005,
the company continued to work with ORC to extend the depth and breadth of coverage of a market research sector remuneration
survey, which was established in 2004. Specific industry data are therefore now available for some senior posts. 
The remuneration committee’s policy remains that cash remuneration should be positioned at the median of the comparable
market place, with high-performing individuals able to increase their total remuneration above the median through their annual
bonus plans and incentive arrangements. TNS annual report 2005 42
The objective remains to create a harmonised approach to total compensation across the group, including employee benefits. 
This approach is essential to facilitate career development and international movement of employees and to serve as an attraction
and retention tool.
The fees of the non-executive directors are a matter reserved for the executive directors. The non-executive directors do not
participate in the company’s pension, annual bonus or equity plans and their fees are paid entirely in cash. The group currently
has no plans to pay part of non-executive directors’ fees in shares. Fee levels for non-executive directors were increased with
effect from 1 January 2005, to bring them in line with market practice and to continue to reflect the time commitments of the role
in line with the requirements of the Combined Code. The company will be reviewing fee levels again in 2006.
Board changes
As outlined in the Directors’ report on page 34, Pedro Ros joined the board as an executive director with effect from 16 January
2006. Following his appointment, Pedro Ros’ remuneration package has been reviewed and is in line with the policy statements
in this report and is consistent with that of the other executive directors.
Donald Brydon joined the group as Chairman on 12 January 2006. His remuneration has been externally benchmarked and
approved by the remuneration committee.
The group announced on 13 October 2005 that Mike Kirkham would stand down as Chief Executive in 2006. He continues to be
employed by the group, working his 12 months notice until 13 October 2006. During this time, he will receive remuneration in
line with his existing employment contract. 
Details of other board changes and committee structure are given in the Directors’ report on pages 34 to 36 and the Corporate
governance report on pages 37 to 40.
Base pay 
This is normally reviewed annually on 1 January and reflects the rate for the specific role. Base pay is the only pensionable element
of remuneration and base pay increases recognise external pay movements and individual performance. 
Tony Cowling, Mike Kirkham, David Lowden and Andy Boland all received increases in their base pay in January 2005, in line
with individual performance and market data.
Annual incentive
Executive directors and senior executives have annual cash bonus plans that reward growth in profit and operating margin. 
Each year’s results provide the threshold for the next year’s target, encouraging a continuous drive for higher levels of
performance. In 2005 the bonus potential was a maximum of 100 per cent of base salary for Mike Kirkham, 90 per cent for David
Lowden, and 75 per cent for both Tony Cowling and Andy Boland. 
The group’s executive bonus plan remains in place for 2006 and bonus payments for all senior executives are capped. In 2005,
bonuses for the main board were based entirely on financial performance measures, comprising earnings per share (EPS),
operating profit, operating margin and free cash flow. Bonuses for senior executives excluding the main board were based 
80 per cent on financial and 20 per cent on selected non-financial measures.  The financial measures covered profit and cash flow
as applicable to the relevant, specific regions or global business sectors, as well as a group element based on EPS.
Bonus structure and financial goals for each performance measure are reviewed at the start of each year. The 2006 senior
executive bonus plan will be broadly similar to that for 2005.
Pension 
Mike Kirkham, Tony Cowling, David Lowden and Andy Boland are members of a defined contribution pension plan governed by
an independent trust. Company pension contributions for directors were reviewed in 2004 and were increased with effect from 
1 January 2005, to bring them in line with the market median for defined contribution pension plans. 
In light of pending pension legislative changes due to take effect on 6 April 2006 (‘A-day’), the company has continued its policy
of flexible funding of pensions during 2005. Executives may choose to sacrifice salary and bonus in return for additional company
contributions to their pension fund. Post A-Day, the remuneration committee has agreed that there will be no compensation for
any executive for whom the pension plan is no longer tax efficient. However, an executive will be able to elect to take taxable cash
in lieu of company pension contributions at neutral cost to the company. the sixth sense of business
™
43
Benefits 
Executive directors receive individual private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, independent financial and taxation
counselling, life assurance and health screening benefits. In line with TNS UK benefits policy, there is no company car benefit for
the UK-based board directors.
Equity-based incentive plans for employees and executives 
The group’s policy is that, wherever feasible, employees should have the opportunity to participate in equity-based incentive and
ownership plans. This helps the group to drive business growth, to align the interests of employees from diverse backgrounds and
cultures and to retain and attract key senior executives. In 2005, the remuneration committee approved the use of approximately
4.9 million shares across all the equity-based plans.  
Long-term incentive arrangements
Long-term incentive arrangements are used to encourage performance and as a retention tool. In 2005, the remuneration
committee undertook a review of the group’s share incentive plans for executives. They concluded that the 2001 Executive Share
Option Plan and the 1993 Long-term Incentive Plan should be replaced with a new long-term incentive arrangement, the 2005
Long-term Incentive Plan (2005 LTIP). The implementation of this new plan, which is centred on the grant of performance shares
(conditional free shares), was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting (AGM) on 11 May 2005. 
The first awards under the 2005 LTIP were made in October 2005. In addition, executive directors were eligible to participate in
the Equity Participation Plan (EPP). Participation in any of the plans remains at the discretion of the remuneration committee,
subject to the rules of the plans and within the terms of the agreed remuneration policy.
It is anticipated that, under the revised long-term incentive arrangements, approximately 3.5 million shares will be necessary to
meet the LTIP requirements for 2006. These will be provided through a combination of newly issued shares and trust shares.
With effect from 1 September 2005, minimum share ownership guidelines for executive directors were introduced. The Chief
Executive is expected to hold one and a half times base salary in TNS shares and other executive directors are expected to achieve
a share holding of one times base salary. Executives must retain at least 50 per cent of the profit shares delivered through the
company’s LTIP until they have achieved the appropriate shareholding level.
2005 Long-term Incentive Plan (2005 LTIP)
Executive directors and selected employees of the company are eligible to participate in the plan at the discretion of the
remuneration committee. It is expected that awards will be made to executive directors and approximately 200 of the company’s
senior executives on an annual basis. Awards of up to 200 per cent of annual base salary may be made in any financial year, as
detailed in the Shareholders’ Circular in 2004.
In 2005, 3.5 million shares in total were awarded to 204 people and additionally 40,000 phantom shares were granted to four
participants. This compares with approximately 6.7 million shares under option granted in 2004.  In relation to the group’s
retrospective 14 per cent dilution limit, by 31 December 2005, 38 million shares (8.48 per cent) were used. Against the forward-
looking 10 per cent dilution limit from June 2002, 26.3 million shares (5.88 per cent) were used by the same date. In 2010, the
group expects to be within the ‘10 per cent in 10 years’ guideline.
The award can be made in one of two forms: (i) conditional allocations, where a participant will receive free ordinary shares in the
company automatically on the vesting of the award; or (ii) nil (or nominal) cost options, where a participant can decide when to
exercise the award during a period of up to 12 months after it has vested. Awards will normally vest following the third
anniversary of the grant date once the extent to which the performance conditions have been met (see overleaf) has been assessed
and provided the participant is still employed by the company. TNS annual report 2005 44
Vesting of awards is conditional on the achievement of two distinct performance conditions as detailed in the table below for each
tier of management.
Performance condition 1* Performance condition 2*
Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4
12 most Global management The next 85 most Remainder of LTIP 
Percentage of awards vesting for: senior executives team members (excl. Tier 1) senior executives population (c.100)
Earnings per share (EPS)
Maximum performance (EPS = RPI + 16% pa) 100% 100% 100% 100%
Exceeded performance (EPS = RPI + 12% pa) 65% 65% 75% 100%
Expected performance (EPS = RPI + 8% pa) 30% 30% 50% 100%
Threshold performance (EPS = RPI + 4% pa) 15% 15% 25% 50%
EPS of less than RPI + 4% pa 0% 0% 0% 0%
Total shareholder return (TSR)
Upper quintile TSR performance 100% – – –
Median TSR performance 25% – – –
Below median relative TSR performance 0% – – –
* Performance condition 1: EPS = 75% of the award, TSR = 25% of the award. Performance condition 2: EPS = 100% of the award
The EPS performance condition targets average EPS growth (adjusted earnings per share as disclosed in the company’s report and
accounts before IFRS 2 charges but on a fully diluted basis) over and above the rate of growth of the UK Retail Price Index (RPI)
over a period of three years. The 2004 EPS has been restated on a comparable basis for the purposes of this LTIP. The total
shareholder return (TSR) performance condition measures the company’s TSR relative to a peer group comprising the FTSE 350
Media Sector.
2001 Executive Share Option Plan (ESP)
The 2005 LTIP has replaced the 2001 ESP. However, shareholders have agreed further use of the approved schedule to the 2001
ESP, in order to grant tax efficient share options to UK based executives in exceptional circumstances. In early 2005, prior to the
approval of the 2005 LTIP, two awards were made at senior management level.
2001 Equity Participation Plan (EPP)
Executive directors and selected employees have been eligible to participate in the EPP at the discretion of the remuneration
committee. Under the plan, employees may deposit shares in the group, which they already own, to a market value not exceeding
50 per cent of their net base salary in any one year. In return, a matching award is granted over shares with a market value on the
day of grant equal to half the pre-tax amount that would have been required by the individual to acquire the deposited shares. 
A matching award will normally be exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of its grant, and is conditional upon the
deposited shares being retained and the executive remaining in employment at the time of exercise. 
The plan has been structured primarily as a recognition and retention vehicle for high-performing, key employees. It also
provides an incentive for executives to build and maintain a shareholding in the company through share purchases, thereby
creating a clear alignment with shareholders. The maximum value of matching awards is 25 per cent of gross base pay and, given
this conservative level, there have been no performance conditions attached to awards up to and including 2005, with the
exception of any main board participants. Mike Kirkham was offered an award under this plan in 2005, which will lapse, in line
with the company’s principles under the EPP, when he leaves the group. 
In 2005, 21 high-performing, key employees received and accepted the group’s invitation to participate in the EPP, depositing an
average of 35 per cent of net base salary in company shares. These will be matched after three years, conditional upon continued
employment and the retention of their deposited shares as outlined above.
Following the review of TNS’ long-term incentive arrangements, the EPP will be replaced by the Key Employee Equity Plan
(KEEP) in 2006, details of which are given below. There will be no further awards under the EPP.
Key Employee Equity Plan (KEEP)
Under the 2005 LTIP, the group may operate a discretionary share matching plan, KEEP, for approximately 20 specifically targeted
participants each year, excluding the executive board and the most senior executives. KEEP is primarily designed to act as a
retention tool and additionally, it allows directors to recognise exceptional performance by individuals.
Participants may deposit ordinary Taylor Nelson Sofres plc shares with a TNS group employee trust (the deposited shares).  the sixth sense of business
™
45
The maximum value of deposited shares is approximately £25,000. These shares are held in the trust for three years and on the
third anniversary (the vesting date), the group will transfer to the participant one share for every one of the deposited shares,
providing the participant is still employed by the group on the vesting date. 
For 2006, there will be no performance conditions attached to KEEP awards, although the remuneration committee reserves
discretion to attach performance conditions to subsequent awards if deemed appropriate.
Worldwide Employee Sharesave Plan (WESP) 
The company’s WESP was adopted in 1999. The plan is a share option plan in which the employee saves from salary, up to a
maximum of £150 per month, over a fixed period of time (minimum three years) and is then given the opportunity to purchase
fixed price shares, which may sometimes be at a discount to market value, from his or her fund. The group uses the plan to
encourage ownership of shares by employees and the WESP will be operated again in 2006.
In the US, the group operates a section 423 qualified stock purchase plan, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) in place of the
WESP. This allows US employees to benefit from local tax dispensations and encourages increased participation.
In 2005, options over 0.46 million shares were granted to 480 employees in 11 countries under the WESP and the ESPP.
1993 Long-term Incentive Plan (1993 LTIP) 
The 2005 LTIP has replaced the 1993 LTIP.  There was one award in 2005 at senior management level prior to the approval of the
2005 LTIP. The 1993 LTIP is now closed.
Performance graph 
This graph illustrates the performance of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and the FTSE All Share Media Index over the past five years. 
The group has selected this index following the approval of the 2005 LTIP. An element of the awards under this plan is based on
TSR, which reflects relative performance against a peer group, largely comprising constituents of the FTSE All Share Media index. 
Equity grants to restricted persons other than the main board
Plan name Grant date Number of individuals Number of share options Number of performance shares
EPP 7 April 2005 2 50,522 n/a
1993 LTIP 7 April 2005 1 135,635 n/a
2005 LTIP 14 October 2005 4 n/a 450,000
2005 LTIP 28 October 2005 1 n/a 125,000
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
120
100
80
60
40
20
Total shareholder return
at 31 December
Value £
•
Taylor Nelson Sofres plc 
•
FTSE All Share Media index
This graph shows the value by 31 December 2005 of
£100 invested in Taylor Nelson Sofres plc on 
31 December 2000 compared with the value of £100
invested in the FTSE All Share Media index. The other
points plotted are the values at intervening financial
year-ends. 
Source: Thomson Financial TNS annual report 2005 46
Composition of executive directors’ remuneration packages
Pay mix
In the past, executive directors would normally have received approximately 50 per cent of their total potential direct
compensation from base salary and company pension contributions, and 50 per cent from variable, performance-linked pay
(target bonus potential plus expected value of long-term incentives). This mix was examined as part of the 2005 long-term
incentive review and as a result, the ratio of fixed pay to variable pay has been adjusted to approximately 45:55.
Pay elements
A summary of executives’ remuneration packages is given in the table below; full details are provided in the Directors’
emoluments table on page 48. 
Base pay Purpose: to ensure a market competitive remuneration package. Performance measures: base pay is reviewed annually
taking into consideration individual contribution and market competitiveness of total package.
Bonus Purpose: to drive and reward annual performance against key objectives. Performance measures: financial targets for the
group, including profit, margin, cash flow and EPS.
Long-term incentives Purpose: to drive growth over the long term, to deliver shareholder value and to retain key management.
Performance measures: TSR and EPS.
Company contribution to pension and benefits  Purpose: to ensure a market competitive remuneration package and to provide
protection and security for employees in the short and long term.
Remuneration packages Tony Cowling Mike Kirkham David Lowden Andy Boland
Base pay Increased with effect from 1 January 2005 
Bonus maximum 75% 100% 90% 75%
Long-term incentives Not eligible EPP April 2005 LTIP award LTIP award 
2005 equity grants to be lapsed October 2005 October 2005 
Company contribution to pension 
(percentage of base pay) Not eligible 15% 12% 10%
Benefits
Private medical insurance Yes Y es Yes Y es
Critical illness insurance Yes – – –
Permanent health insurance – Yes Yes Yes
Life assurance – Yes Yes Yes
Annual health screening Yes Y es Yes Y es
Financial advice and taxation counselling Yes Y es Yes Y es
2005 pay mix policy (fixed : variable) 70 : 30 70 : 30 45 : 55 45 : 55 the sixth sense of business
™
47
Service contracts
Directors’ service contracts reflect current practice and the specific circumstances of the group. In the event of termination, all
contractual obligations would be honoured by the company, subject to mitigation. If the contract were to be terminated without
giving proper notice, damages for breach of contract would be salary and any other benefits such as pension contribution, health
and life assurance but subject to mitigation by the director. If the contract were to be terminated with proper notice being given,
no damages would be paid. There are no contractual early termination liabilities for any director.
Original contract date/
Note Appointment date Election/re-election date Notice period
Donald Brydon (Chairman) 1 January 2006 May 2006 6 months rolling
Executive directors
Andy Boland January 2004 May 2007 12 months rolling
Tony Cowling 2 June 1990 Retired –
Mike Kirkham 3 January 1993 Retiring 12 months rolling
David Lowden December 1998 May 2008 12 months rolling
Pedro Ros 4 January 2006 May 2006 12 months rolling
Non-executive directors
Stephan Buck 5 April 1992 Retired n/a
Neil Cross 5 December 1996 Retired n/a
Paul Murray 6 May 2005 May 2006 n/a
Alice Perkins 7 March 2005 May 2007 n/a
Rob Rowley 8 September 2002 Resigned n/a 
Rémy Sautter November 2002 May 2005 n/a
Sharon Studer November 2003 May 2006 n/a
Notes
1 Donald Brydon was appointed Chairman on 12 January 2006 5 Stephan Buck and Neil Cross retired from the board on 11 May 2005
2 Tony Cowling retired from the board on 12 January 2006 6 Paul Murray was appointed to the board on 11 May 2005
3 Mike Kirkham will retire from the board on 10 May 2006 7 Alice Perkins was appointed to the board on 2 March 2005
4 Pedro Ros was appointed to the board on 16 January 2006 8 Rob Rowley resigned from the board on 31 December 2005
Gains made by directors on share options
The following table shows gains made by individual, named directors, on share options exercised during 2005. The gains relate to
share price at point of exercise, minus exercise price, regardless of whether or not the shares have been retained.
2005 2004
£ £
Andy Boland – –
Tony Cowling 908,489 –
Mike Kirkham – 2,812
David Lowden 414,375 159,362
Total gains on share options 1,322,864 162,174 TNS annual report 2005 48
Directors’ interests in shares of the group
31 December 2005 31 December 2004 (or date of appointment)
Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial
Executive directors
Andy Boland 10,000 – ––
Tony Cowling 1,213,477 – 1,653,150 –
Mike Kirkham 346,536 – 346,536 –
David Lowden 230,000 – 80,000 –
Non-executive directors
Stephan Buck 8,000 – 63,000 –
Neil Cross 20,000 – 20,000 –
Paul Murray –– ––
Alice Perkins –– ––
Rob Rowley 5,000 – 5,000 –
Rémy Sautter 10,000 – 10,000 –
Sharon Studer 5,000 – 5,000 –
There have been no changes in the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of these directors between 31 December 2005 and the
date of this report.
The following pages, together with the table on page 47 setting out gains on exercise of share options, comprise the audited part
of the remuneration report.
Directors’ emoluments
Total Pension contributions
Salary Bonus Benefits Fees Other 2005 2004 2005 2004
Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive directors
Andy Boland 1 261 126 5 –  –  392 333 26 8 
Tony Cowling 2 280 125 21 –  –  426 402 – – 
Mike Kirkham 3 410 263 30 –  –  703 621 107 99 
William Lipner 4 –– – – – – 4,221 – – 
David Lowden 351 193 10 –  –  554 490 42 20 
Non–executive directors
Stephan Buck –  –  –  17 –  17 46 – – 
Neil Cross –  –  –  17 –  17 34 – – 
Paul Murray –  –  –  27 –  27 –  – – 
Alice Perkins 5 –  –  –  10 –  10 –  – – 
Rob Rowley –  –  –  43 –  43 37 – – 
Rémy Sautter –  –  –  39 –  39 32 – – 
Sharon Studer –  –  –  40 –  40 32 – – 
1,302 707 66 193 –  2,268 6,248 175 127 
Pierre Weill resigned from the board on 12 June 2001. His three year consultancy agreement with the group ended on 31 October 2004. He remained President
of the supervisory board of TNS Sofres in France until it was dissolved on 14 January 2005. Under the terms of his contract he remains entitled to receive
benefits of £110,000 per year.
1 Andy Boland elected to receive £40,000 of the amount disclosed as bonus above in the form of contributions to his pension.
2 Tony Cowling elected to sacrifice £237,800 of the salary and 100% of the bonus shown above into pension during the year. He retired from the board on 
12 January 2006.
3 Mike Kirkham elected to receive 100% of the amount disclosed as bonus above in the form of contributions to his pension.
4 William Lipner was appointed to the board on 17 July 2003 and left the company on 31 March 2004. In accordance with the terms of the service agreement he
held with NFO, he was entitled to receive substantial payments on leaving the group, and these were disclosed in full in the 2004 remuneration report.
5 Alice Perkins was appointed to the board on 2 March 2005, however due to her continuing employment with the civil service, payment to her did not
commence until 1 October 2005 when her employment with the civil service had ended. the sixth sense of business
™
49
Directors’ interests in share options
1 Jan 31 Dec Option Market price 
Plan 2005 Granted Exercised 2005 price on grant Exercise period
Andy Boland ESP 15,037 – – 15,037 199.5p 195.5p 31 Mar 2007 – 30 Mar 2014
ESP 184,963 – – 184,963 199.5p 195.5p 31 Mar 2007 – 30 Mar 2011
2005 LTIP – 261,000 – 261,000 Nil 201.75p 14 Oct 2008
Tony Cowling ESP 80,000 – – 80,000 203.5p 205p 30 Jun 2004 – 30 Jun 2008
Note 1 1993 LTIP 568,182 – 568,182 – 95p 141.75p 30 Jun 2001 – 10 Jun 2005
Note 2,3 1993 LTIP 116,000 – 116,000 – Nil 177p 12 Apr 2004 – 1 Jul 2009
WESP 10,829 – – 10,829 91p 144.5p 1 Jul 2008 – 31 Dec 2008
Mike Kirkham ESP 200,000 – – 200,000 203.5p 205p 30 Jun 2004 – 30 Jun 2008
ESP 15,000 – – 15,000 184p 177p 31 Jul 2005 – 31 Jul 2012
ESP 285,000 – – 285,000 184p 177p 31 Jul 2005 – 31 Jul 2009
ESP 2,352 – – 2,352 102p 102p 4 Apr 2006 – 3 Apr 2013
ESP 147,648 – – 147,648 102p 102p 4 Apr 2006 – 3 Apr 2010
ESP 100,000 – – 100,000 223.75p 222p 28 Sep 2007 – 27 Sep 2011
EPP 48,865 – – 48,865 Nil 197.5p 14 Apr 2007 – 13 Apr 2014 
Note 4 EPP – 43,263 – 43,263 Nil 230.75p 7 Apr 2008 – 6 Apr 2015 
WESP 1,808 – – 1,808 183p 236p 1 Jul 2007 – 31 Dec 2007
WESP 1,848 – – 1,848 204p 198p 1 Jul 2007 – 31 Dec 2007
David Lowden ESP 15,000 – – 15,000 184p 177p 31 Jul 2005 – 31 Jul 2012
ESP 185,000 – – 185,000 184p 177p 31 Jul 2005 – 31 Jul 2009
ESP 2,352 – – 2,352 102p 102p 4 Apr 2006 – 3 Apr 2013
ESP 197,648 – – 197,648 102p 102p 4 Apr 2006 – 3 Apr 2010
ESP 150,000 – – 150,000 203.5p 205p 30 Jun 2004 – 30 Jun 2008
ESP 200,000 – – 200,000 223.75p 222p 28 Sep 2007 – 27 Sep 2011
1993 LTIP 180,000 – – 180,000 Nil 195.5p 31 Mar 2009 – 30 Mar 2011
Note 2 1993 LTIP 325,000 – 325,000 – 75p 147.5p 30 May 2002 – 29 May 2006
2005 LTIP – 351,000 – 351,000 Nil 201.75p 14 Oct 2008
EPP 39,402 – – 39,402 Nil 189.5p 30 Sep 2006 – 29 Sep 2013
WESP 5,981 – – 5,981 164p 198p 1 Jul 2009 – 31 Dec 2009
Total 3,077,915 655,263 1,009,182 2,723,996
Notes
1 The market value of the shares on the date of exercise was 213.7p.
2 The market value of the shares on the date of exercise was 202p.
3 Options over 116,000 shares were granted for nil consideration to Tony Cowling under the LTIP . No performance conditions were attached to this award, as
it represented the final element of compensation payable to him for the change in his role in June 2001.
4 The options granted to Mike Kirkham in 2005 under the EPP will lapse when he leaves the group.
5 Options granted under the 2005 LTIP are subject to the following performance conditions: 75% of the total number of shares granted will be subject to a
condition measuring the group’s adjusted EPS and the remaining 25% of shares granted will be subject to a condition measuring the group’s TSR against
the TSR of a comparator group of companies.
6 Options granted under the ESP are subject to the following performance conditions: For 50 per cent of the award to vest, the real compound annual growth
of the group’s adjusted EPS before goodwill charges, over three consecutive financial years must exceed at least 4%. The options are only exercisable in
full if the rate so calculated is 8%. Should the exercise conditions not be met, re-testing may occur annually for up to two years, from the original fixed
base year, for awards prior to September 2004. Only one re-test is permissible for September 2004 awards.
7 Options granted under the 1993 LTIP are subject to the following performance conditions: For 2000 and 2001 the real compound annual growth of the
group’s adjusted EPS before goodwill charges, over three consecutive financial years must exceed at least 6%. In most cases, the options are only
exercisable in full if the rate so calculated is 12%. Should the exercise conditions not be met, re-testing may occur on a rolling three-year basis throughout
the life of the plan. For all other awards (excluding point 3 above), the conditions outlined under note 6 above apply.
8 The closing market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 was 224.75p and the range during the year was 190p to 247p.
By order of the board 
Ian Portal
Company Secretary
6 March 2006 TNS annual report 2005 50
Independent auditors’ report
to the shareholders of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc
We have audited the group and parent company financial
statements (the ‘financial statements’) of Taylor Nelson Sofres
plc on pages 51 to 94 for the year ended 31 December 2005.
These financial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual
Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as
adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement
of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and
only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
Directors’ Report is not consistent with the financial
statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement
reflects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of
the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we
report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether
the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and
control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited
financial statements. The other information comprises only
pages 1 to 49 and pages 95 to 96. We consider the implications
for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other
information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a
test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made
by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the
group’s and company’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or
other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union,
of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2005
and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European
Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent company’s
affairs as at 31 December 2005 and cash flows for the year
then ended; and 
• the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
6 March 2006 the sixth sense of business
™
51
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December
2005 2004
Notes £m £m 
Revenue 2 999.0 945.3
Cost of sales (336.5) (322.5)
Gross profit 662.5 622.8 
Administrative expenses (562.7) (531.7)
Operating profit before exceptional items 112.6 102.8
Integration costs 3 – (9.8)
Goodwill impairment 10 (10.3) (3.5)
Amortisation of additional intangibles identified on acquisitions 3 (0.9) (0.6)
Pension curtailment credit 23 2.9 4.8
Share based payments 24 (4.5) (2.6)
Operating profit 2 99.8 91.1
Finance income 5 1.0 0.8
Finance costs before exceptional items 5 (16.2) (20.0)
Exceptional finance costs 5 – (3.6)
Finance costs (16.2) (23.6)
Share of post tax profit of associates 14 0.4 1.0 
Profit before taxation 85.0 69.3
Taxation – excluding deferred tax on goodwill (30.1) (20.4)
Taxation – deferred tax on goodwill 6 (0.1) (3.2)
Taxation 6 (30.2) (23.6)
Profit for the year 54.8 45.7
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 52.1 43.6
Minority interests 2.7 2.1
54.8 45.7
Basic earnings per share 9 11.8p 10.0p
Diluted earnings per share 9 11.6p 9.8p
Dividends paid in the year were £16.0m (2004 £13.7m) and the final proposed dividend is £12.2m (2004 £10.6m). TNS annual report 2005 52
Balance sheets
at 31 December
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Notes £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 393.6 382.8 – –
Intangible assets 11 16.6 17.8 – –
Plant, property and equipment 12 73.1 72.5 – –
Investments in associates 14 2.5 1.3 – –
Investment in subsidiaries 14 – – 696.0 670.4 
Available for sale investments 15 0.4 0.6 – –
Deferred tax assets 6 29.6 29.2 – –
515.8 504.2 696.0 670.4
Current assets
Inventories 16 59.1 75.3 – –
Trade and other receivables 17 260.1 250.4 27.2 16.5
Current tax receivable 6 2.5 9.9 – –
Available for sale investments 15 0.8 0.7 – –
Cash 18 45.8 63.3 0.8 32.8 
Total current assets 368.3 399.6 28.0 49.3 
Total assets 884.1 903.8 724.0 719.7 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 19 (0.5) (3.2) (34.8) –
Trade and other payables 20 (298.7) (313.0) (24.9) (3.6)
Current tax payable 6 (27.0) (30.6) (0.4) –
Provisions 21 (11.7) (5.5) – –
Total current liabilities (337.9) (352.3) (60.1) (3.6)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 30.4 47.3 (32.1) 45.7 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 (340.7) (388.9) (340.5) (388.2)
Trade and other payables 20 (2.3) (3.0) (147.7) (148.6)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (27.0) (25.4) – –
Retirement benefit obligations 23 (15.3) (12.4) – –
Provisions 21 (13.0) (17.0) – –
Total non-current liabilities (398.3) (446.7) (488.2) (536.8)
Total liabilities (736.2) (799.0) (548.3) (540.4)
Total net assets 147.9 104.8 175.7 179.3
Equity
Issued share capital 26 22.4 22.3 22.4 22.3
Share premium 27 126.7 123.8 126.7 123.8 
Shares to be issued 27 – 4.2 – 4.2 
Other reserves 27 1.8 1.5 1.6 1.6
Retained earnings 27 (13.0) (56.1) 25.0 27.4
Total shareholders' equity 137.9 95.7 175.7 179.3
Minority interests in equity 27 10.0 9.1 – –
Total equity 147.9 104.8 175.7 179.3 
The financial statements on pages 51 to 94 were approved by the board on 6 March 2006 and were signed on its behalf by
Andy Boland, Finance Director the sixth sense of business
™
53
Cash flow statements
for the year ended 31 December
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Notes £m £m £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities 
Cash generated from operations 29 128.4 113.4 17.9 3.7 
Income tax (paid)/received (24.2) (20.2) 0.4 (0.6)
Net cash generated from operating activities 104.2 93.2 18.3 3.1 
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) 29 (5.7) (11.0) (187.1) (7.9)
Sale of subsidiaries (net of cash disposed) 0.7 0.1 – –
Sale of associates – 7.4 – – 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2.6 2.2 – – 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (20.0) (22.3) – –
Purchase of intangible assets (3.3) (5.7) – – 
Purchase of associates and investments (0.8) – – – 
Interest received 1.0 0.7 5.7 9.0
Dividends received – 0.5 6.5 13.5 
Net cash used in investing activities (25.5) (28.1) (174.9) 14.6 
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 2.5 3.2 2.5 3.2 
Dividends paid to company’s shareholders (16.0) (13.7) (16.0) (13.7)
Dividends paid to minority interests (1.7) (1.4) – – 
Arrangement fee paid on restructuring group finance (1.4) – (1.4) –
(Decrease)/increase in debt (65.7) (1.6) 117.7 49.1
Interest paid (13.9) (20.2) (13.5) (24.9)
Purchase of company shares – (4.1) – –
Net cash used in financing activities (96.2) (37.8) 89.3 13.7 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and 
cash equivalents (17.5) 27.3 (67.3) 31.4 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 63.3 35.7 32.8 1.6 
Exchange gain/(loss) on cash and cash equivalents – 0.3 0.5 (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 45.8 63.3 (34.0) 32.8 
Net debt* 29 295.4 329.4 
* Net debt is defined as bank borrowings net of arrangement fees and obligations under finance leases, less cash. TNS annual report 2005 54
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31 December
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Notes £m £m £m £m
Profit for the year 54.8 45.7 13.0 16.5
Actuarial losses on pensions 23 (5.4) (2.8) – –
Tax on actuarial losses on pensions 6 1.6 0.2 – –
Gain in fair value of financial instruments 27 1.8 – 1.8 –
Translation differences on foreign currency 
net investments less translation differences 
on foreign currency loans taken out to fund 
those investments 27 6.0 (8.4) – –
Tax on gains on the above item 6 (1.4) 2.0 – –
Net gains and losses not recognised in the 
income statement 2.6 (9.0) 1.8 –
Total recognised income and expense 
relating to the year 57.4 36.7 14.8 16.5
Prior year adjustment following adoption 
of IAS 32 and IAS 39 1 (5.4) – (5.4) –
Total recognised income and expense 
since last annual report 52.0 36.7 9.4 16.5
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 49.3 34.6 9.4 16.5
Minority interests 2.7 2.1 – –
52.0 36.7 9.4 16.5 the sixth sense of business
™
55
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations endorsed by the European Union (EU) and with
those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have been
prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale investments, financial assets and
liabilities held for trading. Prior to 2005, the group prepared its financial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (UK GAAP).
First time adoption of IFRS
These financial statements follow the requirements and options in IFRS 1 ‘First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards’ as they relate to the 2004 comparatives included therein. Certain of the requirements and options in IFRS 1 relating to
comparative financial information presented on first-time adoption result in a different application of accounting policies in the 2004
restated financial information to that which would have applied had the 2004 financial statements been the first financial statements
prepared in accordance with IFRS. An explanation of how transition from UK GAAP to IFRS has affected the group’s financial
position, income statement and cash flows is set out in note 32. 
As permitted by IFRS 1, the following key exemptions have been taken in the transition to IFRS. Business combinations prior to the
transition date have not been restated. Cumulative actuarial gains and losses of defined benefit or post retirement plans have been
taken directly to equity at the transition date. Recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share Based Payments’ have
only been applied to equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005. Financial
instruments have continued to be reported in accordance with UK GAAP for the 2004 comparative period. Cumulative translation
differences for all foreign currency operations have been reset to nil as at 1 January 2004.
Changes in accounting policy
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been
consistently applied to all years presented, except those relating to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. The
group has made use of the exemption available under IFRS 1 to apply the standards related to financial instruments, IAS 32 ‘Financial
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, only from 
1 January 2005. In addition, as at 31 December 2004, the group has not adopted IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and
Discontinued Operations’, which is only effective for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2005.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best
knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates. In particular, management’s
assumptions in performing the annual goodwill impairment review are considered key sources of estimation of uncertainty at the
balance sheet date, and are disclosed in note 10.
Basis of consolidation
The annual group financial statements consolidate the results of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, its subsidiary undertakings and
proportionate share of jointly controlled entities, and incorporate the post-acquisition results of its share of associates for each
financial year.
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the group. Control exists when the group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern
the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting
rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The results of all subsidiary undertakings acquired or
disposed of are accounted for under acquisition accounting rules and are included in the income statement from the effective date
of control until the date that control ceases. The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of
subsidiaries and adjustments are made if necessary to ensure consistency of subsidiaries’ accounting policies with the group. 
All intra-group transactions are eliminated as part of the consolidation process.
Jointly controlled entities
Joint ventures are those entities in which the group holds a long-term interest and which are jointly controlled by the group and one
or more venturers under a contractual agreement. The consolidated financial statements include the group’s proportionate share of
the entities’ assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and cash flows on a line by line basis, from the date that joint control
commences until the date that joint control ceases. The results of joint ventures are adjusted where necessary to ensure TNS annual report 2005 56
consistency with group accounting policies. Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its joint ventures are
eliminated to the extent of the group’s interest.
Associates
Associates are those undertakings, other than subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities, in which the group holds a long-term
participating interest and exerts a significant influence but not control. The group’s share of profits or losses of associates after
interest and taxation is included in the group income statement and the group’s share of their net assets, together with goodwill
arising on acquisition, is included in the group balance sheet. The group’s share of losses are recognised up to the carrying value
of the individual associate, unless the group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. The results of
associates are adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with group accounting policies. Unrealised gains on transactions
between the group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the group’s interest.
Revenue recognition
Revenue consists of the fair value of the sale of products and services net of sales tax, rebates and discounts after eliminating
sales within the group. Revenue and profits on short-term projects are recognised on the completion of the project, once the
product and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the client. Costs incurred on projects up to
completion are included within work-in-progress. Revenue and profits on long-term or continuous projects are recognised on the
satisfactory completion of each service delivery phase of the project. Costs incurred on projects are included within work-in-
progress until completion of each phase. Amounts invoiced to clients in advance of revenue and profits being recognised are
shown as payments received on account within creditors.
Segmental reporting
A segment is a distinguishable component of the group that is engaged either in providing products or services within a particular
economic environment (geographical segment) or providing products or services that are subject to risks and rewards that are
different to other segments (business segment).
Share based payments
The fair value of the employee share option plans is calculated at the date of grant using appropriate models. In accordance with
IFRS 2 ‘Share Based Payments’ the difference between the fair value and the exercise price of the share option is charged to the
income statement over the vesting period of the options. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels
of option vesting.
Bank facility arrangement fees
Bank facility arrangement fees are capitalised and charged to the income statement over the life of the bank facilities.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the group’s share of the identifiable
net assets acquired at the date of acquisition of the subsidiary, joint venture or associate. Goodwill is considered to have an
indefinite life and is tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. In respect of associates, the
carrying amount of the goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate. If the fair value of net assets
acquired exceeds the consideration given then the excess is credited to the income statement in the year of acquisition. Gains and
losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying value of related goodwill. Any goodwill previously written off directly to
reserves is not included in the gain or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets
Costs that are directly associated with the production of software for internal use in the business are capitalised as an intangible
asset. Software that forms an integral part of related hardware is capitalised with the hardware and included within property, plant
and equipment. Acquired intangible assets comprises software licences, patents, customer lists, trademarks and brands. Intangible
assets are capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful economic lives as follows:
Patents and licenses 20 years or remaining life if shorter
Software and databases and other assets 5 years or remaining life if shorter
Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, and
taken immediately to the income statement. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its
value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately
identifiable cash flows.
Property, plant and equipment (PPE)
PPE is stated at original cost including costs directly attributable to acquiring assets or, where appropriate, fair value when
1 Accounting policies (continued) the sixth sense of business
™
57
acquired, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Where an item of PPE comprises major components having
different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of PPE. Assets under construction consists of costs directly
attributable to purchasing and installing PPE ahead of their productive use. External and internal costs are capitalised to the extent
that they enhance future economic benefits accruing to the group. Internal costs are only capitalised if they are also incremental to
the group. Provisions are made and charged to the income statement where the value of assets has been impaired in relation to
their value-in-use to the business and charged to the income statement.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its
expected useful life, as follows:
Freehold land no depreciation
Freehold buildings 33 years
Short leasehold land and buildings term of lease
Equipment 3–10 years
No depreciation is charged on assets under construction until they are brought into use by the business
Finance and operating leases
Leases in which the group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Assets
held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised and depreciated over their useful lives, or the term of the
lease if shorter. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease
payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation, so as to achieve a constant rate of
interest on the remaining liability. Rentals under operating leases are charged directly to the income statement on a straight line
basis over the lease term.
Inventories – work-in-progress
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes direct costs incurred on incomplete client projects
and an appropriate element of attributable overheads.
Pension arrangements
The group operates a number of contributory pension plans. The majority of employees participate in defined contribution plans
that are set up through insurance companies. Contributions are also made to personal pension plans at equivalent rates. Payments
in respect of such current service contributions are charged to the income statement as they fall due. 
The group also operates a number of defined benefit pension plans which are accounted for under IAS 19 ‘Employment Benefits’.
Obligations under defined benefit plans are measured at discounted present value by actuaries, while plan assets are recorded at
fair value. The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the income statement. Service costs are
recorded in operating costs and are spread over the working lives of employees. Financing costs are recorded in finance costs and
recognised in the years in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses are taken directly to reserves in the year in which they arise,
the group having taken this option under an amendment to IAS 19, which the group has adopted early.
Employee share ownership plans
Shares in Taylor Nelson Sofres plc held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) and the Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) are
included within equity at cost less provisions for any permanent diminution in value. Net operating income from the plans is
included under finance income in the group’s consolidated income statement. Costs of administration are included in the
consolidated income statement as they accrue. Profits arising on the disposal of shares held by the EBT as a result of the exercise
of options are taken to reserves.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year as adjusted for items that are not taxable or not deductible and takes into
account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting
purposes. Full provision is made for the tax effects of these differences. Taxation is charged to the income statement except to the
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the taxation is also recognised in equity. Tax deferred or
accelerated by the effect of temporary differences is accounted for to the extent that a transaction or event that has occurred at the
balance sheet date gives rise to an obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future. Deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that, based on available evidence, it is probable that suitable taxable profits will arise from which the
reversal of the asset can be deducted.
Dividends
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are approved by the company in general meeting. Interim
dividends are recognised when paid.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash in hand, bank deposits available on demand and other short-term highly liquid TNS annual report 2005 58
1 Accounting policies (continued)
investments with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral
part of the group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement
of cash flows, and are shown within borrowings under current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value reduced by estimated irrecoverable amounts. Provision for impairment is
recognised where there is evidence that the full amount of the trade receivable is not collectible, and is charged to the income
statement.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and
it is more likely than not that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably
estimated. Provisions are discounted where the effect is material.
Financial instruments
The accounting policies adopted in respect of financial instruments in years up to and including 31 December 2004 are set out in
the 2004 annual report except that to provide comparability, financial assets and liabilities have been reclassified according to IFRS
categories, as set out below. Up to 31 December 2004, in accordance with the UK GAAP financial assets are held at the lower of
cost and net realisable value. Debt instruments are stated at the amount of the net proceeds, adjusted to amortise any discount
over the term of the debt.
Financial assets
Under IFRS, financial assets are classified as either financial assets held at fair value through the income statement, loans and
receivables, held-to-maturity investments, or available for sale financial assets (see below). The classification depends on the
purpose for which the investments are acquired. Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition
and re-evaluates this at each reporting date.
Financial assets held for trading and those designated as held at fair value by management at inception are measured at fair value
through the income statement.
Loans and receivables that are not derivative financial assets, with fixed or determinable payments and that are not quoted in
active markets, are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the
income statement. Loans and receivables excludes items that the group intends to sell immediately or in the short term (which are
classified as held for trading) and those for which the group may not recover substantially all of its initial investment other than
because of credit deterioration (which are classified as available for sale).
Financial assets are classified as held to maturity if the group has positive intent and ability, from inception, to hold the securities to
their maturity date. These financial assets have fixed or determinable payments and a fixed maturity. Held to maturity financial
assets are reported at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the income
statement.
Financial assets classified as available for sale are either specifically designated in this category or not classified in any of the other
categories. Available for sale assets are carried at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses (except for changes in exchange
rates for monetary items, interest and impairment losses) recognised in equity until the financial asset is derecognised, at which
time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the income statement.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are stated at fair value adjusted for transaction costs attributable to the issue of those financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method and, if included in a fair value
hedge relationship, are revalued to reflect the fair value movements on the effective portion of the hedged risk associated with the
financial liability. The effect of the currency element of currency swaps acting as hedges against debt is reported separately in
current and non-current assets and liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments
The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not
qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, for derivative financial instruments
classified as held for trading, gains and losses on re-measurement to fair value are recognised immediately in the income
statement. Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the
hedge (see hedge accounting policies below). Derivative financial instruments are classified as current assets or current liabilities the sixth sense of business
™
59
where they are held for trading, or have a maturity within twelve months. Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity
greater than twelve months and are designated as in a hedge relationship, they are classified within either non-current assets or
non-current liabilities consistent with the maturity profile of the underlying hedged items.
The fair value of swaps is the estimated amount that the group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet
date, taking into account current interest and foreign exchange rates. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted
market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price. Derivatives embedded within assets
and liabilities, which are not closely related to the underlying item, are measured at fair value and accounted for separately.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes the designation of the hedge
relationship but the hedged financial asset or liability remains or forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain
or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the
hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place or the underlying hedged financial asset or liability no longer exists, then
the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cash flow hedge accounting
When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, 
or a highly probably transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same year or years
during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised
immediately in the income statement in line with the treatment of the underlying hedged transaction.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, or the
forecast transaction for a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity
and included in the initial cost or carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. If a hedge of a forecast transaction
subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were
recognised directly in equity are reclassified into the income statement in the same year or years during which the asset acquired
or liability assumed affects the income statement.
Fair value hedge accounting
When a derivative instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly
probably transaction, the change in fair value of the derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income
statement, together with any changes in fair value of the hedged assets or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operation
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net investment in foreign entities and of borrowings and other currency
instruments designated as hedges of such investment are taken to shareholders’ equity on consolidation to the extent the hedges
are deemed effective. All other exchange gains or losses are dealt with through the income statement and are included within the
group’s operating profit.
Foreign currency translation
Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency).
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of
transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year
end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income statement,
except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow or investment hedges. 
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as available-for-sale investments are included in equity.
The results and financial position of all group companies that have a functional currency other than sterling are translated as follows:
• Assets and liabilities are translated at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date
• Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates
• All resulting differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and
other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity. When a foreign operation is sold, these
exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity
and are translated at the closing rate. TNS annual report 2005 60
2 Segmental reporting
Primary reporting format – geographic segments
Europe Americas Asia Pacific Total
£m £m £m £m
Year ended 31 December 2005
Revenue 660.8 238.7 99.5 999.0 
Segment operating result before exceptional items 75.2 24.6 12.8 112.6 
Goodwill impairment (0.3) (10.0) – (10.3)
Amortisation of additional intangibles (0.6) (0.1) (0.2) (0.9)
Pension curtailment credit 1.6 1.3 – 2.9 
Share based payments (3.2) (0.9) (0.4) (4.5)
Total exceptional items (2.5) (9.7) (0.6) (12.8)
Segment operating result 72.7 14.9 12.2 99.8 
Segment assets and liabilities
Segment assets 511.9 282.7 89.5 884.1 
Segment liabilities (634.7) (66.4) (35.1) (736.2)
Other segment items
Capital expenditure (16.3) (4.0) (3.0) (23.3)
Depreciation (13.6) (3.9) (2.1) (19.6)
Amortisation of intangibles (3.2) (1.9) (0.7) (5.8)
Year ended 31 December 2004
Revenue 617.8 241.4 86.1 945.3 
Segment operating result before exceptional items 63.5 29.2 10.1 102.8 
Integration costs (5.2) (4.2) (0.4) (9.8)
Goodwill impairment – (3.5) – (3.5)
Amortisation of additional intangibles (0.5) – (0.1) (0.6)
Pension curtailment credit 0.5 4.3 – 4.8 
Share based payments (1.9) (0.5) (0.2) (2.6)
Total exceptional items (7.1) (3.9) (0.7) (11.7)
Segment operating result 56.4 25.3 9.4 91.1 
Segment assets and liabilities
Segment assets 532.7 294.0 77.1 903.8 
Segment liabilities (667.2) (104.5) (27.3) (799.0)
Other segment items
Capital expenditure (17.0) (7.5) (1.6) (26.1)
Depreciation (13.2) (3.8) (1.4) (18.4)
Amortisation of intangibles (4.8) (1.2) (0.2) (6.2)
There are immaterial sales between the geographical segments. the sixth sense of business
™
61
2 Segmental reporting (continued)
Secondary reporting format – business segments
The group has five business segments which operate in the three main geographical areas.
Revenue Segment assets Capital expenditure
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Consumer 334.6 330.0 15.9 13.4 (0.2) (0.3)
Media 191.8 176.4 197.6 155.6 (4.4) (3.7)
Business services 131.8 133.0 – – – –
Technology 111.0 104.9 12.6 12.9 (0.1) (0.1)
Healthcare 87.4 80.7 49.3 37.3 (0.4) (0.2)
Unallocated and non-segment items 142.4 120.3 608.7 684.6 (18.2) (21.8)
999.0 945.3 884.1 903.8 (23.3) (26.1)
Unallocated amounts represent corporate and shared assets which are not managed on a business segment basis. 
3 Operating profit
2005 2004
£m £m
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:
owned fixed assets (19.6) (17.4)
leased fixed assets – (1.0)
Impairment of goodwill (10.3) (3.5)
Impairment of trade receivables (0.7) (0.9)
Amortisation of intangible assets (in administrative expenses) (5.8) (6.2)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.2 (0.4)
Operating lease rentals payable:
equipment (2.0) (1.3)
property (31.4) (28.9)
Property rents receivable 1.8 1.9
Net foreign exchange difference 0.7 0.2
Exceptional items
Items are highlighted as exceptional in the income statement when separate disclosure is considered helpful in understanding the
underlying performance of the business.
Amortisation of intangible assets identified separately from goodwill for the first time under IFRS of £0.9m (2004 £0.6m) has been
charged to operating profit. In 2004 administrative costs included exceptional integration costs of £9.8m, which were incurred in
relation to the integration of NFO, a 2003 acquisition. The costs arose from the merger of businesses around the group and
included staff severance costs, vacant property provisions and other charges. TNS annual report 2005 62
3 Operating profit (continued)
2005 2004
Auditors’ remuneration £m £m
Audit services 
Statutory audit (including overseas subsidiaries) (1.7) (1.6)
Further assurance services (0.1) (0.2)
(1.8) (1.8)
Tax services
Compliance services (0.1) (0.5)
Advisory services (0.3) (0.5)
(0.4) (1.0)
(2.2) (2.8)
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services includes £15,000 (2004 £14,000) in respect of the company. Non-audit fees for due
diligence services capitalised in the year were £nil (2004 £0.5m). 
4 Employee information
Average number of employees (including directors) 2005 2004
Marketing 5,231 5,062 
Production services 6,563 6,426 
Administration 1,786 1,720
13,580 13,208
Staff costs (including directors) £m £m 
Wages and salaries 314.8 297.6
Social security costs 50.9 47.8
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 6.5 6.4
Pension costs – defined benefit plans 2.2 2.6 
374.4 354.4
The company has no employees (2004 nil). 
5 Finance income and costs
2005 2004
£m £m 
Finance income 1.0 0.8 
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (15.9) (19.4)
Net pension finance cost (0.3) (0.5)
Notional interest relating to deferred consideration – (0.1)
Finance costs before exceptional items (16.2) (20.0)
Exceptional finance costs – (3.6)
The exceptional finance costs in the year to 31 December 2004 represent accelerated amortisation of previously capitalised
arrangement fees, following the group’s decision to refinance its borrowing in early 2005, replacing the acquisition-based facilities
put in place at the time of the NFO acquisition. the sixth sense of business
™
63
6 Taxation
2005 2004
Analysis of the tax charge for the year £m £m 
Current tax 
Current year 23.8 26.4
Under provided in prior years 0.2 0.2 
24.0 26.6
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6.2 (3.0)
Total income tax charge for the year 30.2 23.6 
Income tax of £1.6m (2004 £0.2m) has been credited to equity during the year in respect of actuarial losses on net pension
liabilities. Income tax of £3.2m (2004 £2.0m) has been charged to equity in respect of foreign exchange gains, offset by a release of
deferred tax of £1.8m (2004 £nil) for the utilisation of brought forward tax losses.
The total income tax charge varied from the charge expected from applying the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30%
(2004 30%) to the profit for the year due to the following factors:
2005 2004
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year £m £m
Profit before tax 85.0 69.3
Profit before tax at standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2004 30%) 25.5 20.8
Effects of:
Non deductible impairment and other items 3.8 2.8
Utilisation of losses – (0.1)
Higher rates of overseas taxation 3.4 3.7
Adjustments to previous years (2.5) (3.6)
Total income tax charge for the year 30.2 23.6
In certain countries tax amortisation on goodwill is available. Deferred tax of £0.1m (2004 £3.2m) has been charged to the income
statement for the deferred tax movement arising from the change between the accounting basis and tax basis of tax deductible
goodwill in the year.
Factors which may affect future tax charges
The group’s deferred tax assets of £29.6m (2004 £29.2m) relate to net operating losses and timing differences. The group expects
to use these losses in the foreseeable future. There are no unprovided deferred tax liabilities in the company or group. Deferred tax
assets of £1.5m (2004 £1.0m) in respect of tax losses carried forward have not been recognised due to insufficient certainty over
their recoverability. There are no other factors expected to affect the group’s tax rate going forward.
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Current tax balances £m £m £m £m
Current tax receivables 2.5 9.9 – –
Current tax payables (27.0) (30.6) (0.4) – TNS annual report 2005 64
6 Taxation (continued)
Deferred tax balances
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 30% (2004 30%). Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Capital allowances 3.5 2.4 (4.0) (2.2) (0.5) 0.2
Tax losses carried forward 4.8 7.2 – – 4.8 7.2 
Pension and other employment liabilities 3.4 2.9 (1.0) – 2.4 2.9
Provision for potential capital gains tax liabilities – – (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7)
Profit taxed in other years 4.1 2.9 (1.2) (3.4) 2.9 (0.5)
Goodwill and other amortisation – – (18.5) (15.7) (18.5) (15.7)
Accrued expenses 6.8 5.8 (0.2) (0.1) 6.6 5.7 
Share based payments 1.6 0.8 – – 1.6 0.8
Other 5.4 7.2 (1.4) (3.3) 4.0 3.9 
29.6 29.2 (27.0) (25.4) 2.6 3.8 
No deferred tax is recognised on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. As the earnings are
continually reinvested by the group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future. If the earnings were
remitted, tax of £2.7m (2004 £1.7m) would be payable. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally
enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
The deferred tax asset due after more than one year is £21.3m (2004 £19.6m). The deferred tax liability due after more than one
year is £25.8m (2004 £17.6m).
The movement on the net deferred tax asset is as shown below:
Assets Liabilities Net
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 29.2 24.3 (25.4) (22.1) 3.8 2.2
Income statement credit/(charge) 1.0 4.6 (7.2) (1.6) (6.2) 3.0
Exchange differences 0.4 0.7 – – 0.4 0.7
Other (1.0) (0.4) 5.6 (1.7) 4.6 (2.1)
At 31 December 29.6 29.2 (27.0) (25.4) 2.6 3.8 
7 Profit for the year
As permitted under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the parent company’s income statement has not been included in these
financial statements. The profit for the year was £13.0m (2004 £16.5m). the sixth sense of business
™
65
8 Dividends
2005 2004
£m £m 
Final 2004 dividend of 2.4p per share (2003 2.05p) approved in subsequent year 10.6 8.9
Interim 2005 dividend of 1.25p per share (2004 1.1p) paid in the year 5.4 4.8
16.0 13.7
Final 2005 dividend of 2.75p per share proposed for approval and recognition in 2006 12.2 10.6
The trustee of the ESOP (see note 25) has waived its right to all but 0.001p per share of the dividends due on the 0.2 million 
shares it holds at 31 December 2005, until further notice. The amount waived in respect of the 2005 interim dividend was £3,000
(2004 £8,000) and the maximum to be waived in respect of the 2005 final dividend on shares currently held by the ESOP is £6,000
(2004 £16,000). The trustees of the EBT (see note 25) have also waived their right to all but 0.001p per share of the dividends due
on the 4.7 million shares the EBT holds at 31 December 2005 until further notice. The amount waived in respect of the 2005 interim
dividend was £59,000 (2004 £79,000) and the maximum to be waived in respect of the 2005 final dividend on shares currently held
by the EBT is £129,000 (2004 £148,000).
The final proposed dividend does not include a dividend on shares issued on the exercise of employee share options and allotment
of new shares since 31 December 2005 or on other options, which may be exercised prior to 26 May 2006, the record date. 
9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share of 11.8p (2004 10.0p) have been calculated on the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the
parent company of £52.1m (2004 £43.6m) and on 441.6 million shares (2004 437.6 million), being the weighted average number of
shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the ESOP and the EBT, which are treated as cancelled.
The diluted earnings per share have been calculated in accordance with the provisions of IAS 33, ‘Earnings Per Share’, with the
weighted average number of shares in issue being adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential shares for the period they
were outstanding. Shares held by the ESOP and the EBT, which are under performance-based options, are included in the diluted
weighted average number of shares, as the performance conditions are deemed to have been met for the purposes of this
calculation.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year for the purpose of these calculations is as follows:
2005 2004
millions millions
Share capital 447.4 445.1 
Shares held by ESOP (0.4) (1.1)
Shares held by EBT (5.4) (6.4)
Basic earnings per share denominator 441.6 437.6
Dilutive effect of share options 8.3 9.9 
Diluted earnings per share denominator 449.9 447.5  TNS annual report 2005 66
9 Earnings per share (continued)
An adjusted earnings per share using an adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company is also
presented, as the directors believe that this assists in understanding the underlying performance of the group. The adjusted
earnings per share is based on the profit as adjusted for the items shown below.
2005 2004
£m £m 
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 52.1 43.6 
Adjusted for exceptional items:
Integration costs – 9.8
Goodwill impairment 10.3 3.5
Amortisation of additional intangibles identified on acquisitions 0.9 0.6
Pension curtailment credit (2.9) (4.8)
Share based payments 4.5 2.6
Exceptional finance charge – 3.6 
12.8 15.3 
Tax on exceptional items – (6.4)
Deferred tax on goodwill 0.1 3.2
12.9 12.1
Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 65.0 55.7
Adjusted earnings per share 14.7p 12.7p
Profit used for Weighted average 
EPS purposes number of shares Earnings per share
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m millions millions pence pence
Basic 52.1 43.6 441.6 437.6 11.8 10.0
Diluted 52.1 43.6 449.9 447.5 11.6 9.8
Adjusted 65.0 55.7 441.6 437.6 14.7 12.7
10 Goodwill
2005 2004
Group £m £m 
Cost
At 1 January 386.3 381.7
Additions 5.8 18.9
Disposals – (0.5)
Exchange adjustments 15.3 (13.8)
At 31 December 407.4 386.3
Aggregate impairment
At 1 January (3.5) –
Impairment for the year (10.3) (3.5)
At 31 December (13.8) (3.5)
Net book amount at 31 December 393.6 382.8
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) identified according to country of operation and business segment. During
the year the carrying value of goodwill was tested for impairment against its value in use, based on discounted cash flow
projections. Cash flows were projected to 2008 using budgets approved by management, and then extrapolated using an annual
growth rate of 5% until 2010. The following regional assumptions were used, the discount rates being based on the group’s
weighted average cost of capital, adjusted by market-based regional risk premiums.  the sixth sense of business
™
67
10 Goodwill (continued)
Pre tax 
Tax rate discount rate Book value
% % £m 
Germany 40.0 15.3 79.7
Rest of Europe 33.0 13.7 118.3 
Americas 40.0 15.0 160.9
Other –– 34.7 
393.6 
As a result of the review, goodwill allocated to TES, a Media Intelligence business in the US, was written down by £10.0m to
£7.4m. This impairment arose as the result of structural changes in cinema market research and a resulting reduction in trading
volume. The pre-tax discount rate of 15.0% used in this impairment calculation was also used in the prior year estimate of value 
in use.
Had the discount rate, tax rate or growth rate assumptions been varied within a range considered reasonably possible by
management, no additional impairments would have arisen, except that TES goodwill would have been further impaired. The projected
cash flows used in the TES impairment calculation are management’s best estimates, but are dependent on uncertain future events.
11 Intangible assets
Patents and Software & Assets under
licences databasesconstruction Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m 
Cost
At 1 January 2004 4.7 18.0 1.5 1.7 25.9
Additions at cost – 3.2 2.5 0.2 5.9
Acquisitions – 3.3 – 1.9 5.2
Disposals – (2.3) – (1.0) (3.3)
Reclassifications 0.3 1.0 (1.0) (0.3) –
Exchange adjustments – (0.5) – – (0.5)
At 31 December 2004 5.0 22.7 3.0 2.5 33.2 
Additions at cost 0.3 2.4 – 0.6 3.3 
Acquisitions (note 13) – – – 0.7 0.7
Disposals (0.6) (1.9) – (0.1) (2.6)
Reclassifications – 3.0 (3.0) – –
Exchange adjustments – 1.4 – 0.1 1.5
At 31 December 2005 4.7 27.6 – 3.8 36.1
Amortisation
At 1 January 2004 (2.2) (9.0) – (1.2) (12.4)
Charge for year (0.4) (5.2) – (0.6) (6.2)
Disposals – 1.9 – 0.9 2.8 
Exchange adjustments – 0.4 – – 0.4 
At 31 December 2004 (2.6) (11.9) – (0.9) (15.4)
Charge for year (0.4) (4.5) – (0.9) (5.8)
Disposals 0.5 1.8 – – 2.3
Exchange adjustments – (0.6) – – (0.6)
At 31 December 2005 (2.5) (15.2) – (1.8) (19.5)
Net book value at 31 December 2005 2.2 12.4 – 2.0 16.6 
Net book value at 31 December 2004 2.4 10.8 3.0 1.6 17.8
All amortisation charges have been charged to administration expenses. The company has no intangible fixed assets (2004 £nil). TNS annual report 2005 68
12 Property, plant and equipment
Short 
leasehold
Freehold Freehold land and 
land buildings  buildings Equipment Total
£m £m £m £m £m 
Cost
At 1 January 2004 2.5 27.3 10.2 112.5 152.5 
Additions at cost – – 0.7 19.5 20.2
Acquisitions – – – 0.5 0.5 
Disposals – – (1.0) (16.6) (17.6)
Reclassifications – 3.0 (3.0) – –
Exchange adjustments – (0.5) (0.2) (1.9) (2.6)
At 31 December 2004 2.5 29.8 6.7 114.0 153.0 
Additions at cost – – 0.2 19.8 20.0
Acquisitions (note 13) – – 0.1 0.4 0.5
Disposals – – – (15.4) (15.4)
Reclassifications – – (0.5) 0.5 –
Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.2 0.4 3.6 4.3 
At 31 December 2005 2.6 30.0 6.9 122.9 162.4
Depreciation
At 1 January 2004 – (7.9) (1.0) (70.3) (79.2)
Charge for year – (1.1) (1.0) (16.3) (18.4)
Disposals – – 0.5 14.8 15.3
Exchange adjustments – 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.8
At 31 December 2004 – (8.9) (1.4) (70.2) (80.5)
Charge for year – (1.2) (0.6) (17.8) (19.6)
Disposals – – – 14.3 14.3
Reclassifications – – 0.5 (0.5) –
Exchange adjustments – – (0.2) (3.3) (3.5)
At 31 December 2005 – (10.1) (1.7) (77.5) (89.3)
Net book value at 31 December 2005 2.6 19.9 5.2 45.4 73.1 
Net book value at 31 December 2004 2.5 20.9 5.3 43.8 72.5
The company has no property, plant or equipment (2004 £nil).
13 Acquisitions
On 1 March 2005, the group acquired a 51% share of Interscience Informacao e Technologia Aplicada Ltda (Interscience), a well-
established Brazilian custom research business. The group also acquired the business of Presse Plus, a French media intelligence
business, on 25 May 2005. A further 8% of the group’s subsidiary in the Czech Republic, AISA, was purchased on 31 March 2005.
The acquisitions contributed revenues of £6.4m and operating profit of £1.4m to the group in the year to 31 December 2005. 
If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2005, group revenue would have been £1,001.5m and operating profit would have
been £99.8m.
As part of the acquisition of Interscience, the group has entered into put and call options to purchase the remaining 49% of the
company. The potential amounts payable, which are dependent on future performance, are estimated to be £2.2m and will be paid
between 2006 and 2012. the sixth sense of business
™
69
13 Acquisitions (continued)
The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions are as follows:
Carrying Provisional 
values pre fair value
acquisition adjustments Total
£m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 0.5 – 0.5
Intangible assets – 0.7 0.7
0.5 0.7 1.2
Current assets
Inventories 0.3 – 0.3
Trade and other receivables 0.5 – 0.5
Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 – 0.4
1.2 – 1.2
Total assets 1.7 0.7 2.4
Liabilities
Trade and other payables (1.9) – (1.9)
Provisions including reorganisation costs (0.2) – (0.2)
Minority interest 0.1 – 0.1
Fair value of net assets acquired (0.3) 0.7 0.4
Goodwill 6.8 (0.7) 6.1
Consideration 6.5 – 6.5
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash 5.7
Deferred consideration – contingent 0.8
6.5
Goodwill arising on the acquisitions represents the value of assembled workforces and synergies available to the group. 
All intangible assets acquired with the businesses have been recognised at their respective fair values separately from goodwill.
Each 2005 acquisition is considered to be a separate cash generating unit for the purpose of future impairment reviews.
Contingent deferred consideration previously recognised has been released during the year reducing goodwill by £0.3m.
14 Fixed asset investments
2005 2004 
Group – investments in associates accounted for using the equity method £m £m 
At 1 January 1.8 7.6 
Acquisitions 0.9 1.8 
Share of profits 0.4 1.0
Dividends (0.1) (0.5)
Disposals – (7.4)
Exchange differences – (0.7)
At 31 December 3.0 1.8 
Provisions 
At 1 January and 31 December (0.5) (0.5)
Net book value at 31 December 2.5 1.3 TNS annual report 2005 70
14 Fixed asset investments (continued)
The following amounts represent the group’s share of the assets and liabilities, and sales and results of its associates and 
joint ventures:
Associates Joint ventures
2005 2004 2005 2004
Group £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non current assets 0.2 0.3 4.7 3.6 
Current assets 1.7 1.7 12.5 8.7
1.9 2.0 17.2 12.3 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities (1.3) (1.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Current liabilities (0.1) (0.4) (6.5) (5.9)
(1.4) (1.5) (6.6) (6.1)
Net assets 0.5 0.5 10.6 6.2 
Income 8.5 14.7 22.8 16.6
Expenses (7.9) (13.6) (18.9) (13.5)
Profit before income tax 0.6 1.1 3.9 3.1
Income tax (0.2) (0.1) (0.6) (0.6)
Profit after income tax 0.4 1.0 3.3 2.5 
As at 31 December 2004 and 2005, the joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the group is exposed and
nor has the group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interest in the joint ventures other than the bank guarantees
set out in note 31.
The group has not recognised its share of the losses of associate entities amounting to £nil (2004 £nil) for the year and 
£0.3m (2004 £0.3m) cumulatively.
Long-term 
loans to Interests in 
subsidiaries subsidiaries Total
Company £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 368.1 302.0 670.1 
Additions at cost 16.9 12.9 29.8
Disposals – (2.0) (2.0)
Exchange adjustments (16.6) (0.3) (16.9)
At 31 December 2004 368.4 312.6 681.0 
Additions at cost – 187.0 187.0 
Disposals (162.0) (4.0) (166.0)
Exchange adjustments – 0.8 0.8
At 31 December 2005 206.4 496.4 702.8
Provisions against investments
At 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 – (10.6) (10.6)
Disposals – 3.8 3.8 
At 31 December 2005 – (6.8) (6.8)
Net book value at 31 December 2005 206.4 489.6 696.0
Net book value at 31 December 2004 368.4 302.0 670.4 the sixth sense of business
™
71
14 Fixed asset investments (continued)
Details of the principal investments in which the group or company holds more than 20% of the nominal value of any class of share
capital, each of which is represented by ordinary shares, are set out below. Each group undertaking operates principally in its
country of incorporation and has been included in the consolidated results. The principal activity of all the undertakings listed is the
provision of market information. All holdings are indirectly owned unless otherwise stated. A full list of subsidiary undertakings,
associates and joint ventures will be annexed to the company’s next annual return.
Ownership
2005 2004
Country of incorporation % %
Subsidiary undertakings
Area Investigacion SA Spain 75 75
CF Group Inc. Canada 100 100
CMR US 100 100
TNS Health GmbH Germany 100 100
Gallup A/S Denmark 100 100
Louis Harris France SA France 100 100
Migliara Kaplan Associates Inc. US 100 100
NIPO BV Netherlands 100 100
NFO BPS US 100 100
NFO Infratest AB Sweden 100 100
TNS Infratest GmbH & Co Germany 100 100
NFO Research Inc. US 100 100
Norske Gallup Institutt A/S Norway 100 100
Secodip SA France 100 100
Sofres AM SA Spain 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 100
TNS Infratest SpA Italy 100 100
TNS Korea Korea 100 100
TNS UK Ltd (directly owned) UK 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres Intersearch Corp US 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres SA France 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres SA Spain 100 100
Taylor Nelson Sofres Suomi Oy (MDC Group) Finland 100 100
Joint ventures
CVSC Sofres Media Co Ltd China 68 68
CVSC TNS Research Co Ltd China 46 46
Finnpanel Finland 50 50
Latinpanel South America 33 33
Taylor Nelson Sofres NRC Japan 55 55
TNS ICAP Greece 51 51
Associated companies
GIE Audiepub France 33 33
Marktest Portugal 40 40
Infoadex Spain 24 – TNS annual report 2005 72
15 Available for sale investments
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Current available for sale investments 0.8 0.7 – –
Non-current available for sale investments 0.4 0.6 – –
Current investments represent 100% of the unlisted issued transferable convertible redeemable cumulative preference share capital
of MRM Marketing Ltd, a UK company that carries out direct marketing. 
Non-current investments represent minority shareholdings in a number of unlisted companies.
16 Inventories – work-in-progress
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Work-in-progress 59.1 75.3 – –
17 Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Trade receivables 216.5 211.6 – –
Less: provision for bad debts (5.4) (6.5) – –
Trade receivables – net 211.1 205.1 – –
Amounts owed by related parties 3.9 4.7 23.8 7.2
Dividends receivable from subsidiary undertakings – – 2.2 8.3 
Other receivables 16.5 13.9 1.2 1.0
Prepayments and accrued income 28.6 26.7 – –
260.1 250.4 27.2 16.5
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the group has a large number of customers, dispersed
internationally.
18 Cash
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 45.8 63.3 0.8 32.8 the sixth sense of business
™
73
19 Borrowings
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Current 0.5 3.2 34.8 –
Non-current
Between one and two years – 118.5 – 118.2 
Between two and five years 340.7 270.3 340.5 270.0
Over five years – 0.1 – –
340.7 388.9 340.5 388.2 
Borrowings in the company of $343m (£199m; 2004 $331m, £173m), u170m (£117m; 2004 u269m, £190m), and £25m (2004 £25m)
have been secured by guarantees issued by certain of the group’s subsidiary undertakings. Bank loans and overdrafts are stated
net of arrangement fees of £0.8m (2004 £nil).
Interest on the group’s committed revolving credit facility of £500m (2004 £460m) is payable at the rate of 0.70% above LIBOR. 
In addition, the company has uncommitted facilities of £38m (2004 £52m) upon which interest is payable at between 0.20% and
1.00% above LIBOR.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows:
2005 2004
% %
Bank borrowings 4.2 4.2
20 Trade and other payables
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Current
Payments received on account 98.9 114.3 – –
Trade payables 39.6 43.4 – –
Amounts owed to related parties 3.3 1.6 20.4 0.4 
Other taxation and social security 33.2 28.9 0.1 0.1 
Other creditors 10.8 14.0 2.8 –
Obligations under finance leases – 0.6 – –
Accruals and deferred income 112.9 110.2 1.6 3.1
298.7 313.0 24.9 3.6 
Non-current
Amounts owed to related parties – – 147.7 148.6 
Other creditors 2.3 3.0 – –
2.3 3.0 147.7 148.6  TNS annual report 2005 74
21 Provisions
Contingent Vacant
deferred property and Panel 
consideration onerous leases incentives Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2005 4.4 6.6 7.8 3.7 22.5
Charge to income statement – 1.0 8.3 5.4 14.7
Acquisitions 0.5 0.2 – – 0.7
Utilised (0.5) (2.0) (7.8) (1.4) (11.7)
Released to the income statement – (1.2) – (0.8) (2.0)
Exchange differences – 0.5 0.2 (0.2) 0.5
As at 31 December 2005 4.4 5.1 8.5 6.7 24.7
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Current 11.7 5.5 
Non-current 13.0 17.0 
24.7 22.5
Provisions for contingent deferred consideration have been discounted where the effect is material, using discount rates
comparable with bank lending rates available to the group. Deferred consideration represents amounts that the group is
contractually bound to pay in the future for acquisitions. The amounts are determined by future results of the acquired businesses.
The provisions are determined with reference to the latest information available and are expected to be paid within one to three
years of the balance sheet date. 
Vacant property and onerous lease provisions represent the net rental cost to the group of empty leasehold properties and the net
rent in excess of market rents for properties acquired with acquisitions to the end of the relevant lease periods. The provisions are
expected to be utilised by 2013.
Panel incentives represent amounts payable to panellists for their participation in panels research. Amounts are estimated based on
the value of incentives earned and are expected to be satisfied within one to two years.
Other provisions consist of liabilities arising as a result of ongoing litigation or claims and other amounts that are not individually
material to the group. The amounts are expected to be paid within one to five years. No provisions were held by the company as at
31 December 2005 (2004 nil).
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments
The group’s international operations and significant debt financing expose it to a range of financial risks that include changes in
interest rates, currency exchange rates and bank solvency credit ratings. The group has a risk management policy to manage these
financial risks over the short and medium term, to reduce volatility to earnings and shareholders’ funds and to aid future planning,
by seeking to limit the impact of adverse movements in these variables. The group holds foreign currency debt and uses interest
rate and currency exchange rate financial instruments as part of this policy.
The board has delegated to a Financing Committee, chaired by the Finance Director, the responsibility for ensuring compliance with
the group’s financial risk management policy and on a semi-annual basis formally reviews this policy and its performance in
delivering the board’s objectives. The group has a centralised treasury and financial risk function, which implements the risk
management policy and it formally reports, on a monthly basis, the results of its activities and its compliance with the policy to the
Financing Committee. Group Treasury is not a profit centre and no speculative trades are permitted or executed. 
Interest rate risk
On 31 December 2005, the group had liquid resources of £45.8m (2004 £63.3m) held at floating rates and bank borrowings of
£341.2m (2004 £392.1m) at floating rates. It is therefore exposed to variations in primarily UK, US and Eurozone interest rates on
these financial assets and liabilities. The group has a policy of using financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps and forward
rate agreements, to ensure that the level of effective fixed rate debt after the effect of these instruments is between 55% and 75%
of total net debt. At the year end 72.7% of net debt was at effective fixed rates.  the sixth sense of business
™
75
22 Financial risk management and financial instruments (continued)
Based on debt, interest rates and hedge levels existing at 31 December 2005, a 1% rise in interest rates before the effect of the
interest rate hedge would increase the future annual interest charge as follows: on USD loans £2.1m, EUR £1.2m and GBP £0.2m. 
A 1% rise in interest rates on a hedged basis would increase the annual interest charge as follows: USD £0.7m, EUR £0.6m and
GBP £nil. A 1% decrease in interest rates would have the opposite effect in each case.
Currency risk
The group’s principal exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations arises on the translation of overseas earnings and net assets
into sterling for accounting purposes and the sterling value of dividends paid up to the group. The material foreign currencies in
terms of earnings and net assets are the US dollar and Euro. The group has a policy of holding a substantial amount of its bank
debt in these currencies, to provide a natural hedge for currency earnings by currency interest payments and for currency net
assets by the currency loan principal. The policy ensures that the level of currency hedge (debt and currency forwards where used)
should be greater than 75% and less than 100% of net assets for all currencies where net assets are greater than £10.0m. The
group uses forward currency contracts for hedging future certain and material dividend flows to the parent.
The group does have transactional foreign exchange exposure from sales and purchases of services between members of the
group. This is hedged initially by matching cash flows through a netting process, and finally by using forward currency contracts
where material. The level of net transactional exposure is currently not considered material.
Liquidity risk
The group maintains sufficient facilities, both committed and uncommitted, to finance projected working capital and general
corporate needs over the medium term. The policy ensures that total drawings from all facilities is at all times less than 80% of
total committed facilities and that the average maturity profile of committed facilities is greater than 18 months at any time. At 
31 December 2005, the average maturity profile of committed facilities was 3.6 years (2004 2.9 years), and £158.7m (2004 £71.8m)
of these facilities and £37.8m (2004 £52.0m) of uncommitted facilities were undrawn and available to the group.
Credit and counterparty risk
The group has liquid resources deposited and financial instruments with a range of financial institutions and is therefore exposed to
credit solvency risk from these institutions. The group has a policy which defines at which institutions funds can be placed and
instruments dealt, and defines credit limits based on those institutions’ credit ratings. The Financing Committee is responsible for
approving new counterparties on a global basis and defining these limits.
Embedded derivatives
Management has a policy of not entering into contracts that involve embedded derivatives. The group has performed a review of
contracts and has concluded that no embedded derivatives exist.
2004 comparative information
As permitted by IFRS 1, financial instrument comparative information is reported in accordance with UK GAAP . To achieve full
compliance with IFRS recognition and measurement standards, the 2004 carrying value of financial instruments held to manage
interest and currency exposure would have to be restated to fair value.
Hedge accounting and hedging gains and losses
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair
value. The gain or loss on re-measurement is taken to the income statement, except where the derivative is designated as a
hedging instrument. The accounting treatment of derivatives classified as hedges depends on their designation. The group
designates derivatives either as a hedge of the income/cost of a highly probable forecasted transaction or commitment (‘cash flow
hedge’) or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity. In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to
document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument. The group is also required to
document the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument and demonstrate that the hedge will be highly
effective on an on-going basis. This effectiveness testing is re-performed at each period end, to ensure that the hedge remains
highly effective. 
Unrealised gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity. Gains or losses
deferred in equity are transferred to the income statement in the period which the forecast transaction affects the income
statement.
Where the group hedges net investments in foreign entities through currency borrowings, the gains or losses on the translation of
the borrowings are recognised in equity. If the group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument for net investments, the effective
portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion being recognised in the income statement.
The fair value of interest rate financial instruments is based on the market price of comparable instruments at the balance sheet
date. The fair value of forward currency contracts has been determined based on market forward exchange rates at the balance
sheet date. TNS annual report 2005 76
22 Financial instruments (continued)
At 31 December 2005, there were net unrealised gains on interest rate cash flow hedges of £0.5m (2004 loss £1.2m). During 2005
£0.6m of gains on interest rate cash flow hedges were released from the cash flow hedge reserve and recognised in the interest
charge. All gains or losses on cash flow hedges were accounted for using hedge accounting. The increase in the fair value relating
to existing and new hedges during the year was £1.1m (2004 decrease of £0.8m). Of the £0.5m of unrecognised gains on interest
rate cash flow hedges at the end of the year, a £0.1m loss is expected to be recognised in the 2006 income statement and a £0.6m
gain will be recognised in 2007. 
As a central element of its risk management policy the group uses foreign currency debt to hedge its currency net assets, taking gains
and losses on any residue net investment directly to reserves. In 2005, this totalled a net gain of £6.0m (2004 loss of £8.4m). All gains
or losses on currency borrowings used as net investment hedges were accounted for using hedge accounting. £13.5m of net
exchange losses on foreign currency debt (2004 £10.3m gains) have been taken to reserves to offset exchange gains (2004 losses) on
the equivalent net investment.
Net fair values of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges
The net fair values of open instruments at the balance sheet date were:
Assets Liabilities
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Financial instruments held to manage interest rate exposure 1.2 0.6 0.7 1.8 
Financial instruments held to manage currency exposure 0.5 – 0.3 0.2
Net fair values of currency borrowings designated as net investment hedges
The group had both US dollar and euro denominated borrowings at the balance sheet date, which it has designated as a hedge for
the net investment in its subsidiaries in the US and the Eurozone. The fair value of the US dollar borrowings at 31 December 2005
was £199.3m (2004 £172.7m) and the Euro borrowings £117.0m (2004 £190.3m). 
2005 2004
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
Book and fair value of financial assets £m £m £m £m
Cash and liquid resources 45.8 45.8 63.3 63.3
Trade and other receivables 231.5 231.5 223.7 223.7
277.3 277.3 287.0 287.0
Book and fair value of financial liabilities
Overdrafts, borrowings and finance leases (341.2) (341.2) (392.7) (392.7)
Deferred consideration, vacant property and onerous lease provisions (9.5) (9.5) (11.8) (11.8)
Trade and other payable (168.9) (168.9) (171.4) (171.4)
(519.6) (519.6) (575.9) (575.9) the sixth sense of business
™
77
22 Financial instruments (continued)
Currency and interest rate exposures of financial liabilities
The various interest rate and currency exposures of the group’s financial liabilities after taking account of interest and currency
swaps at 31 December 2005 were:
Floating rate Fixed rate Total
Average years to maturity
2005 £m £m £m Floating rate Fixed rate
Sterling (41.5) (26.4) (67.9) 0.1 4.1
Euro (126.7) (62.3) (189.0) 1.9 4.0
US dollar (115.2) (134.9) (250.1) 2.6 4.2
Other (12.0) (0.6) (12.6) 0.3 2.0
(295.4) (224.2) (519.6) 1.8 4.1
2004
Sterling (45.0) (26.0) (71.0) 0.3 2.9 
Euro (198.2) (65.2) (263.4) 1.9 2.8
US dollar (101.8) (127.2) (229.0) 1.7 3.0 
Other (12.2) (0.3) (12.5) 0.3 1.2
(357.2) (218.7) (575.9) 1.6 2.9
Floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates based on LIBOR or EURIBOR. Fixed rate financial liabilities relate to the hedged
proportion of borrowings, deferred consideration and vacant property and onerous lease provisions. The weighted average interest
rate for fixed rate financial liabilities is sterling 6.32% (2004 6.42%), US dollar 4.28% (2004 3.67%) and Euro 3.61% (2004 3.87%).
Currency and interest rate exposures of financial assets
The currency and interest rate exposures of financial assets at 31 December were:
Floating rate Fixed rate 2005 Floating rate Fixed rate 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 40.1 – 40.1 72.5 – 72.5
Euro 101.2 – 101.2 92.0 – 92.0
US dollar 101.0 – 101.0 90.2 – 90.2
Other 35.0 – 35.0 32.3 – 32.3
277.3 – 277.3 287.0 – 287.0
Financial assets represents cash which attracts interest at floating rates and trade and other receivables that are not interest
bearing. Cash bears interest at rates based on LIBOR. 
Analysis of net monetary assets and liabilities by reference to principal functional currencies
The table below shows the extent to which group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than their
local currency. Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of these assets and liabilities are taken to the income statement.
2005 2004
Euro US dollar Other Total Euro US dollar Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Functional currency of 
group operations
Sterling 3.7 1.9 0.2 5.8 2.9 0.6 0.1 3.6
Euro – 0.6 – 0.6 – 0.2 – 0.2
US dollar (0.1) – – (0.1) (0.3) – – (0.3)
Other 0.4 0.1 – 0.5 1.5 0.1 – 1.6
4.0 2.6 0.2 6.8 4.1 0.9 0.1 5.1  TNS annual report 2005 78
22 Financial instruments (continued)
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the book value of the group’s financial liabilities is:
Total financial liabilities
1
Gross borrowings
2
Net borrowings
3
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year 171.9 178.1 0.5 3.8 (45.3) (60.1)
Between one and two years 1.4 120.1 – 118.3 – 118.3 
Between two and five years 342.9 275.0 340.7 270.5 340.7 271.1
Over five years 3.4 2.7 – 0.1 – 0.1
519.6 575.9 341.2 392.7 295.4 329.4
1 Bank loans net of arrangement fees, obligations under finance leases, vacant property and onerous lease provisions, deferred consideration, trade and other 
payables and accruals
2 Bank loans net of arrangement fees and obligations under finance leases
3 Gross borrowings less cash
Borrowing facilities
The group has the following undrawn committed floating rate borrowing facilities available at 31 December, in respect of which
conditions precedent had been met at that date:
2005 2004
£m £m
Within one year – 40.0
One to two years – 31.8
Two to five years 158.7 –
158.7 71.8
23 Retirement benefit obligations
The group operates a number of pension and post-retirement benefit plans for its employees throughout the world, as well as
complying with local laws and regulations relating to the payment of retirement benefits. The assets of all funded pension plans are
held separately from those of the group, and full actuarial valuations are performed at least every three years. Contributions in 2006
are expected to be consistent with 2005 levels.
UK
The pension plans in the UK are primarily defined contribution plans and the group’s contribution to such plans ranges from 4% to
8% of salary, rising with the age of employees. At the year end there were £0.2m (2004 £0.2m) of outstanding contributions. There
are also two defined benefit final salary plans, which are closed to new members and future accruals. Independent qualified
actuaries performed full valuations for these in 2004 and 2005 using the projected unit method, details of which are given below. 
France
Companies in France participate in compulsory state arrangements. Regulations in France require that a lump sum be paid to
employees on retirement, based on their final salary and the number of years’ service. During 2004, the regulations and benefits
were changed and the state retirement age was increased from 60 to 65. The impact of the changes is being spread over the
service life of the employees. The provisions required to meet these amounts were assessed by independent qualified actuaries in
2005 and details of their valuations are provided below.
US
The group operates both defined contribution and defined benefit final salary pension plans in the US. At the year end, there were
£0.1m (2004 £0.1m) of outstanding contributions in relation to the defined contribution plans. Unfunded post retirement healthcare
and life assurance plans are also operated, which at 31 December contributed £1.5m (2004 £3.9m) to the total US defined benefit
pension obligation disclosed below. During the year, plan rules were changed to reduce the level of benefits available under these
plans, resulting in an exceptional curtailment gain in the income statement. All defined benefit plans, and the healthcare and life
assurances plans, have been valued by independent qualified actuaries in 2004 and 2005 and details are given in aggregate below. the sixth sense of business
™
79
23 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
Netherlands
The Dutch defined benefit final salary plan operated by the group is insured, although indexation increases to pensions in payment
remain the responsibility of the company. Provision for these indexation increases is made based on actuarial assessments made
by independent qualified actuaries in 2004 and 2005, using the projected unit method. An early retirement plan was also available
to employees in prior years, but was discontinued in 2005 following regulatory changes, resulting in another exceptional curtailment
credit to the income statement.
Other countries
Where there are local requirements to provide lump sum payments and other post employments benefits, provision has been made
for the liabilities identified based on local actuarial assessments. Details of these arrangements are given in aggregate in the
following pages.
Income statement
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
UK France US Netherlands Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
2005
Current service cost – (0.2) (0.2) (0.6) (1.2) (2.2)
Curtailments –– 1.3 1.6 – 2.9 
Total expense included in operating costs – (0.2) 1.1 1.0 (1.2) 0.7
Interest cost (0.1) (0.1) (0.7) (0.9) – (1.8)
Expected return on assets 0.2 – 0.5 0.8 – 1.5
Total expense included in finance costs 0.1 (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) – (0.3)
2004
Current service cost – (0.2) (1.1) (0.5) (0.8) (2.6)
Curtailments – 0.2 4.3 0.2 0.1 4.8 
Total expense included in operating costs – – 3.2 (0.3) (0.7) 2.2 
Interest cost (0.1) (0.1) (0.9) (0.8) (0.1) (2.0)
Expected return on assets 0.1 – 0.6 0.7 0.1 1.5 
Total expense included in finance costs – (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) – (0.5)
Statement of recognised income and expense
The amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense are as follows:
UK France US Netherlands Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
2005
Valuation gains and losses on plan assets 0.1 – – 0.2 – 0.3
Assumption gains and losses on plan liabilities (0.1) (0.4) (0.4) (2.5) – (3.4)
Experience gains and losses on plan liabilities (0.1) 0.2 (1.6) (0.8) – (2.3)
Total actuarial gains and losses (0.1) (0.2) (2.0) (3.1) – (5.4)
2004
Valuation gains and losses on plan assets (0.1) – (0.1) 0.1 – (0.1)
Assumption gains and losses on plan liabilities (0.2) – (2.0) (0.7) 0.6 (2.3)
Experience gains and losses on plan liabilities 0.3 0.1 (0.8) – – (0.4)
Total actuarial gains and losses – 0.1 (2.9) (0.6) 0.6 (2.8) TNS annual report 2005 80
23 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
Balance sheet
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
UK France US Netherlands Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
2005
Present value of funded obligations (2.9) (3.4) (14.2) (21.3) (6.1) (47.9)
Fair value of plan assets 3.5 0.4 9.0 20.0 0.7 33.6
Surplus restriction (1.0) – – – – (1.0)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (0.4) (3.0) (5.2) (1.3) (5.4) (15.3)
2004
Present value of funded obligations (2.6) (3.1) (12.4) (18.7) (4.4) (41.2)
Fair value of plan assets 3.2 0.4 7.9 17.7 0.6 29.8
Surplus restriction (1.0) – – – – (1.0)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (0.4) (2.7) (4.5) (1.0) (3.8) (12.4)
The following assets constitute the fair value of plan assets:
UK France US Netherlands Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
2005
Equity instruments 0.4 – 6.2 1.6 0.7 8.9 
Debt instruments – – 2.8 – – 2.8
Other assets 3.1 0.4 – 18.4 – 21.9
Fair value of plan assets 3.5 0.4 9.0 20.0 0.7 33.6
2004
Equity instruments 0.3 – 5.4 1.4 0.6 7.7 
Debt instruments – – 2.5 – – 2.5
Other assets 2.9 0.4 – 16.3 – 19.6 
Fair value of plan assets 3.2 0.4 7.9 17.7 0.6 29.8 
The actual return on plan assets was as follows:
UK France US Netherlands Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
2005 0.3 – 0.5 1.0 – 1.8 
2004 – – 0.5 0.8 0.1 1.4
The present value of the funded obligation has moved as follows in the year: 
UK France US Netherlands Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 (2.7) (3.1) (13.6) (17.0) (5.1) (41.5)
Total income statement (expense)/income as above (0.1) (0.1) 2.3 (1.1) (0.8) 0.2
Benefit payments 0.1 – 0.8 0.3 0.8 2.0 
Assumption and experience gains/(losses) 0.1 0.1 (2.8) (0.7) 0.6 (2.7)
Foreign exchange differences – – 0.9 (0.2) 0.1 0.8 
At 31 December 2004 (2.6) (3.1) (12.4) (18.7) (4.4) (41.2)
Total income statement (expense)/income as above (0.1) (0.3) 0.4 0.1 (1.2) (1.1)
Benefit payments – 0.1 1.3 0.1 (0.1) 1.4 
Assumption and experience gains/(losses) (0.2) (0.2) (2.0) (3.3) – (5.7)
Foreign exchange differences – 0.1 (1.5) 0.5 (0.4) (1.3)
At 31 December 2005 (2.9) (3.4) (14.2) (21.3) (6.1) (47.9) the sixth sense of business
™
81
23 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
The fair value of plan assets has moved as follows in the year: 
UK France US Netherlands Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 3.2 0.4 6.9 15.5 0.3 26.3
Expected return on plan assets 0.1 – 0.6 0.7 0.1 1.5
Valuation gains and losses (0.1) – (0.1) 0.1 – (0.1)
Contributions by the employer 0.1 – 1.8 1.2 1.0 4.1 
Contributions by the plan participants – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Benefits paid (0.1) – (0.8) (0.3) (0.8) (2.0)
Foreign exchange differences – – (0.5) 0.2 – (0.3)
At 31 December 2004 3.2 0.4 7.9 17.7 0.6 29.8
Expected return on plan assets 0.2 – 0.5 0.8 – 1.5 
Valuation gains and losses 0.1 – – 0.2 – 0.3 
Contributions by the employer – 0.1 1.1 1.5 0.9 3.6 
Contributions by the plan participants – – – 0.3 – 0.3 
Benefits paid – (0.1) (1.3) (0.1) (0.8) (2.3)
Foreign exchange differences – – 0.8 (0.4) – 0.4
At 31 December 2005 3.5 0.4 9.0 20.0 0.7 33.6 
Valuation assumptions
For the most recent valuations performed, the principal assumptions made by the actuaries were:
UK France US Netherlands
2005 %%%%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.50 2.50 – 3.00 
Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions – – – 2.00
Discount rate 5.00 4.25 5.50 4.25
Inflation assumption 2.75 2.00 2.50 2.00 
Long term expected rate of return on equities 7.75 7.50 8.25 7.50 
Long term expected rate of return on bonds and cash 4.75 4.25 5.25 4.25 
2004
Rate of increase in salaries 4.50 2.50 3.50 3.00
Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions ––– 2.00
Discount rate 5.25 4.90 5.75 4.90
Inflation assumption 3.00 2.00 2.50 2.00 
Long term expected rate of return on equities 8.00 7.50 8.50 7.50
Long term expected rate of return on bonds and cash 5.00 4.75 5.50 4.75
The valuations of scheme liabilities have been updated to 31 December 2005 by independent qualified actuaries from the full
actuarial valuation detailed above by country. The expected return on bonds and other investments reflects bond yields at the
balance sheet date and the nature of the investments held. Expected returns on equities reflect the expectation that equities will
out-perform fixed interest government bonds by 3% to 4% per annum. TNS annual report 2005 82
24 Share based payments
The group remunerates certain groups of employees using share based payments under company share option plans and
performance share plans, details of which are set out in the remuneration report. Additionally, all employees can elect to participate
in a Save As You Earn (SAYE) scheme. For grants during 2005 the fair value was estimated using either the Black-Scholes-Merton
model or the Monte Carlo model, and is charged to the income statement over the minimum life of the grants.
The Black-Scholes-Merton model was selected to value options and to value performance shares granted with EPS performance
criteria because the grants are not complex in nature and the method is straightforward to use. This model values such grants as if
they were tradeable options, and generates a single outcome using the assumptions noted below, which can then be adjusted to
reflect estimates of lapsing due to non-achievement of performance criteria or employee decisions.
The Monte Carlo model was selected to value shares granted with performance criteria based on the Total Shareholder Return of TNS
relative to other companies because these are market based criteria and require simulation of multiple possible outcomes to derive 
an estimated value. This model values such options by simulating 50,000 possible outcomes for TNS and each company in the
comparator group, calculating the expected gain for each simulated outcome and discounting the average of these gains to give a
present value. This valuation already includes the probability of lapsing due to non-achievement of performance criteria.
The fair values per option granted during the year and the key assumptions used are as follows:
New LTIP New LTIP
ESP EPP 2001 LTIP WESP (EPS) (TSR)
Grant date April April April May October October
Valuation model BSM BSM BSM BSM BSM Monte Carlo
Share price at grant date 230.3p 230.3p 230.3p 217.0p 201.8p 201.8p
Exercise price 227.5p – 75.0p 188.9p – –
Expected volatility (based on 3 or 5 year 
historical volatility) 34.8% 34.8% 34.8% 34.8% 34.8% 32.1%
Average expected period to exercise (years) 433533
Risk free rate (yield on zero-coupon government bonds) 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2% 4.2%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.6% 1.7% 1.7%
Fair value per share 68.7p 220.2p 154.7p 102.2p 191.7p –
Monte Carlo fair value per share (including probability 
of lapsing) ––––– 76.9p
The total charge for the year relating to employee share based payment plans was £4.5m (2004 £2.6m), all of which related to
equity-settled share based payment transactions. After deferred tax, the total charge was £3.7m (2004 £2.1m). 
During the year to 31 December 2005 the group issued 902,003 shares with a market value of £2.1m in deferred consideration for
its acquisition of Area Investigacion SA (2004 nil).
25 Options and rights in shares of the company
At 31 December 2005, the ESOP trust held 0.2 million ordinary 5p shares in the company (2004 0.7m). Of those, none (2004 0.5m)
have had options granted over them under the Long Term Incentive Plan. At 31 December 2005, the EBT held 4.7m ordinary 5p
shares in the company (2004 6.2m). Of those, 0.7m (2004 1.9m) have had rights granted over them under the Long Term Incentive
Plan and a further 1.5m (2004 1.4m) under other plans. Shares over which options have not yet been granted had a market value at
31 December 2005 of £6.1m (2004 £7.0m). Shares held through the ESOP trust are shown as a deduction in arriving at
shareholders’ funds, which have thereby been reduced by £7.3m (2004 £8.5m). Profits or losses arising on the disposal of shares
following the exercise of share options relating to the EBT are taken to other reserves in the consolidated financial statements.
Options exercised in 2005 resulted in 2,333,721 shares being issued at £0.96 each (2004: 3,231,225 shares at £0.93 each). 
The related weighted average price at the time of exercise was £2.16 (2004: £2.11) per share.
At 31 December 2005, the options detailed below had been granted and were still outstanding in respect of the company’s shares
under company share option plans. The exercise of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme, the Savings Related Share
Option Plan and the WESP may require the issue of new shares. The long-term incentive plans and equity participation plan use
shares held by the ESOP and EBT trusts.  the sixth sense of business
™
83
25 Options and rights in shares of the company (continued)
Expected
Exercise Contractual remaining life Number of Expired or Number of Number
price exercise (yrs) at shares at Granted forfeited Exercised shares at exercisable at
Year of grant (pence) period 31 Dec 2005 1 Jan 2005 in year in year in year 31 Dec 2005 31 Dec 2005
Long-term Incentive Plans
1998 122001–05 – 72,726 – – (72,726) – –
1998 75–952001–05 –1,057,729 – –(1,057,729) – –
1999 752002–06 –325,000 – –(325,000) – –
2002 75 2005–09 3.5 295,275 – – (26,666) 268,609 268,609 
2002 –2004–09 –116,000 – –(116,000) – –
2004 75 2007–11 5.2 50,000 – – – 50,000 –
2004 – 2009–11 5.2 180,000 – – – 180,000 –
2004 75 2007–11 5.7 50,000 – – – 50,000 –
2005 –2005–12 6.3 –135,635 – – 135,635 135,635 
2005 52008–09 6.3 – 21,900 – – 21,900 –
2005 –2008–09 6.3 –3,499,600 (7,500) – 3,492,100 –
2,146,730 3,657,135 (7,500) (1,598,121) 4,198,244 404,244 
Savings Related Share Option Plan
1998 87 2005 – 90,182 – (4,572)(85,610) – –
1999 135 2005–06 1.0 66,551 – (16,150) (2,500) 47,901 –
156,733 – (20,722)(88,110) 47,901 –
Executive Share Option Plans 
1996 47 1999–06 0.7 7,152 – – – 7,152 7,152 
1997 47 2002–07 1.3 41,810 – – (16,504) 25,306 25,306 
1998 86 2001–08 2.8 173,000 – – (107,000) 66,000 66,000 
1999 137–185 2002–09 3.3 725,004 – – (198,304) 526,700 526,700
2000 238 2003–10 4.3 1,367,000 – (21,000) – 1,346,000 1,346,000
2001 204–218 2004–11 4.7 1,960,000 – (20,000) – 1,940,000 1,940,000
2002 141–233 2005–12 3.6 3,957,201 – (201,475) (97,500) 3,658,226 3,658,226
2003 102 2006–13 4.4 4,063,148 – (9,000) (55,000) 3,999,148 –
2003 213 2006–13 4.9 4,231,842 – (110,000) – 4,121,842 –
2004 200 2007–14 8.1 1,381,831 – (90,000) – 1,291,831 –
2004 224 2007–14 5.9 5,242,500 – (65,000) – 5,177,500 –
2005 2282005–12 6.3 –262,691 – – 262,691 262,691
23,150,488 262,691 (516,475) (474,308) 22,422,396 7,832,075
Worldwide Employee Sharesave Plan
1999 922004–05 – 39,511 – (16,487)(23,024) – –
1999 145 2005 – 14,274 – (4,758) (9,516) – –
2000 200–236 2005–08 0.4 307,748 – (43,373) (82,327) 182,048 150,852 
2001 128–218 2004–09 1.3 364,500 – (72,434) (16,550) 275,516 –
2002 105–228 2005–09 1.7 419,988 – (60,345) (8,225) 351,418 59,257
2003 91–120 2006–11 2.7 2,870,445 – (273,807) (32,031) 2,564,607 –
2004 164–204 2007–12 3.8 990,078 – (100,832) (1,509) 887,737 –
2005 2292008–09 3.0 – 71,922 (2,229) – 69,693 –
2005 1832010–13 5.1 –394,767 (24,504) – 370,263 –
5,006,544 466,689 (598,769) (173,182) 4,701,282 210,109 
Equity Participation Plan
2003 – 2006–13 7.8 157,781 – – – 157,781 –
2004 – 2007–14 8.3 208,778 – (6,154) – 202,624 –
2005 –2005–12 6.3 –241,249 – – 241,249 241,249
366,559 241,249 (6,154) – 601,654 241,249 
Total 30,827,054 4,627,764 (1,149,620) (2,333,721) 31,971,477 8,687,677  TNS annual report 2005 84
26 Share capital
2005 2004 2005 2004
No of shares No of shares £’000 £’000
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 5p each 600,000,000 510,000,000 30,000 25,500 
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At 1 January 446,296,637 443,391,547 22,315 22,170
Acquisitions 902,003 766,865 45 38
Share options exercised during year
Executive Share Plans 474,308 995,093 24 50 
Savings Related Share Plans 88,110 383,022 4 19 
WESP 173,182 760,110 9 38 
At 31 December 447,934,240 446,296,637 22,397 22,315 
The company issued 902,003 shares during 2005 to satisfy £2.1 million of deferred consideration in relation to the purchase of Area
Investigación, a subsidiary in Spain. Since 31 December 2005, 820,312 shares have been issued to satisfy a further £2.1 million of
deferred consideration in relation to the purchase of Area Investigación SA. Also since 31 December 2005, 297,802 shares have
been issued to employees on the exercise of options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme, and 46,257 shares have
been issued to employees on the exercise of options under the WESP .
27 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
Share Share Shares to Other Retained Minority Total
capital premium be issued reserves earnings Total interests equity
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2004 22.2 120.0 – 1.4 (76.3) 67.3 6.9 74.2
Profit for the year –––– 43.6 43.6 2.1 45.7
Actuarial losses on 
pensions net of tax –––– (2.6) (2.6) – (2.6)
Currency translation 
differences net of tax –––– (6.4) (6.4) – (6.4)
New share capital issued 
net of expenses 0.1 3.8 – – – 3.9 – 3.9
Shares to be issued – – 4.2 – – 4.2 – 4.2 
Minority interest additions ––––– – 1.5 1.5
Minority interest dividends ––––– – (1.4) (1.4)
Purchase of own shares –––– (4.1) (4.1) – (4.1)
Proceeds on exercise of options – – – 0.1 0.8 0.9 – 0.9
Share based payments –––– 2.6 2.6 – 2.6
Equity dividends –––– (13.7) (13.7) – (13.7)
Balance at 31 December 2004 22.3 123.8 4.2 1.5 (56.1) 95.7 9.1 104.8
First time adoption of IAS 32 and 39 – – (4.2) – (1.2) (5.4) – (5.4)
Restated balance at 
1 January 2005 22.3 123.8 – 1.5 (57.3) 90.3 9.1 99.4 the sixth sense of business
™
85
27 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity (continued)
Share Share Shares to Other Retained Minority Total 
capital premium be issued reserves earnings Total interests equity
Group (continued) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Restated balance at 
1 January 2005 22.3 123.8 – 1.5 (57.3) 90.3 9.1 99.4
Profit for the year –––– 52.1 52.1 2.7 54.8
Actuarial losses on 
pensions net of tax –––– (3.8) (3.8) – (3.8)
Currency translation differences
net of tax –––– 4.6 4.6 – 4.6
Marked-to-market gain in fair 
value of financial instruments –––– 1.2 1.2 – 1.2
Financial instrument fair value 
taken to income statement –––– 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
New share capital issued 
net of expenses 0.1 2.9 – – – 3.0 – 3.0
Minority interest dividends
and disposals ––––– – (1.8) (1.8)
Net proceeds on exercise 
of options – – – 0.3 1.1 1.4 – 1.4
Share based payments – – – – 4.5 4.5 – 4.5
Equity dividends – – – – (16.0) (16.0) – (16.0)
Balance at 31 December 2005 22.4 126.7 – 1.8 (13.0) 137.9 10.0 147.9
Retained earnings includes the following cumulative amounts:
Financial Pension
Currency instrument valuation Share based
translation fair value gains and payment 
differences adjustments losses charges
Group £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2005 (8.4) (1.2) (2.8) 2.6 
Movements in the year 6.0 1.8 (5.4) 4.5
At 31 December 2005 (2.4) 0.6 (8.2) 7.1 
Goodwill arising on consolidation prior to 1 January 1998 of £144.7m (2004 £144.7m) has been eliminated against reserves. 
The merger reserve in the company arises on the issue of shares as consideration for acquisitions and has been offset against the
retained earnings on consolidation. TNS annual report 2005 86
27 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity (continued)
Share Share Shares to Other Retained Total
capital premium be issued reserves earnings equity
Company £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2004 22.2 120.0 – 1.6 24.6 168.4
Profit for the year –––– 16.5 16.5
New share capital issued net of expenses 0.1 3.8––– 3.9
Shares to be issued –– 4.2–– 4.2
Equity dividends –––– (13.7) (13.7)
Balance at 31 December 2004 22.3 123.8 4.2 1.6 27.4 179.3 
First-time adoption of IAS 32 and 39 – – (4.2) – (1.2) (5.4)
Restated balance at 1 January 2005 22.3 123.8 – 1.6 26.2 173.9 
Profit for the year –––– 13.0 13.0
Marked-to-market gain in fair value of financial instruments –––– 1.2 1.2 
Financial instrument fair value taken to income statement –––– 0.6 0.6
New share capital issued net of expenses 0.1 2.9––– 3.0
Equity dividends –––– (16.0) (16.0)
Balance at 31 December 2005 22.4 126.7 – 1.6 25.0 175.7 
28 Related party transactions
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Transactions with associated undertakings £m £m £m £m
Turnover 0.9 0.3 – –
Purchases (0.6) (9.3) – –
Amounts owed to associated undertakings at 31 December – (0.4) – –
Amounts owed by associated undertakings at 31 December 1.1 0.9 – –
Transactions with group subsidiaries and joint ventures
Turnover 2.6 2.9 17.9 17.7 
Purchases (3.8) (2.6) – –
Amounts owed to subsidiaries and joint ventures at 31 December (3.3) (1.2) (168.1) (149.0)
Amounts owed from subsidiaries and joint ventures at 31 December 2.8 3.8 232.4 383.9
The company’s turnover represents royalties charged for use of the TNS brand. All transactions are undertaken at arms length.
2005 2004
Key management compensation £’000 £’000
Aggregate compensation of key management:
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 4,390 4,297 
Post-employment benefits 362 303 
Termination benefits – 4,052 
Share based payments 805 435
5,557 9,087 the sixth sense of business
™
87
28 Related party transactions (continued)
In the opinion of the board, the key management of TNS in 2005 comprised the members of that board plus the heads of the two
globally managed syndicated sectors and the four regional heads. The emoluments of all are included in aggregate above and
further details of the directors’ emoluments are given in the audited part of the Remuneration Report. Details of the termination
benefits were given in the 2004 annual report.
29 Cash flow
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Total Total Total Total 
Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations £m £m £m £m
Operating profit 99.8 91.1 22.3 9.3
Amortisation of intangible assets 5.8 6.2 – –
Impairment of goodwill 10.3 3.5 – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19.6 18.4 – –
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (1.2) 0.4 – –
Profit on disposal of investment in subsidiaries – – 0.2 –
Share based payments 4.5 2.6 – –
Decrease in inventories 16.0 2.3 – –
(Increase) in trade and other receivables (2.8) (2.7) (4.4) (1.0)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (21.6) 2.9 (0.2) 0.9 
(Decrease) in pension liabilities (3.4) (4.4) – –
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 1.4 (6.9) – (5.5)
Cash generated from operations 128.4 113.4 17.9 3.7
Operating cash flows from continuing activities include an outflow of £nil (2004 £11.5m) relating to integration costs of £nil (2004 £9.8m).
2005
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt – Group £m
Decrease in cash in the year (17.5)
Cash outflow from decrease in debt 65.7
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 48.2
Translation difference (15.6)
Non-cash movement 1.4
Movement in net debt in the year 34.0
Net debt at 1 January 2005 (329.4)
Net debt at 31 December 2005 (295.4)
At 1 Jan Exchange Non-cash At 31 Dec
2005 Cash flow movement movements 2005
Analysis of net debt – Group £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 63.3 (17.5) – – 45.8
Loans repayable within one year (3.2) 65.1 (0.2) (62.2) (0.5)
Loans repayable after more than one year (388.9) – (15.4) 63.6 (340.7)
Obligations under finance leases (0.6) 0.6 – – –
(329.4) 48.2 (15.6) 1.4 (295.4)
The net non-cash movement represents the amortisation of arrangement fees of £0.8m (2004 £4.9m) and movements in the fair
value of financial instruments of £0.6m (2004 nil). TNS annual report 2005 88
29 Cash flow (continued)
2005
Analysis of the net cash outflow in respect of the purchase of subsidiary undertakings and businesses £m
Cash consideration
prior year acquisitions (0.4)
2005 acquisitions (5.7)
(6.1)
Net cash acquired 0.4 
Net cash outflow in respect of the purchase of subsidiary undertakings and businesses (5.7)
30 Financial commitments
2005 2004
Property Equipment Property Equipment
Total lease commitments £m £m £m £m
Operating leases which expire:
Within one year 16.6 7.0 18.7 5.6 
In two to five years 41.8 4.3 36.6 2.4 
Over five years 23.0 1.3 24.7 1.9
81.4 12.6 80.0 9.9
The group leases various assets under non-cancellable operating leases. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and
renewal rights. There are no obligations contracted but not provided for in the group or company (2004 nil).
31 Guarantees and contingencies
The company and certain subsidiary undertakings have jointly and severally guaranteed bank loans and credit facilities of the
group. The maximum liabilities that could arise under these arrangements are £500.0m (2004 £460.0m). At 31 December 2005,
amounts outstanding were £340.5m (2004 £388.2m). 
Sofres SA has provided guarantees in the form of a letter of intent in relation to loans taken out to purchase properties in France. 
At 31 December 2005, the total loans outstanding were £0.3m (2004 £0.4m), of which £nil (2004 £nil) was secured over relevant
properties. A number of group companies have provided guarantees relating to rental commitments and commercial contracts in
the normal course of business. At 31 December 2005, the total amounts guaranteed were £6.6m (2004 £4.9m).
The group has commitments relating to put and call options for acquisitions. The potential amounts payable are estimated to be
£8.4m (2004 £6.0m) and are expected to become payable between one and five years.
Various group companies are parties to legal actions and claims of £3.4m (2004 £5.0m), the most significant of which are
associated with employment-related matters. Although there is uncertainty regarding the final outcome of these claims, the
directors believe that adequate provision has been made for anticipated liabilities. The group is also involved in various other legal
proceedings arising out of the normal course of business. The directors believe that the outcome of these proceedings is uncertain
but is unlikely to have a material effect on the group’s financial position.
32 Reconciliation of IFRS financial statements to previously reported UK GAAP financial statements
TNS reported under UK GAAP in its previously published financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004. The analysis
below shows a reconciliation of net assets and profit as reported under UK GAAP as at 31 December 2004 to the revised total
equity and profit under IFRS as reported in these financial statements. In addition, there is a reconciliation of net assets under UK
GAAP to IFRS at the transition date for the company, being 1 January 2004. The adoption of IFRS has resulted in changes to the
group’s accounting policies that have affected the amounts reported for the current or prior years in the following areas:
Share based payments
The fair value of share options granted to employees is estimated for each grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton and Monte Carlo
models and charged to the income statement over the minimum life of the options. This IFRS charge replaces the UITF 17 (revised)
charge for options issued at below market value previously recognised.
TNS has elected to apply recognition and measurement requirements only to equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002
that had not vested by 1 January 2005. the sixth sense of business
™
89
Goodwill
In place of amortisation, under IFRS all goodwill is subjected to an annual impairment test. Any impairment identified is charged
immediately to the income statement. Negative goodwill will be written off immediately to the income statement. Any fair value
adjustments made to goodwill in a later financial year (allowed up to 12 months from the date of acquisition) are reflected as a
restatement of the prior year accounts.
Employment benefits
Defined benefit plan assets and liabilities are recorded in the balance sheet with actuarial gains and losses taken to reserves.
Previously, assets and liabilities were not recorded and the costs of plans were charged to the income statement so as to spread
the cost of pensions over the service lives of employees in the plans. Under the IFRS transitional arrangements, TNS has elected to
recognise the cumulative actuarial loss at 1 January 2004 as a movement in equity.
Joint ventures 
Under IFRS, joint ventures are consolidated on a proportionate basis with the group’s share of assets and liabilities, profit and loss
and cash flows being reflected in the group financial statements. Previously, joint ventures were shown within investments, with the
group’s share of operating profit, interest and tax shown in the financial statements. Joint venture cash flows were not included in
the group cash flow statement. 
Associates
Under IFRS, losses from an associate in excess of the group’s interest in that associate are no longer recognised where there is no
contractual obligation to fund those losses. Under UK GAAP , losses were recognised even if in excess of the group’s interest in the
associate.
Deferred tax
IFRS requires deferred tax to be provided for in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax assets are recognised
only to the extent that it is probable that they can be utilised against future taxable profits. Where goodwill is deductible against tax,
a deferred tax liability is required even if such a liability would only unwind on the eventual sale of the business in question.
Dividends
As required under IFRS, dividends are recognised when approved or paid, not when declared.
Financial instruments
As permitted by IFRS 1, ‘First Time Adoption of IFRS’, the IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ rules on
hedge accounting have been applied from 1 January 2005. TNS continues to report financial instruments for the 2004 comparative
year in accordance with UK GAAP .
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
IFRS requires that, for acquisitions made since 1 January 2004, certain intangible assets are recognised separately to reflect the fair
value of brands, customer lists, or other intangibles acquired. Previously they would have been included in goodwill. These
intangibles are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Software, previously included within tangible fixed assets, is classified as
an intangible fixed asset under IFRS.
Business combinations 
Business combinations prior to the transition date of 1 January 2004 have not been restated.
Cumulative translation differences
TNS has reset the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to £nil as at 1 January 2004.
Company income statement reconciliation
The company’s 2004 previously reported profit for the year after dividends under UK GAAP was £5.7m. This has been adjusted to
remove the dividend charge for the year of £15.4m and the UITF 17 (revised) charge of £0.8m included under UK GAAP , and to
include £5.4m of foreign exchange losses previously recognised through equity, resulting in a profit for the year under IFRS of
£16.5m. TNS annual report 2005 90
32 Reconciliation of IFRS financial statements to previously reported UK GAAP financial statements (continued)
IFRS
Previous conversion Restated
GAAP adjustments under IFRS
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 Notes £m £m £m
Revenue 945.3 – 945.3
Less share of joint ventures 1 (16.7) 16.7 –
Revenue 928.6 16.7 945.3
Cost of sales 1 (316.4) (6.1) (322.5)
Gross profit 612.2 10.6 622.8
Administrative expenses 1–5 (550.5) 18.8 (531.7)
Operating profit 61.7 29.4 91.1
Share of operating profit of joint ventures 1 2.7 (2.7) –
Operating profit before exceptional items 5 102.0 0.8 102.8
Integration costs (9.8) – (9.8)
Goodwill impairment 2 (27.8) 24.3 (3.5)
Amortisation of additional intangibles identified on acquisitions 3 – (0.6) (0.6)
Pension curtailment credit 4 – 4.8 4.8
Share based payments 5 – (2.6) (2.6)
Operating profit 64.4 26.7 91.1
Share of operating profit of associates 6 1.3 (1.3) –
Finance income 0.8 – 0.8
Finance costs before exceptional items 4 (19.5) (0.5) (20.0)
Exceptional finance costs (3.6) – (3.6)
Finance costs (23.1) (0.5) (23.6)
Share of post tax profit of associates 6, 7 – 1.0 1.0
Profit before taxation 43.4 25.9 69.3
Taxation – excluding deferred tax on goodwill 3–6 (21.1) 0.7 (20.4)
Taxation – deferred tax on goodwill 8 – (3.2) (3.2)
Taxation (21.1) (2.5) (23.6)
Profit for the year 22.3 23.4 45.7
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 20.2 23.4 43.6
Minority interests 2.1 – 2.1
22.3 23.4 45.7
Basic earnings per share 4.6p 5.4p 10.0p
Diluted earnings per share 4.5p 5.3p 9.8p
1 Under proportionate consolidation, the results of joint ventures are consolidated in the income statement on a line by line basis and, as a result, there is 
no separate disclosure of joint venture turnover and operating profit (additional cost of sales £6.1m and administration expenses £7.9m replace separate
disclosure of operating profit of £2.7m).
2 £24.3m of goodwill amortisation under UK GAAP is reversed leaving only impairment charges of £3.5m identified under both IFRS and UK GAAP .
3 Amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisitions in accordance with IFRS 3 of £0.6m with associated deferred tax of £0.2m.
4 Retirement benefits charge calculated in accordance with IAS 19 results in an exceptional credit of £4.8m following curtailments in the Netherlands and US.
The related deferred tax is a charge is £0.5m. Under IFRS, notional interest on the net pension liability of £0.5m is recognised within finance costs.
5 £2.6m share based payment charge for employee options granted since 7 November 2002, less £0.8m UITF 17 (revised) charge included under UK GAAP .
The related deferred tax is a credit of £0.5m.
6 Share of operating profit of associates is reclassified to below exceptional finance charges and adjusted to include the £0.5m relevant proportion of tax
previously disclosed under tax.
7 £0.2m of losses arising from associates with net liabilities are not recognised under IFRS.
8 £3.2m deferred tax charge relating to the tax deductible goodwill in the year. the sixth sense of business
™
91
32 Reconciliation of IFRS financial statements to previously reported UK GAAP financial statements (continued)
Group Company
IFRS IFRS
Previous conversion Restated Previous conversion Restated
Consolidated balance sheet as at GAAP adjustments under IFRS GAAP adjustments under IFRS
31 December 2004 Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Goodwill 1, 2, 12 349.1 33.7 382.8 –– –
Intangible assets 3, 7, 12 2.9 14.9 17.8 –– –
Plant, property and equipment 1, 7 83.6 (11.1) 72.5 –– –
Share of joint venture assets 1 27.0 (27.0) – –– –
Share of joint venture liabilities 1 (10.2) 10.2 – –– –
Investments in associates 6 1.0 0.3 1.3 –– –
Investment in subsidiaries –– – 670.4 – 670.4
Available for sale investments 0.6 – 0.6 –– –
Deferred tax assets 3, 4, 5, 8 – 29.2 29.2 –– –
Total non-current assets 454.0 50.2 504.2 670.4 – 670.4
Inventories 1 75.0 0.3 75.3 –– –
Trade and other receivables 1, 8, 11, 13 265.6 (15.2) 250.4 9.2 7.3 16.5
Current tax receivable 11 – 9.9 9.9 –– –
Available for sale investments 0.7 – 0.7 –– –
Cash 1 57.4 5.9 63.3 32.8 – 32.8
Total current assets 398.7 0.9 399.6 42.0 7.3 49.3
Total assets 852.7 51.1 903.8 712.4 7.3 719.7
Borrowings (3.2) – (3.2) –– –
Trade and other payables 1, 9 (317.4) 4.4 (313.0) (14.2) 10.6 (3.6)
Current tax payable 11 (22.3) (8.3) (30.6) –– –
Provisions 10 – (5.5) (5.5) –– –
Total current liabilities (342.9) (9.4) (352.3) (14.2) 10.6 (3.6)
Net current assets 55.8 (8.5) 47.3 27.8 17.9 45.7
Borrowings 1 (388.7) (0.2) (388.9) (388.2) – (388.2)
Deferred tax liabilities 8 – (25.4) (25.4) –– –
Retirement benefit obligations 4 – (12.4) (12.4) –– –
Provisions 1, 4, 10 (35.8) 18.8 (17.0) –– –
Trade and other payables 1 (2.9) (0.1) (3.0) (148.6) – (148.6)
Total non-current liabilities (427.4) (19.3) (446.7) (536.8) – (536.8)
Total liabilities (770.3) (28.7) (799.0) (551.0) 10.6 (540.4)
Total net assets 82.4 22.4 104.8 161.4 17.9 179.3
Issued share capital 22.3 – 22.3 22.3 – 22.3
Share premium 123.8 – 123.8 123.8 – 123.8
Shares to be issued 4.2 – 4.2 4.2 – 4.2
Other reserves 13 1.5 – 1.5 2.7 (1.1) 1.6
Retained earnings (78.1) 22.0 (56.1) 8.4 19.0 27.4
Total shareholders’ equity 73.7 22.0 95.7 161.4 17.9 179.3
Minority interests in equity 14 8.7 0.4 9.1 –– –
Total equity 82.4 22.4 104.8 161.4 17.9 179.3 TNS annual report 2005 92
32 Reconciliation of IFRS financial statements to previously reported UK GAAP financial statements (continued)
This reconciliation has been updated since the interim report primarily in respect of the proportionate consolidation of joint ventures (see note 1), additional
deferred tax liabilities identified in respect of tax deductible goodwill (see note 8), adjustments to the valuation of the net retirement benefit liability (see note 4),
and increased minority interests (see note 14). In addition, certain pension plan assets and liabilities have been restated for the comparative year, as a result of
more accurate information becoming available.
1 Proportionate consolidation of joint ventures (goodwill £11.3m, plant, property and equipment £2.5m, inventories £0.3m, receivables £3.3m, cash £5.9m,
creditors £6.2m, long term borrowings £0.2m, provisions £0.1m).
2 £24.3m of goodwill amortisation under UK GAAP is reversed.
3 £0.6m amortisation of intangibles identified on acquisition in 2004 and separated out of goodwill and associated deferred tax of £0.2m.
4 £12.4m net retirement benefit liability calculated in accordance with IAS 19 and disclosed separately. The associated deferred tax asset is £0.3m.
5 A £0.3m deferred tax asset has been set up at transition date in respect of share based payments. This was increased £0.5m during the year.
6 Net liabilities of £0.3m on investments in associates not recognised under IFRS.
7 £14.6m software reclassified from tangible fixed assets to intangible fixed assets.
8 A £11.0m deferred tax liability has been set up at transition date in respect of tax deductible goodwill. A further deferred tax liability of £2.8m net of £0.4m
exchange has been recognised relating to tax deductible goodwill in the year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are disclosed separately.
9 For the group and company under IFRS, dividends are recognised when approved or paid rather than when declared. The accrual for the final proposed 2004
dividend of £10.6m at December is reversed.
10 £5.5m of provisions falling due in less than one year are disclosed separately on the face of the balance sheet. 
11 Corporation tax receivable has been reclassified from current tax payable and trade and other receivables to current tax receivable.
12 £1.9m of intangibles identified on 2004 acquisitions have been reclassified from goodwill to intangibles.
13 In the Company accounts, own shares held by the ESOP Trust have been deconsolidated.
14 The minority interest has increased by £0.4m in relation to the disposal of a share of the group’s Russian subsidiary. the sixth sense of business
™
93
32 Reconciliation of IFRS financial statements to previously reported UK GAAP financial statements (continued)
Group Company
IFRS IFRS
Previous conversion Restated Previous conversion Restated
Consolidated cash flow as at GAAP adjustments under IFRS GAAP adjustments under IFRS
31 December 2004 Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities 
Cash generated from operations 1 107.2 6.2 113.4 3.7 – 3.7
Income tax paid 1 (19.6) (0.6) (20.2) (0.6) – (0.6)
Net cash generated from 
operating activities 1 87.6 5.6 93.2 3.1 – 3.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries 
(net of cash acquired) (11.0) – (11.0) (7.9) – (7.9)
Sale of subsidiaries (net of cash disposed) 0.1 – 0.1 –– –
Sale of associates 7.4 – 7.4 –– –
Proceeds from sale of property, 
plant and equipment 2.2 – 2.2 –– –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1, 2 (26.7) 4.4 (22.3) –– –
Purchase of intangible assets 2 – (5.7) (5.7) –– –
Interest received 0.7 – 0.7 9.0 – 9.0
Dividends received 1 2.6 (2.1) 0.5 13.5 – 13.5
Net cash used in investing activities (24.7) (3.4) (28.1) 14.6 – 14.6
Cash flow from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of 
ordinary share capital 3.2 – 3.2 3.2 – 3.2
Dividends paid to company’s shareholders (13.7) – (13.7) (13.7) – (13.7)
Dividends paid to minority interests (1.4) – (1.4) –– –
(Decrease)/increase in debt (1.6) – (1.6) 49.1 – 49.1
Interest paid (20.2) – (20.2) (24.9) – (24.9)
Purchase of company shares (4.1) – (4.1) –– –
Net cash used in financing activities (37.8) – (37.8) 13.7 – 13.7
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1 25.1 2.2 27.3 31.4 – 31.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 
beginning of year 1 32.2 3.5 35.7 1.6 – 1.6
Exchange gain/(loss) on cash and 
cash equivalents 1 0.1 0.2 0.3 (0.2) – (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 57.4 5.9 63.3 32.8 – 32.8
Net debt 335.1 (5.7) 329.4
1 Cash flows relating to TNS’ share of joint ventures are included in the consolidated cash flow statement under IFRS in each relevant line of the cash flow
statement and any dividends received from joint ventures, previously shown as a cash inflow, are eliminated.
2 Purchases of software have been reclassified from purchase of property, plant and equipment to purchase of intangible assets. TNS annual report 2005 94
32 Reconciliation of IFRS financial statements to previously reported UK GAAP financial statements (continued)
Group Company
1 January 31 December 1 January 31 December 
2004 2004 2004 2004
Total equity reconciliation £m £m £m £m
Total equity under UK GAAP 76.7 82.4 155.4 161.4
Impact of changes in accounting for:
Write off negative goodwill 0.1 – – –
Reclassify shares to be issued to creditors ––––
Deconsolidate own shares held by Trust – – 4.1 7.3
Retirement benefits 0.2 0.8 – –
Net liabilities of associates 0.1 0.3 – –
Increase minority interest in Russian subsidary (0.4) – – –
Add back goodwill amortisation – 24.3 – –
Revenue recognition adjustment (0.7) (0.7) – –
Amortisation of intangibles net of deferred tax – (0.4) – –
Deferred tax on goodwill and share based payments (10.7) (12.5) – –
Write back proposed dividends 8.9 10.6  8.9 10.6 
(2.5) 22.4  13.0 17.9
Total equity under IFRS 74.2 104.8  168.4 179.3  the sixth sense of business
™
95
Shareholder information
Latest information
The group’s website address is www.tns-global.com. Group
announcements and webcasts of financial presentations are
posted on the Investors section on the day of their release. 
It is possible to receive alerts when announcements are
published on the website. To register for this service and
receipt of company reports, go to ‘Register for News’ on 
the Investors section home page. Other information of interest
to investors, including the latest share price, can also be
found there.
Contact details
For investor enquiries, please contact:
Janis Parks, Head of Investor Relations 
Taylor Nelson Sofres plc
TNS House, Westgate, London W5 1UA
Tel  + 44 (0)20 8967 1584
Fax  +44 (0)20 8967 1386
Email: janis.parks@tns-global.com
Registrar
The company’s registrar, Computershare Investor Services,
has a website containing a range of information, which can be
accessed via the TNS Investor Centre at www.tns-global.com
or by email to web.queries@computershare.co.uk.
Or please write to:
Computershare Investor Services PLC
P O Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 7NH 
Tel  +44 (0)870 702 0000 
All correspondence should refer to Taylor Nelson Sofres plc
and include the registered name and address of the
shareholder.
Electronic communications
TNS can provide electronic notification when its annual report
and notices of general meeting are posted on to the group’s
website. To register for this free service, go to the
Computershare website, which can be accessed via the TNS
Investors section at www.tns-global.com.
American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
Taylor Nelson Sofres plc has a sponsored Level 1 American
Depository Receipt (ADR) program, for which The Bank of
New York acts as Depository. A Level 1 ADR program is not
listed on a US stock exchange and trades in the over-the-
counter (OTC) market. The ADR trading symbol is TYNLY and
price quotes can be obtained from www.adrbny.com. With
effect from 3 January 2006, one ADR represents four ordinary
shares. Prior to this date, one ADR represented 15 ordinary
shares. ADR holders at the close of business on 31 December
2005 received additional ADRs for every ADR held. 
When dividends are paid to shareholders, the Depository
makes the equivalent payment in US dollars to ADR holders.
For ADR shareholder enquiries, please contact:
Shareholder Relations, The Bank of New York
PO Box 11248, Church Street Station
New York, NY 10286-1258, USA
Tel +1-610-382-7836
From the USA 1-888-BNY-ADRS (toll free)
Email: shareowners@bankofny.com 
Website: www.adrbny.com
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM will be held at 09.30 am on 10 May 2006 at Taylor
Nelson Sofres plc, TNS House, Westgate, London W5 1UA.
Financial calendar 2006
6 March 2005 results announced
24 May Ex-dividend date
26 May Final dividend record date
7 July Final dividend payable
4 September 2005 interim results announced
Advisers
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH
Tel  +44 (0)20 7583 5000
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA
Tel  +44 (0)20 7588 2828
Deutsche Bank AG London
1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB
Tel  +44 (0)20 7545 8000
Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Waterhouse Square, 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2TH
Tel  +44 (0)20 7427 8000
Financial advisers
Deutsche Bank AG London
1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB
Tel  +44 (0)20 7545 8000
Head and registered office
Taylor Nelson Sofres plc
TNS House, Westgate, London W5 1UA
Tel +44 (0)20 8967 0007
Fax +44 (0)20 8967 4060
Registered number 912624 Five year summary
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
IFRS IFRS Previous GAAP Previous GAAP Previous GAAP
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 999.0 945.3 805.2 618.9 582.7
Less share of joint ventures – – (15.7) (15.7) (7.6)
Revenue 999.0 945.3 789.5 603.2 575.1
Cost of sales (336.5) (322.5) (275.6) (212.3) (206.0)
Gross profit 662.5 622.8 513.9 390.9 369.1
Administrative expenses (562.7) (531.7) (469.3) (352.6) (328.6)
Operating profit 99.8 91.1 44.6 38.3 40.5 
Share of operating profit of joint ventures – – 2.2 1.3 0.8
Operating profit before exceptional items 112.6 102.8 79.7 59.8 55.2
Integration costs – (9.8) (9.0) – – 
Goodwill impairment (10.3) (3.5) – – –
Goodwill amortisation – – (23.9) (20.2) (13.9)
Amortisation of additional intangibles identified  
on acquisition (0.9) (0.6) – – – 
Pension curtailment credit 2.9 4.8 – – – 
Share based payments (4.5) (2.6) – – – 
Operating profit 99.8 91.1 46.8 39.6 41.3 
Share of operating profit of associates – – 0.6 0.2 –
Finance income 1.0 0.8 1.2 0.8 0.6
Finance costs before exceptional items (16.2) (20.0) (16.6) (11.3) (11.4)
Exceptional finance costs – (3.6) (0.7) (0.7) (0.9)
Finance costs (16.2) (23.6) (17.3) (12.0) (12.3)
Share of post tax profit of associates 0.4 1.0 – – – 
Profit before taxation 85.0 69.3 31.3 28.6 29.6 
Taxation – excluding deferred tax on goodwill (30.1) (20.4) (18.0) (15.5) (13.3)
Taxation – deferred tax on goodwill (0.1) (3.2) – – – 
Taxation (30.2) (23.6) (18.0) (15.5) (13.3)
Profit for the year 54.8 45.7 13.3 13.1 16.3 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent company 52.1 43.6 11.8 12.4 15.9 
Minority interests 2.7 2.1 1.5 0.7 0.4 
54.8 45.7 13.3 13.1 16.3 
Net assets employed
Non-current assets 515.8 504.2 479.5 262.5 286.0
Net current assets/(liabilities) 30.4 47.3 (63.8) (4.7) 9.9 
546.2 551.5 415.7 257.8 295.9 
Non-current liabilities (398.3) (446.7) (339.0) (226.1) (252.9)
Net assets 147.9 104.8 76.7 31.7 43.0 
Basic earnings per share 11.8p 10.0p 2.8p 3.3p 4.3p 
Dividends per share 4.0p 3.5p 3.0p 2.6p 2.4p 
96 TNS annual report 2005 Design and production Martin Devlin, Sharon Crocker  Photography Tim Barker, Getty Images  Print Beacon Press
wit imagination intelligence attitude  Taylor Nelson Sofres plc
TNS House  Westgate  London  W5 1UA  United Kingdom
Tel +44 (0)20 8967 0007  Fax +44 (0)20 8967 4060
www.tns-global.com
wit  imagination  intelligence  attitude
